Events
Address at an expanded meeting of the Russian Security Council
December 31, 1999
00:02
The Kremlin, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues.
This will be a short meeting. I am asking you to continue working calmly and methodically, just as you were doing before.
I would like to emphasise that there will be no changes in Russia’s foreign policy. The principles elaborated by the first president of Russia, the government and the Foreign Ministry will be respected. As before, Russia will try to develop relations with all countries on the basis of equality, mutual understanding, friendship and mutually beneficial cooperation. Russia will work for the development of a multi-polar world.
We will continue developing the Armed Forces and will carry on with military reform, focusing on the improvement of weapons and the structure of the Armed Forces, as well as on social issues. In my opinion, that aspect has been neglected recently. No reform of the Armed Forces is complete if it does not address the social problems of the military.
I want to tell the security-related services and departments that they should continue doing their job and carrying out their responsibility to ensure the operation of the top bodies of state authority and government. They have been doing well so far. Boris Yeltsin, who met with you in the morning, praised your work. I want you to maintain and even accelerate the pace you have gathered in the past few months.
And lastly, this expanded meeting of the Security Council is being attended by the heads of all the main judicial agencies. I would like to welcome them on behalf of the Security Council and the Russian Government, and I hope that we will continue working jointly with the Constitutional Court to strengthen the Russian state, with the Supreme Court to strengthen law and order, and with the Arbitration Court to promote economic discipline.
The acting prosecutor-general is also present here. Unfortunately, the post of prosecutor-general has not yet been filled, but the acting prosecutor-general seems to be doing a good job. Mr [Vladimir] Ustinov, I would like to ask the Prosecutor-General’s Office to strengthen control of all spheres of life in Russia, especially during the election period, so as to prevent problems and ensure that all candidates in the presidential campaign have the same opportunities. We should know – and it would be wrong not to mention this here – that blocs and parties will resume work to attain their political goals with renewed zeal. But these goals must be constitutional, and parties may only act within the framework of Russian legislation and the Constitution. Everything that is stipulated in the law, in the Constitution, must be strictly respected, especially civil and human rights. But we must not overlook the rights of state institutions and society as a whole either.
Gennady Seleznyov [speaker of the Second State Duma] is also attending this meeting. We do not know what lies in store for the top leaders of the Third State Duma. We have said more than once that we have been doing a very good job and working constructively over the past few months. On behalf of all members of the Security Council, I want to express the hope that we will promote a constructive approach in our joint lawmaking efforts. We have quite a few problems and issues in that area. President Yeltsin has been working very hard in the past few days, and most of the documents that we spoke about have been signed. They will be made public today. The remaining documents will be finalised soon.
I hope that you, Mr Seleznyov, will use your experience and standing to ensure that our relations with the new members of parliament are as good as the ones we had with the previous State Duma.
That’s about all I wanted to discuss, aside from the Year 2000 computer problem (also known as the Y2K problem) and elections. All of you should continue working. I am not going to repeat this, or list everyone’s responsibilities, since we have discussed this before. Everyone in charge of the day-to-day work of the basic government systems – in the defence sector, power generation, information systems, transport (primarily aircraft), and space exploration must continue doing their jobs. All of you know your responsibilities and I ask you to remain vigilant, despite the festive mood. A lot might depend on how well you do your job over these next few days.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 31, 1999, 00:02
Text versionEvents
New Year Address by Acting President Vladimir Putin
December 31, 1999
00:01
The Kremlin, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: Dear friends,
On New Year’s Eve, my family and I planned to gather round the TV, just as you probably did, to listen to the address by President Boris Yeltsin. But things took a different turn.
On December 31, 1999, Russia’s first president decided to resign. He has asked me to address the Russian people today.
The powers of the head of state have been turned over to me today. The presidential election will be held in three months. I assure you that there will be no vacuum of power, not for a minute. I promise you that any attempts to act contrary to the Russian law and constitution will be cut short.
The state will stand firm to protect the freedom of speech, the freedom of conscience, the freedom of the mass media, ownership rights, these fundamental elements of a civilised society. The Armed Forces, the Federal Frontier Service, and law-enforcement agencies are working in the usual regime. The state continues to uphold the safety of every Russian citizen.
When making his decision to stand down, the president acted in full compliance with the constitution. We will be able to see the true importance of what Boris Yeltsin has done for Russia only after some time has passed. However, it is clear already now that it was thanks to the President that Russia has opted for democracy and reform and is moving towards these goals, and has become a strong and independent state.
I wish health and happiness to Boris Yeltsin, the first President of Russia.
The New Year has always been the most cherished, the kindest and the most loved holiday in Russia. It is a holiday when dreams come true, and this is especially so this year. I believe that the good dreams we have will certainly come true.
Dear friends,
The new year will begin in a few seconds. Let us smile at our friends and relatives, and wish each other warmth, happiness and love. Let us drink to Russia in the new millennium, to love and peace in every home, to our parents’ and children’s health.
Happy New Year, Happy New Millennium!
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 31, 1999, 00:01
Text versionEvents
Statement by Boris Yeltsin
December 31, 1999
00:03
The Kremlin, Moscow
Boris Yeltsin: Dear Russians,
In a few hours we will see a magical date on our calendars, the year 2000, a new century, a new millennium.
All of you tried to figure out, first as children and then as young people, how old you would be in the year 2000, and how old your mum and then your children would be. We thought that unique New Year was still very far in the future. But here it is.
Dear friends, my dear friends.
Today I am sending you my last New Year’s greetings. But that’s not all: this is the last time I am addressing you as president of Russia.
I have taken a decision, one which I pondered long and painfully. I am resigning today, the last day of the departing century.
I have heard people say more than once that Yeltsin would cling to power as long as possible, that he would never let go. That is a lie. I have always said that I would never violate the Constitution, that the parliamentary elections must be held in the timeframe stipulated by the Constitution, and this is exactly how we acted. I also wanted the presidential election to be held as planned, in June 2000. This is very important for Russia. We are creating a vital precedent of a civilized and voluntary transfer of presidential power to a newly elected president. And yet, I have taken a different decision: I am leaving before the end of my term.
I saw that I had to do this. Russia should enter the new millennium with new politicians, new faces, new people who are intelligent, strong and energetic, while we, those who have been in power for many years, must leave.
When I saw the hope with which the people voted for a new generation of politicians in the parliamentary elections, I knew that my life’s work was done. Russia will never retrace its steps; it will keep moving into the future. And I must not stand in the way of that logical progression. Why cling to power for six more months when the country has a strong leader who can be its president, a man on whom nearly all Russians are pinning their hopes for the future? Why stand in his way? Why wait another half year? That is not for me.
Today, on this extremely important day for me, I want to say a few more personal words than I usually do. I want to ask your forgiveness – for the dreams that have not come true, and for the things that seemed easy but turned out to be so excruciatingly difficult. I am asking your forgiveness for failing to justify the hopes of those who believed me when I said that we would leap from the grey, stagnating totalitarian past into a bright, prosperous and civilized future. I believed in that dream, I believed that we would cover the distance in one leap.
We didn’t. I was too naive in some things, and the problems turned out to be bigger than expected in other things. We ploughed ahead through mistakes and failures. Many people were traumatised by that time of upheavals.
I want you to know – I have never said this before, and I want to say it now – that the pain of every one of you was my pain, the pain of my heart. I spent sleepless nights, agonised thinking about what could be done to make life easier, if only a bit, for the people. It was my highest goal.
I am leaving now. I have done everything I could. I am not leaving for health reasons, but for a multitude of reasons. A new generation is taking my place, a generation of people who can do more and better.
In accordance with the Constitution, I have signed a decree giving the powers of president of Russia to Prime Minister Vladimir Putin. He will be the head of state for three months, after which presidential elections will be held, also in accordance with the Constitution.
I have always believed in the tremendous wisdom of the Russian people, and therefore I have no doubt about the choice you will make in late March 2000.
We are parting now, and I want to wish happiness to every one of you. You deserve it; you deserve happiness and peace of mind.
Happy New Year! Happy New Millennium!
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 31, 1999, 00:03
Text version