Events
Address at a Parade Dedicated to the 55th Anniversary of Victory in the Great Patriotic War
May 9, 2000
00:01
Red Square, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Comrade soldiers and sailors, sergeants and sergeant-majors, comrade officers, generals and admirals, dear veterans, citizens of Russia!
I congratulate you on this, the 55th anniversary of our great victory, victory in a war that was a harsh trial for our statehood and a great test of our national spirit, our unity and our military comradeship.
I greet the soldiers of the Great Patriotic War. Today you stand in the same ranks as the new generation of defenders of our Motherland, here once more on Red Square, this historic place that has witnessed our soldiers of different eras and that was the site of the victory parade in 1945.
Dear soldiers of the frontlines, at your side we have become used to victory. This is in our blood now and is not only a guarantee of military victories but also comes to our aid in peacetime, helping our generation to build a strong and prosperous country and raise aloft the Russian banner of democracy and freedom. Our people have lived through many wars and we know the price of peace, we know that peace is built above all on a strong economy and the prosperity of our citizens. These are the pillars of Russia’s inner and external strength and the guarantee of its defence capability and security, and this is the biggest “military secret” we shall pass on to our children.
Fifty-five years is a long time, but our country remembers everything about the war: the deprivation and hunger, the bombardments and death, the terrible toll of our losses. On May 9, we remember all those who did not live to celebrate victory. This is a sorrow that never fades. It is our sacred duty to pay tribute to the memory of our fathers, our fathers who are buried here in their native soil or in the battlefields of Europe. Our people gave everything they had for victory. We remember not only the achievements of our soldiers but also the honour and glory of those who toiled heroically on the home front. We bow low before all those who grew grain, made arms for the front and tended the wounded during those terrible years, all those who kept their patience, belief and endurance alive.
The countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States are also celebrating Victory Day today and I send my warmest greetings to all the veterans of our brother countries. We all share the sacrifices and joys of victory. We defended peace together, did not allow history to be reshaped, fought for our great Soviet motherland, preserved the independence of our countries and made a decisive contribution to the victory over fascism. Today you stand together once again and carry the glorious banner of our common victory.
Happy Victory Day, brothers and sisters in arms. Glory to the soldiers who laid the solid foundation for future peaceful victories. They have passed on to us a heroic tradition and have willed that we should celebrate this victory as our own. We are indebted to them and will pay our debt in real acts for the good of our Motherland. The years may pass but the memory of the Great Patriotic War will remain just as great a lesson for all of us and just as clear a warning to all those who consider terror and violence their greatest weapon.
Dear citizens of Russia! Our army was and always will be a people’s army. Our soldiers achieve their victories not just through their arms but also through their spirit, their strength of will. This is firmer than metal, it helps our country to overcome any trials, keeping conscience and honour, preserving the pride in our past and our present, our pride in our country’s national achievements. So it was in the past, so it is today and so it will always be.
Glory to the soldiers of the Great Patriotic War! Glory to the victorious people! Glory to our army of liberators! Happy Victory Day! Hurrah!
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 9, 2000, 00:01
Text versionEvents
Speech at a Gala Reception Dedicated to the 55th Anniversary of Victory in the Great Patriotic War
May 9, 2000
00:02
The Kremlin, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: Veterans of the Great Patriotic War, defenders of the Fatherland!
Ladies and gentlemen!
It is already the 55th time that our Fatherland has marked the anniversary of the great victory, a victory that cost our people dearly. Our generation remembers and knows that we are in your debt. We owe you everything: our birth, our fate and the freedom and independence of our Fatherland.
Front-line veterans and veterans of the rear, we have learned from you to be firm and courageous. No one can measure what your generation has done for Russia. Those were four years of the most difficult war, four years of privations and losses. But those were also four years of struggle and faith in ourselves and in victory. Not only did you destroy the enemy and win. You also raised a ruined country, rebuilt it anew, you fought and you worked. You did not slave away; you worked hard and well for the homeland, for us, for your grandchildren, for your children. And those who are trying to make us forget what a big and mighty land this was are also trying to make the veterans forget their springtime and their youth, full of life plans and hopes. For them it was an era of post-war self-discovery. They discovered themselves anew. It was indeed an era of our rebirth.
Veterans of the legendary Soviet Army have just now marched in the same ranks with fellow veterans, their comrades-in-arms from the fraternal countries of the Commonwealth. Your friendship and your military comradeship sustain not only you. They still unite our peoples, nourishing our common national memory and keeping alive the ties that bind our countries together. I hope and know that this will always be so. And as Supreme Commander-in-Chief, I give the veterans the following task: all veterans, both those who were present on Red Square today and those who were not, should prepare for the next parade, a parade marking the sixtieth anniversary of victory. And everyone should be there.
My friends, the world still marvels at the strength of our motherland, at our fortitude and might. But actually there is nothing surprising about it. Today every boy in Russia knows about Stalingrad and the Kursk Bulge. In fact, every family has their own heroes. Heroes from that cruel war. And this knowledge and this memory are immortal. As the greatness of our motherland is immortal. As the pride of the nation and Russian patriotism are immortal. No force can therefore overwhelm Russian arms and break our army, an army whose glorious record includes the Brest fortress and unconquered Leningrad, harsh 1941 and victorious 1945, and now the countless feats of soldiers of the new Russia. We have inherited this spirit and this faith from you, our dear veterans. Your life and your exploits are the best school of life for us, an example for those who are rebuilding our strong new state. Since time immemorial Russia has been a victorious country, a country that is peaceful, but one that respects itself and its national dignity. And so will it remain forever. We know this for sure and give you our firm pledge to add our victories to yours.
I propose a toast to the victorious soldier. To you, heroes of the Great Patriotic War! To a strong and prosperous Russia! To peace and well-being on Russian soil! Glory to the great victory!
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 9, 2000, 00:02
Text version