Events
Interview with the Japanese newspaper Nikon Keizai
September 1, 2000
00:00
Question: What specific economic cooperation projects with Japan in the Far East, notably in the Kuril Islands, would be possible and most effective, in your opinion? Are any documents going to be signed on this matter during your forthcoming visit to Japan?
Vladimir Putin: The geographical proximity of Russia and Japan, mutually complementary economies and a long tradition of business cooperation create a solid basis for closer trade and economic ties. The question is how effectively we have used these prerequisites.
We witness a steady process of economic recovery in Russia, measures are being taken to implement structural reform, streamline the taxation system, improve the investment climate and transform the governance mechanism. In other words, additional opportunities are emerging for more active bilateral cooperation in the economic field. All this, I hope, will make Russia a more attractive and reliable business partner within the next few years.
Speaking about the most promising areas of cooperation, I would first of all like to mention interaction in providing the Asia-Pacific countries with energy, and building long-distance gas and oil pipelines and power transmission lines.
We are looking at continued cooperation in the development of Sakhalin oil and gas fields, of other energy resources on Russian territory, including the Kovykta gas condensate and Yakutsk gas fields as well as the building of long-distance gas pipelines from Russia to Japan.
I think the idea of creating an energy bridge between Russia and Japan is interesting and promising.
Also relevant is Russian-Japanese interaction in addressing the problem of global warming by implementing some energy-saving projects at certain Russian fuel and energy facilities.
Along with energy, our cooperation in the transport sphere is highly promising. I mean first of all the effective joint use of the Trans-Siberian Railway.
I would like to mention some interesting projects in the Russian Far East in the processing of ores and minerals, the building of gas pipelines and hydroelectric plants, and modernisation of ports, including Zarubino.
Cooperation in the area of the South Kuril islands is making good headway. The agreement on Japanese fishing in the South Kuril waters is being put into effect. In this context, the launching of joint economic activities on the islands is to play a major role.
For my visit to Tokyo the parties are preparing a number of agreements and documents, including some on trade and economic cooperation. I hope these agreements will mark a big step forward in the development of mutually advantageous economic ties, which, in turn, will contribute to more active Russian-Japanese relations as a whole.
Question: Against the background of the favourable economic situation in Russia the need for structural reform is becoming more evident than ever. What is your forecast for the development of the domestic economic situation?
Vladimir Putin: The policy pursued by the Japanese Government in recent years is geared to provide an adequate response to the “five challenges”, which include a renewal of the Japanese economy. Structural economic reform is also a challenge and a priority task for Russia.
What have we managed to do already?
First, we have solved some chronic budgetary problems, in particular, we have paid off the wage and pension arrears, and achieved a deficit-free budget. By the way, the draft federal budget for 2001 will also be deficit-free.
Second, a strategically sound monetary and credit policy is being implemented. It made the exchange rate of the Russian rouble more realistic, Russian producers more competitive, and indeed in some niches domestic goods are replacing the imports. As a result our industry has grown (10% in the first 7 months of 2000 compared with the same period last year). The country’s gold and currency reserves have increased by 11 billion dollars since the start of the year. The population’s real incomes have started growing, up 8.7% in 7 months of 2000.
Third, the world prices for the main Russian export commodities are good, which has enabled Russian exporters to accumulate investments more actively (an increase by 15% since the beginning of the year).
In short, cardinal changes have taken place in the Russian economy.
A growing number of companies are operating on market principles. Most importantly, people’s mentality has changed. Company executives have gained vast experience in operating in a market environment. Well-educated and energetic people have joined the body of company executives. People no longer look to the state to do everything for them.
The Government is following the course of reform with due account of the social sentiments and the feelings of people.
Let me give you just a few examples. The main aim of reform in the transport and production infrastructure is to cut the cost of delivery of goods and cargoes, and to improve the quality of services provided to companies and households. Japan and other Asia-Pacific countries may be interested, in particular, in the programme of creating Russian transport corridors integrated into the Eurasian network, including the Trans-Siberian Railway and the Northern Sea Route.
In the fuel and energy sphere the Government’s policy will be aimed at fully meeting the domestic demand, further expanding the export potential (especially gas), replenishing the budget, and sustained and environmentally friendly development. These goals cannot be achieved without attracting massive investments, including under Production Sharing Agreements. We have set the target and think it is a realistic proposition to attract at least $150–200 billion in investments before 2010.
Such are the main outlines and areas of the structural reform of the Russian economy. It is impossible to dwell on all the aspects of the problem within an interview, but I probably don’t need to because life itself will introduce certain adjustments. The main thing is that the restructuring programme will take Russia to a qualitatively new level of development marked by sustained economic growth, the existence of an independent middle class, social and political stability.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: September 1, 2000, 00:00
Text versionEvents
Interview with the Japanese newspaper Asahi
September 1, 2000
00:00
Question: Mr Putin, what is your opinion about the level of interaction between Russia and Japan in the world, including international organisations, on the most pressing world issues?
Vladimir Putin: I am glad that Russia and Japan are entering the new millennium as friends. A solid basis for successful cooperation, especially in international affairs, was created by a trustful dialogue between our leaders, which has been going on since the second half of the 1990s.
It enabled us to deal more effectively with current international issues, and not only in the Asia-Pacific region. It gave a boost to Russian-Japanese cooperation in the framework of international organisations and forums.
This was highlighted by the recent G8 summit in Okinawa. The constructive interaction between the delegations before and during the forum has been made possible thanks to the organisational skills of the Japanese Prime Minister Yoshiro Mori. As a result, the G8 adopted a strong stand in favour of the preservation of strategic stability. It gave joint assessments of the state of the world economy, worked out approaches to the problem of information security, the reform of the world financial system and the fight against international terror. It also has to be noted that our delegations “synchronised their watches” several times on the eve of the Millennium Summit discussing the general principles of the behaviour of states in the modern world.
I believe that the G8 provides a good framework for building up the interaction between our countries in developing conceptual approaches to the prevention of armed conflicts. Today it is one of the most important problems of world security. Here the positions of Moscow and Tokyo are much the same, in particular both countries recognize the central role of the UN in settling international problems. By working out common approaches we can reach much in preventing armed conflicts. It is worth recalling that at a certain period the opinion of our countries on the need to steer the Kosovo crisis toward the course of peaceful political settlement under the UN aegis was instrumental in ultimately directing events along that path.
As regards the UN’s role in international settlement of disputes I must stress that we hold close positions on the issue of the UN reform. I think we should seek together to enhance the capacity of that organisation to react promptly and effectively to the new challenges and threats. We come out jointly for the reform of the Security Council and its greater role and authority. Russia supports Japan’s bid to become a permanent Council member and believes that Japan is a worthy candidate for such a status.
Russia and Japan mutually complement each other’s foreign policy efforts in the area of arms control. The latest example of such constructive cooperation was the April conference to review the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT). The decisions made in New York are important for moving forward the whole process of nuclear disarmament, including an early coming into force of the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty (CTBT), which is a diplomatic priority both for Japan and for Russia.
We also hope that Japan understands how closely interlinked are the processes of strategic offensive weapons reduction and the preservation of strategic stability, on the one hand, and compliance with the terms of the 1972 Russian-American ABM Treaty, on the other.
I am satisfied with the cooperation of our countries under the Missile Technologies Control Regime (MTCR). Russia considers promising the idea of creating a global system of missile technology non-proliferation control.
Our countries, together with the United States and China, play a key role in the politics of the Asia-Pacific Region. The importance of our cooperation on all issues is clear. However, the problem of ensuring security, above all in North-Eastern Asia, is still at the top of the agenda. The emergence of some hopeful trends in the inter-Korean settlement adds greater relevance to this work. We understand that the Russian position is very important both for Japan and for other APR countries.
I would like to take this opportunity to talk about our joint efforts in the framework of the ASEAN Regional Security Forum (ARF). Through the mechanisms of bilateral and multilateral contacts we have advanced towards working out the concepts and principles of preventive diplomacy in the context of the APR.
We are closely cooperating with Japan within the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum (APEC). The results of the Auckland summit (September, 1999) are very significant, and we are actively preparing for the next meeting in Brunei in November. Japan seeks to cooperate with us closely in integrating Siberia and the Russian Far East in the processes of international cooperation in the APR. We are aware of the strong support on the part of our Japanese partners.
In this connection we look to further interaction with Japan in involving Russia still more in the system of world economic ties, in the first place in our country’s accession to the World Trade Organisation (WTO).
Our cooperation on international affairs is not, of course, confined to the Asia-Pacific Region. Russia and Japan have geopolitical interests as reflected in our interaction on such important international issues as the Afghan settlement, reducing the possibility of conflicts in South Asia, the Middle East peace process, the situation in the Balkans and many other issues.
Such a level of international cooperation can definitely be considered a serious achievement of the two countries and an important factor in the progress of Russian-Japanese relations towards a creative partnership.
Question: It looks as if Moscow and Tokyo will not manage to sign the peace treaty before 2000 is out, as envisaged by the Krasnoyarsk accords. Do you believe the issue will be a stumbling block for the further development of relations between our countries or will Russia and Japan still manage to pursue partnership in various areas?
Vladimir Putin: The relations between Russia and Japan are developing with a view into the future, so we have a genuine interest in resolving the Kuril problem. At the Krasnoyarsk summit the parties agreed to exert their best efforts to conclude a peace treaty by 2000. We do not need convincing of the importance of such a solution. We will undoubtedly continue the negotiations on the peace treaty.
But the relations between the two states cannot be based solely on resolving the old problems. I am sure it would be more useful to look at the territorial problem not as something that separates us, but as something that may unite us.
From my talks with Mr Mori in St Petersburg in April and more recently in Okinawa in July, I got the impression that the Russian and Japanese leaders equally value all the positive achievements of bilateral relations, understand their strategic importance for both countries and are not inclined to put these relations in jeopardy because things are marking time on one, albeit of course, a very important issue. There should be no doubt that we genuinely want the relations with Japan to have the character of a new partnership.
Our countries have many common interests in such spheres as strengthening strategic stability in the world, moving forward the disarmament process, building up the security in North-East Asia, counteracting international terrorism and, bilaterally, in the development of mutually beneficial economic, scientific, technical, cultural and other cooperation.
In a situation of dynamic and many-sided progress of Russian-Japanese relations it will be much easier to look for a mutually acceptable solution to the problem of border delimitation. This is highlighted by the increased Russian-Japanese contacts in the Southern Kuril region. Japanese citizens and former inhabitants of the Kurils can now visit the islands under a simplified procedure, Japanese fishermen operate in the islands’ waters, etc.
In other words, Russian-Japanese relations in recent years have become so strong that even outstanding issues and problems inherited from the past are unable to hinder their successful development.
So I am optimistic about the future of Russian-Japanese relations.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: September 1, 2000, 00:00
Text version