Events
Address at a Meeting with British Businessmen
April 17, 2000
00:00
London
Vladimir Putin: Ladies and gentlemen,
British business has always been distinguished by its common sense, balanced approach and pragmatism. For our part, we hope that our partners in Britain will stand by these constructive attitudes in future.
Mr Thompson said in his opening address that so far our trade balance has not been favourable to our British partners, and there are probably reasons for that. Today, we are ready to analyse these reasons together, and to look for ways to improve that balance and the general situation in our trade and economic relations, as well as to outline your business opportunities in Russia.
I would like to remind you that sitting at this table are our trade minister, Mikhail Fradkov, minister of fuel and energy, Viktor Kalyuzhny, presidential chief of staff, Alexander Voloshin, and Russian Ambassador to Britain, Grigory Karasin.
Mr Karasin has worked in Britain for a long time and knows this country very well. He used to be one of the most active cabinet members, regularly attending meetings of the government, and now has the opportunity to keep up his contacts with any cabinet member and to promptly address issues arising in the course of our relations. I would like to draw your attention to this and to tell you that Mr Karasin will not only represent Russia in Britain, but will promptly respond to any problems arising in the course of your work in Russia.
I would like to go over to the issue on the table today. To begin with, it is important to bear in mind that the parliamentary and presidential elections in Russia have created a reliable foundation for stable economic development and cooperation between Russia and its foreign partners, cooperation based on a policy of realism and balanced interests. It is an established fact that mutual benefit is the best insurance against conflicts. We know that axiom of British business very well, and hope that the business community of Britain will become an even more reliable and important ally and partner to us.
A few words about the economic situation in Russia. I do not need to say that a new economic system has developed there. Market economy instruments do not just exist, they have been effectively used, including to overcome the effects of the August 1998 financial crisis rather quickly. I want to draw your attention to the fact that Russia’s GDP increased by 3.2% last year. The highest growth was registered in the chemical and petrochemical sector, light industry, timber processing, and engineering. The increment in those sectors, from 16% to 21%, is considerable for Russia and the global economy. At the same time, inflation went down by 50%.
The results of the first quarter of 2000 reaffirmed this positive change. Inflation has gone down from 8.4% in January 1999 to 0.6% in March 2000. Economic growth has become an undeniable reality in Russia. Investment in fixed capital grew by 4.5% in January, 8% in February, and by approximately the same amount in March.
These are real growth rates, and they are impressive. But we are not satisfied with what we have achieved. During a meeting in New Zealand several months ago, I had an opportunity to talk with that country’s leaders. The growth rate is higher there, from 2.5% to 8% on average, but a GDP growth of 3.5% at this stage is a good figure for Russia. Most importantly, this is a real, not a fictitious figure.
We intend to continue working energetically. The new government will set only attainable goals. In our view, to make promises that cannot be kept is the worst policy. Words don't pay the bills, as you say in Britain. Therefore, we will try to do everything in real terms, in real figures and real indicators.
Despite huge payments for the servicing of state debt, we plan to pass and fulfil budgets with an initial surplus. I would like to stress that Russia has always fulfilled, and intends to continue fulfilling, its obligations to foreign investors, both private and state. But we also know that a deficit-free budget and rouble stabilisation cannot be the end goal of an economic policy. Although highly effective, they are only means of ensuring stable economic growth. This is what we will be trying to achieve.
We have said more than once that the government’s actions in this new period of Russian history will be based on several key principles.
First, the state must not control business. On the contrary, we will do our best to remove red tape and give the economy more freedom. We will not only try to implement the principles of a market economy, but will also work hard to continue liberalising it.
Second, we should introduce firm and equal rules for all levels of business. The state should not only formulate such rules, but also respect them without fail. I realise that this may sound a bit vague, but it must be said.
Third, along with firm rules, Russia also needs an independent and effective judicial system. I am referring to courts of general jurisdiction and arbitration. We intend to step up our efforts in this sphere too.
And lastly, Russia not only has a new president and will have a new government; it also has many pragmatic people ready for constructive work with the executive branch. This is a logical result of a consistent policy of consolidating society for the attainment of clearly defined practical goals.
I would like to focus your attention on that fact, because the people, including those who are dealing with Russia as professionals, believe that quite a few problems involving capital flight and economic instability were largely rooted in the political instability of the past few years. In view of the consolidation I was speaking about before, we can say that this problem, one of the biggest in Russia, is being successfully overcome.
A few words about economic problems that have caused a lot of concern both in Russia and among our foreign partners. One of them is the huge tax burden. I am not going to dwell on theory here, as all of you are aware that this problem is connected with our increased financial commitments. This is a philosophy we will be changing gradually. We intend to pay more attention to low-income groups, provide assistance to the people, and ensure that social assistance reaches its intended recipient. At the same time, we will try to remove all bureaucratic obstacles for the economy. This is the essence of the liberal policy I mentioned before.
The tax burden on the real economy sector is now extremely heavy. We know that this is the root cause of tax evasion schemes and the flight of capital from Russia. We are working to solve this problem: the second part of the tax code, which stipulates tax rates and easing the tax burden, will be debated at the second reading in June. We know that the solution of this problem is crucial for improving the investment climate.
But the main goal is to find internal areas for growth, although the issue of foreign investment is a major factor of Russia’s integration in the global economy. We can restore investors’ trust only by easing the fiscal burden on the Russian economy, and by steering towards a fundamentally new investment climate. We intend to work towards that goal. We are already working hard to convince Russian capital to return home.
This is one of the problems to which I would like to draw your attention. Russian capital is returning home slowly, often in the form of investment from offshore zones. We will also focus on them. However, I view this as an important signal for foreign investors. I believe that as we complete drafting amendments to the legislation, we will see a major inflow of investment, and this could happen soon.
Russia has a special legislation covering investment, including firm legal foundations for attracting investment in the oil and gas sector and in the production of mineral resources. The lower house of Russia’s parliament is reviewing agreements signed with Russian and foreign investors that limit foreign investment in Russia. The federal laws on value added tax, on customs tariffs and corporate profits grant a number of privileges to foreign investors. There are also local laws designed to encourage foreign investment, as well as plans to introduce the post of ombudsmen, who will help to solve investors’ problems.
It is also important to say here that we are opposed to re-distribution of property. I have more than once expressed my view on this issue publicly. Despite the resistance of our left-wing opponents, I have said so even during the election campaign. A consistent protection of owners’ rights in Russia is a basic and irreversible principle of our policy. In particular, we will soon rule out the procedure of “fake” bankruptcies. Unfortunately, this procedure is often used as a pretext for replacing owners.
So, quite a lot has been done to redirect global investment flows towards Russia. We are open to constructive criticism and proposals, and I hope to hear some from you today.
We expect that a more detailed discussion of this issue will be held in London soon, at an international conference and business forum, Russia 2000: A New Reality.
Britain is one of the four largest foreign investors in Russia. Objects of British investment are located all over Russia, from St Petersburg to Sakhalin. We are determined to build on that success, which I consider a positive achievement.
Our investment portfolio includes 31 projects, and we would like to invite Britain to take part in them. Some of these proposals were submitted to the British prime minister during his visit to Russia, when we met in St Petersburg. They concern aerospace equipment, shipbuilding, and transport vehicles.
Our plans include the development of Russian-British cooperation in trade and the economy, which we will once again discuss with the prime minister later today. We have developed close contacts over the past ten years. Russia’s State Register includes more than 900 organisations set up with the assistance of British companies. Of these, more than 40% are enterprises with 100% British capital, and 483 are local offices of British companies.
However, I must also say that our business partnership has been stagnating since the mid-1990s. This runs contrary to global economic tendencies and elementary common sense, despite Russia’s recent problems.
In our opinion, the outlook for developing bilateral relations is very good. We see this in the growth of the share of finished products and technology-intensive goods in Russian exports to Britain, and in imports of industrial and other equipment to Russia. We are ready to negotiate the renewal of the British credit line for financing British investment projects in Russia. We also hope to be able to buy modern technologies in Britain.
I also believe we should step up the work of the intergovernmental committee on trade and investment. Its productivity has been going down recently. It can and must become the driver of Russian-British business cooperation.
I know that you have questions on many aspects of the Russian economy. I am sure you will want to hear about the future of the gas sector, our plans for attracting global leaders in high technologies to Russia, and our work on protecting intellectual property rights. If you would like to ask these questions now, the cabinet members present here will study them and provide replies soon, if not immediately.
Ladies and gentlemen,
Russia is no longer an abridged map of the Soviet Union, but an independent, self-sufficient state that is becoming more confident by the day.
Our confidence is based not only on our experience of reforms, but also on the mistakes we have made. We are aware of them, we admit them, and we are trying to draw firm conclusions from them. In the past years, we have learned to distinguish between real opportunities and virtual ones. And we have at last accepted the predominance of domestic goals over external effects. This is why the Russian leadership is working hard now to streamline and develop internal economic processes. One of the basic goals of this policy is to become a pole of attraction for Russian investors and respected business circles in other countries, including, of course, the business community of Britain.
We know very well that such an attraction cannot develop of itself. It can be achieved only through impressive economic results, a clear policy and openness to the world. It can be achieved through a clear understanding of the complexity of the tasks and goals facing the country. At the same time, our achievements likewise depend on the objectivity, trust and patience of all those whom we have good reasons to regard as our partners. I would like to address these words to you: our achievements depend on our common determination to promote dialogue and our rejection of the detrimental policy of isolation.
The large-scale changes that have taken place in Russia in the past ten years speak volumes and are more important than empty words and slogans.
I would like to say in conclusion that members of the British government have said on many occasions that they want Russia to be a priority of your economic policy. We have a similar perception and a similar determination to develop our cooperation. Today I would like to ask you to support this determination, because our governments’ plans and intentions will be fruitless unless our business communities decide that they are beneficial and should be fulfilled.
Good deeds are better than fine words. I hope that at the beginning of the new century you will demonstrate traditional British foresight, which I mentioned at the beginning of this speech, and will use the huge opportunities offered by the new Russia to your advantage and to the benefit of our peoples.
We have an optimistic view of the positive changes underway in our bilateral relations thanks to the efforts of the British prime minister. We have the same noble goals of national progress and prosperity, and we will continue to modernise the Russian economy in the spirit of free enterprise, democratic development, and openness in the integrated global economy.
We will be happy to reply to your questions during our discussion today, and we will do our best to give comprehensive answers.
Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 17, 2000, 00:00
Text versionEvents
News Conference Following Russian-British Talks
April 17, 2000
00:00
London
(Retranslated from Russian)
Tony Blair: Good afternoon to everyone and welcome to the news conference held after the end of a very fruitful series of talks with President Putin, whom I am happy to see in London. Some time ago I had a very successful and constructive visit to St. Petersburg. Today I am pleased to welcome President Putin in London.
I believe Vladimir Putin is a leader who is ready to embrace a new relationship with the EU and the US. He wants Russia to be a strong and modern power, and to have firm relations with the West. I also believe that his election was important not only for our country, but also for the European Union and for the whole of the Western world.
We have discussed a broad range of issues – the economy and the forthcoming G8 summit on Okinawa. Naturally, we discussed political issues bearing on Chechnya, the Balkans, Kosovo, Iran, Iraq and other countries where we have common interests. I would like to see Russia engaged economically, and I also wish Russia and the West to work together for stability and peace. If we compete against each other, problems can be contained but not resolved. If we cooperate with Russia as equal partners, prospects of resolving global problems will open up before us.
As I said, we started with discussing the Russian global economy and plans for the Okinawa summit. The president described his plans for reforms to promote enterprise and to resolve social problems in Russia. There is no doubt that he talks our language of reforms, and judging by the comments of our leading businessmen who met with Vladimir Putin this morning, I think they also recognise his commitment to economic reforms in Russia.
Of course, we discussed many foreign policy issues in detail. I raised the question of our concerns about the situation in Chechnya and urged, as we always do, a proportionate response, political dialogue and full access for observers and investigators. I welcome Mr Putin’s commitment in his statement last week that all reports of human rights violations would be investigated. Some say that because of our concerns about Chechnya we should keep some distance from Moscow. I have to tell you that while I share those concerns, I believe that the best way to register those concerns and to get results is by engaging with Russia and not isolating Russia.
We also had a good discussion on international security issues. I congratulated Vladimir on the ratification of the START II Treaty by the Russian Duma, in which the Russian president played a key role. We had very useful debates on closer cooperation in the fight against organised crime and drug trafficking. I told him about our efforts in these directions. Kate Helliwell, the British coordinator on countering drug trafficking, will visit Moscow in July to further develop our coordination.
We also discussed questions of mutual interest in different parts of the world. I would like to emphasize once again that closer relations with Russia meet Britain’s fundamental national interests. I believe it is very important to build understanding between Russia and the West, including Britain, our allies in Europe, and the US. Russia’s participation in the resolution of global problems would be in the interests of all of us. If Britain can play any role in this as an EU member and a close ally of the United States, we would like to achieve this.
Finally, and I see it as a sign of stronger British-Russian relations, we have agreed to intensify our bilateral contacts and to meet in London or Moscow at least once a year.
So, I would like to welcome Vladimir Putin here once again and to say how extremely useful, informative and constructive I consider today’s talks. I am hoping for joint work with him and for further international cooperation between Britain and Russia.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank Prime Minister Tony Blair for inviting me to visit Britain, and for a chance to hold talks with him and with British businessmen. This is where we have started today.
I share the prime minister’s position. Moreover, I think that today we have turned a page in Russian-British relations, and made our bilateral policies more transparent, more predictable and more effective. Of course, there is a road towards isolation but I firmly believe that this choice is unacceptable – it will harm not only Russia, Britain, or the whole of Europe. The best example is what we have seen in Russia recently. I do not want to exaggerate but I can assure you that the very visit of the British leader to Russia some time ago in a situation complicated with the difficulties in the North Caucasus, encouraged Russian society’s trust in the Western community. It also largely influenced, at least indirectly, the decision of the State Duma deputies to vote for the ratification of the START II Treaty.
The British prime minister came to Russia with his own opinion on certain issues, such as the situation in the North Caucasus. His position was and still is considerably different from that of the Russian leadership, of the Russian Federation. But I believe that by stating his opinion openly, and inviting us to discuss this issue, the prime minister has helped us to find solutions to some important problems.
It was announced in Moscow earlier today that Russia has set up a non-governmental independent commission on human rights in the Chechen Republic. This is exactly what Mr Blair called for during his visit to Russia. I must say that this commission, which consists of well-known and reputable Russian politicians, will receive every support from the Russian government. It will be in a position to contact the Prosecutor General’s Office, military departments, and a number of governmental organisations.
Now I’d like to address our current negotiations. We have discussed a number of problems in the field of economic cooperation. I have told the prime minister about the processes going on in the Russian economy today, and the objectives that we have set in the economy and business, about our efforts to minimise red tape in both spheres, and our commitment to dynamic market reforms and economic liberalisation.
We have talked about international security. I believe it is extremely important that we had a chance to inform a Western leader about the Russian position on the ratification of the START II Treaty on the one hand, and on the deployment of a national ABM system, on the other. The latter should involve some elements that are being deployed on West European territory. This directly concerns West European countries, and I believe that for this reason discussion of this issue is an important element in our relations with Europe.
We have also discussed bilateral relations in different spheres, including defence, and the fight against organised crime and drug trafficking. We have talked about the need to continue consultations on different issues on a permanent and informal basis, and to hold regular annual meetings alternatively in Russia and Britain. These facts, as well as the character of our contacts, the spirit of our cooperation and the openness of our discussion give us confidence that Russian-British relations will help both Russia and our partners in the West to tackle a wide range of major problems facing humankind today, and will allow us to avoid the threats that may challenge the world in the future.
Thank you.
ITAR-TASS: I have a question to both leaders. What do you think about the investment climate in Russia? I would like to ask Mr Putin to answer this question in the context of his today’s talks with British businessmen, and Mr Blair in connection with the parliamentary and presidential elections in Russia.
Tony Blair: I believe you have already seen comments made by British businessmen this morning after talking with President Putin. They are very positive. There is no doubt that there exists a huge potential for increasing investment and trade between Britain and Russia along the clear-cut lines of economic reforms suggested by the president. I believe the British industry and the whole Western world are ready to cooperate with Russia as partners in defining the ways of promoting trade and investment, and increasing their scale. As for my personal opinion, based on the debates I had with Vladimir Putin today, I would look into the future with optimism. I mean not only the direction in which the Russian economy is developing, but also trade and investment opportunities for our two countries, and for Russia and the Western world as a whole.
Vladimir Putin: As far as the investment climate in Russia is concerned, I must say that one of the main problems for us and our partners has been a certain degree of instability of the political situation in Russia. But there is no doubt that the elections to the State Duma and the presidential elections have relegated this main concern of our partners into the background. This is the first point I want to make.
Secondly, we still have a lot of work to do in order to create favourable conditions for business growth in Russia. We must, above all, rid the Russian economy of red tape; adopt clear, firm and consistent measures to protect the rights of the owner and the investor; take more resolute action against corruption; and establish a more effective judicial system. We need to implement financial reforms and overcome negative trends in taxation, including customs duties.
I discussed all these issues with British businessmen today. I listened to their suggestions and remarks. Several key Russian government officials attended this meeting. We have not only received the message of top British executives, but will take it into account in our work in the near future.
We still have a great deal to do to create a favourable climate. I must say that although we have already gone far along this road, we still have to cover quite a distance. But we are fully resolved to create the groundwork for promoting economic cooperation with our Western partners, including, of course, British businessmen.
Itn: (Retranslated from Russian.) Many observers in Britain and other Western countries know that for a long time you worked for the discredited KGB, and are worried about the war you have been waging in Chechnya. How are you going to prove that all these fears are groundless, and reassure the people that the freedoms that have been won in Russia with such a painstaking effort will be guaranteed for a long time to come?
Vladimir Putin: I’m very grateful to you for this question. I want the people in the West to know that the actions of Russian troops in Chechnya have nothing to do with the destruction of civilised society, and should not raise concerns about Russia’s democratic achievements. Russia’s return to the Chechen Republic has actually brought back civilisation to this territory. Today, we do not have problems with Chechnya’s independence. Our problems in the North Caucasus are absolutely different. They have nothing to do with this.
Unfortunately, our voice does not reach Western public opinion. I would like to use this opportunity to explain our position.
The problem is that the people who staged an unprovoked attack on the neighbouring republic of Dagestan – I’d like to emphasise that this is a Muslim republic as well – were not motivated by the idea of Chechnya’s independence. They came under other slogans, notably, the terrorist slogans of seizing additional territory. We have every reason to believe that these aggressive actions against Russia are nothing other than the use of Chechen territory for these aggresive purposes. In effect, this amounts to the use of this territory as a bridgehead for attacking us. Those people, who are still based in some areas of Chechnya, have not given up their plans. It is untenable to have a Russian republic being used as a springboard for staging aggression, for eroding the institutions of Russian statehood. Russia will never allow this, just like any other civilised state wouldn’t. But this does not mean that we are ready to resolve this problem at any cost or by any means. In other words, we will observe all human rights on this territory, and will investigate all crimes committed there, no matter by whom and from which side.
More than a hundred military investigators and other law-enforcement teams are already working in Chechnya. As I said earlier, an independent non-governmental commission has been established in addition to that. We are interested in co-operating with international organisations on this issue because our aim is not to enslave the Chechen people. Our aim is to free Chechnya from international terrorists and extremists, who are threatening Russia and other European countries in an equal measure. I have every reason to say that this international radicalism, which is acting under the cover of Muslim and other religious slogans, poses a threat to some Central Asian countries.
We have seen its manifestations in some European countries as well. When I am told that some European leaders cannot support Russia for fear of a Muslim response in Europe, I reply that this is a wrong position. It is wrong because if we let extremism thrive, in Western Europe in particular, we will have insurmountable problems. This also applies to Western Europe. In this, we count on support of our efforts to counter international extremism, no matter what its slogans are.
I would like to stress once again that Russia’s actions are not aimed against Muslims or against the Chechen people. They are aimed exclusively against international terrorism and extremism. In this case Russia is fighting against this global evil single-handed, and this is not right, because extremism is a common enemy of the civilised world.
Reuters: (Retranslated from Russian) Could you imagine a situation where you would agree to changes in the 1972 ABM Treaty? Have you discussed with Mr Blair the British role in the American plans of creating a nuclear defence shield against rogue countries?
Vladimir Putin: The START II Treaty’s ratification bill states unequivocally that a national ABM defence system cannot be deployed. Under this law, if it is deployed, Russia can consider itself free of these and other arms control commitments.
Of course, we discussed this problem with Mr Blair because some elements of a national ABM system are to be deployed in Europe. Needless to say, Russia cannot ignore this problem, and it is only natural that we must discuss it with the European leaders. Today, Mr Blair is ready to talk about it, and we are very grateful to him for that. It goes without saying that we are closely following these developments.
We have a firm position on these points; let me repeat that our law has linked these two issues. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that at one time, on American initiative, we have drawn a line between strategic and non-strategic ABM defence, and we are ready for dialogue.
ORT TV company: This is a question both for Mr Blair and Mr Putin. Could you comment on the commission that has been established today? This is a new institution. What role will it play in helping resolve the problem? And here is a separate question to Mr. Blair: What role do you think this commission should play?
Vladimir Putin: As for the commission set up by the public today, it is difficult for me to comment on it because I learned about its formation here in London. I know that prominent and highly respected politicians have joined it, for example the former Minister of Justice who is now a State Duma deputy Pavel Krashenninikov, a former presidential candidate, and also the editor-in-chief of Izvestia, one of the most popular daily newspapers. As far as I know from the press, the commission’s task is to monitor human rights observance in the North Caucasus. I have already said that we are ready to give them every opportunity for fulfilling their functions and implementing the goals they have set. I will be able to give more details only after I have studied the commission’s documents.
I have already said that Mr Blair’s visit to Russia has played its role in establishing the commission since we discussed this in St Petersburg.
Tony Blair: (Retranslated from Russian.) I believe all of you have noted how vehemently President Putin defended Russia’s position on Chechnya. I think we should understand how deeply he is committed to this view. Our role in this respect should be to formulate three ideas. First, as we have emphasised, any response to the situation in Chechnya and Russia’s concern about it should be proportionate. We have repeatedly expressed our concern on this issue. Second, it is necessary to switch to political dialogue as soon as possible, and to launch political initiative. We have had a meaningful discussion on this issue. Third, we urged the formation of a full-fledged non-governmental commission to investigate all statements about human rights violations. In this sense I believe we should applaud the step made in Moscow earlier today. This commission, as Mr Putin has just mentioned, is non-governmental, and includes independent representatives. It will be important for us that the commission does its work in a serious and resolute manner. Although the differences in Western and Russian views are clear, I very much hope that we have reached an understanding and that we are engaged in dialogue and discuss each other’s positions. This is the right road to the resolution of this problem. I’m sure that this is what it boils down to.
Sky TV: (Retranslated from Russian.) Mr Blair, what do you think about changes in the financial markets, in particular, the high-tech sector, on which you have pegged great hopes? Mr Putin, you are the elected leader of a post-communist country. What do you think about drinking tea with Her Majesty the Queen?
Tony Blair: (Retranslated from Russian.) Vladimir, I cannot advise you on the second question. As for the first one, let me say that the parameters of the financial markets are prone to change, and there is nothing I can add. All I can say is that we should always take into account the global distribution of securities of the companies representing new economic sectors and new technologies. I mean not only information technologies and electronic trade that is embracing the whole world, but also all components of the economy. I am talking not about a new class of companies, but about the emergence of a whole system of a new type that exerts fundamental influence on all companies engaged in business. To sum up, I think some often draw a totally wrong line between the so-called new economy, or the companies dealing with new technologies, and the old economy, by which they mean, say, production. We need viable dynamic production as an inseparable part of British or any other industry regardless of whether this is production, services, or the so-called industry of new technologies. New technologies are important as such. So, I have nothing to add to my comments about the events on the stock market, but it is very important to consider what I have just said about the new economy.
Vladimir Putin: Needless to say, we have discussed this problem today with Mr Blair, and I asked him: “What do you think about this? Is it the beginning of the end or just a bad turn?” He replied that he would like to think it was a bad turn generated by the market, but no more than that, and that it would not trigger off any negative global effects. We are also hoping very much for this. Russia does not have a great influence on this market. However, it is telling us once again that we should diversify our opportunities, and rid our economy of red tape to make it more balanced and able to be effective in some sectors despite negative market changes.
We do not believe this is some disaster. We proceed from the premise that this problem can and must be resolved. The market will certainly adjust since we don’t see any external signs of an apocalypse. Nothing in the world economy gives us reason to be particularly nervous and expect a potential collapse of the market. We believe it is just an episode, and that before long this economic sector will become more stable.
Nezavisimaya Gazeta: A question to the prime minister. We would like to hear your opinion about Russia’s worry over the destruction of the ABM Treaty. In particular, what does Britain think about the prospect of the elements of the American national anti-ballistic missile defence system being deployed on its territory?
Tony Blair: As I said to President Putin during the course of our talks, our role in this is very much to try and build understanding of respective points of view, both of Russia and the United States. The US firmly believes the rogue countries that may acquire nuclear technologies pose a threat. On the other hand, we are deeply committed to the efforts to continue reducing the nuclear threshold, and enhancing peace and stability all over the world. Now we understand the concern expressed by Russia. What is the best approach to this situation? Clearly, we should not to try to come to terms about everything right now, standing at this rostrum at the news conference. I think we should act with patience, and, of course, to the extent to which this process concerns us, resolve this problem through dialogue with our friends and partners both in the West and in Russia because it may potentially cause serious complications in our relations. As I have already said, our role is to try to bring the sides together so that we could resolve the problem on a reasonable basis in a way that would suit all sides. In my opinion, the best way to do this is tough, patient and diplomatic efforts.
The Sun: (Retranslated from Russian.) President Putin, the world has learnt the bitter truth that the money that was sent as relief to Russia has landed in some secret foreign bank accounts. As I understand, you have asked Britain to help find some of this lost money. Could you tell us what you are doing to ensure that those mafia elements that control much of Russian business comply with the law?
Vladimir Putin: I would not say that gangsters are running the show in the Russian economy. This is an exaggeration, a hyperbole as literary experts would say. But it is, of course, necessary to fight against crime in the economy and other spheres, and we are going to do so. This is one of the Russian government’s main challenges in the near future.
I have discussed with the prime minister the problem of the export of capital, but I must say that it is not criminal as some people are trying to present it. Regrettably, laws are such that there is no need to take bags of money out. The problem is more complicated and simpler at the same time. We must put cash flows under control but do this without harming the Russian economy.
We know sad examples of some Latin American countries where the leaders resorted to tough administrative measures in a bid to shut down all potential channels for the outflow of capital, but the amount of money leaving the country increased even more. In this case, extreme measures can produce the opposite effect. But nevertheless we intend to take certain steps in order to control this sphere. We are going to upgrade our cooperation with the Russian Central Bank, restructure our financial and banking sector, and, of course, toughen monitoring of the seamy side of this business. There is no doubt about this. However, I would like to emphasise that we will concentrate our efforts on the economy, rather than the criminal sphere. I think this would be much more effective.
Finally, I want to make a point about the return of capital. We are having talks and maintaining contacts with the representatives of our hosts today, corresponding agencies in Britain, as well as our partners in other West European countries. Once again, the main emphasis is not on the criminal side, but on encouraging the return of exported Russian capital from abroad, and its investment in the Russian economy. Maybe, this process is not visible yet, but it has started. Regrettably, it goes through off-shore zones and companies, but by and large its start is still a good sign. Russian capital is coming back to the Russian economy, and this is a positive signal for other potential investors. It shows that the terms for investing in Russia have become more predictable, clear and reasonable. This allows us to say that the investment climate in Russia is improving.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 17, 2000, 00:00
Text version