It is above all the people in government agencies who need this feedback. The election campaign does provide an element of renewed feedback from the population. This is the rationale for holding events that enable the people who have climbed to the top and sit in various government bodies, in offices with a lot of telephones, to become aware of and get a sense of what makes people tick, how they feel. I think our meeting today and your work in this election campaign are important, if only in the light of what I have said. Especially since the people in this hall are people who are well known in their regions, in their professions, wherever you work. You are prominent individuals who have achieved much in your own lives, and ordinary people tend to trust the kind of individuals gathered here today.
At the same time, I am aware that practical campaigning has already got under way, and many of my friends and colleagues here are already very active. I would urge you to proceed very carefully. Everything is good in moderation. We should steer clear of misguided methods of campaigning. We have no need for them, and it would harm the country, your candidate and the goals that we set ourselves. On the one hand, of course, we should campaign aggressively, but on the other hand, we should not create a syrupy image of the candidate.
Permit me to dwell on some key points of the election campaign. The Russian people have always been noted for their special moral criterion and shared goals that have cemented the nation. These enabled the people to survive and win in the most trying and difficult years, before, during and after WWII. This is not to say that we should again start looking for an elusive national idea, a subject that many people talk about frequently and generally pointlessly.
I think the idea is there. It has already manifested itself in society quite clearly. It is the need for coherent and truly feasible goals. It is the expectation that the government will back up its words and promises with concrete deeds and results. The authorities, of course, have to start with themselves and should display fortitude, firmness and will. They should not hide their head in the sand to avoid issues that turn out to be difficult, but confront the concrete problems in the economy, the development of the state, and the humanitarian sphere, while not being afraid of taking difficult and unpopular decisions and assuming responsibility for tough measures.
When I look at analyses of how countries have developed in the past decades – and just yesterday we were reviewing together with a colleague the development of the leading countries of the world over the last 100 years – all this is not exactly depressing, but it does prompt a sense of alarm over the destinies of our country and the future of Russia. Of course, we are a great power. Arguably, Russia is indestructible. But if we proceed only from that notion, we will not get very far.
We should understand that we have very serious rivals in the world arena. Look at how many countries in Asia and Latin America are developing, not to mention Europe and the leaders in North America. We should not comfort ourselves by saying that we have huge resources and that is enough. We should have a clear idea of effective ways for the country to develop and take responsible decisions if we believe and are sure that these decisions, even if they are not very popular, will ultimately benefit the country and its future. So, we need a government that is effective, responsible and persevering. The state apparatus must be competent, flexible and disciplined, not a bloated or loose assemblage of bureaucrats who are indifferent to ordinary people.
Another serious challenge we must meet is that posed by the difficult but universally recognised rules of the game that we should all follow – both citizens and state bodies. I am referring to compliance with the law and the Constitution. I am referring to the rule of law in the country. I think that this is one of the biggest and most serious problems for present-day Russia in politics and in economics. We believe that all the players in politics and the economy must have a level playing field so that nobody can gain any advantages by cozying up to the authorities from the left or the right. This is very important for the domestic and the potential foreign investor. Nothing can be accomplished without solving this issue.
That is why the building of a legal structure and the fight against corruption take on such importance. This is not just routine work in the law enforcement field. It is, in effect, about creating a new image of the country.
Of course, before we put our house in order we have to know exactly and clearly what there is in that house. And that is in itself a major problem. I have already had occasion to speak about it and when I affirm the need for stock-taking in the country I mean the following: we need a clear picture of our resources, both natural and intellectual, a clear idea of the real potential of our treasury, state and private property, of everything that Russia today owns, uses and disposes of.
But we also need a different kind of inventory. An inventory of the moral values, the right benchmarks, common goals, criteria and assessments. It is only by taking stock that we will understand how much or how little we have in reality. Little, that is, because we are unable to make good use of these resources.
A wealthy Russia will not forgive anyone the humiliation of poverty. In fact, I am prepared to repeat the view that is contained in my letter to the voters: we have to admit that we are a rich country of poor people. That situation cannot be tolerated.
So our priority is a life of dignity. Any opinion survey to find out what worries the ordinary citizen will show that people have the right to and want to lead a life of dignify. Working towards that goal, I think, is the moral and political duty of any government, wherever it draws its support. So, the good of the people and the welfare of the ordinary citizen is the ultimate goal of any authority.