Question: Can you describe the new relations that you seek to establish between Russia and India as a new deal?
Vladimir Putin: You know, if we say it is a new deal, that would not be enough. When we speak about full-scale relations between two countries which have many interests in common, many areas in which we can effectively promote the national interests of each other, it is more than a deal. It is perhaps destiny.
Question: An economic question. In spite of the active military-technical cooperation between our countries, India’s economy is based on the private sector. In the light of this, how can we work with Russia?
Vladimir Putin: We know what is happening in India, especially in the field of computer technologies, programming, etc. But I have already said that our joint efforts with our Indian colleagues and the Indian leaders are aimed at diversifying our joint work, at investing it with substance that meets the requirements of today. These are above all cooperation in the field of high technologies, space and energy. Our enterprises intend to develop India’s natural resources together with the Indian companies in the interests of India.
We are ready to work with you in the medical field. In many areas Russia is a very advanced country, its achievements having been recognised in the world. We can combine our efforts to gain the maximum effect.
Question: Mr Putin, studies have shown that in the next five to eight years India will become one of the leading countries in computer technologies. How do you see Russian-Indian scientific-technical cooperation in this context?
Vladimir Putin: Yes, I know. That is why we are preparing a whole programme of joint activities in the field of modern computer technologies. For Russia it is very significant, considering its insufficiently developed communications and transport infrastructure in proportion to its vast territory. Modern communications, the Internet and computer technologies are critical. But to be full-fledged partners, Russia has a long way to go to computerise the country. But we have given it a lot of thought, and we are sure to move forward in that direction.
Question: One of the main problems that caused a decline in Russian-Indian trade is that in the early 1990s Russia curtailed investments into countries that were old friends. Does such cooperation have a future in India, I mean Russian investments in India?
Will this problem be solved in the same way as the West reacted to the problems in Russia? And what will be your relations like with the old friends?
Vladimir Putin: That is understandable. The problems Russia experienced after the break-up of the Soviet Union naturally focused the attention of the Russian people and the Russian leadership on domestic problems. Dramatic changes took place in the country, the borders were thrown open. It was natural for the entire so-called “Eastern Bloc” to want to get to know the world and Western civilisation closer, to be exposed to the values that had emerged there during the existence of the Iron Curtain. There is nothing strange about that.
As for what the Soviet Union had done in India in the past, the capacity built with Soviet technical assistance, I think that the fact that Russia is now developing its relations with Western Europe and North America need not be an obstacle to restoring its relations with such a vast country and a reliable partner as India. I am stressing this not because I want to please you. India has indeed proved to be a very reliable partner over the years. We are aware of it and we appreciate it. So, that opens up two areas of activity.
First, we can and must cooperate in order to restore and repair the facilities built earlier with Russian technical assistance. Secondly, because we are also promoting cooperation with the leading industrialised countries and major companies of the world, we could use the results of Russian research and development and what we are currently developing with our partners from Western Europe and North America jointly with our Indian partners. So, growing contacts between Russia and the Western partners need not be an obstacle and will not be an obstacle to the development of links with India. On the contrary, it will lend a new quality to our relations with the Indian partners. I think and I hope that this will be the case.
Question: Mr Primakov, the former Prime Minister, spoke about possible strategic ties between India, China and Russia. Do you think an alliance between the three great powers is possible in the near future?
Vladimir Putin: Bilateral relations are the priority. Bilateral relations, on the one hand, and the building up of the architecture of international relations as a whole, including Asia, involving all the interested states. India, China and Russia are undoubtedly among them. Everyone will understand us if we say that India, China and Russia have shared interests in this region, interests which we want to pursue together. I see nothing special or dangerous about it. What is important is that the proposals in the sphere of cooperation, both bilateral and multi-lateral, be open to all our partners and be clear and transparent. And I think we can achieve that.