Events
Excerpts from President Vladimir Putin’s Speech at a Ceremony for the Presentation of Credentials
July 27, 2000
00:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon.
International relations are now going through a difficult period. Under these circumstances, Russia advocates a democratic world order based on the rule of law, equality, mutual respect, a balance of interests and a love of humanity.
<…>
The UN Security Council must more effectively maintain and ensure international security.
<…>
Russia intends to implement a pragmatic foreign policy based on common sense and to guarantee all aspects of its national security.
<…>
I am convinced that Russia and France will develop a constructive partnership. Such bilateral cooperation is ensured by the history of our relations and by the interests of our countries and peoples. Russia has always felt something special towards France. The Russian public pays close attention to all events in our relations.
It pleases us to say that Russian-Belgian relations have been invigorated in the last few years. We have become partners in political dialogue. The Russian-Belgian joint action programme for 1999–2000 is developing successfully. Russia is ready to sign a similar agreement for the next two years.
Russia considers its contacts with the European Union as a top political and economic priority. I am convinced that a more profound interaction with the EU will make a substantial contribution to building a global, prosperous and indivisible Europe.
We have a positive opinion of relations between Russia and Zambia. Russia is ready to further strengthen bilateral contacts in every sphere.
Russian-Panamanian contacts are developing successfully. Russia will strive to elevate them to a higher level to ensure their sustained development in the future.
Russia and Equatorial Guinea have traditionally maintained friendly relations. We would like to restore time-tested forms of cooperation, expand such cooperation and search for new opportunities.
In its relations with Jamaica, Russia would like to maintain constructive bilateral cooperation in international affairs.
In conclusion, I would like to say that you are not starting from scratch. The work of your predecessors has created a solid foundation for relations between Russia and the states your represent. I wish you every success in your efforts to expand and improve this base.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 27, 2000, 00:00
Direct link: en.kremlin.ru/d/21502
Text versionEvents
Statement for the Press on the Russian-Kyrgyz Talks
July 27, 2000
00:02
The Kremlin, Моscow
Vladimir Putin: First of all, I would like to emphasise that there are excellent prospects for the development of Russian-Kyrgyz relations. Our relations are quite dynamic in the political field, on the international scene. We coordinate our moves in the UN and other international organisations. We share or have close positions on a number of acute foreign policy issues. We are united by joint efforts in asserting in international affairs such fundamental principles of international law as sovereignty, non-interference in the internal affairs of other states. Our relations are built strictly on the basis of these underlying principles, and we will work to further develop them relying on these basic concepts.
At the same time, relations between Kyrgyzstan and Russia have a special character due to closeness of our positions on the issues I have just mentioned. Kyrgyzstan is the most active participant in the integration processes on the post-Soviet space. We are closely cooperating in the framework of the Customs Union and the Collective Security Treaty. A certain decline in our economic relations was caused by the 1998 financial crisis, which had negative consequences not only in Russia but also in Kyrgyzstan. At present our economic relations are on the rise.
The documents we have signed today confirm the high level of our relations and create good prospects and a legal basis for their development in the future. They embrace our interaction in the political, economic and humanitarian fields, as well as military and military-technological cooperation. In this connection, I would like to emphasise once again that Russia highly appreciates the decision taken by the Kyrgyz leadership as regards the status of the Russian language in the republic, as this creates wonderful opportunities for our multifaceted, multidimensional cooperation in the future.
I would like to thank President Askar Akayev for this visit and our meaningful discussion. I would like to express my gratitude to all his colleagues who accepted our invitation and came here to work together with us on these documents. I hope that our relations will continue to develop positively and dynamically in the future.
Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 27, 2000, 00:02
Text version