Events
Joint Press Conference with Japanese Prime Minister Yoshiro Mori
September 5, 2000
00:01
Tokyo
Yoshiro Mori: Yesterday and today we had a frank exchange of opinions on a wide range of Japanese-Russian issues with Vladimir Putin. As a result we indicated our shared intention to continue the negotiations to conclude a peace treaty by resolving the question of the jurisdiction of the four Kuril Islands in accordance with all the earlier agreements, including the Tokyo and Moscow declarations. In 1997, an agreement was reached in Krasnoyarsk on the need to make every effort to conclude a peace treaty by 2000 in accordance with the Tokyo Declaration. President Putin and I have agreed to do everything to try to implement the Krasnoyarsk agreement and exert a maximum of effort to further consolidate the positive results. We set down our common position in the statement of the two leaders on the peace treaty issue.
In the economic field we have signed a new programme of cooperation, building on the Hashimoto-Yeltsin plan. Under that programme we want to bring bilateral economic ties to a level that matches the potential of the two countries. As a result of the reform efforts on the Russian side we hope the investment climate in Russia will further improve. Japan for its part will support these efforts.
In addition we have signed a joint statement on Russian-Japanese cooperation on international issues. Russian-Japanese cooperation in the international arena has great opportunities, and our countries have similar positions on many international issues. For example, Russia has said it will support Japan’s bid to become a permanent member of the UN Security Council. On the eve of the UN Millennium Summit I find this Russian approach to constructive cooperation very encouraging. Vladimir Putin’s visit to Tokyo has provided a solid basis for further development of bilateral relations between Japan and Russia.
To conclude my opening remarks, let me once again thank the Russian President.
Vladimir Putin: The Japanese-Russian summit has ended today. We have discussed a wide range of bilateral problems, including the problem of the peace treaty. We have touched upon pressing international issues.
We discussed them on the basis of international law and with a view to strengthening the key role of the United Nations.
I would like to note the very friendly atmosphere that prevailed during the talks with Japanese Prime Minister Yoshiro Mori. We have been able to discuss everything, including the most sensitive issues, in an absolutely frank, open manner and, in our view, a very productive manner.
I would like to share with you my main impression of the quality and the results of our meeting. Japan and Russia are entering the new millennium in a fundamentally new capacity. We are seeking partnership relations which we regard as strategic. This is borne out by the agreements that emerged from our talks and that my Japanese counterpart has mentioned. Our countries intend to build up their efforts in jointly seeking a solution to international and bilateral problems in the spirit of international law in the format of the United Nations and in the G8 format.
We have identified the following areas for further joint work: strengthening strategic stability, nuclear disarmament, prevention and settlement of conflicts, solution of regional problems, such as stability in North-East Asia, counteracting international terrorism and others.
We have agreed with the Prime Minister on our further joint moves on the whole range of issues pertaining to bilateral relations. Above all, we will seek to deepen our political dialogue. I have invited Yoshiro Mori to visit Moscow and I hope the visit will take place soon at a time convenient for the Japanese party. The Russian Defence Minister is to visit Japan. Another meeting of the Japanese-Russian inter-governmental trade and economic commission is to be held in Moscow. Having identified the main areas of our cooperation, we set them down in corresponding documents.
We also had a thorough discussion on the peace treaty, including border delimitation. We were united in our desire to solve the problem on a mutually acceptable basis in line with the Moscow and Tokyo declarations and other agreements previously reached at the summit level. We have frankly spelled out our positions and I am sure it has helped us to understand each other better. It should be noted that both Russia and Japan exerted great efforts to reach a compromise. That is how we assess the Japanese position expressed in Kavan in 1998. In our opinion, the Moscow proposals made that year are constructive. But it is true that for now we have not yet arrived at a final solution of all the issues related to the peace treaty.
Nevertheless, I believe it is exceedingly important and positive that both the Japanese and, I stress, the Russian party make no pretence that the problem does not exist and that we are ready to continue the dialogue on the sensitive problem for both countries. Especially since the conditions for that exist, I mean above all the fact that our countries are drawing closer together in the course of the creative partnership. It is important that the two sides expressed a commitment – and Russia is ready for it – to broaden cooperation in the islands area. We are absolutely convinced that it will improve the atmosphere around the negotiations and will eventually deliver mutually acceptable solutions.
I would like to make a special note of the warm welcome accorded us in Japan. I personally was greatly impressed by my meeting and talk with the Emperor and Empress of Japan. I appreciate the interest they have shown in Russia. I should emphasise – both for the Russian and the Japanese public – that we felt that all the people we have met in Japan were genuinely interested in all-round development of ties with Russia. And I have to tell you that the mood is similar in my country. And that means that Japanese-Russian relations have a good future. Confidence in the future is the best asset that we have today. I haven’t the slightest doubt that much of the credit for the significant success of our meeting goes to the atmosphere the Japanese Prime Minister has managed to create. And I would like to cordially thank you for this on behalf of the entire Russian delegation.
Question: The implementation of the Krasnoyarsk accords has now been put into question. Will new deadlines be set for resolving the territorial issue? And what are the main requirements for resolving the territorial problem?
Yoshiro Mori: During the past days Vladimir Putin and I had a frank dialogue on the basis of mutual trust and we revisited the territorial issue.
We have reaffirmed all the agreements, reached by our predecessors, including the Tokyo and Moscow declarations, which have been and remain the basis of negotiations. We have reaffirmed our shared intention to sign a peace treaty after resolving the issue of jurisdiction of the islands. President Vladimir Putin told me in no uncertain terms that the Joint Japanese-Soviet Declaration of 1956 is an agreement of the past.
As for future talks, we have agreed that we will use our best efforts to implement the Krasnoyarsk accord. The most important thing is that both sides will continue mutual frank dialogue on the basis of mutual trust, as was the case during the current visit by the Russian President.
Vladimir Putin: In reply to your question I would say the following: we, political leaders, and you, the media, share a huge responsibility. We must be very precise with our words and statements, and we must report them with perfect accuracy to the public in our countries. How we do it will go a long way to determine progress in resolving the issues that are of concern both to Russia and Japan.
Are the accords reached in Krasnoyarsk and set forth in the Moscow Declaration being fulfilled? To answer that question we should look at the language of the declaration. The last thing I want to do is to juggle with words and language, and, as a lawyer by training, I am used to reading documents. Let us have a look: “The leaders of the two countries reaffirm their resolve to exert every effort to conclude a peace treaty by 2000.” It does not say that Russia and Japan commit themselves to signing such a treaty, that they are obliged to sign a treaty. It says they will exert efforts to sign it. And now let us see if the leaders of the two countries have actually exerted efforts. Let us see what has been done in the period between 1997–1998 and today. Let us see what has been accomplished in the preceding 50 years or so to resolve the problem. And we will see and realise that the results of the previous period of nearly 50 years have been practically nil. Yet tremendous progress has been achieved in the past two years.
At the end of the day, why are we doing it? We are doing it for the sake of the people, the Russians and the Japanese. Until recently Japanese citizens complained that they could not visit the graves of their ancestors on the islands. Today they can do it freely without needing a visa. Until recently there was no question about working in the economic zone of these regions. The economic effect of its development may be as high as $1 billion a year. But today Japanese fishermen work in the area after corresponding agreements have been reached between the two states. Until recently there was no question of mutual exchanges between the present inhabitants of the islands and Japanese citizens. Now such exchanges take place freely. And if you are asking me whether these agreements have been fulfilled and are being fulfilled, I can reply in the affirmative: they are being fulfilled. But if we see in these documents what we want to see, we will mislead the public and create obstacles in the way of final settlement. Neither Russia nor Japan are interested in that.
Should any deadlines be set? I think it is not the question of deadlines but of the goodwill to solve complicated problems that we have inherited. Both Japan and Russia have the goodwill. My friend, the Prime Minister of Japan, has the goodwill, and I have the goodwill.
And the last part of your question: what should be done for a final resolution of the territorial problem? If we knew that, we would probably be answering different questions today. But let me tell you in a very general way how I see it.
I think we should create an atmosphere of trust, good-neighbourhood and cooperation in all areas. I think that all the actions connected with Japan should henceforth be perceived as actions corresponding to the national interests of Russia, and vice versa. Is that possible? I am sure it is not only possible, but it is going to happen if we look at the future and realise the alignment of forces in the world, and realise that Russia and Japan are interested not in being rivals, but in complementing each other.
Question: How do you see the relations between our countries 10 years from now?
Yoshiro Mori: Japanese-Russian relations have been steadily developing step by step in all spheres in recent years. At the previous summit with Vladimir Putin, we had a frank and constructive exchange of opinions in terms of simultaneous movement towards the solution of important strategic and geopolitical tasks related to large-scale cooperation and the conclusion of a peace treaty. I am sure that the Russian President and I have confirmed our intention to further strengthen the positive process that began recently. This is witnessed by the document we signed today, I mean, the joint statement on Japanese-Russian cooperation on international issues.
Bilateral cooperation in the economic field also has great potential. I hope that in the future cooperation in this field will develop gradually on the basis of the new trade and economic programme the Russian President and I signed today. The dynamics of the relations between Japan and Russia meet mutual interests.
I hope that if the process of deepening many-sided ties between our countries moves in this direction, a peace treaty will be signed on the basis of earlier agreements, and Japanese-Russian constructive partnership will enter a new phase.
There are no elements of confrontation in the Japanese-Russian relations. We have confirmed that, given this state of affairs, the only outstanding problem is territorial. President Putin has admitted that the problem has deep historical roots. Being mindful of this, of the agreements achieved and the latest talks, Vladimir Putin and I will try to resolve the territorial issue. We are not talking about setting a new deadline. There is still time before the end of 2000.
We should build our relations and improve them by overcoming difficult problems. We have agreed to pursue that goal.
Vladimir Putin: In principle I have already answered this question. I reaffirm what I have said so far and I subscribe to what my colleague, the Prime Minister of Japan, has just said.
I can only add that we should use every positive accord as a stepping stone towards harmonious cooperation in the future. We must make use of all the positive achievements.
I would like to see the relations with our eastern neighbour in 10–15 years’ time as the relations of partnership and cooperation in all areas of mutual interest. I am absolutely convinced that the fact that Japan and Russia need each other will be brought home forcibly both in the near historical term. They need each other because they can effectively complement each other. Our cooperation is not directed at any third countries. But being mutually complementary to each other undoubtedly offers colossal advantages both to Russia and Japan in the unfolding world competition. The development of relations between Russia and Japan meets the national interests of both states. I very much hope that in 15 years’ time we will have a solid practical confirmation of all this.
Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: September 5, 2000, 00:01
Text versionEvents
Opening Remarks at a Meeting with the Japanese Economic Association Keidanren
September 5, 2000
00:02
Tokyo
Vladimir Putin: Ladies and gentlemen,
Meeting with the leaders of the Japanese business community is invariably of great interest to the head of any country, and we believe this to be an inseparable and very important part of our visit to Japan. I am speaking on behalf of all the members of the Russian delegation.
To us Japan is a strategic partner, and not only in the Asia-Pacific region, but in the world as a whole. This was highlighted by yesterday’s talks with the Japanese Prime Minister. This is borne out by the agreements we have achieved together with my colleague, Mr Mori. Besides, I hope I am right in saying that we have become good friends with Yoshiro Mori, which, as you know, is a good basis for bilateral relations.
The time is auspicious for expanding cooperation and reactivating the whole range of bilateral ties, not least, of course, trade and economic ties. We attach great significance to it. And of course we are interested in it. But I must tell you that we are not going to play it up, we believe the interest is reciprocal and mutual. We can and must complement each other. Both Russia and Japan stand to gain from it.
A warming of the political climate always provides a good basis for closer business ties. But in addition, there is a new and very tangible factor. I mean the process of Russian economic recovery, which is gathering momentum. Our economic performance today is better than at any time since the start of the reforms. The gross domestic product increased by 3.2% in 1999 and by 7.3% in the first half of 2000.
We have gathered here for breakfast, but I would make so bold as to distract your attention by citing certain figures that I think are important for an insight into the situation in which we are today.
Industrial output in Russia during this period increased by 8% and 10.3% respectively. The structure of industry has improved. The share of manufacturing has increased and that of fuel and energy diminished. We have managed to reduce the tax burden on industry, to curb the growth of prices for the products of natural monopolies and to rehabilitate the banking system. Today the rate of inflation is very moderate, even by comparison with developed countries. Tax budget revenues are growing, and we have a foreign trade surplus. It has to be said that it is a very strong indicator by Russian standards. Direct investment in the Russian economy is growing.
These indicators cannot be attributed solely to favourable external conditions and foreign markets. Having said that, we are aware that it is a positive factor for us. We have managed to introduce some measures that gave a push to the growth of the Russian economy. We have developed a long-term social and economic strategy for a period up to 2010, which envisages profound structural reform, and I would like to stress that. On that, we have worked together and intend to continue to cooperate with the World Bank. I mean the development of framework legislation to guarantee property rights, effectively reduce the tax burden on manufacturers and create a favourable business climate. I am also referring to financial stability by harmonising the commitments of the state with its resources. All that should take Russia to a qualitatively new level of development.
The Government is to play a key role in fine-tuning all the Government institutions that ensure the operation of the market. So, purely economic measures will be combined – are already combined – with the work to strengthen the mechanisms of state power, federal relations, and the judiciary, to create a single legal space throughout the country, to combat corruption and arbitrary rule by the bureaucrats.
I would like to note the analysis carried out by Japanese experts, an analysis of the situation on the ground in the Russian economy, an analysis of the Russian realities. It pinpoints many problems which by and large we are aware of. They include the problems in the banking system, erratic energy supplies, defective communications and so on.
But the problem the Japanese experts put at the top of the list was different: businesses in Russia have long suffered from neglect of the laws in Russia. Not only from the fact that there is a lack of necessary legislation, but that the laws that are in place are often violated. They named it as the most acute problem. And I think that the Japanese experts are right. This is a key problem. But I would like you to know that much of the effort of the Russian leadership is aimed at overcoming that particular drawback. This is the objective of the reform of the upper house of the Russian Parliament and a range of measures aimed at strengthening the court system. This is what we mean when we set the task of creating a single legal space.
It is notable that for the first time in many years there is a considerable degree of consensus and harmony in Russian society on these cardinal issues. To the extent, of course, that it is possible in a democratic society, where there is always a plurality of opinions.
I would like you to note that the Russian delegation this time includes many representatives of the heads of regions. Among them is the Presidential Envoy to the Far Eastern Federal District. We have created districts in order to harmonise Russian legislation and ensure its uniform enforcement throughout Russia. The federal authorities and the regional leaders are fully aware of their responsibility for solving that task, they understand that solving that task will further the interests both of the federal Government, the regional governments and the whole country. And that provides a good basis for tackling the problems identified in the analysis and recommendations presented by the Japanese experts.
The same end will be served by improved interaction between the executive and legislative branches. The State Duma and the Government agree on an absolute majority of issues related to state building and economic development. So one can look forward to an early adoption of laws and regulatory acts required for successful work of investors. But still, it will take some time and effort.
This is just to impress upon you that we are resolved on following that path…
…Last week, the Government forwarded to the State Duma a draft federal budget for the following year. It is a balanced budget. For the first time we are planning to live within our means, without resorting to loans. Formerly we needed them mainly to correct the imbalances of budgetary policy. Today we rely increasingly on our own resources and potential. That marks a great step forward for Russia.
Now a few words about the servicing and repayment of our foreign debt. In my opinion, it speaks volumes about the state of the economy and the Government’s intensions. In order to repay debts we need sustained growth. As I have said, this is our priority task, but it is impossible to achieve it without a mutually acceptable restructuring of the debt. All we want is a fair deal, I emphasise, nothing but a fair deal to enable us to meet our commitments and at the same time to develop our economy.
The new Russia has not only assumed all the debt obligations, but it is regularly meeting these obligations, including those the Soviet Union had refused to meet. I am referring to the debts of tsarist Russia. We have practically paid them off. And recently we have been repaying our debts without real external support. Other than good advice – which we appreciate – we have not received real financial assistance recently, and yet we have been regularly and fully paying off our debts.
Now let us go over to the topic of Russian-Japanese trade and economic relations. Total Japanese investments in the Russian economy so far account for a mere 1% of foreign investments. This puts Japan in 13th place among the countries investing in the Russian market. And it is in 14th place in terms of direct investments. I think that even with due account of all the problems we know about and which I have just indicated, it is a very modest indicator which falls short of the potential of Russia and Japan. The inter-governmental agreement on encouraging and protecting capital investments passed in May this year laid a solid foundation for our investment cooperation.
I think it is necessary to continue the study of the issue of creating a joint investment company. We are ready to resume a substantive dialogue with the Japanese Government on that subject. I know the widespread opinion in Japan is that Russia sometimes treats Japanese investors unfairly. We are ready not only to look into this, but to solidly protect the interests of all investors – whether they are Japanese or Russian. If this is to happen, the work of the judiciary should be dramatically improved, the judiciary system should be strengthened, and we will persistently seek to do it. We will carefully examine every case on its merits – even if it is just a small joint project – and achieve a just settlement of arising disputes through arbitration courts.
In our opinion, it would be useful if Japanese businessmen also shed some of the old cliches regarding Russia and worked in our market more aggressively. For example, we have every opportunity for active strategic cooperation in the field of energy. I am referring to the establishment of bilateral cooperation in addressing the key task of providing energy and fuel to the APR countries.
I am talking about the use of the potential of oil and gas fields in Eastern Russia, above all successful implementation of the Sakhalin projects. Of course, we may recall that they have long been signed, but many of them are moving very slowly. I have just visited Sakhalin and I addressed an international conference on that issue there. We should choose projects very carefully, we should not drag our feet, but nor should we be in a hurry. It is necessary to create good and well-designed legal conditions.
What happened in Sakhalin? For real work to start letters had to be exchanged with corresponding statements. In these statements the parties were to acknowledge that Russian legislation in this domain has been balanced and harmonised. They exchanged such notices and tried to start work without waiting for any harmonisation. That created chaos, confusion and led to mutual grievances. That is not the way to proceed.
We count on Japanese business joining other energy development projects on Russian territory. The idea of creating an energy bridge between Russia and Japan appears to be interesting and promising. We should also study the possibility of building nuclear power plants in the Far East, part of whose energy would go to Japan.
Cooperation on global warming is relevant and meets our interests. We are studying the Japanese proposals on pilot projects in exchange for greenhouse emission quotas. Japan may in future become a key partner for Russia in the context of its long-term environmental and energy policy.
Along with energy, transport is a highly promising sphere. First of all, there is the joint use of the Trans-Siberian Railway, which can be the basis for the creation of a transport infrastructure linking the Far East to Europe via Russia. Tunnels can be built to link Sakhalin and Hokkaido with mainland Russia. I know the idea is being discussed in the Japanese business circles, and it is very interesting and promising. Its implementation would bring a dramatic change not only to the economic relations between Russia and Japan, but to the economic potential of our countries. Without any doubt, it would give us a big edge in the competition in the world and would make Japan totally independent in terms of resources while Russia can get a real opportunity to develop the resources it possesses.
Real opportunities have emerged for cooperation in science and high technologies. This was highlighted by the success of the forum “Russia-Japan: Advanced Science Technologies” held in Japan in June of this year. The most promising areas are nuclear energy and the environment, as well as space, medicine, etc.
Speaking about new fields to conquer, we should not forget the traditional areas which have for many years been the “signature” of our business ties. Trade would get a boost if Russian commodity exports become more effective, especially timber and sawn timber, coal and non-ferrous metals. At the same time, we should move on from the export of commodities to the export of products with higher added value.
Good prospects of business cooperation are opening up. It would be unfortunate if we missed that chance. And, conversely, it would be right if we used it for the benefit of both countries. The Prime Minister of Japan and I have laid down the guidelines of a new economic cooperation programme which will build on and greatly expand the Yeltsin-Hashimoto plan. Russian-Japanese trade relations need serious support not only of governments, but of the business communities in our countries. So, a lot depends on you.
It was with this in mind that I have invited Mr Imai to visit Russia as the head of the mission of the Japanese Economic Association. I am grateful to him for accepting the invitation and I hope the trip will take place soon and will strengthen our ties.
We also pin great hopes on the next joint meeting of the Russian-Japanese and Japanese-Russian economic cooperation committees to be held in October this year. Needless to say, the Government structures, above all the Russian-Japanese trade and economic inter-governmental commission, need to be more active. Before this year is out, it should hold its regular session and a meeting of the sub-commission on economic cooperation with the Russian Far East. An agreement to the effect was reached by the co-chairs of the commission in Tokyo on September 1.
For our part it is our task to remove all the obstacles in the way of the development of trade and economic relations. I would single out the implementation of some projects connected with the credit lines of the Japanese Bank for International Cooperation, which have been on hold far too long. The fact that these projects have been marking time is indicative. We will look into all the causes of this state of affairs and we should draw our conclusions together. I am convinced that in this case too the main problem is that the preliminary terms have not been sufficiently well formulated.
In conclusion, I would like to stress that Japanese business initiatives will be met in Russia with great interest and will enjoy support. I would like to wish you success on that path and I thank you for your attention.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: September 5, 2000, 00:02
Text version