We will move in this direction. If the tasks set in the recent State of the Nation Address are fulfilled, we will succeed in tackling a large part of the challenges facing Russia.
Question: It is rumoured that you have a portrait of Peter the Great in your office. Russia, as we know, has lived through different eras when it played a major role in the world, for example, during the reign of Peter the Great, of Catherine II, of Emperor Alexander I, and of course, the Soviet period. Which of these eras appeals to you most?
Putin: There are no portraits in my office today, but it is true that I had a portrait of Peter the Great in my office when I worked in St Petersburg. But basically, I proceed from the maxim that you should not make an idol of anyone. I think we should keep our attachments and sympathies to ourselves and not parade them. Having said that, I have immense respect for Peter the Great as a reformer who did a great deal for the emergence of modern Russia. I think his times are very consonant with the period we are living in today.
I think we should take some measures that appear to be complicated but that are absolutely necessary, and we should be persistent, energetic and resolute. If this is what you wanted to hear from me in reply, then I think you have achieved your aim.
Question: People say different things about you. Some media, for example, describe you as an enigmatic man with a cold face and they call you a “black box”, and some point out that you are a strong-willed, resolute man with “an iron hand”. How much truth is there in these assessments?
Putin: You mentioned an impenetrable face and then “a black box”. Let me point out to you that a box has no face. These descriptions are to some extent contradictory. Everyone says and sees what he wants to see. I think it is natural and it does not raise any further questions, it is to be expected.
As for my personal qualities and the way I think I should act, I would put it this way. Some time ago the Russian people bestowed immense trust on me by electing me the President of the country. When I decided to run for this high office, it was my own decision. I felt that I was able to and knew how to change life in the country for the better, that I could make Russia a more stable state, a strong state that is respected in the world.
In the course of my work I will have to make important decisions and assume huge responsibility. I think it would be absolutely wrong to try to be all things to all men. I think such behaviour would harm the very people who have conferred such a great honour on me because an attempt to save a political image and to be liked by everyone leads to a paralysis of power, when decisions that are key to the destinies and function of the state fail to be made.
And conversely, if a politician or statesman is absolutely convinced that he is right, he should act resolutely whether or not some people may like it. I repeat, this only holds true for cases when a decision is well thought out, weighed and well grounded.
Question: If I could ask you a less formal question. You have been travelling a good deal recently. You have been making many trips abroad and they are all marked by great dynamism. Are you planning to visit foreign countries in a different format? For example, the upcoming trip to China will also be short. Do you have an opportunity to make more prolonged visits?
Putin: On the one hand, I must visit the countries that we consider to be Russia’s main partners, receive the leaders of other states and take part in various international forums. Russia should not be isolated, it should not isolate itself, but as I said at the beginning, I consider dealing with domestic problems and problems of state development and the economy to be my priorities. So, I prefer to spend more time in my own country.
As for the short duration of my visits, I think the quality of work depends not only on the length of time one spends in a country. It depends on how well the issues have been studied, on the quality of preliminary work done by experts, my aides and the Foreign Ministry.
Besides, it is important to maintain dialogue with the leaders with whom we are able and need to solve certain problems. For example, with the Chairman of the People’s Republic of China we do not only have regular meetings, but we regularly talk by telephone. The last time we met, as you know, was quite recently in Dushanbe. We discussed a number of issues and raised some problems that need to be addressed.
I very much hope that in the meetings scheduled in Beijing we will move forward on the issues we discussed with Comrade Jiang Zemin in Dushanbe. You don’t have to spend a week in China to do that, much as I would like to spend a week there.
I think that even a week would not be enough to get a real insight into the life of the Chinese people and to understand and get a feeling for it.
Question: We’ve heard that you like Chinese food. Have you had any Chinese food recently?
Putin: I have Chinese food regularly, but I realise that there is great variety. There is the southern version of the Chinese cuisine, the northern version and there are many other nuances.
You know, it is also part of a people’s culture. Customs, spiritual life, moral values, language and cuisine – all these are formed over millennia.
Our peoples have lived side by side for ages. So, cross-pollination of cultures is natural, understandable and evident. The Japanese and Chinese cuisines have dumplings, though I don’t know the local names for them, and they look very much like Siberian pelmeni. We also have them. But with the Chinese, there is a distinct flavour and taste. To be honest, I like it very much. It is delicious.