Events
Remarks at a Meeting with Members of the National Public Commission for the Investigation of Offences and for the Observance of Human Rights in the North Caucasus
May 27, 2000
00:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
You know that as soon as the Government and the President’s administration learnt about the formation of your Commission, we vigorously backed your initiative, and we know that you are working hard. Let me say that our support has not been token support, and we are ready to back your work not because it will meet with a positive reaction in the Chechen Republic or other regions of Russia or abroad – far from it.
I would like to tell you that both I as the head of state and the Government are interested in your work being put on solid ground and meeting with success. Why? Because the Government of the Russian Federation and Russia in general have never sought and will not seek to conduct endless military actions to repress the Chechen people. We have said so from the very beginning and we continue to maintain it and will pursue only one goal: to fight against terror and banditry. But this does not mean that human rights and the laws of the Russian Federation should not be honoured or should be only partly honoured in Chechnya. On the contrary, I believe that public efforts, including your commission, will only be successful if they are aimed at securing respect for human rights, federal laws and the Constitution of the Russian Federation from everyone in Chechnya: from the federal authorities, local government bodies and all those who live and work there. That fully applies to the federal government bodies in Chechnya. In that sense your efforts, without any doubt, will help to meet the challenges facing Russia in that region of the Russian Federation.
I am ready to hear an account of everything you have done recently and listen to the problems you have encountered.
The Secretary of the Security Council, Sergei Ivanov, will be responsible for helping you to perform the tasks you face and reach the goals you have set yourselves.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 27, 2000, 00:00
Text versionEvents
Speech at the Congress of the Unity All-Russia Political Movement
May 27, 2000
00:00
Moscow
Vladimir Putin: Colleagues and friends,
I am pleased to welcome you here today.
Present in this room are delegates from all 89 constituent entities of the Russian Federation, a high-powered group of people who want to, can and will engage in politics. I welcome you all. But I hope you won’t hold it against me if I extend a special welcome to the 18-man delegation from the Chechen Republic.
You have just taken a responsible step by voting to create a party. I congratulate you on that event.
I am sure you have taken the right decision. First, Unity has had to keep up the momentum and build on every success and move forward. Secondly, reforms, both in the economy and government, need a solid political backing. Russian citizens must have an opportunity to participate in government affairs and be active in the work of the party. So far, unfortunately, not only are our government institutions weak, but our civil society is also weak, as a previous speaker quite rightly said. I absolutely agree with him.
The party’s task is to overcome these weaknesses and draw as many people as possible into its organisations. A political party can only be a partner and a pillar of the government if it contributes to forming the government. We know that Unity has joined this process and it is strongly represented in the State Duma. You have taken an active part in the campaign to elect the President of the Russian Federation. The next stage is local and regional elections.
Political parties so far have played a very modest role in regional elections, as we know only too well. The candidates, for whatever office, try to distance themselves from all parties, and that is not accidental. But there is another snag in store for many candidates. They often fall under the influence of clans and groups that are separated from society and pursue their own corporate interests.
So the building of an effective party system that is open to the people and understood by the people is a national challenge in the full sense of the word.
I must say that as the head of state, I consider it to be one of my main tasks. I will tell you honestly that I dream of the time when these institutions, these instruments are up and running in our country. If we manage to do it and if I manage to contribute to this process, I will believe that I will have fulfilled many of the tasks that face me as President. The survival and competitiveness of our society and state in the historical perspective depends on it. I am absolutely convinced of this.
We want to see the emergence not of “pocket” parties, but parties that actively contribute to the formation of government, promote charismatic leaders capable of creating teams that work effectively and are responsible to society and the state. A constitutional congress cannot accomplish that task. Prolonged and challenging work lies ahead. I would like to tell you that your movement and any other political movements and various parties, even those opposing you, will have the support of the state. But only a party that embarks on this arduous road can have a future.
I would like to say some words about what we will have to do together. We know that the main thing is to overcome poverty and backwardness. There is no more important task for us now and there won’t be any time soon.
Of course, the key to solving these problems is sustained economic growth, but it is also necessary to create political and economic systems that would provide solid protection against political risks. These two processes – achieving political stability and sustained economic development – must go hand-in-hand.
There is yet another long-term challenge that will need to be met if the economy is to develop successfully. It is the building of the state. That is why a package of laws has been drafted and submitted to the Duma aimed at making the country more governable in tune with the times, in strict compliance with the federal laws, protecting the rights of Russian citizens throughout the country’s territory no matter whether they live in Moscow or thousands of kilometres away from the capital.
It is no secret that we often see attempts to establish authoritarian rule and curtail local self-government. That is why medium and small business is not developing and we have seen the appearance of “states within a state” with their own laws that contravene the Russian Constitution and laws. I think it is time to rectify this situation.
Mind you, nobody is challenging the priorities and principles of federalism and the autonomy of regions. God forbid us to embark on that path. But everyone must understand that there are fundamental principles of state and that by violating these principles we erode the foundation of the building which will inevitably collapse, however magnificent and powerful it may look. In fact, the more massive the building, the more likely it will collapse if the foundation is destroyed.
There has to be a balance of interests. It should be reflected in the balance of all the branches and at all levels of power. This is the aim of the package of documents submitted to the State Duma which I have just referred to.
Our actions are aimed at uniting Russia. No one can be allowed to undo our gains in the field of human rights: freedom of business, creative work, freedom of speech. Every Russian citizen should feel secure. Security can be provided only by the state and only through developed institutions of civil society by ensuring privacy, property rights, stable rules and norms of life that are the same for everyone in Russia. This is one of the tasks of the government today. I think this is what ordinary Russian citizens, our voters expect from us.
I understand, and we have heard Sergei Shoigu say in his report, that Unity intends to be a partner of the government. I must say that this imposes obligations on the authorities as well because the authorities feel that they have the support of such a powerful political force, such a party. First of all, we share the responsibility for everything that will happen in the country. As several speakers have said, today you do not claim to be the ruling party. I think this is a fair approach. Attempts to create such parties have been made in Russia’s recent history. They drew support mainly from civil servants, and what is more, top-level civil servants. Let us be frank, in their time these political forces and political entities played a positive role in the life of society and the state, but for a variety of reasons they failed to gain enough authority to become integrated into the system, to strike deep roots in society.
You know that popularity and authority do not come by themselves, they cannot come about by fiat. That is a futile undertaking, as witnessed by the fate and experience of many Russian parties. You, the Unity party, which is only starting, would do well to learn from their experience.
State Duma elections are only your first success that has earned you some trust. It would be a pity if you wasted it; it would be an unpardonable mistake. People must know that the party and its leaders champion their interests, make a difference in the life of the state, change it for the better, and truly respected people join the party in the regions.
But let us be honest: it is always the case that the people who seek to become involved in government are precisely the people who shouldn’t be allowed near government. It has always been that way. I don’t think you will be spared that problem. I am sure Unity will also face that problem. I just want to alert you to this.
Colleagues, among your voters are people of diverse political views, and this is a great asset. It is not a minus, but a plus. It is very important to preserve the unity and consolidation, to find things that unite people who adhere to different views and opinions. Unity and consolidation are the key tasks for the President and for various political forces. I think we no longer have any need for parties committed to revolutionary transformation; we have had enough of them.
Our common task is to achieve a mutual understanding, to take into account the interests of various social forces. Unity has already demonstrated that it can contribute to the consolidation of society, protect the interests of the state as a whole and every Russian citizen individually. What is needed is that every Russian citizen, every individual feel it. If that happens then Unity can be hugely successful. I have no doubt about it. But the road to success, the road to that goal is an arduous one.
I wish you success along that road. I wish you all the best.
Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 27, 2000, 00:00
Text version