Events
Excerpts from a Speech at the Meeting of the Council of the Inter-Regional Association Siberian Agreement
February 18, 2000
00:01
Irkutsk
Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon.
The land of Siberia holds more than three-quarters of Russia’s mineral and fuel and energy resources, more than half of which are hydro-energy resources. It also has the main reserves of ferrous and non-ferrous metal ores, and minerals. Siberia accounts for more than 80% of Russia’s reserves of industrial timber. This merits the attention not only of the local authorities, but of the federal government. I understand that you have not yet addressed these issues. Unfortunately, we have to admit that in spite of this natural wealth our economic performance has been modest so far.
Although you have successfully stabilised the economic situation and reported a 6% growth of industrial output, that indicator can be seen as modest and is no more than a pointer to a future trend.
I would very much like to hope that we will consolidate these successes and will build on them. Sustaining positive dynamics is just as much of a challenge as dealing with a crisis.
<…>
I would like to say a few words about the strengthening of the border because this region has such a problem, above all, of course, on the border with Mongolia. It is quite a long border. Unfortunately, we are encountering increasing problems are arising, some of them rather difficult for us. In fact, these problems have been taken up by the Mongolian parliament. It has to do with cattle rustling and other problems which stem from the fact that the border is unregulated and unprotected. Clearly, something has to be done about it because it damages our reputation and relations with a friendly state.
Now let’s move on to some issues that have not been discussed yet, and that is just as well, because now I can take part in the discussion. We can start by addressing the problem of forestry and the logging industry in Siberia. We will of course be looking at the problems of the sector, but naturally the ultimate goal in dealing with any issue in this sphere is to improve people’s lives.
The Siberian region, in spite of its natural riches, has one lamentable distinction: people here are poorer than in the country on average. This is a fact that cannot be ignored. We must take into account the lag in terms of living standards and the quality of life. Statistics show that roughly more than 4 million people live in extreme poverty. Their incomes are half or less than half of the living wage. Among them are those who work in the timber industry. Their wages are two or three times lower than in extractive industries.
Moreover, Siberia has hundreds of remote communities where there is a single enterprise that provides jobs for the local people and bears the burden of providing the entire range of social services to a community. There are many more loss-making timbering enterprises in Siberia than in other parts of the country. That is understandable because they are too far away from the western and eastern markets. We discussed it with the governor today. So, transport is certainly an important issue. For every new vehicle there are two which have broken down because they are too old. The fleet of vehicles is obsolete. The owners of most enterprises cannot provide effective management. That problem claims its share of attention too. We should step up our efforts to rehabilitate enterprises and use the whole arsenal of instruments offered by the law.
We have sent to the regions a concept of forming integrated corporate management of the industry called “The Creation of Large Corporations from Raw Material Extraction to Production”, and it envisages compliance with environmental requirements. Some successful enterprises of this kind already exist in Syktyvkar, Bratsk and some other regions. But, unfortunately, they are still few and far between. Let me be honest and say that perhaps we too have not been very forthcoming on the issue, but the regions are “taking their time” and are not active enough, in my opinion.
As far as I know, the association is keeping the problem under review, and if you feel that we should do more, we are ready to pursue that path vigorously. Unfortunately, the workers and managers in this sector so far have been mainly concerned with the issues of trade benefits and lifting of export duties. The tariff policy must certainly be looked at and we turn our attention to it time and again. Favourable conditions should be created for the export of products, but so far we have largely been exporting round timber and not processed timber products. This is the easiest approach for timber exporters. To expand the markets for pulp and paper products, an inter-governmental agreement has to be urgently prepared, including between this region and the People’s Republic of China. As for seeking special terms and lower duties, that approach is not very promising. The last time we touched upon this problem was at a meeting of the coordinating council of the North-West Association (the timber people know what I mean, the problem of pulpwood there is, if anything, more acute than here). We met the requests made by the members of the North-West Association and lifted the tariff on chips and cut it by 50% on pulpwood.
Thank you for your attention. I am looking forward to a very active discussion.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: February 18, 2000, 00:01
Text versionEvents
Excerpts from Transcript of a Meeting with Students at the Irkutsk State University
February 18, 2000
00:03
Irkutsk
Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon. If you have any questions, I would rather listen to you. Do you have any questions, ideas and proposals?
Question: As the soul grows older one becomes more conservative. What do you think about that?
Vladimir Putin: Not to worry: I feel quite young. At any rate, I don’t feel my age.
Voice: We wish you to stay young.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much.
Question: How important is political will, political power for a politician?
Vladimir Putin: I am absolutely certain that for someone involved in politics willpower is the most important quality. People who have no will are just experts. They may be good experts or bad experts, but they are specialists who can only give advice. Without willpower you cannot make decisions.
Question: There is a lot of discussion currently about a new education policy. What do you see as its main shortcomings?
Vladimir Putin: You know, I wouldn’t like to criticise it because if I make any specific critical remarks I would instantly upset the balance among the groups fighting over the policy.
Let me just say that some of the things in it are purely declarative. And that is probably its main shortcoming. The policy must be more substantive and perhaps more concrete in formulating the goals and the mechanisms for achieving them.
I can say without exaggeration that science and education should be the main vector in the country’s development in the near future. I am not saying it simply because I am here at the university, talking to students. It is just that for a country like Russia, in its present position, accelerated development – and this is the kind of development the country needs – is impossible without advanced science and education. Everything begins with education. You know that the more developed a country is economically, the less it invests in education because it already has a foundation. We cannot say today that we are a country that is sufficiently developed economically. Of course, education and science are priorities.
We have preserved the core of our military-industrial complex. The state has channeled huge resources in it for decades. Science is well-developed in that sector, but there has been no demand for its results in the civil sector. There were never any conditions for the development of market relations. Whatever it invented and produced has never found a broad market. Its products have always been one-offs, there was no serial manufacture. But the potential is huge and we should preserve it. It will be impossible to preserve unless we reinforce what has been created there over the years by injecting new human resources and fresh ideas.
So it is obvious that education and science are among the national development priorities.
Question: How do you feel about brain drain in Russia. And what should be done to reverse the trend?
Vladimir Putin: How can anyone feel about it? It’s a negative trend, of course. What can be done about it? It is necessary to make people feel comfortable in their own country, and it must be done not by administrative, but by organisational and economic methods. It means raising salaries and encouraging science and creativity, especially in the spheres where a solid basis and technology are needed for experiments and research.
I have many friends working in this sphere. And many of them say that no one would have left, for any amount of pay, if they had a chance to pursue their research in their own country. This is what we should invest in above all. And of course we should see what we can do to raise the salaries of university graduates. They may not be as high as in the West, but they should be higher than the average in the country. The only problem is public consciousness. Society must be mature enough to understand that investing in human resources, in young specialists is far more effective than dividing and spreading everything evenly. Ultimately, it is in the interests of society.
Question: Do you think Russia will remain a super-presidential republic? And are any changes being planned in this connection?
Vladimir Putin: What do you mean by a super-presidential republic?
Voice: I mean the status of the president as sealed in the 1993 Constitution, with unlimited powers. I mean the status of the head of state as an arbiter between different branches of power.
Vladimir Putin: With regard to the president, there exists the system of impeachment. Society, the state have the right and the ability to initiate and follow through the impeachment proceedings against the president. But there is no such mechanism with regard to governors. So, I wouldn’t say that Russia is a super-presidential republic. There has to be a balance between the federal, regional and municipal authorities. Everything should be considered, analyzed, and the right accents should be made.
As regards the degree of centralisation of power in Russia, I think you and everyone would agree with me that Russia is a country which followed its own path of development. We have just seen a monument to commemorate the arrival of the first train. There is a figure of Yermak on its bas-relief. He died while being pursued by Tartars. He drowned, wearing a shirt of mail the Tsar had given him. Siberia was added to Russia as a result of a fierce struggle. Russia was created as a centralised state and that was how it existed. That is why we had Tsarism and then Communism. Now we have the presidential republic. And let me say that the forms of government we choose must not strangle democracy, which is the most important idea, because there cannot be a full-fledged state and society without internal democratic processes. But there should be a clearly defined mechanism to guarantee the rights and freedoms of citizens irrespective of their social and economic status, and so on and so forth. Only the president can fulfil this role.
Voice: I agree. But then isn’t it the case that impeachment is merely “virtual”?
Vladimir Putin: Not at all. You know that when there was a motion to impeach the first president, it fell only 7 votes short of being passed. And it could have been passed. It means that the impeachment mechanism is working. So, I don’t think that question was correctly phrased.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: February 18, 2000, 00:03
Text versionEvents
Replies to Questions from the Media after a Meeting of the Council of the Inter-Regional Association Siberian Agreement
February 18, 2000
00:02
Irkutsk
Question: This morning you had a meeting with our scientists and industrialists on the problem of Lake Baikal and the pulp and paper plant. Are there any signs of progress, and in general will the government pursue the issue?
Vladimir Putin: Of course it will. Unfortunately, the solution of this and many other environmental issues is being unreasonably delayed. And the longer it is delayed the more acute these problems become.
Environmental problems in Siberia are particularly acute, as I am sure you know better than I do. So we organised a meeting with scientists and some industrialists in order to discuss the problems of the environment. And of course, since we are here in Irkutsk, we spoke above all about Lake Baikal. We have agreed that the tentative project will be worked out by the enterprise, with the government’s participation. We have agreed that the relevant commission will continue its work and the government will bring in scientists, in the first place the Russian Academy of Sciences. The government is prepared to sell its stake, but not until feasibility studies have been approved for the restructuring of the enterprise in line with environmentally acceptable parameters. Moreover, we have agreed to work out a system for the use of the Baikal Fund, which, as you know, has been included in the budget for the first time. It is not an awful lot of money (60 million roubles), but it is much needed if the problem is to be solved. We have also agreed that the money will be allocated for this specific target in the 2001 budget. These are the decisions we made today.
Question: Your trips of this kind usually include visits to enterprises and factories, but this time your programme is more on the “humanitarian” side: kids, the environment, students, a meeting with academics, people in the arts and culture. Why?
Vladimir Putin: As regards the problems of the environment, as I said, in my opinion, environmental problems are among the most important for the nation as a whole. For Siberia they are, probably, the most important problems, because we are aware of what is happening in this area and we know how the population suffers from this. That is why humanitarian issues are given priority. Environmental problems are connected with production and with the people who are concerned about these problems. That explains the meetings with the representatives of creative arts and academics. The problems of Lake Baikal and the problems of the environment in general were first raised mainly by the intelligentsia. Because all these problems are interconnected, this accounts for the bias of this trip.
Question: A question not related to Siberia, if I may. What do you think about the initiative of the Union of Right Forces (SPS) – although it has been turned down by the Central Election Commission (CEC) – on holding a referendum on a number of issues, including limiting the president’s right to dissolve the government and broadening property rights?
Vladimir Putin: I support the SPS initiative on all these issues. But let me note that the CEC rejected the initiative on purely legal grounds. I talked about it with Alexander Veshnyakov yesterday. He said that the CEC could not endorse it because certain irregularities occurred when collecting signatures. And we cannot argue against that. However, on the substance of the problems raised, I would like to say again that I support the initiative, above all, because it is aimed at creating a viable state in Russia. These initiatives are aimed at making the state more efficient.
But let us start with the first issue on the list. It is the issue of guarantees of property rights in Russia and of the rights of the owner. To me, this is not just about the guaranteed property rights for major corporations and companies – Russian and foreign – but about the right of our citizens to own flats, houses, plots of land and so on. At the end of the day, we cannot tolerate a situation when the state, having declared the right to property, itself initiates a revision of these issues. And a good-faith buyer is put at a disadvantage from the start. We must do everything we can to avoid such a situation if we are to create a good investment environment.
Then there is the issue of parliamentary immunity. I support the SPS here too. Of course, that problem should be dealt with by the State Duma and the Federation Council. But I see no reason why the people should not have the right to express their opinion. I for one do not think that the deputies should enjoy such absolute protection in all matters. The State Duma deputies and the members of the Federation Council should enjoy protection when performing their duties. The SPS has proposed a change that concerns situations when deputies commit a crime – what’s wrong with that proposal? I would be in favour.
As for limiting the rights of the president with regard to the government, for me personally the issue is irrelevant because I am acting president and prime minister. So, we can revisit the issue later. That said, it is a major issue: actually, it is not only about the powers of the president, but about reviewing all the elements of the state mechanism to make them more efficient. That holds both for the regional and the federal components.
And the fourth issue is that of a professional army. It is a complicated issue. We discussed it when initiating the reform of the Armed Forces, the development strategy and the concept of national security. We are going to move in that direction. Clearly, we should be mindful of the real potential of our state, but when it comes to trouble spots and armed conflicts we should of course make sure to send professionals to fight there. By the way, about 30% of the army personnel now active in the North Caucasus are serving under contracts. So, we are going to move in that direction. It certainly cannot be done overnight, but that will be our strategy.
Question: Your contacts with the governors are becoming closer and more frequent. What is the key problem you are urging them to address at the current stage of economic and political development? What do you expect from them, apart from supervising the spring planting of crops?
Valdimir Putin: As for my contacts with the governors, they did not begin yesterday or today. You may remember that as a member of the Presidential Executive Office I was responsible for the regions. That meant, above all, work with the governors.
What tasks do I consider to be the most important and what is the main thrust of my cooperation with the governors? There are many different elements. I spoke about them today in my concluding remarks: these are economic issues (I think the agenda today was well-balanced), socio-political and organisational issues. Governors and speakers of legislative assemblies are members of the Federation Council, the upper house of parliament, and they have a big say in approving laws. So, we count on their support of the government policy aimed at strengthening the state, and the government policy aimed at strengthening the tax system.
We look to the governors to help us in the social sphere because they are aware of what the state can and cannot do. The real potential of the state, on the one hand, and the social commitments, on the other, should be comparable and commensurable. The governors, the people who are directly responsible for the decisions being taken, are well aware of that and we count on their support on that issue. But not only that. We count on the support of the governors in improving the mechanism of the state. One of the problems raised here today is in fact an element in developing the state. Governors are responsible for vast territories, and are perhaps more aware than anyone of where the state mechanism is working effectively and where it hits the skids. So, there is this mutual exchange of opinion on these matters. We will consider their proposals and study them, and we will put them into practice.
Question: Perhaps it is off-topic, but still, it will soon be February 23, when we will again commemorate our war veterans and will perhaps spare a thought for 76-year-old Vasily Kononov, a former partisan who was sentenced to jail by a court in Riga last January. How do you feel about it personally and are you going to do anything about it as the head of state?
Vladimir Putin: You journalists are well-informed people and there may be some new information I do not know of yet. This morning I sent a letter to the president of the Latvian Republic asking him to see what he can do to influence the decisions connected with the fate of that World War II veteran.
But I think the issue does not concern only him personally. Strangely enough, the repressive apparatus of the state in Latvia has recently been turning more and more often against resistance fighters, people who fought against Nazism, and that worries and alarms us.
As regards Kononov, in my letter I asked the president of Latvia to see that a fair decision is passed on the issue, but I also told him that Russia is ready to offer Kononov its citizenship and allow him and his family to move to Russia. The Russian Federation will do everything to provide accommodation for him. But, as I said, the issue has to do not only with that particular individual, but with other similar facts. As a Russian newspaper reported recently, a former anti-Nazi fighter committed suicide during an attempt to arrest him, and some criminal cases have been opened. That way, we may end up with large-scale persecution of the people who fought Nazism.
Today, on the eve of the 55th anniversary of Victory over Nazism, this does no credit to the international community. The Russian Federation will build its relations with Latvia bearing in mind the whole range of humanitarian issues.
Question: How will you go about fighting corruption? The previous prime minister proposed to release a certain number of prisoners to make room for future ones. Do you have some other remedy for that traditional Russian malaise?
Vladimir Putin: There can only be one remedy, and that is uniform interpretation of laws and a sustained effort to enforce them. A consistent, relentless and persistent effort. I can’t think of any special unorthodox ways of dealing with the issue. What is needed is a persistent, consistent and uncompromising fight against corruption. I must tell you that this is one of the key tasks of the state in making our country economically attractive and politically advanced. Economic progress is impossible, it is out of the question, without fighting corruption. So this has been and remains one of the highest national priorities.
Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: February 18, 2000, 00:02
Text version