Events
Answers to Questions during a News Conference Following a Meeting with Ukrainian President Leonid Kuchma
December 22, 2000
00:02
St Petersburg
Interfax: What is the outlook for Russian-Ukrainian relations after your meetings in Minsk, Moscow and St Petersburg?
Vladimir Putin: Without exaggeration, we witness and participate in not just improvement of Russian-Ukrainian relations, but in a qualitative change in the character of our relations. During the past few months after our meetings in Minsk, Moscow and St Petersburg the level of relations and the degree of trust between the two states have changed. Our relations have reached a new qualitative level in practically all areas of our cooperation. That applies to energy, as the Ukrainian President has said, and to aviation and space, science, culture and education. The unveiling of a monument to Taras Shevchenko is the best proof that our relations in the cultural field are growing. But these are just external signs of our deepening relations. I am absolutely convinced that the country with which we have so much in common in cultural and economic life, and which accounts for 40% of all our trade with the CIS countries is and will remain our main partner for a long time. And I would like to offer special thanks to the President of Ukraine, Mr Kuchma, for this latest initiative, for organising meetings between Russian and Ukrainian businessmen.
Ort: You have focused a great deal on state symbols. Today, you signed a Decree on the Russian Guard Day. Why are you so particular about this topic?
Vladimir Putin: At first glance that is not the most important thing we should concern ourselves about, but a state does not choose and use its symbols by accident. A state symbol is like air: when it is there we don’t seem to notice it. That is how it should be. But when there are no symbols you have a subconscious feeling that you live in an inferior kind of society. We have lived like that for nearly 10 years, in a temporary situation. I think this is long enough to finally realise that we must come to some agreements and compromises. I believe that a compromise has been reached. To be sure, you can’t satisfy everyone. But some day a decision on the issue had to be taken. As for the Russian guard, it is a page in our military history which we are rightly proud of. We all know that the guard is the most capable and professionally best-trained unit in the Russian army with the highest morale. It has always been the case, in the pre-revolutionary times and in the Soviet times. It is not by chance that the Soviet-era orders and medals carried only pictures while the ribbons were inherited from the Guards of pre-revolutionary times. In the past the fact was simply not mentioned, that is all. So, why shouldn’t we take the next step today? It is not by chance that the Ukrainian President has attended the exhibition. We were in one of the halls and we were shown the banner of the first army regiment to receive such a banner of the guards. It is called the Kiev Regiment. That adds to the answer to the first question. It is one more proof that Russia and Ukraine have much to unite them.
Chas Pik: As Chairman of the Committee on the Celebration of the 300th Anniversary of St Petersburg, what steps are you taking to preserve the historical and architectural landmarks, which are in a sorry state?
Vladimir Putin: Hardly a cause for joy. One can have different opinions about it. It didn’t happen by accident. In the Soviet times, as we know, all the money went to the Finance Ministry. And then the planning commissions from Leningrad tried to extract this money, and you understand what a lot of money was needed to maintain such an open-air museum as St Petersburg-Leningrad. Today the situation has changed. All the Russian regions rely mainly on their own resources. Of course, St Petersburg is short of funds to take proper care of its cultural monuments. I must stress that it is not the fault of the city’s administration. We have agreed that in time for the 300th anniversary of St Petersburg everything will be done to maintain the city infrastructure and architectural landmarks. A whole programme has been developed. We have agreed with the Governor that I will identify the most important landmarks which are of particular significance for the city. I will take them under my personal review. Such a list of landmarks is ready, and today I signed the instructions to various ministries and departments. The list includes more than 20 cultural landmarks, social and healthcare amenities and correctional facilities. I repeat, restoration and repair and in some cases the construction of these facilities will be under the President’s personal review.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 22, 2000, 00:02
Text versionEvents
Speech at a Meeting to Mark the 80th Anniversary of the GOELRO Plan
December 22, 2000
00:00
Moscow
Vladimir Putin: Friends,
Power Engineer’s Day coincides with a momentous date, the 80th anniversary of the adoption of the State Plan for the Electrification of Russia, the GOELRO Plan.
The GOELRO Plan is a symbol of an entire era, an era of hopes and unheard of enthusiasm. It marked the starting point for creating the power system in the country. No less importantly, it was the first scientifically grounded long-term programme of the country’s economic development. In fact, the emergence of our country as an industrial power began with the GOELRO Plan.
So today is not only a red-letter day for people in the energy sphere. It is a historic milestone in the life of our people and the peoples of the former Soviet Union.
The electrification plan was launched in a difficult period of the Civil War and economic dislocation. Skeptics described the GOELRO Plan as a fiction and a utopia.
They were mistaken.
First, it was a thoroughly considered project that took a long time to develop. It began to be developed before the First World War.
And secondly, as time has shown, the GOELRO Plan was not only fulfilled but considerably over-fulfilled. The Russian power industry quickly gained momentum, and within 15 years we ranked second in Europe and third in the world in terms of the amount of electricity generated.
The creation of the Single Power Grid in the mid-1950s was a natural continuation of the GOELRO Plan. It increased the country’s industrial potential many times over and became a powerful factor of economic integration that linked all the country’s industrial regions.
The cementing and uniting impact of that factor increased the country’s potential over time. That is something well worth remembering now that the country is on the rise again.
The success of the GOELRO Plan is not only the result of a massive labour effort. It is also a tribute to precise calculations and excellent organisation, the ability and painstaking work of economists and energy experts, those who calculated and checked out all the details of that incredibly bold project.
Today, when arguments about the future of the power sector in the country are reminiscent of the 1920s, we again must meet the challenge of the times. We must again approach the massive task of supplying the country with energy in a thoughtful and precise way. Our actions in the power sector determine the future of Russia, its resurgence, wellbeing and political stability, and the social welfare of all our citizens.
Today is a big red-letter day, but a true holiday is preceded by prolonged and strenuous day-to-day work. So I cannot sidestep the problems of the power sector.
At the top of the list of problems are those that have to do with people. Above all, the uninterrupted supply of heating and electricity in some regions.
There are, of course, strategic issues connected with the development of the sector as a whole, which are the subject of heated arguments. I think the decisions must be well calculated and well balanced, and they must come from energy specialists and economists. I repeat, we are talking about a long-term programme, large-scale and serious work to modernise the sector and optimise management.
In order to successfully solve these tasks, we must have a clear-cut and well-grounded strategy for the reform and development of the Russian energy sector, closely linked with the national economic strategy. As we develop it, it is our duty to draw on the historical experience, including GOELRO. But at the same time, we should use modern market methods drawing on our own and foreign experience.
Electrification is a key sector of the economy in any country. But for Russia (especially its northern part) power means much more: it is life in the direct sense of the word. So we must be aware of the importance of the tasks facing us.
We must carefully weigh and calculate the consequences of the decisions we take. These are not problems that concern individual agencies. The interests of the whole country are at stake, and indeed, the interests of all Russian citizens. I think that the workers in your sector are well aware of that.
You know that the first unit of the North-Western Thermal Power Plant which uses unique technologies, will be launched today. It is important to make sure that the event itself does not remain unique.
The energy sector has at all times employed excellent specialists, true professionals. You take the credit for keeping the Russian power system stable. It could only have been accomplished by people that are truly dedicated to their job.
And now I pass on to the ceremonial part. It is my honour to give state decorations to the foremost workers in the energy sector.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 22, 2000, 00:00
Text version