The Kremlin, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon,
Today we must make a decision on reforming the military organisation of the state, its inner structure and optimisation of its budget and troop strength.
We have taken a long time to prepare the discussion thoroughly, and rightly so because the price of the issue in the direct and figurative sense is very high and the tasks are formidable: the issue is directly connected with the country’s security, the army, and the fate of hundreds of thousands of servicemen, therefore our calculations should be extremely thorough and our forecasts must be accurate.
At a meeting on September 27 as part of preparations for this meeting of the Security Council we agreed in principle on the main thing: to preserve the approaches and parameters worked out by the expert commission headed by Sergei Borisovich Ivanov, and we arrived at optimal agreed decisions. True, corrections were being made until the last moment: we have just been discussing the draft resolution with the Government Chairman, and the Government has some remarks and we will deal with them during the course of our discussion.
To maintain a cumbersome and sometimes ineffective military organisation is wasteful and wrong in every sense and under our present conditions, one can say more, it is absolutely inadmissible. It is our duty not to disperse but concentrate both the functions and the assets for performing them and use the saved resources to strengthen combat capability and address the social problems of servicemen. As a result we should put in place a solid system of control, enhance discipline in the Army and in all paramilitary structures in the country. As a result, we should get a leaner and therefore more mobile and professionally strong army.
That ideology of reforming the military organisation of the state must remain in place. We should confirm that position, but the particularly complicated and important nature of the issue called for additional work on specific mechanisms, which is what we have been doing lately, and it called for a thorough calculation of all the decisions. In particular, the departmental systems of technical and logistical support, military training and education received further attention. We had to seek reserves and eliminate overlaps in the activities of the country’s military and security agencies. There were some other outstanding problems on which additional work was needed.
It should be noted that much, of course, has already been done. The heads of the security and military agencies have done their homework. The arguments were heated and sometimes difficult, I speak without exaggeration. But that is good because the discussion in the process of preparation for this meeting of the Security Council was a discussion of deeply committed people, people who are dedicated to the business that has been entrusted to them. We are now ready to set forth our final position in detail, to argue our case and discuss everything thoroughly and arrive at the only correct decision.
True, some outstanding issues remain. In the first quarter of next year we will discuss the system of national security agencies because the problem of public security should be approached with similar thoroughness. I think in the second half of 2001 one of the meetings should be devoted to Russian government policy in consolidating the system of public security.
Considering the crime control situation and the generally low level of public security in the country (unfortunately we still have to admit it, although the Interior Ministry has done a great deal lately), I think this issue will be extremely relevant today too. I think it would be right if we include this provision in the Security Council resolution today.
Another important issue I would like to touch upon is the military budget. Allocating funds for military reform is not everything, important though it is. All the funds disbursed must, first, reach the military agencies strictly on schedule, they should be disbursed without fail and in the amounts decided on by the Security Council, otherwise this attempt to implement reform of the military will be doomed to failure too.
We have done a great deal to prepare for this Security Council meeting. It is not by chance that I said that the heads of the “power agencies” have had long and occasionally difficult conversations among themselves and with the Government and the Security Council members. All these were difficult decisions, but if we are making them they should be absolutely well grounded and they should be fulfilled.
Another and equally important thing is targeted and rational spending of the funds, and I would like to draw the attention of the heads of the military and security agencies to it. The apparatus of the Security Council and the Government must together organise close and permanent monitoring and use all possible levers for that. Sergei Borisovich (addressing Sergei Ivanov), please, pay special attention to this.
In conclusion I would like to repeat that today we will not confine ourselves to discussion, today we must draw the line and make a final decision on the military organisation of the state, the future of the Army, of the military as a whole and hence the security of Russia. We have had long discussions, we have covered a long way before we reached these decisions – that is it, time has run out, we must pass the decision today.
Publication statusEvents
Address at a Ceremony for Foreign Ambassadors to Present Their Credentials
November 9, 2000
00:01
The Kremlin, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen.
I am glad to welcome you to a credentials ceremony in the Kremlin.
This venerable ceremony has a very good history. It has a deep meaning and symbolises mutual respect and a desire to be neighbourly and cooperative.
At the turn of the new century, Russia is genuinely interested in good partner relations with all countries for the sake of world security and international stability. It is our belief that the principles of equality, due consideration for national interests and the unswerving observance of international law ought to underlie this cooperation. At the same time, we believe that the UN and its Security Council should play a greater role in preserving peace and security.
I want to point out that the growing influence of international political and economic organisations should not stand between us and our main goal. Bilateral relations between countries and their two-way economic and political ties remain the bedrock of international politics. And I consider it very important that many of Russia’s approaches to international problems today should be understood and supported by your countries. I am sure this will guarantee further expansion of joint bilateral efforts in all areas of our cooperation.
Russia and Peru enjoy traditionally good relations. It is gratifying to say that our countries hold identical views on many key issues of the day, refuse to accept terrorism, and are battling against the drug business and organised crime. Russia supports democratic forces in your country and the Peruvian people’s free choice, and intends to further pursue full-scale, mutually beneficial cooperation with Peru.
Russia and Iraq have established relations of good-neighbourliness and multi-faceted cooperation. Our position on the settlement of the Iraqi issue remains unaltered. We will accept only a political and diplomatic solution to existing differences and work purposefully and consistently for an early lifting of sanctions against Iraq and for the country’s return to a normal life. The Russian Federation’s stance is gaining supporters at the UN.
Russia is all for maintaining neighbourly relations with the Czech Republic. It is in the interests of both countries today to give a boost to their trade, economic and social cooperation.
Russia and Venezuela share common approaches to fundamental international issues. We are pleased with the way our bilateral political dialogue is going and our hands-on efforts in a number of key economic sectors, above all fuel and energy.
Our country is sincerely interested in expanding diverse and mutually beneficial cooperation with Venezuela. I had a very good conversation and a very friendly meeting with President Hugo Chavez in New York. We are expecting him to visit Moscow next year.
We highly value our relations with the Sultanate of Oman. We are satisfied with the political dialogue we are maintaining on a number of issues, and we are ready to cooperate in many diverse fields.
The point I particularly want to stress is that we intend to be proactive in helping to reach an all-round settlement in the Middle East. One of the key objectives of Russian foreign policy remains to turn the Persian Gulf into a zone of peace and stability. We not only look forward to achieving mutual understanding, but also expect support for our stance on the issue.
Russia places a high priority on all aspects of its relations with Macedonia. Our countries have traditionally shared mutual goodwill and mutual interest in solving urgent problems in the Balkans. We also attach equal importance to the expansion of economic contacts and development of cultural and social ties between our nations.
We are happy to point to progress in cooperation with Botswana. This year our countries are marking the 30th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between them. Russia highly values Botswana’s efforts to strengthen peace and stability on the African continent.
Our relations with Gambia have traditionally been friendly. It pleases us to note that Russia and Gambia think very much alike about basic international issues. Russia is prepared to carry on its cooperation with it.
A quarter of a century has passed since Russia established diplomatic relations with the Kingdom of Tonga. I hope that in the coming century we will preserve and strengthen the best traditions of our coordinated activities.
Ladies and gentlemen!
I wish you every success in your work in Moscow, the Russian capital. I trust and hope your activities will be helpful for the countries you represent, and will serve the cause of strengthening and developing our relations in the 21st century.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 9, 2000, 00:01
Text versionEvents
Article “Ten Years of the Grand Treaty” (Margin Notes)”
Published in a German newspaper Frankfurte Allgemeine
November 9, 2000
00:03
On November 9, 1990 our countries signed the bilateral Treaty on Good-Neighbourly Relations, Partnership and Cooperation. A unique treaty for its time, it is rightly called the ‘Grand Treaty’. The document was invoked to lay a solid foundation for bringing Russia and Germany closer together, for their creative and active cooperation in the interests of the whole of European civilization. In effect, it has fulfilled its mission and, moreover, has become a model of new relations between the countries of Eastern and Western Europe.
I have many links with Germany. I have lived here for years. I have seen and felt how painful it is for people to live in a divided country. It was a division of not only territory, but of the nation. The tragedy of separation hit many families and ruined many human lives. The Berlin Wall divided not only Germany. It was a symbol of the division of Europe and the world into two hostile camps.
Ten years ago the Soviet Union played the decisive role in bringing about the peaceful reunification of Germany. It was an epoch-making event that opened a very special chapter in the recent history of mankind. In effect the Grand Treaty marked the end of the Cold War. The will of the people had compelled political leaders to put an end to the years of confrontation and initiate a movement toward erecting the edifice of a single Europe.
The tenth anniversary of the Grand Treaty being marked today is a good occasion for looking back on the path we have travelled together to assess how fully we have managed to tap the potential of mutual trust built into the Treaty.
I believe that this fundamental Russian-German document has withstood the test of time and has proved to be an effective mechanism of partnership. From the moment of signing Russia and Germany established a new level of mutual understanding and confidence. It happened, among other things, because Russia strictly kept its obligations on troop withdrawal. I would like to stress that the operation, which required massive financial outlays, was carried out strictly on schedule in spite of the economic crisis and painful social and economic reforms in our country.
During the past decade Russia and the united Germany have made great advances in building bilateral relations. Witness the meaningful political dialogue, and the progressive development of the treaty and regulatory-legal basis of cooperation that now involves practically all its key areas. Interaction is developing vigorously under the programmes of training specialists for Russia, as do contacts between Russian regions and federal lands in Germany, partnerships between dozens of cities, scientific, cultural and other exchanges.
There is a mutual desire to use the potential of our cooperation more fully. We have it and the German side has it. We have agreed to move in this direction with the Federal Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder, during the latest round of top-level Russian-German consultations in Berlin. So I would like to dwell on some aspects of our relations and possible ways of developing them.
The present state of bilateral trade and economic relations clearly does not match their great potential. Of course, Germany is a solid consumer of Russian oil and gas and German partners readily supply industrial equipment to our country. But such exchanges are the relations of yesterday in the context of globalization. The real potential of Russian-German economic cooperation, I am convinced, can be tapped by developing cooperation in science-intensive, high technology sectors of industry. Russia has some “ground-breaking” developments that we propose to implement together with our European, above all German partners, for example, in the production and modernization of aviation technology and in outer space.
I have no doubt that if we manage to shed the stereotypes of the Cold War and think strategically, both sides will gain from the implementation of these projects. Developing such model projects that could give a boost to the business ties between our countries is the task of the recently created High-Level Working Group on strategic aspects of trade-economic and financial cooperation.
One of the main goals of the Grand Treaty was to continue and build on the achievements of previous years of cooperation between our country and West as well as East Germany. We can hardly claim that this goal has been fully achieved. The plummeting of Russian ties with the Eastern federal lands and their not always justified reorientation towards new partners rather suggest the opposite. And yet East Germany has a valuable human potential, people who have a hands-on knowledge of our country, many of whom have studied and worked in Russia, a potential that could be very useful in various areas of Russian-German relations.
One shouldn’t underestimate the opportunities offered by such a bond between us as the hundreds of thousands of Russian citizens who have fulfilled their wish to go to their historical homeland in Germany, and the more than half a million Germans who continue to live and work in Russia. Both Moscow and Berlin are ready to assist ethnic Germans in humanitarian as well as economic matters.
Russian-German interaction today is inseparable from the processes of integration in the whole of Europe. The Grand Treaty commits us to combining efforts in building a new Europe, creating a strong and just European order and stable security structures. Its authors, like the authors of the Paris Charter adopted by the OSCE in November 1990, saw the future Europe as a common space of law, democracy and cooperation in all the spheres of the economy, culture and information. I think there is still potential for building up Russian-German interaction in the interests of the whole continent.
Today we should not forget such key provisions of the Grand Treaty as the obligation of the Parties to prevent war in whatever form, to ensure the primacy of universally recognised norms of international law in international politics, to strengthen the universal role of the UN and renounce the use or threat of force in violation of the UN Charter, and the obligation of the Parties to immediately launch bilateral consultations in the event of a threat to peace or other complications of the international situation.
Finally – and this is also mentioned in the Treaty – our countries can oppose international terrorism, religious extremism and trans-national organised crime which is a danger to all of us. The countries of Europe have learned from their own bitter experience the fateful consequences of underestimating xenophobia and extreme nationalism, which were recently added to the list of humankind’s woes at the turn of the century and the millennium.
Assessing the current state of Russian-German relations it should be noted that by showing mutual respect and treating each other as equals we have managed to surmount the barriers of prejudice and stereotypes. The process of historical reconciliation between the Russians and the Germans owed much to repentance in the face of millions of victims of Nazism, the fact that present-day German leaders have assumed responsibility for the past and also to the solution of the humanitarian issues connected with the aftermath of the Second World War.
An equally important element is the preservation, in line with bilateral agreements, of the memory of the hundreds of thousands of our compatriots who gave their lives for the liberation of the peoples of Europe, including the German people, from Nazism, and who are buried on German land. Germany pays much attention to tending Russian military cemeteries and monuments. We highly appreciate that. I hope you know that in Russia too German military cemeteries are being improved.
There are other problems that we have inherited from the past. One is the fate of the Orthodox Churches, which are historical and cultural monuments, and which were expropriated under the Nazi Law of 1938. I am convinced that the political will and the balanced and civilized approach of our Governments will help to settle that issue as well. We are finding pragmatic solutions to the problem that has long been a “stumbling block” in Russian-German relations. I am referring to the displaced cultural values.
The Grand Treaty looks to the future. It will take years to fully realise the positive potential built into it. So, the human factor assumes particular significance: active cooperation between young generations of politicians, scientists, artists and painters, people from different walks of life in our countries, the development of intensive and well-planned student, youth and professional exchanges, the holding of international quizzes and contests devoted to the traditions of our peoples. We should give thought to improving the situation with language study: the study of German and Russian languages in order to understand each other without intermediaries. They say that to understand means to forgive. I will say more: to understand means to make friends and to learn to work together for Peace.
As our countries mark the 10th Anniversary of the Grand Treaty they are optimistic about achieving, in the near future, maximum returns on the implementation of the Action Programme envisaged by the Grand Treaty between our countries, returns that would make a tangible difference for all Russians and Germans.
I would like to note the importance of our agreement with Federal Chancellor Schroeder on creating an annual Russian-German Forum of representatives of the public, politicians, captains of industry and cultural figures in our countries – all those who are displaying an active interest in Russian-German relations and are ready to be directly involved in developing a long-term strategy of cooperation between our countries. I think this long-overdue initiative could give an additional impetus to Russian-German interaction in various areas in accordance with the spirit and the ideas of the Grand Treaty.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 9, 2000, 00:03
Text versionEvents
Article by Russian President Vladimir Putin “Russia: New Eastern Perspectives”
Published in APR media outlets
November 9, 2000
00:02
Russia has always felt itself to be a Eurasian country. We have never forgotten that the main part of the Russian territory is in Asia. Frankly, we have not always made good use of that advantage. I think the time has come for us, together with the Asia-Pacific countries, to move on from words to actions and to build up economic, political and other ties. Russia today has every opportunity for this.
Within a short space of time the countries in the region – above all Japan, China and the ASEAN countries – have seen tremendous changes. Russia has not been left out of the processes taking place here.
Russia’s full participation in the processes of economic interaction in Asia and the Pacific is natural and inevitable, because Russia is a kind of integration hub that links Asia, Europe and America.
Today, while preparing for the trip to Brunei to attend the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum, we are thinking above all about what concrete projects Russia can offer its economic partners in the APR.
A wide range of opportunities is open to us today: from cooperation in the energy field, the environment, exploitation of the continental shelf for the development of transport links and implementation of economic and investment projects.
For example, one can mention more than one justification for the use of Russian transport arteries by the APR countries. They are much shorter and just as reliable as the detour by sea, for example, from Yokohama to Rotterdam. The length of the route to Europe may be cut by more than half if containers are dispatched not by sea, but via the Trans-Siberian Railway. I am aware that many are worried by the state of our terminals in the Far East and the “bottlenecks” in St Petersburg. We are working vigorously to modernise them. So far, we have been doing it by ourselves. But we are ready to bring foreign investors into these projects as well.
We have favourable conditions for making a communication breakthrough in the world to bring the Euro-Atlantic and Asia-Pacific regions much closer together. Not everyone knows that for many Asian countries the shortest air route to North America is through Russian air space and over the North Pole. It cuts the flight time by 2–3 hours. That is a huge untapped potential for making air links more effective.
Our air corridors and even the Northern Sea Route also greatly reduce the distances between the APR countries and Europe.
At present, much of the electronics produced in Asia comes to Russia via Europe. Producers know only too well the costs and the time it takes to get these cargoes through the customs.
Perhaps the route through Siberia by our railways will remind many people of the abundance of natural resources our country has. It is a land that is very rich in natural resources. Russia is only beginning to develop them on a large scale. And we would like to invite our APR neighbours to actively cooperate with us. Russian producers are already thinking about new markets, and mining companies about more effective ways of developing the fields.
This is witnessed by the development of ambitious plans such as creating an energy bridge from Russia to Japan via Sakhalin, building gas pipelines from the Tomsk Region to western China and from the Irkutsk Region to eastern China and further to North and South Korea.
I think it is worth mentioning that Russia supplies to the region not only raw materials, but also modern technologies. The joint Russian-Vietnamese company Vietsovpetro is steadily increasing oil production in Vietnam. And a major oil refinery is being built there with the use of Russian technologies.
Russian oil companies have carried out a pilot project jointly with Caltex Pacific Indonesia that has greatly increased the recovery of oil in the fields in Sumatra, whereupon these technologies were recommended for use in all the fields in the “land of a thousand islands”. I think it is a good example for those who are forced by the shortage of oil products to resort to technologies that greatly enhance recovery from wells.
It is also important that in February this year a Russian rocket put in orbit an Indonesian satellite, “Garuda-1”. That takes our relations to a new technological level. Indonesian business circles have become interested in our developments in the use of alternative sources of energy, in medicine, computer science and a number of other areas.
These are just some examples of effective use of Russian technological expertise by APEC countries. We are ready to offer the states in the region services in space launching, remote earth sensing data for exploration of natural resources, weather service, environmental and other projects.
Russia has considerable experience and the necessary base in early warning and in cleaning up the aftermath of natural disasters. The resources of our satellites and communications channels can be used to establish modern information exchange in APEC.
Russia became a member of APEC three years ago. That gave an impetus to our cooperation. The region will always need Russia to deal with issues of preserving stability and security and ensuring the balance of interests of all parties. We are ready to cooperate with both big and small countries in the region, with economically developed countries and those which are only aspiring to reach such a level.
Russia’s accession to APEC is in keeping with our desire to be more actively involved in Asia-Pacific cooperation. Many Asian countries know us as a reliable economic partner. We want that circle of countries to increase.
The Russian initiative launched at the UN Millennium Summit on joint development of new reactor technology and the natural security nuclear cycle fully applies to the APEC states. These issues interest not only the states which already face the problem of nuclear waste disposal, but also those which can look towards strengthening their economic potential by using cheap electricity.
Russia offers modern technologies that rule out the use of enriched uranium and pure plutonium in peaceful nuclear energy. That is particularly important in view of the threat of the spread of nuclear weapons.
Many APR countries are among the fastest growing economies in the world. This year, Russia joined the group of leaders in terms of its growth rates. We expect our GDP to increase by more than 6%. I am sure that further economic growth in the APR countries and further economic growth in Russia will speed up the development of our mutually beneficial cooperation. We will actively promote Russian companies in the region’s markets.
This visit will be my second to an APEC forum. I already took part in the summit last year as the head of the Russian Government. The business-like constructive atmosphere, and readiness to reach agreements and jointly plan our common future made a great impression on me. The programme of the upcoming meeting and the schedule of my bilateral contacts in Brunei will see a continuation of such constructive interaction.
The agenda of this forum has much in common with the themes discussed at the G8 meeting in Okinawa in July. The problems of international trade and information and communication technologies were high on the agenda. It is important that the conversation which started in Japan will continue in a much broader format. During the Brunei forum we will seek to build on the July agreements.
We do not have a hidden agenda in the APR. The declared goals of Russian policy in the region are clear. Our country, which is living through profound internal transformations, is interested in an overall improvement of the regional situation, in the preservation of a stable and predictable situation in Asia and the Pacific.
Unfortunately, there is still a lot of “combustible” material to fuel regional conflicts in the Asia-Pacific region. On the eve of the third millennium, terrorism, religious extremism and separatism and transnational crime have found fertile soil here. And mutual mistrust generated by years of alienation has not been fully overcome. On these issues we are persistently looking for mutually acceptable solutions at all levels, at all the organisations created for these purposes, above all at the UN.
In recent years the Russian foreign policy has been much more oriented towards the APR than before. That policy will continue. My tight schedule of meetings with the leaders of APR countries is but one indicator that we are serious about maintaining an active presence in the region. During the last six months I have paid official visits to China, the DPRK and Japan, and held important meetings with the heads of state in the region at the Millennium Summit in New York. I will shortly visit Mongolia. We appreciate the fact that the Mongolian leaders give high priority to revitalising diversified links and mutually beneficial cooperation with Russia, including in international affairs. But what matters is not so much the frequency of high-level contacts as the major qualitative changes that have taken place in recent years in the relations between Russia and the APR countries.
You can judge for yourselves. Russia and China are firmly on course to build an equal and trusting partnership, which has become an important factor of global stability.
We are successfully building partnership relations with Japan. We have achieved major agreements in economic cooperation, including global projects in the transportation and energy fields.
In recent years the relations with the Association of Southeastern Asian Nations (ASEAN) bringing together all the countries of this vast sub-region of the APR, have emerged as a distinct area of Russian policy. We have historically close relations with Vietnam. Thousands of people from Cambodia and Laos have studied at our higher education institutions. We closely study the experience of the economic development of Malaysia, Thailand and other South-East Asian countries, and we are ready to develop mutually beneficial cooperation with them in all fields.
Russia, as a responsible partner, will not shy away from contributing to the solution of complicated regional problems. A vivid example is the situation on the Korean Peninsula, on which Russia’s position is to help and assist national reconciliation between North and South, and help them to move towards peaceful and independent reunification. The Russian priority in this region is peace and stability, without which social and economic progress and the development of all the North-East Asian states are unthinkable.
Today, at the turn of the millennium, the vast Asia-Pacific region is living through a period of emergence in all dimensions: economic, political, military, social, cultural and civilisational.
We are optimistic about the future, and we are sure that the next millennium will be the time of new opportunities for the APR. And for Russia it opens new Eastern perspectives, which we will undoubtedly develop and actively contribute to turning that region into our “common home”.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 9, 2000, 00:02
Text version