Events
President Putin’s Remarks When Introducing his Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoy to the Far Eastern Federal District
May 26, 2000
00:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: We have gathered, colleagues, in order to get to know Konstantin Pulikovsky better, although I am sure many of you know him, and to discuss once again the problems connected with the formation of federal districts.
As in the previous two meetings with your colleagues from other regions, I think we should use the occasion to discuss the bills submitted to the State Duma regarding the possible reorganisation of the Federation Council, along with some other issues of state structure.
Let me stress from the outset that neither the central government, nor I as President seek to weaken regional governments, which are a key element of national governance. I am referring to the governors and the regional legislatures. Our actions are not aimed at weakening that link of governance, but at making the federal component of government in the regions more coherent and far more effective than it has been up until now.
Let me emphasize again that this is being done in strict accordance with the Constitution, and it is not our intention to lay the groundwork for changing the Constitution. It is not the presidential envoy’s duty and not his task to interfere in the affairs of the regional authorities. On the contrary, his task is to render every possible assistance to the local authorities.
During our previous discussions with colleagues from other regions – you know there was a meeting yesterday, and before that a meeting with North-Western governors and speakers of legislatures, and before that there was a meeting with Yegor Stroyev and 26 Federation Council members – the question was asked again and again whether or not it would weaken the power of the governors. I repeat, this is not the aim of the measures being introduced. Moreover, to avoid negative consequences, at the request of governors I put the fourth bill that I intended to send to the State Duma on hold. It would require that the representatives and heads of federal government bodies appointed to the regions be approved by the local authorities.
We have come to the conclusion that it is necessary to take another close look at these problems so as to make sure that the regional leader has enough instruments at his disposal to effectively govern his territory.
This is the key issue. But I would like to restate the main task the President’s envoys will face. It is to ensure uniform interpretation and compliance with all the laws of the Russian Federation throughout the country’s territory in order to secure equal rights for all citizens wherever in the Russian Federation they may live or stay. Enforcement of these laws and harmonisation with the Russian Constitution – all this will naturally proceed at a normal pace, and there is no need to whip up any hysteria about it.
And this brings me to the most important question I would like to ask you. I gathered from the previous meetings that the governors and speakers of local parliaments share the view that we are moving in the right direction.
I am aware of your support even though there have been rumours about some kind of confrontation between the governors and the federal government. I think this is being done deliberately by those who want to disrupt our joint actions. These provocative elements aim to drive a wedge in our common position and undermine the unity which has been in evidence so far and which helps us to move forward and strengthen our statehood.
You know that governors and speakers of local legislatures have made many proposals. We have studied them all. And I must say that some of the proposals made were pretty radical, for example, to have the heads of regions appointed.
The bills sent to the State Duma provide for what I would call a very gentle movement toward governing the country more effectively. Very soft movement that does not involve any amendments to the Constitution of the Russian Federation, because that must be handled very, very carefully.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 26, 2000, 00:00
Text version