Events
Interview to German ARD Television Company
September 19, 2001
00:02
Sochi
Question: Mr. President, thanks for the opportunity to interview you. We are now at your residence on the Black Sea, in Sochi. Does it mean that you are not concerned by the situation in the world at this moment, you being now in Sochi and not in Moscow?
Vladimir Putin: No, of course, no. Technologically I can work here and am working in full, same as in the Kremlin. I must say, perhaps, on the contrary, there is here an opportunity to concentrate on the main themes in international and domestic politics, without being distracted by trifles, as I have to do in Moscow.
So I must tell you that I'm here in contact also with my colleagues from Europe, from the United States and, of course, with the entire leadership of the Russian Federation constantly, in full contact: with the Defence Minister, the Minister of Internal Affairs (today alone I talked with both several times), and with the director of the Federal Security Service, of the intelligence service, with the Chairman of the Government. Just the day before yesterday I talked with Mr. Chirac before his departure for Washington, with our Minister of Foreign Affairs I today spoke after his arrival in the United States capital, and so on.
Question: At this moment an increasing number of signs attest that the Americans will respond and not only respond, but also perhaps they will really deliver an armed strike at Afghanistan. If this occurs, what will be the reaction of Russia?
Vladimir Putin: We believe that, as I already said, evil without a doubt must be punished. Moreover the response to the aggression with which the United States has been confronted must be prompt. We, of course, believe that the generally recognized international rules will be observed and the United States will consult as it takes decisions with its allies as well: with the direct NATO allies, with Russia and with other leading powers of the world. That's why the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation, Mr. Ivanov, is in Washington today.
Question: How far are you willing to go in cooperation with the USA and with NATO if a military strike is delivered? Is it conceivable that Russia will give consent to the use of airfields on the CIS territory, for example, in Tajikistan?
Vladimir Putin: You said: CIS — this means the Commonwealth of Independent States. These states are independent in the true sense of the word. We, of course, have certain influence, just as they have some on us. We all come from one state — the Soviet Union — we have many ties, we economically are present there quite weightily, but political decisions of this kind these states make independently. That's the first point.
Second, as regards the possible involvement of Russia, we are ready to cooperate with the United States in the struggle against terrorism in the broadest terms. We haven't yet had any specific requests on this question, but security services have long since been cooperating. The question is, this cooperation should be taken to a new qualitative level. We are ready for this. And, of course (I cannot fail to say that), all of our actions must and will be in full conformity with Russian law and the international obligations assumed by Russia and the rules of international law.
Question: Is it conceivable that, for example, Russian forces will act in this case on the United States' and NATO's side, or do you rule out such a possibility?
Vladimir Putin: You know our position, it is a principled one. The use of the Armed Forces outside the Russian Federation, in the first place, calls in our country for a special legislative procedure and requires endorsement by the Federal Council, that is the upper house of the Russian parliament.
Besides that, use of the Armed Forces in third countries may occur only by a decision of the Security Council of the United Nations. We have up until now observed these rules and intend to do so. But this does not mean that we cannot discuss questions of this kind and together with our partners think over a possible response in connection with the terrorist acts.
I must say that members of the UN Security Council, in any case its permanent members, have wholly and entirely identified themselves with the United States and support the struggle against terrorism. Only yesterday, as I already said, I talked with the President of the People's Republic of China, who also stressed that his country did not accept terrorism in any of its manifestations and was willing to cooperate with the international community in the struggle against this evil, which is becoming ever more dangerous.
Question: You said the United Nations must deal with this question. But won't that become a brake, that is to say, it will be impossible to act so long as a protracted debate goes on there, weighing up some or other positions for a long time, while there is the perfectly clear interest of the USA in using military force as soon as possible?
Vladimir Putin: I have sufficiently clearly defined my position at the first reaction after the terrorists dealt their strike against the United States. I said that this was a strike against the whole of humanity, at least against the entire civilized world, of which Russia considers itself a part. Therefore we regard the strike against the United States in the broadest sense as a strike against the entire civilized world. In this sense we do not divide our interests with those of other countries, including with the interests of the United States.
I believe responses to the most malicious, most dangerous manifestations of terrorism ought to be sufficiently effective and quick. The involvement of Russia in such actions, I repeat, is limited to Russia's internal laws and our commitments to our partners. So far we have received no specific proposals. And, of course, we will make our decisions, bearing in mind the level and nature of our partnership with the United States and with the NATO countries.
Question: I would like now to turn to the example of the struggle against terrorism, which exists in your own country, I mean Chechnya. You are operating there against armed terrorist groups and here, probably, no one will object to you now, especially in view of the events now occurring. And yet, despite this, I will ask you a question.
You have operated by military means, but these actions were directed also against the civilian population, among whom there were also many casualties. Two years on, this conflict still has not been resolved by military means. As it seems to us. You have still not managed to win the hearts of the peaceful population there. Does this method of action not mean that as a matter of fact, you are engendering new terrorism while you are combating the old one? I mean by acting with such means.
Vladimir Putin: The struggle against terrorism cannot, must not and is not limited to military methods, if we want to achieve positive results.
As to our plans, military plans in the Caucasus, they have been achieved. And I cannot agree with you that our military actions there have not led to the results which we had expected. Indeed, we didn't expect any other results. We've destroyed large bases of terrorists, have destroyed their organized structures, they don't exist. We set ourselves this task, and it has been achieved. But we never really thought that the very roots of this phenomenon could be fully eradicated there in a year and a half or two. That requires lots of intense, large and many-sided work. This work is associated with improving the social-economic standard of living for the population of the North Caucasus and Chechnya, in particular. This is associated with cultural work, it is associated with religious-ideological work, because we must offer the bulk of the population something other than the man-hating ideas being put forward by religious fanatics.
As for the peaceful population, I draw your attention to the fact that we used to be told eighteen months back we would never find a single Chechen who would cooperate with federal forces in the slightest way. Today a civil administration of Chechnya has been established, in each district the heads of administrations work, Chechens by nationality, and bandits keep striking at them. As you know, many people from among the Chechen population have already died at the hands of bandits, including noted religious workers. All this suggests that the population of Chechnya understands what is happening there and they are turning towards the federal center. We have no doubt on that score. Of course, this requires a certain time and, of course, it will require certain efforts.
The same thing, I think, we will all have to do together internationally, the same thing will have to be done against other centers of terrorism. That we are interconnected, I think, today does not need being proved. It is an obvious fact for all. Support comes from certain centers and we have to work together against those centers.
Of course, with just military operations this cannot end. It will not lead to positive results, but here the cohesion of the world community is needed and effective actions on a whole number of issues, the first of which is to deprive bandit groups and terrorist organizations of financial support, to exert a positive economic influence on the state entities and on the states in which terrorism takes place, and to cooperate with these states in the humanitarian regard. This a whole large range of work.
Question: Essentially, maybe this cannot be directly compared, but we encounter an analogous problem in Palestine. This means that we see from the example of Palestine, and you from the example of Chechnya, that matters should be led to a political solution. Did l understand you right?
Vladimir Putin: Yes, absolutely right.
Question: Before moving to the German section, two or three more questions concerning Russian relations with the USA. You said that after the terrorist acts in New York and Washington it is becoming obvious that the Americans' antimissile umbrella planned for deployment is either unnecessary or it won't save from such attacks. And may I put the question entirely differently, notably that that's what is needed right now, once terrorists have now obtained a possibility to use such technologies and with the use of missiles?
Vladimir Putin: Of course, no. For what was it that the terrorists used? Civilian aircraft. And a national missile defense system protects only against missiles and only against ballistic missiles. You understand the difference between a civilian aircraft and ballistic missiles? Even ”rogue countries“ in the next 50 years will not be able not only to have, but even to come nearer to such technologies. Of what are we speaking? There is simply not even a subject for talk. This, though, does not mean that we must not think of how to adapt the system of security in the world that has developed as of now to the possible dangers which may await us in some historical perspective. And we are ready for this dialogue.
Question: Is it conceivable in the present situation, marked by a global crisis conditioned by the fight against terrorism, that you will say: ”If you — Americans — slightly reduce the pace of realization of your plans to deploy an antimissile umbrella, we will show a still greater capacity, for example, in military terms, to render you more considerable support in the struggle against terrorism“ or you cannot imagine this kind of haggle?
Vladimir Putin: No, we do not want to and will not have any haggle here. To us the question of combining efforts in the struggle against terrorism is an independent topic of our cooperation. Of course, we are aware that if in this matter, in this field we reach mutual understanding, and on this ground, can effectively cooperate with each other, this will create a good climate for solving other problems too. But, I think, it would be wrong here to haggle with each other and to exploit the difficulties with which our partners are confronted to solve some other tasks. We've got no such aim and we will not be doing that.
Question: If the Americans, despite your objections, unfold the antimissile umbrella, despite the fact that Russia and not just Russia alone are against this. What can Russia undertake in this case?
Vladimir Putin: I, strictly speaking, already spoke of this. This is a decision which America can take independently. It has a right to do so, because in the Treaty itself on Antiballistic Missile Defense of 1972 there is an appropriate provision which envisages a procedure for dissolving this Treaty unilaterally. Either side which intends to take such a decision must notify the partners six months in advance. Therefore if our American partners take such a decision, half a year before withdrawal from the Treaty they must inform us, and we in this case will not stage any hysteria. But we do think that this would be an erroneous step. And here's why. Today's system of international security is largely based on the ABM Treaty of 1972. The START-1 Treaty is connected with it, and so is the START-2 Treaty, which we have ratified. Our US partners so far haven't, unfortunately. Associated with it is a whole series of other international legal obligations in this sphere, in the sphere of international security, approximately 30 treaties and agreements. This will be destroyed overnight. We are not proposing anything in return. We consider this is incorrect. We hold this to be a mistake. There will be no great harm to our own national interests from the Americans' withdrawal from the ABM Treaty, because Russia in the next 30 years will certainly be able to ensure its security. We know this, our US partners know this. The position of Russia protects rather not its own security, but the position of Russia proceeds from the need to take care of the international structure, of the international security architecture which has developed as of now.
Question: And the last question before we pass on to German topics because to our great satisfaction you will visit our country. You and Russia are criticized in the world for supplying, for example, nuclear technologies to such states as Iraq or North Korea, the so-called states of concern as they are now called by Americans, previously they called them rogue states. And such states of concern are getting Russian nuclear technologies and weapons. It means that the weapons are already there. Will you stop these supplies?
Vladimir Putin: You know, there is a saying, it may not sound very nice, but I think it would be appropriate: we believe that meat and flies should be kept separate. Let us separate flies from meat.
As for nuclear cooperation with Iran, we are talking about cooperation in the field of atomic energy, the building of atomic power plants and so on. Our American and some other Western partners are planning to do exactly the same in North Korea which is also called a rogue state. Why should everybody else be allowed to work there while Russia shouldn't be allowed to work with the same technologies with Iran? We see this as a political justification of unfair competition. That's one thing.
Secondly, as regards cooperation in the military-technical field. Yes, we do sell weapons to other countries. You know in what place we are in terms of sales? I think we are in fourth or fifth place. We are well behind the United States, Great Britain and some other countries. We are in fourth place. The arms market is fairly limited. If our Western partners can offer to compensate us for the possible losses if we stopped our activities in the sphere of military-technical cooperation, we can think about it. But we must comply with our obligations under the treaties we have concluded.
And the last thing. In this cooperation we never go beyond the framework of the international commitments we have assumed and we will never transfer any technologies connected with the spread of mass destruction weapons, including nuclear military technologies. Russia has signed a corresponding agreement on non-proliferation of mass destruction weapons and it strictly abides by these accords.
Question: So, it means that even nuclear technologies are delivered only for peaceful uses.
Vladimir Putin: Absolutely. Let me draw your attention to the fact that Germany has provided Iran with a loan of 2 billion marks guaranteed by Hermes. Why are European countries working in Iran actively and Russia has no right to do the same?
And I would like to end my answer to the question where I started it: flies should be kept separate from meat and we should know exactly which is where.
Question: Now let us pass on to Germany. You are planning to visit Germany. Can you see a situation arising that will prevent you from going to Germany if, for example, the international crisis takes another turn for the worse directly on the eve of your visit?
Vladimir Putin: Everything will depend on what will happen in the world. But I think that in the current situation, on the contrary, I must go to Germany, unless, of course, the leadership of the Federal Republic finds that the time of the visit does not correspond to the events happening in the world. Germany is one of our leading partners both in the economic and in the foreign policy sphere. We have twice spoken with the Chancellor by phone about the recent events in the United States. He put forward very important initiatives, in my view, very timely initiatives in terms of activating the G-8. I support him and I think that, on the contrary, it would be right to meet with the leaders of Germany, to discuss the emerging situation and talk about coordinating our efforts.
Question: Against the background of the crisis situation in the world, can German-Russian relations play a special role? Can you see, for example, Germany and Russia coming forward with a joint initiative on resolving this crisis? Will you discuss such issues with the Chancellor?
Vladimir Putin: Yes, of course, I don't see how we can avoid this topic. Of course, we will discuss our interaction, of course, we will think how to support our American partners together morally, politically and at the level of special services. Germany is a locomotive of a united Europe and in that sense the position of Germany on very many issues is important for us.
As for the fight against terrorism, I can tell you that it is an area in which we should proceed, in spite of all the acuteness, and perhaps being mindful of the acuteness, in an extremely cautious manner. This is an area where sometimes it pays to say less and do more. And in any case we should not provoke criminal elements to some negative actions by rash remarks, let alone rash and ill-considered actions.
Question: What are the features of German-Russian relations in this connection? Is it an element that distinguishes these relations, say, from the relations Russia has with Italy and France? Are we closer to each other in that sense — Germany and Russia — in order to work out such an initiative?
Vladimir Putin: In general we would like to establish a closer dialogue with Europe on security issues. The military and defence topics are being actively discussed in Europe today. We watch these processes attentively. I have said and I would like to repeat that it does not give us any cause for concern. Only, we would like the actions in this direction to be as transparent as possible. As you know, we are building our relations with NATO within the PJC. I see no reason why we shouldn't cooperate with the Europeans in the same way and perhaps even more closely. As I have said, one of the key elements in the uniting Europe is, of course, the position of Germany and we regard it as being of fundamental significance. We watch especially closely what Berlin says and how.
Question: You will come to Berlin and the current plan is that you will meet with the Chancellor who together with the majority of the German population, at least as I see it from here, very quickly took the American side. The Chancellor did not rule out that even the Bundeswehr will take part in possible retaliatory actions or at least could take part. The Bundestag fully backed that position. Does that worry you at all? Aren't you going to try to influence the Chancellor to renounce it? Will you, perhaps, tell him: Be careful, or are you quite relaxed about it and you will tell him, That's the right thing to do?
Vladimir Putin: Let us face it, the positions of Germany and Russia differ if only because Germany is an active member of NATO, which Russia is not. The Alliance has decided to invoke Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty and all the NATO members are in full solidarity with the position of the United States. We are not members of NATO, they don't want to admit us. So, of course, our positions will differ.
As for the possible participation or non-participation of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Germany, the decision rests with the German government, the German people, the parliament and the Chancellor. I am the President of the Russian Federation and not of the Federal Republic of Germany.
At the same time I think that if you ask me whether the participation of German Armed Forces in a military action outside the territory of Federal Germany will cause any concern in the Russian Federation, my answer would be no. I see nothing worrisome about it. The Federal Republic has the right and the possibility to comply with its obligations within NATO. If such a decision is taken, so it will be. The decision is up to the German people.
Question: You are not going to comment on it. In general, it's a free state and that's that.
Vladimir Putin: I've said everything.
Question: Yes, yes, that's true.
Let us now turn to the economy. It is an important topic for both countries. To listen to what is said in the German business community, at enterprises and in the midst of managers, they say that there has already been some positive change under President Putin. But they also say, mainly out of sight of TV cameras, that old problems still remain. They are a lack of legal protection or insufficient legal protection. Let me quote one manager who says that ”adventurous customs practices, the tax system, although somewhat improved, the mechanisms of its implementation still remain very complicated, at least from the German point of view, and there is red tape.“ So, obviously, something has changed, but not enough. Why can't it be changed?
Vladimir Putin: We have just been discussing global problems, the problems of world politics and even possible deployment of military operations in some regions of the world. But, you know, we have a saying, probably a very sound one, that war or no war, lunch must be served on time.
So, in this area, too, I attend to economic issues practically every day and communicate with ministers, vice premiers and the chairman of the Russian government. We discuss the budget which the State Duma has now begun to debate and we discuss our immediate tasks that we have to accomplish by the end of the year in order to improve the economic mechanism in the country.
Unfortunately, in the previous ten years because of a measure of political instability, normal economic life has not been put on track. Now that we see a degree of consolidation, political consolidation in society, a great deal has been accomplished in the economic sphere. No such economic results have been achieved in the last 30 years in the Soviet Union or in the Russian Federation. In general, it is not a bad platform to build on. We have done a great deal in terms of creating a sound legal basis. But, of course, it was impossible to accomplish everything within a year and a half. As you know, we have passed some very serious laws in the field of taxation. Just today I discussed with the vice premier who is in charge of economics and finance the priorities for the next half year. They include the land reform and adoption of the Labor Code. You have mentioned the legal system. Improvement of the activities of the law courts and what we call the reform of the justice system is on the agenda. And you are absolutely right to draw attention to it. There is something to discuss here, and there are many shortcomings. You have mentioned the problem of the customs. It exists and we see it and are aware of it. Intensive work is underway on a new edition of the Tax Code. The main meaning of the proposed changes will be to minimize the decision-making powers of the bureaucrats and to make the provisions of the law self-implementing so that customs regulation should not be governed by internal departmental instructions but directly by the provisions of the law.
And there are other provisions and plans, including improved administration, that are sure to improve the situation in this area. So, we are aware of all this, we see this, but it is a fact that movement, fairly positive movement, has begun.
Question: Mr. President, a major event in European economy will take place at the end of the year. The euro will become legal tender. Aren't you worried that Russia will be isolated from Europe because it will introduce the euro whereas the Russian economy and, in fact, partially your daily life, are geared above all to the dollar? How are you going to proceed in this situation? How will you counter the possible threat of isolation?
Vladimir Putin: As for the dollar, I think it's pretty simple. It's you and not us who made it the main reserve currency of the world. You are introducing the euro now and I think you are doing the right thing. All this strengthens the European space as a center of world politics, as one of the leading centers of world politics. The issues may be simply technical. First, I must draw your attention to the fact that today we should discuss this topic very cautiously. We know that the terrorists have struck not only at the prestige of the United States, but also at the world economy. The basic foundation of the American economy is very strong as the recent trading in the stock market has shown. All this should reinforce our conviction that the terrorists have not achieved and will never achieve the goals they set before themselves. But we should act and speak circumspectly, including on the issue of the dollar because it is, properly speaking, to a large extent the basis of the world economy. Whether it is right or wrong, this is so. And we should be considerate of this.
This is not to say that we are not following the processes in Europe attentively. On the contrary, Europe already accounts for 35 percent of our trade and after the admission of possible new members in the European community the figure will rise to 40–45 percent. Naturally, we cannot and do not want to be in isolation. The Central Bank of the Russian Federation is today actively studying possible ways of introducing the euro in the settlements between our partners in Europe and Russian legal entities. We very much count on effective support in this matter from the Central European Bank. And, frankly speaking, I see no problems there.
There is one technical detail which we must draw your attention to. But this is not something we can resolve ourselves, we can only resolve it together with the Europeans. Our main currency revenues come from the sale of our traditional commodities in the foreign market. These commodities are normally traded in exchanges and the settlements in exchanges are in dollars. It is not our invention, it's yours. So, we should think about this problem together. I repeat, the Central Bank of the Russian Federation and its colleagues are working actively on what we will do after January 1, 2002 and how.
Question: There are three more concerns in Germany in connection with Russia. Perhaps, they are not only German concerns, but they certainly worry my country and with your permission I would like to touch upon them. You are criticized, not only you, but also you specifically, for your policy. The question is that your critics claim that your strategy is not aimed at creating an open democracy which we in Germany call the civil society, but at creating an authoritarian state that will be geared not so much to democracy as to the power of the army and the special services. How can you respond to this criticism?
Vladimir Putin: You know that if we look at Western Europe itself, it's not a large entity territorially, even there democracies differ markedly from one another. You can take the example of France or the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy or some other European country. Democracies are different everywhere. The forms of democracy and the practice of democracy differ everywhere. This is due to history, tradition and so on.
There are, of course, basic things that everybody shares and of course Russia will try to see to it that these basic things totally and fully integrate Russia into the European humanitarian and political democratic space. And there is no question, in this context, that the security service or the army will acquire a special and independent political power or political significance. All these structures, all these power structures, as we call them, should be under the control of the state and society.
Question: There is yet another concern and I confess that I share it. The Russian Union of Journalists has spoken about it and it can present proof that the work of journalists, especially in the provinces, is not only taxing, but that many journalists are at the mercy of state power, the power of governors and administrations and that under the pressure of that power they can work very little or poorly, if at all. Do you share that concern? And if so, what can you do about it?
Vladimir Putin: In any normal democratic society the mass media and the press are, as a rule, in opposition to the establishment. This is a natural position. At the end of the day that is how it should be, otherwise it makes no sense. And from that point of view we will, of course, support press freedom. But the problem with us is that at present the main thing required for press freedom is lacking, no economic basis for freedom has been created. At present our media market and the advertising market that make it possible for the mass media to function as a commercial enterprise is practically non-existent. Normal effective information media as a commercial enterprise can hardly exist without the assistance of some outside sponsors. And once it is so they have to cater to economic interest groups. This is where the problem lies. And I see my task in creating such an economic base for press freedom. I won't challenge the fact that the press faces some difficulties in the regions. And I don't think everything is perfect in that way in the center either. And of course, there is a lot to be done. It is a complex and multi-farious work that calls for constant attention, above all, in the sphere of the economy and in strengthening the legal framework for press independence. We will certainly move forward on that.
Question: I have two questions and a favor to ask you.
Let me begin with two brief questions. Your visit to Germany will almost coincide with the first anniversary of the sinking of the Kursk. Perhaps, the submarine will be lifted, with luck, while you are in Germany. Can you tell us today what caused the sinking of the Kursk, because it is a question that worries many people in Germany?
Vladimir Putin: You know, to get at the causes of the disaster a lot has yet to be done. First, we hope that the sunken submarine will be successfully lifted and towed to dock and the first to board the submarine will be the investigators of the Prosecutor General's Office. You are the first to learn it. So far, neither military specialists, not the navy men know about it. It is a firm decision. The first to go on board the submarine, if everything goes well (and I expect it will), will be the investigators of the Prosecutor General's Office and the technical specialists who will work under their control.
We very much hope that the information obtained will bring us closer to solving the riddle that confronts us today, to solving the question of the causes of the disaster. I don't think I need explain to you why we have decided to go ahead with this complex and costly enterprise of lifting the submarine. Above all, we need to meet our moral obligation to the relatives of the dead, and also to solve the ecological issues, the ecological problems that may arise if the submarine is not raised. As we know, there is a nuclear reactor and a large number of missiles. If they can be removed and put into their places of storage, it must be done. We have analyzed this situation together with West European specialists and both our and West European specialists, I repeat, came to the conclusion that the Kursk can be lifted. And this work can be done absolutely safely. There is constant monitoring there, including radiation monitoring. No alarm signals have yet come.
Question: And the last question is of a personal nature.
You spent your vacation in Karelia. I saw many pictures covering your vacation, including pictures on Russian television. You were often seen in churches. You received blessings and you took part in church ritual. Doesn't it indicate that in the year and a half that you have been the President of Russia you have drawn closer to the Church than before? Haven't you, perhaps, established a more intimate relationship with the Church? Have you become a believer?
Vladimir Putin: As for faith, I prefer never to discuss it publicly. That's one thing.
And secondly, my visits to such places have come to attract attention only now because all my movements inside the country and even more so abroad have attracted such attention. There was no such public attention before and I could afford to do what I wanted. All I want to say is that it doesn't mean that I haven't visited such places previously.
Thirdly, it was pleasant for me to spend the short week-long vacation that I took in my native places, and that is the Northwest of the country. You know that my birthplace is Petersburg, it's a very beautiful place. So, I just wanted to be in my native region.
As for Church, I can tell you honestly that there was a certain additional agenda to this trip. You see, after the collapse of the communist ideology we have been left without any ideology. The Church is separated from the state, it has been in a humiliated position over decades, but man cannot live without a moral basis. And so, attention to the Church is just a manifestation of attention to moral human values. I think it is very important for Russia today.
And besides, I got added proof that the material basis of the Church is in a sorry state. Churches in Moscow, say, and cathedrals in Petersburg have a shiny, festive look. But as soon as you are out of the regular tourist beats you see the real position of the Russian Orthodox Church. It is deplorable. And I think it would be right for Russian society to pay attention to it.
Question: I have no more questions left, but in conclusion I would like to ask you for a favor which you may do us if you are kind enough. Could you tell our TV viewers a couple of words in German in connection with your forthcoming visit and in connection with the crisis situation in the world and the fear that exists, including in Germany, that things may come to a large-scale war? You can answer it in German if you feel like it.
Vladimir Putin: (in Russian) As for the fears that humanity may be on the brink of large-scale military actions, a big war, I think these fears are without grounds. I don't think anything like that will happen. The leading countries will not allow that to happen. There needn't be such fears. There is nothing to presage a large-scale military conflict. At any rate because all the leading countries of the world, all the permanent members of the UN Security Council are determined to combat terrorism together, and terrorism and religious extremism of the most diverse stripe are always the main causes of unrest.
As for the German language, I will have an opportunity to speak German in Germany.
Question: I thank you cordially for this interview. I thank you also for the open way in which you answered my questions. Thank you very much.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: September 19, 2001, 00:02
Text versionEvents
Interview with the German Magazine Focus
September 19, 2001
00:01
Sochi
Question: When we asked you for an interview, we couldn’t have foreseen the events that have taken place in America. The whole world is talking about it. People in America and Europe seem to be more excited about it than in your country. You are very familiar with the issue and you have offered your help to the Americans. While they describe terrorism and bin Laden as the enemies of the whole world, what concrete assistance can you offer them?
Vladimir Putin: I think it depends on what the United States needs. They must tell us what kind of help and support they want from us, and we for our part should think it through and make the right decision. But I can say even now that we are ready to cooperate in the broadest sense of the word and in very many areas.
You have rightly pointed out that up until now Russia has confronted international terrorism practically single-handed, and unfortunately, we have some negative experience of that struggle. We have suffered much loss of life in Moscow, as you know, and in other Russian cities, we have encountered very brutal manifestations of terrorism, many people died as a result of explosions of residential houses. Of course, we have considerable experience in dealing with such problems. But one thing I am absolutely convinced of: we won’t be able to conquer that evil unless we combine our efforts. We must not allow extremists of every hue and every stripe and terrorism, the ultimate form of extremism, to take advantage of differences between our opinions and our misunderstanding of each other. We must create a single and solid front against terror. If we do so, I have absolutely no doubt that we will meet with success.
Question: The question arises: what are the goals of that struggle? This is not about fighting some country or some Government, this is about individuals and non-state entities, for example, Osama bin Laden. You too once referred to him as being suspect of complicity in the Chechen events. Do you see any connection here? Do you believe there is a link between terrorists in Chechnya and Afghanistan?
Vladimir Putin: If you look at my public statements, I spoke about the so-called “terrorist international” a year ago. It was a year ago. Nobody should pretend that this scourge will not touch him. So, realising the threat today, we should coordinate our actions in every area. First of all, we should cut the channels of financing and we should influence the Governments of all countries so as to set a barrier to the activities of terrorist organisations on their territories. No matter how hard it may be on the Governments of these countries, we should exact from them compliance with these obligations and induce them to assume these obligations and honour them.
Fundamentalist organisations are all but openly acting in some Eastern countries. In some European countries volunteers to fight against Russia in the North Caucasus were to all intents and purposes openly recruited. Today the same people are recruiting volunteers for a possible war in Afghanistan and other parts of the world.
Of course, any Government needs political courage and decisive actions in order to stop these activities. It will probably exact a political cost, but it has to be done, and it has to be done immediately. Of course, we could all together, in the framework of the G8 or the Security Council, think about a set of political, educational and economic measures to deprive extremist organisations of their base of support and, on the other hand, to offer help and support to those elements within Islamic groups and Islamic organisations which oppose terror as a means of achieving political goals. What we should certainly prevent is the creation of quasi-state entities where people are acting out of control. We should not allow any political or power vacuum in any region of the world, especially in Europe.
You have asked me about our experience. We had such negative experience when Russia totally withdrew from Chechnya in 1996, it pulled out all its troops, all its armed units, its entire police; it dismantled everything. The result was a vacuum and an enclave where bandits held sway. In fact we left the Chechen people at the mercy of the militants and allowed them to be humiliated by them. The vacuum was promptly filled by organisations preaching fundamentalist ideology and fundamentalists from various armed groups in the Middle East and other countries. Eventually it created the grave situation we have been trying to bring under control in Chechnya for a year and a half now.
In this connection I am greatly worried about the situation in Kosovo and Macedonia. We have effectively squeezed Yugoslavia out of Kosovo. The 300,000 refugees who have left Kosovo have not come back. 300,000. Today we say that we do not recognise the independence of Kosovo, and rightly so. But who is responsible for the current state of affairs in Kosovo? Is it NATO, the EU or perhaps the OSCE or the UN? It is precisely because there are no entities responsible for the situation in Kosovo that we see gunmen freely moving from Kosovo to Macedonia and destabilising the neighbouring country. It is happening before our eyes.
By preventing Yugoslavia from pursuing any national internal policy and squeezing it out, the Western community, the European community, has assumed responsibility for the situation in Kosovo. Let us ask Europe whether it is ready to assume this responsibility? I am afraid lest we repeat similar mistakes in Macedonia; that must not be allowed to happen. No matter how events develop in Macedonia, we should not allow an enclave to appear there that is not controlled by the country’s central authorities.
This is what our experience prompts us to conclude.
Question: In your answer you have touched upon many interesting issues. And this leads me to ask you some questions by way of clarification. You spoke of the need to cut the channels of financing. What exactly did you mean? You referred to the recruitment of mercenaries. Can you name the countries or the people involved in this?
Vladimir Putin: There is a centre in London for the recruitment of those who want to fight in Chechnya. Today they speak unofficially, but openly to all intents and purposes, about recruiting volunteers to be sent to Afghanistan. This is well known, the mass media have reported it. And there are many such centres in Western Europe. But we should not allow this situation. You know, when an ostrich is in danger, it buries its head in the sand believing that the rest of its body is invisible too. But that is not so.
Question: About joint actions and mutual understanding. There is a wide-scale discussion in the West today. Was it a failure on the part of the special services? Is it true that they didn’t know anything?
You are a statesman who is very familiar with the activities of the special services. And you have already told us that you warned about the existence of a terrorist international organization about a year ago. Did you know more than the Americans? You didn’t tell them or is it that they didn’t hear you? Or was it the case that your special services didn’t know anything about it either?
Vladimir Putin: You know what we lack at present? An awareness of how much the world has changed. I think our special services too have a good many people who still embrace the old system of priorities. The same is true of Western special services; they are still battling the Soviet Union without noticing that it no longer exists. I sometimes get the impression that it is not because they are so stupid, but because they have to get their salaries and support their families, and they can’t do anything else except battling the Soviet Union. So they pretend that nothing has changed and that it is business as usual. And there are such misguided individuals in the foreign policy establishments both in our country and in Western countries. So, when the other side sends them some materials and so on, they don’t know what to do with them: they toy with them and look at them and then throw them in the dustbin.
I very much hope that the recent tragic events will confirm the need to pool efforts, to trust each other more and will not just encourage but will definitely bring about a drastic change in the joint work in this sphere.
Question: Let me put the same question in a slightly different way. If your special services had any information, they would probably have told their President. But would they have passed that information to the American special services, that is, to another country? Or was it the case that they passed the information, but nobody listened?
Vladimir Putin: I wouldn’t like my answer to sound as if I were accusing any of our partners of not paying due attention to the materials we handed over to them. And we have transferred materials. This is not the time to exchange recriminations. We should assess the situation, cast aside all prejudice and, I repeat, pool our efforts in the fight against terror and other manifestations of extremism. We are ready for it.
Question: Are concrete negotiations on the matter already underway?
Vladimir Putin: Yes, they are.
Question: Do you think things will speed up now?
Vladimir Putin: I think so. Concrete negotiations are underway, contacts are taking place and work is being done. I hope it will yield positive results.
Question: Your huge Russian land also faces the problem of many nationalities, including Muslims, throughout the Eurasian space. And you have to deal with the problem of holding this space together, enlisting the support of peaceful and friendly Muslims and separating them from the fundamentalists, and even persecuting the latter if they are terrorists. How will you go about achieving that goal?
Vladimir Putin: As you know, I recently met with the Israeli Prime Minister, we discussed the situation in the Middle East and naturally we compared it to the situation in some parts of Russia. I must say that our situation is very special. What makes the Russian situation special is that over the centuries the two cultures – Christian and Islamic – have coexisted quite peacefully and mechanisms for cooperation have been in place over a long period of time. Russia possesses unique experience, not only of its recent fight against terrorism, but unique humanitarian experience of the coexistence of two great cultures and religions. It is a natural symbiosis which few other places in the world have.
An important foundation of such a positive symbiosis is the unconditional recognition by one people of the legitimate rights of another people. It wouldn’t occur to anyone in this country to claim that the people of a small republic and a small national entity have no legitimate rights, say, to the territory where they live or have no right to practice their religion or no right to have some other demands met. It wouldn’t occur to anyone to claim that any people can be deprived of its homeland. I would like to point out that neighbours always perceive a people living on its territory as the territory belonging to that particular people. It is deeply ingrained in the minds of all the people who live side by side.
Take even the grave example of Chechnya. Of course, we faced a hard situation, we had to use our armed forces and we did it to prevent the suffering of civilians. We haven’t managed to do everything we should have done. But the Chechen civilians, those who fled their homes, did not go abroad, as it happened in other regions, including the Balkans, nobody is driving them out of their native place, it doesn’t occur to anyone that Chechens should be driven out of their native territory. And they are not fleeing abroad, they are all in the neighbouring regions inside the Russian Federation.
We have a very curious situation even in other former republics of the Soviet Union: a lot of people, and not only Russians, have moved to Russia from the Muslim republics and from the Christian republics. For example, around half a million people have moved to Russia from Azerbaijan and to all intents and purposes they live here. About a million Azeris, and yet it is a Muslim republic. We have about 2 million Armenians living in Russia, as many, if not more, than in Armenia itself. Almost a million people, even more, have moved from Georgia. This is not accidental. It is because the moral atmosphere in Russia is favourable for people from different cultures and different religions.
Question: You have described in vivid terms the mutual tolerance of various religions and groups of the population in your country. My question is whether the latest success of the terrorists will give you grounds to fear that the terrorists will now try to win over a growing number of young people to continue their fanatical actions?
Vladimir Putin: You know what was happening and is still happening in the North Caucasus? When a certain ideological, religious, legal and power vacuum was created there after Russia pulled out, it was quickly filled with fundamentalist ideas. In general, it was not characteristic of the kind of Islam that has thrived on Russian soil for centuries. And it was in fact one of the main things that helped us to solve the problem of Chechnya. First, because fundamentalists, under the cover of the fight for the independence of Chechnya, started implementing their plans that had nothing to do with the independence of Chechnya: they launched an attack on the neighbouring Republic of Dagestan. And, of course, the people in Chechnya understand that this has nothing in common with the problem of Chechen independence. That’s one thing.
Secondly, and very importantly, the ideological aggression of extreme Islamism, extremist manifestations of Islam has met with resentment on the part of traditional leaders of Islam, which has been cultivated in the North Caucasus for centuries. This was one of the reasons why the Muslims of Dagestan put up an armed resistance to aggressors in 1999 when they attacked Dagestan.
Inside Chechnya, the representatives of traditional Islam are today attacked by religious extremists, they are simply killed. And we bear a big share of the blame for it. I feel an immense sense of guilt for not being able to effectively protect the civilians and representatives of traditional Islam against the terrorist attacks by fundamentalists.
But we will do it.
Question: You have mentioned explosions in Moscow and in the Caucasus in 1999. How do you assess the current security situation in Russia? Or do you believe that the fundamentalists and extremists target only the US?
Vladimir Putin: You know, when I spoke about political responsibility and determination to fight terror, I meant that all the problems cannot be solved overnight. And we should prepare ourselves for joint, difficult and responsible work. By staging such acts terrorists seek to create a certain effect: they try to cause panic among the population, cause the people who have been attacked by terrorists to mistrust the political leadership of their country, to cause internal political problems and conflicts.
We should give no quarter to the terrorists. We should understand that the fight against terror is a complicated and dangerous thing, and will probably call for sacrifice. We cannot avoid having victims. But if we cave in and get scared today, if we yield to the terrorists, their demands will increase many times over and as a result there will be many times more victims.
So I think it is our duty today to display solidarity with the American people, to support the President of the United States, to demonstrate to the American people that we support them and that we support the actions of the American President.
Question: But surely, solidarity will not go as far as agreeing to join American military actions?
Vladimir Putin: Nobody has asked us about it. We cannot be more Catholic than the Pope. But we are ready to work together.
Question: And if you are asked to?
Vladimir Putin: We will see what exactly they would be asking us to do, at what time, on what scale, etc. We are already fighting international terror on one front. I don’t think fighting on two or three fronts is the best idea. Germany knows it only too well.
But if our partners really want to work together with Russia and fight terrorism together, and not just to use Russia, then we are ready for it. But in that case we should fight together on the front where Russia is fighting alone today. In that case we are ready to consider taking part in other areas of the fight against terror.
Question: The second front is Afghanistan. The whole world is looking at Afghanistan. Perhaps you will now give greater support to the forces of the North? Unfortunately, the leader of these forces recently died in a terrorist attack while giving an interview. The Taliban Government says that if it is recognised by the international community and if it is not rejected, it might consider turning over Osama bin Laden. Can such assurances be believed?
Vladimir Putin: You can try to believe them. (Laughter.)
Question: In fact, the Americans tried to do it. But they now have a very special experience of dealing with the Taliban leadership. It would be a second front. And if you think that the Americans will help you in Chechnya, that too would be a second front. In Afghanistan, you close in on the Taliban from the north, the Americans from Pakistan in order to zero in on the number one terrorist, bin Laden, if indeed he is that.
Vladimir Putin: Have you seen world television channels showing what is happening in Pakistan? We need to realise that complicated processes are happening in this world. And we should support the Governments of those countries that are really joining the international community in the fight against terror. But we should only support those Governments that really want to do it. It is no easy task, and we should support them in tackling that difficult task, and not just support them because we like them. We should proceed warily and we should choose our words carefully not to provoke them. In any case, it is an area where you often have to talk less and do more. We are ready for it.
Question: If the US launches air raids on Afghanistan – at least they seem to be contemplating such raids now – would it create a dangerous situation for Russia because you have the Central Asian region on your southern borders and the main flood of refugees would head for that region? Besides, Russian troops are stationed in Tajikistan and Uzbekistan.
Vladimir Putin: We have no troops in Uzbekistan. Yes, we have the 201st division and border troops in Tajikistan. They are on high alert. But what worries us above all is of course the number of refugees who may flood Tajikistan and other Central Asian republics and destabilise the internal situation there.
As for possible military actions by the United States we hope that we will be apprised of such actions and the target of these actions and will get other relevant operational information. So far we do not have such information, so, we will not comment on it.
Question: Earlier you mentioned the Israeli Prime Minister. Don’t you think it would be logical if Russia played a more active role of broker in the Palestinian-Israeli conflict and became more closely involved?
Vladimir Putin: I have already said that we are ready to contribute to the settlement of that complicated problem to the extent that the parties to the conflict welcome our participation.
We have no problem with recognising an independent Palestinian state. In fact, the previous Russian Administration has done so. We are not renouncing that position. We think that a settlement must take into account the legitimate interests both of the Palestinian and the Israeli peoples. We welcome the decision of President Arafat on a uni-lateral ceasefire and we believe that the reaction of the Israeli Government is optimal and adequate. And we very much hope that the emerging situation provides a good basis for a positive development of the process.
Russia has traditionally had friendly relations with many Arab countries and with Palestine. That’s on the one hand.
On the other and, many people from the former Soviet Union and Russia live in Israel and many of them have found themselves on the cutting edge of the confrontation. We are not indifferent to their fate. They account for almost a third of Israel’s population. Many of them speak the Russian language and are proponents of Russian culture. That is a bridge between Russia and Israel. And we understand that all the positive experience accumulated over the years in the relations between Russia and the Arab countries and what has recently emerged between Russia and Israel, all that positive experience can be used to resolve this complicated situation. We are ready to put it at the disposal of the negotiating parties.
Question: When you speak about Russia’s role in the Middle East, I would like to revisit the problem we have already mentioned, the Balkans with their numerous crisis spots. You have said that Europe should assume greater responsibility, but Russia is also part of Europe. Does it mean that you too want to assume a bigger share of responsibility in the Balkans? Perhaps Russia could contribute its troops to the stabilisation contingent in Macedonia? Or do you think it is still not enough and that these are just isolated measures that cannot resolve the crisis as a whole?
Vladimir Putin: First, it seems to me that if we unite our efforts, we will be able to solve just about any problem. In fact, judging from the wording of your questions, I think that I should structure my public statements during my visit to Germany in a certain way. Because you are raising fundamental issues, and I see that they interest not only you personally, but the readers and the public in Germany.
As for the actual situation in the Balkans, we are ready to work more closely, but we should coordinate our positions and find solutions that are acceptable for all. And if they are acceptable for all they will be more viable.
We have discussed this problem with the Chancellor many times. I last discussed it personally with him in Genoa [at the G8 Summit] and we spoke about it several times over the telephone, twice during the past week. I must say that our opinions and those of the German leadership are almost identical. Our experts are now discussing these problems. I hope that some common agreements will emerge.
Question: With you permission, one more question on this topic. There is constant talk about a possible conference on the Balkans and the whole region to discuss the problems of the region as a whole. Are you supportive of such a conference?
Vladimir Putin: Yes, I think it would be very important. We should set down two fundamental principles: first, the absolute inviolability of borders, and second, the responsibility of states for the situation on their territory. We should ensure that the legitimate Governments are able to operate on their territories and demand that these legitimate Governments respect the human rights and international conventions and other international legal norms and moral values of civilised society, but we should demand from them compliance with the obligations they assume.
I think such a conference, at which the participants would confirm their obligations to comply with their rules and the inviolability of borders would be a substantial factor for stability of the Balkans.
Question: Your visit to Germany begins next Tuesday. There were rumours in Germany that the visit might be cancelled because of the events in the US. Many events and visits are being cancelled in Germany, and there is even a debate as to whether or not to hold the Oktoberfest festival in Munich, partly for moral reasons and partly for security reasons. What do you think about such a reaction?
Vladimir Putin: You know, I don’t think it is right to put off the visit and cancel any events in connection with an upsurge of international terror. First, we must not be afraid of terrorists, they should be afraid of us. But we must not behave heedlessly, we must get our experts to work more effectively to ensure the security of civilians and of international events. That was the second point.
Now for the third point. I think that under the circumstances we should, on the contrary, strengthen our unity and that requires contacts. The best way is personal contacts between the leaders of states. So I look forward to my meeting with the German Chancellor. Germany is one of our key partners in the world and especially in Europe, and it is very important for me to meet with him and personally discuss the situation that has emerged in the world in the wake of the international terrorist attack on the United States.
Question: You had a telephone conversation with Gerhard Schroeder immediately after the terrorist attack. Rumour has it that you are planning something together. Can we expect any joint initiatives?
Vladimir Putin: Yes, the Chancellor has proposed some actions at the summit level, and I absolutely agree with him. We will discuss with him what we can realistically do together. I think what the Chancellor has proposed is highly relevant and may have a positive effect.
As for cooperation in the fight against terror, I can say that I see the contacts between our special services as more effective than with any other Western special services. At any rate, from my information, I can say that the people who work there have a very sound and professional grasp of the situation and in general experts in this sphere have very good contacts, mutual contacts, mutual understanding and a high degree of trust.
As far as I remember – I have no time to follow everything that happens in the world, in Europe and in Germany – but I think some German special services officials have come in for criticism in the Bundestag. I think today these critics must admit that the representatives of the German special services were right. But this is not to say that we should not heed criticism, we stand to benefit from it too.
Question: Economy is naturally a very important issue. How strong is the currency? What is the level of taxes? What is the capital flight situation? Many people who contemplate investing in Russia look forward to your visit and expect you to reassure them that it is safe to invest in your country.
Vladimir Putin: As for the possibilities of investment, the investment climate is linked to very many factors. You will know that after the start of military actions in Yugoslavia a lot of capital fled Europe, they put the figure at about $400 billion. And the value of the euro dropped by 10%. There is the result of destabilisation in Europe: money flees unstable regions.
As for Russia, we have yet to do a lot for investors to feel comfortable here. But we understand what needs to be done and we are working in this direction. First of all, we must achieve a measure of stability, political stability. As we see it, in spite of what is happening on the periphery of the Russian Federation, notably in the Caucasus, political stability exists in society, I can say it with absolute confidence.
We have introduced large-scale changes in our legislation, the changes that have been mooted over the past decade, but which have been made only in the last year and a half. That truly signifies movement towards modernising the economy. In effect we have made revolutionary decisions in the sphere of taxation, we have dramatically liberalised taxation and we intend to move forward in this direction. We will continue to implement the plans for economic restructuring. Among other things, we will adjust the big monopolies to the requirements of the day, the requirements of the market economy.
We are planning major transformations of the judiciary system, which should provide a good basis for a more favourable business environment and for a sound investment policy. We hope that it will become very real for investors, both ours and foreign, who will feel better protected. To pursue a good investment policy and to create a good climate it is necessary to conduct a balanced and sound social policy. As you know, real incomes in this country have grown by more than 9% during the past year. And that of course creates a certain atmosphere in society, among the population, contributes to the credibility of the administration and enables us to pursue further reform. In the social sphere we are planning some major steps, for example, a pension reform. I am aware that this is also a much discussed issue in Germany.
We are going to introduce a land reform, which will also create a good economic and legal basis for the investment process. We are planning to adopt a new Labour Code that will regulate the relations between the employees and employers in a modern way.
We are completing the draft of a new Customs Code and next in line are transformations in the financial system and in the banking system. All that taken together – and only taken together – can create a favourable investment climate. We hope to achieve positive results there.
<…>
Question: When you come to Germany, the Deutsche mark will be “living out” its last months. Euro coins and notes will be introduced in January. Do you believe that in Russia, too, the euro can make inroads on the dollar, which is the dominant currency at present?
Vladimir Putin: We did not create the current position of the dollar. This was a given to all of us. I am sure that we should not discuss the problem of the stability of the dollar today because one of the goals of international terrorists has been to undermine confidence in the US economy. And it is one of the underpinnings of the world economy on which the well-being both of Russia and Europe depends. We should take a very balanced view of this. The basic indicators of the American economy have shown that no terrorist attacks, even such brutal ones as have been launched against America, can shake these foundations.
But Europe and Russia are not just geographical notions, and in geographical terms we know that Europe reaches as far as the Urals. So if we describe as European the territories in which the European culture predominates, Europe actually stretches from the Atlantic to the Pacific.
Europe is our biggest economic partner. The European countries account for 35% of foreign trade. After the enlargement of Europe it will be 40%-45%. So we cannot and do not want to be left out of the processes taking place in Europe, including in the currency regulation sphere. The euro, of course, will occupy its due place in Russia as a reserve currency.
Our Central Bank is actively working with its European colleagues, and we count on the support and fruitful contribution of the European Central Bank.
Question: I would like to ask you a question that German businessmen often put to me. They welcome a drastic cut in taxes, but they wonder whether the new tax rate will hold long enough.
Vladimir Putin: No doubt about it. If anyone might have had any doubts, they can cast all these doubts aside, and I’ll tell you why. When we introduced the flat 13% income tax rate and when we discussed its introduction there was a heated debate and criticism, including criticism targeted at me. But at the time we hoped that it would encourage part of our economy to come out of the shadow and increase budget revenues, and thus help to tackle social problems, especially problems of the low-paid social strata. Criticism came from the left-wing parties, which said it was unfair to levy a 13% tax on both people with low incomes and the still thin stratum of wealthy people in Russia. But, I repeat, we expected it to increase budget revenues.
We expected that tax collection would increase by 15%-20%. But the months after the introduction of the 13% flat tax removed any doubts about the validity of that step, and criticism has practically stopped because tax collection has increased not by 15%, 20% or 25%, as we had expected, but by 70%. It levelled off a bit since, and over the past months the percentage has not been so high, but still the results have far exceeded our boldest expectations.
So, there are no doubts that the liberal transformations on our market have a long-term basis.
Question: You should ask German Finance Minister Hans Eichel what he thinks about tax cuts. (Laughter.)
Has the drastic tax cut reduced the flight of capital and brought some capital back?
Vladimir Putin: As regards the flight of capital, much remains to be done about that. I must say that this is not just a problem for our country. It is a problem for many countries that we describe as developed industrialised countries. It should be divided into two parts. There is illegal export of capital, and there we should take adequate legal measures. But the bulk of capital is exported in a perfectly legal fashion. And there economic means are the only possible and necessary means. And strange though it may seem (though not to the experts), the easiest thing is liberalisation, while the Government preserves and even in some ways increases its control. Liberalisation in the currency sphere, currency circulation and eventual free movement of capital. The fewer the restrictions on capita, the fewer concerns there are that capital will flow out of the country.
In countries with a developed market economy a legal system is in place which maximises liberalisation and on the other hand, ensures government control. We cannot make a great leap because we should think about creating a modern system of government control over capital movement. Such a system has yet to be created here. But we are contemplating and we are determined to pass on to liberalisation. I repeat, time is needed to create a civilised modern system of government control over capital movement. The absence of a control mechanism leads to non-market methods in matters of capital movement.
Question: Germans feel great sympathy for the Russian people. At the same time, it is known, and you have probably been told, that there are representatives of the so-called Russian mafia who are throwing money right and left and thus cast a shadow on Russia. Of course, there are some unpleasant types among Russians and among Germans, but this is beside the point. Can you do anything about it?
Vladimir Putin: You know, first of all in Europe all the people from the former Soviet Union are considered to be Russian. That is not so. But more importantly, one has to honestly admit that the people who have made fortunes overnight cannot always behave in accordance with the position they have come to occupy due to their unexpected wealth. It takes some time to get used to such a position. But it passes quickly.
As for the mafia, that too is a sphere that we should not overlook. But I wouldn’t exaggerate things. Mafia is not a Russian word.
Question: You have mentioned Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder a couple of times. You are thought to be friends. Do you believe that genuine friendship can exist in politics? There are many leaders who say it is impossible, who say that it is a deal, although it is based on reciprocity and does not rule out mutual sympathies. But they claim that there can be no genuine friendship. What do you think about such statements?
Vladimir Putin: I must say that Gerhard is a very pleasant man to deal with, but he is also a tough negotiator. We feel no discomfort due to the fact that in the course of our business dealings we have to be pragmatic and defend the interests of our economies and our countries. But I must say that in the current situation there are no topics that could wreck our personal relationship. On the contrary, our good personal chemistry creates a favourable atmosphere for the business discussion. But I do not feel in the least uncomfortable when I have to say: “You know, this or that proposal does not suit Russia.” And he for his part told me many times: “This is good, we are ready to discuss it, but that we can never agree with.” This is absolutely normal. Indeed, I know that when he says “no” it is a considered “no”, and it should be an incentive to us to revisit the issue again and again.
Moreover, I repeat, when he says “no” I know that the “no” is based on some sound thinking. It is a “no” of a person who does not brush aside any proposal that we make, it is a “no” of a person who regards Russia with sympathy. It should induce us to have another look at the problem and approach it from a different angle and to look for a compromise.
Question: And sometimes one needs to show more understanding when the Chancellor says “yes”. I, for one, forgave him his marriage to the editor of the Focus magazine, a very competent editor. Doris Koepf was in our editorial office for six years since the Focus magazine was founded. And he said “yes” to her.
Vladimir Putin: That’s a major coup, you infiltrated your own person into the Chancellor’s family.
Question: Rather, it is testimony to the editor’s excellence. She has always been a good editor and a good Social Democrat, whose views were not always shared by the majority of her staff.
Vladimir Putin: You know, she is a very interesting person in her own right. When they visited with us, we sat down to talk with Gerhard in the evening and we agreed that our wives would spend 20–30 minutes with us and then retire. As it happened, the four of us talked until 5 a.m. She is a very interesting person to talk to, with a very good background. I don’t think you have done any harm by infiltrating such a person into the Chancellor’s family.
Question: She is also a very smart and beautiful advisor.
Are you happy about the image you have in Germany? A book about you has been published under the title “A German at the Kremlin”. Naturally, your years in Germany have not passed without a trace. What personal traits, do you think, have been misrepresented to the German public and differ from your own opinion of yourself?
Vladimir Putin: I must say that, unfortunately, I have no time to read books about myself. I think I know myself better than those who write about me.
Question: But perhaps you keep secret some of the things that you know about yourself?
Vladimir Putin: If I tell you all, what will happen to all the people who want to write something?
As for my impressions of Germany, they are extremely favourable. But this is not surprising. Ask any person who has lived in another country for several years, for five years. It is a long period in the life of any person. It is part of my life, so I can say that Germany is part of my own life. My child was born there, and my children’s first language was German. I too try to speak German. Because I know no other foreign language, it is particularly valuable to me as an additional link with the European culture. It is, I repeat, particularly valuable.
And then, I mixed a lot with Germans. I was not a big boss when I lived in Germany. And we communicated with many Germans on a day-to-day basis, not only in Dresden but in other cities in East Germany. I must say that I have no negative recollections, no negative experience whatsoever. At a certain period I had more friends among Germans than here, because we had lived there for many years.
Question: Are you still in touch with some of them?
Vladimir Putin: Yes, of course. And when I worked in St Petersburg my love of Germany made itself felt. I remember that at a meeting with diplomats accredited in St Petersburg, the then US Consul-General said jokingly, addressing his colleagues: “I would like to introduce Mr Putin, the Consul-General of the Federal Republic of Germany to St Petersburg.”
You know, at the time I had no reason to hide the fact that I had been a security agent. I announced it openly at once. And it created no problems for me. I could freely work to build the relations between the north-western region of Russia and its biggest city, St Petersburg, with the German-speaking countries. I was in charge of the city’s external relations, and it is one of the country’s largest cities with a population of 5 million. We have many contacts, considering Germany’s traditional interest in north-western Russia, and we had a lot of contacts with German-speaking countries. So I made more friends in Germany.
Question: Your career rise was swift. You certainly achieved a lot within a comparatively short space of time. How does it make you feel? What does power mean to you? And without any doubt you possess power. You have enemies, you have an opposition, but you also wield great power.
Vladimir Putin: I try not to think about it, and I think I am succeeding. I see the concrete tasks that I face and that need to be solved and I try to do it as best I can, I give it everything I got, and I work a lot.
I think if my fate has shaped up that way, there are some problems of course, but one thing on the positive side is that fate has given me an opportunity to do for my country what other people cannot do because of their position. And I have to make the best use of this opportunity.
I think the unquestioned advantages of a democratic state are that the person at the top of the power pyramid should never forget that he should act in such a way as to be able tomorrow to live in this country, look people honestly in the eye and recall fondly the times when he was taking decisions on which the fates of millions of people depended.
This is particularly so in Russia because Russia is in the process of building its statehood and its civil society. A person who today is a big boss should remember that after a while he will be a rank-and-file citizen and will have to live in the society he is creating today. I try to always keep that in mind.
Question: At the end of our talk I would like to come back to the somewhat unpleasant topic with which we started because you gave us an answer that intrigued us a great deal. You said you had information relevant to the US. Of course, that raises a question: was it specific information or information of a general character, could this information have provided a lead?
Vladimir Putin: So what is your question?
Question: What sort of information was it, perhaps it came from the CIS countries, information that the Americans either did not receive or did not pay attention to?
Vladimir Putin: As regards concrete terrorist attacks, we had no specific information on that. But we had information that terrorists were preparing attacks on American citizens, American property abroad and on the territory of the United States. All this information needed additional investigation. We provided our American partners with this information in a timely manner. It does not mean that they could have known about the planned attack from this data. But I don’t know what they did with that information.
Voice: Thank you very much for the interview, for your patience and for your time.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: September 19, 2001, 00:01
Text version