Events
Statement to the Press following Russian-Jordanian Talks
August 28, 2001
00:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: Russia highly values the results of the talks held. We have exchanged opinions on a wide range of international problems and the relations between our two states.
The authority of Jordan and its role in resolving key regional issues are steadily growing. This is due above all to the balanced foreign policy pursued by the country’s leadership. Much of the credit goes to the personal efforts of King Abdallah II Ben Al-Hussein, and his far-sighted and consistent approach to international affairs.
Our talks and consultations have confirmed that Russia and Jordan are close in their positions on the main international problems. Our countries are ready to make their contribution to collective responses of the international community to the most complicated issues and problems.
The Middle East occupied a special place in the negotiations. Fulfilling the Mitchell Plan, whose basic provisions are similar to the Jordanian-Egyptian initiative put forward a little earlier, could be a first step towards a settlement. Let me remind you that the plan envisages an end to violence, confidence measures and resumption of political negotiations. We have reaffirmed our strategic commitment to a comprehensive Arab-Israeli settlement on the basis of the relevant resolutions of the UN and the principles agreed at the Madrid Conference in 1991.
We have also discussed Iraq. We are convinced that the problem can only be solved by political and diplomatic means. In our opinion, Arab countries can and must play an important positive role in breaking the deadlock over Iraq. It would help stabilize the situation in the region.
One of the central themes of the negotiations has been the expansion of Russian-Jordanian business partnership. We intend to promote the relations between different agencies, maintain bilateral trade and create the necessary legal framework for it.
In conclusion I would like to note that the first visit to Russia by His Majesty the King of Jordan is a milestone in the history of Russian-Jordanian relations. I am sure the visit will contribute to the creative partnership between the two countries and the strengthening of friendship and mutual understanding between our peoples.
I would like to thank Your Majesty for kindly accepting the invitation of the Russian leadership and visiting the Russian capital Moscow.
Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: August 28, 2001, 00:00
Text version