Events
Opening Remarks at an Informal Meeting of CIS Heads of State
August 2, 2001
00:01
Sochi
Vladimir Putin: Thank you for accepting the invitation to come to Sochi for an informal meeting. I think this meeting will provide good preparation for the 10th jubilee which we have decided to mark in the autumn in Moscow.
You know that work on the relevant documents is already underway, and our experts are working quite hard.
I think it is important that from the start we choose the right direction for our work, and I suggest that we compare our views of the current state of affairs and outlook for the CIS to provide benchmarks for the people who are working on these documents, that is, for our experts.
One issue that we should discuss is the role of regional associations in the overall context of the CIS. I would like to stress that the Union State of Russia and Belarus, the Eurasian Economic Community, the Collective Security Treaty Organisation, GUUAM, and the Central-Asian Economic Community may well augment cooperation in the general format and may even provide a testing ground for certain variants of interaction that may later be introduced throughout the CIS.
The main and fundamentally important thing is that the regional associations should contribute to the strengthening of the Commonwealth as a whole and to solving the tasks facing our countries with a view to achieving the main goal: improving the welfare of our peoples and ensuring the security of all our countries. These are, I think, and I know you share my opinion, the main criteria for assessing our joint work.
Of course, prospects for economic cooperation demand their share of attention. We started discussing them at our bilateral meetings yesterday. We are all of the opinion that economic cooperation and the economy is the only possible basis for the development of cooperation in all the other areas.
The topic proposed by Islam Karimov is also important. I am referring to the narcotic menace that looms over our countries. We must step up our joint work to fight that evil. A serious discussion of the issue is long overdue, and I think we are all interested in it. Clearly the topic cannot be discussed without looking at the issues of international terrorism and extremism, and without looking at the problem of Afghanistan.
Those of us who work within the framework of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation, are prepared to share the results of our discussion in Shanghai. These are similar topics that are relevant to the whole Commonwealth.
I also suggest that we exchange opinions on the problems of strategic stability, the situation in the Balkans and other topical international issues.
For my part, I will be prepared to talk to you about the discussions held in Genoa on easing the debts of developing countries, the poorest countries, and on combating the most serious and worrisome diseases such as AIDS and tuberculosis. Combating these diseases is a challenge for our countries too. And of course I will tell you about bilateral meetings, including contacts with our American counterpart.
This is the range of issues I propose for discussion, but of course it is an open-ended list. We have agreed in advance that we would have an open-ended agenda. Any issues and problems you deem necessary to raise will be actively discussed today and tomorrow – with those of you who stay.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: August 2, 2001, 00:01
Text versionEvents
Press Conference Following an Informal Meeting of CIS Heads of State
August 2, 2001
00:02
Sochi
Question: How do you assess today’s series of bilateral meetings with CIS Presidents?
Vladimir Putin: Positively. Today we had important meetings with the Presidents of Ukraine and Kazakhstan and we had a three-way meeting – the Presidents of Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan and myself – on the problems of the Caspian. We keep all these issues under constant review. In the case of Ukraine it is above all economic relations, the traditional problems of energy, of financial relations and border delimitation where it has not yet been done. These are all important problems of immediate interest for the two states, large-scale interest. I have to say that I am pleased with these consultations. We have agreed to instruct the relevant government bodies, the economic units of the Government and other specialists to prepare a solution to some of these issues by the time of our next meeting, which will provisionally be held in Kiev to mark the tenth anniversary of Ukrainian independence. With Kazakhstan, too, it is mainly economic relations in a number of sectors, especially in the energy sphere. You know that a major regional project of the CPC to transport energy resources, oil from Kazakhstan to a Russian port has been practically completed. In short, we had things to discuss. The same can be said about relations with Azerbaijan. Of course, we discussed Nagorny Karabakh with the President of Azerbaijan as well as with the President of Armenia. I briefed them on our discussions of the issue with US President George Bush and President Jacques Chirac, because, as you know, they are participants in the settlement process. I am absolutely sure that all this will lead to progress, including on this very complicated problem. In any case we have managed to preserve the dialogue and maintain the level of trust in our approach even to this tricky problem. We shall see how the situation evolves.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: August 2, 2001, 00:02
Text version