Events
Speech at the Parade Celebrating the 56th Anniversary of Victory in the Great Patriotic War
May 9, 2001
00:01
Red Square, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin:
I greet the veterans of the Great Patriotic War!
You have defended our right to be citizens of a free country. I thank you for your labours in peace and war, for your courage and endurance and for being here beside us today.
Every year we honour your victorious generation with emotion in our hearts. It is our sacred duty to cherish and care for those who fought and those who toiled on the home front during those terrible times of war.
* * *
We know only too well the price of victory and we remember the millions who lost their lives, the millions who were maimed and also the millions who were not born after that terrible war. We remember the devastated cities, the burned villages and the destruction of our national cultural treasures. We remember everything we lost during those days.
May 9 is truly a time of celebration with “tears in our eyes”. It is a celebration in which grandeur and sorrow, national pride and national memory, the bright glint of medals and the tears of veterans are forever bound together.
* * *
Dear comrades!
We did not give in back then in 1945. Our people showed such unity and strength of will that we roused the entire world to join the struggle against fascism. We do not have the right to lose this spirit and to betray our victories that we all consider sacred. Today, as during the war years, the red banner of our Armed Forces flies proud once again.
Traditions of victory form the spiritual backbone of the Russian Army – an army that is developing, modernising and adapting to new demands.
* * *
We achieved victory in the most just war of the twentieth century, a war of liberation for the sovereignty and independence of our Motherland. We need to remember the lessons of this war. They teach us to look for a balance between strength and reason and they warn us that becoming an accomplice of violence and extremism has immensely tragic consequences. Our entire post-war history teaches us that no country can build a safer world for itself alone, and even more so, cannot build its security to the detriment of others.
Dear citizens of Russia! Victory Day has been our most important celebration, the celebration most cherished by our people and held most dear to our hearts for 56 years now. Not every people can count such a victory among its achievements. To be the inheritors of this victory is not just a great honour but is also a great responsibility.
The heritage of our frontline soldiers flows in our blood today and their feat lives on in our hearts. Their victory and the heritage it represents still serve us today, helping us to overcome difficulties and move forward, calling us to new action and glorious new achievements.
Happy holiday, dear friends, happy Victory Day!. Glory to the soldiers of 1945! Glory to the victorious people! Glory to Russia.
Hurrah!
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 9, 2001, 00:01
Text versionEvents
Address at a Gala Reception in Honour of the 56th Anniversary of V-E Day
May 9, 2001
00:02
The Kremlin, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: Veterans of World War II, defenders of the Fatherland, friends!
I address my opening words today to those to whom we owe this holiday—the people who won the war to rescue this country and the world from Nazism. I thank you, dear veterans, from the bottom of my heart as I congratulate you on this glorious Victory Day.
The most terrible war of the 20th century is in the past, but May 9, 1945 is evergreen. Its cementing power grows with every passing year. Victory Day inspires our nation to bolster its spirit and nurture its principles. It remains the most cherished and the most sublime of Russia’s national days. Of that I am certain.
This will always be so. The truth of history is not overcome by the passing of time, and feats of glory are never forgotten. We shall cherish them in our memory. We shall remember your names and your comrades’ names. We shall keep their photographs in family albums and official archives. In centuries to come, every Russian will know about the battles of Brest, Stalingrad, the Kursk Bulge and Leningrad, and the storming of Berlin. We shall remember those who lie in common graves all over Europe, from the Volga to the Elbe.
Many years have passed, but Victory Day continues to symbolise the indomitable Russian spirit. Today, as in the past, it gives us self-assurance and faith in our country. New defenders of the Fatherland take up their posts with this faith.
The lessons of World War II warn us to this day against cruelty and intolerance, and teach us to cherish the neighbourly allied spirit. I welcome veterans from the Commonwealth and other countries who are here with us, in this hall. Greetings!
The lessons of the war teach us respect for others, from which self-respect stems. It is our most sacred duty today to preserve global strategic stability and prevent local conflicts from spreading, for such conflicts can evolve into great wars.
Dear veterans,
Time is merciless even to the bravest and strongest. Those who fought their way across half of Europe now have grey hair. But you have the eyes of young people. Your eyes are sparkling with the triumphal celebration you have witnessed and taken part in. Everything we cherish and take pride in is reflected in your eyes. Yours are the eyes of people of faith and courage. You have the dignified bearing of victors. I am glad to see you among us, dear veterans. Thank you for attending this gala. To gather here is another feat of glory.
It is our generation’s duty to teach our children patriotism and selflessness equal to yours, for our country’s sake. We must bring them up to be ready to stand up for the Fatherland as you stood up for it. Last but not least, we must teach them to love Russia. No victory can be attained without that love.
I drink to victorious soldiers!
To you, dear veterans! I wish you the best of health!
To a free and strong Russia! To peace and prosperity in the Russian land!
Glory to the Great Victory!
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 9, 2001, 00:02
Text version