Events
Speech at the Presentation of Ambassadors’ Credentials
August 27, 2001
00:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: Gentlemen,
I welcome you to this ceremony at the Kremlin. I hope it will mark the beginning of prolonged and effective joint work. Russia attaches great significance to the strengthening and development of equal and mutually beneficial ties with all the states, large and small. I am convinced that bilateral relations based on strict adherence to international law is the key to building a just world order in the new millennium. Today a sustained development of civilization is impeded by poverty and economic inequality, and the threat to strategic and regional stability presented by international terrorism and extremism. The international community can only provide a credible response to all these grave challenges by combining its efforts. Russia supports an all-round strengthening of the role of the UN as the backbone of the entire system of international relations. We appreciate the fact that your countries support that position. We all share a common responsibility for the future of humankind. I trust that this feeling will provide a reliable benchmark in our work together.
Gentlemen,
Russia is interested in stronger friendly ties with Uruguay, our traditional partner in Latin America. Constructive and balanced Russia-Uruguay relations are based on a solid framework of treaties. Both our countries are interested in building up a mutually beneficial partnership.
Our relations with Columbia have made great progress, especially in recent years. We count on deeper bilateral political dialogue and trade and economic ties.
The history of our relations with Denmark goes back centuries. Back in 1493, a Union Treaty with a name that sounded as sonorous as it sounds today, “On Love and Brotherhood,” was signed in Copenhagen. That treaty determined the special spirit of our cooperation for years ahead. It is important to continue common efforts to bring our interaction to a higher level bilaterally and in the Russia-European Union format.
The relations between Russia and China are experiencing one of the most fruitful and successful periods. That applies to the entire spectrum of political, economic, cultural and other ties between our countries. The recently concluded Treaty on Good-Neighbourly Relations, Friendship and Cooperation between Russia and China has been prompted by the very logic of our partnership. The document, reflecting genuine national priorities of the two countries, is intended for a long-term perspective.
The Republic of Slovenia is a reliable and traditional partner of Russia in Central Europe. We are satisfied to note the positive dynamics of Russian-Slovenian cooperation geared to stepping up mutually beneficial and many-sided ties.
We intend to continue to maintain friendly contacts with the state of Brunei-Darussalam. I have warm memories of my visit to your hospitable country, Your Excellency. This year we will mark the tenth anniversary of our diplomatic relations. We hope to significantly enrich our cooperation through joint efforts.
Russia’s relations with Iceland are on the rise. I am sure that we will manage to make genuine progress in areas of cooperation in which there is reciprocal interest. The first ever official visit to Russia by the President of Iceland due to take place next year is expected to play an important role in that.
The visit to Moscow by the Indian Prime Minister Mr Vajpai planned for this autumn should be a milestone in Russian-Indian relations. We will not only review the implementation of the October 2000 agreements, but concentrate on the search for promising new areas of strategic partnership between Russia and India.
Gentlemen,
I would like to wish you success in performing your noble mission. I am sure that your activities will contribute to friendship, mutual understanding and cooperation between the peoples of our countries for the benefit of peace, prosperity and stability.
Welcome to Russia.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: August 27, 2001, 00:00
Text version