Events
Speech at a Reception to Mark the 10th Anniversary of Ukraine’s Independence
August 23, 2001
00:00
Kiev
Vladimir Putin: Dear Leonid Danilovich,
Dear friends,
Ten years of the independence of Ukraine is a momentous and a truly historic date. We in Russia are well aware of its importance and significance. I congratulate all the citizens of Ukraine from the bottom of my heart.
The past 10 years have not been easy for Russia or Ukraine.
Our roots are in Kievan Rus. Our brotherhood is not a legend, but a historical fact. That is why the common future of Russia and Ukraine is the future of two European states that are very close and interconnected.
Today Russian-Ukrainian relations are becoming stable and predictable. Our strategic partnership augurs well not only for the two peoples, but also for the whole Commonwealth, for the united Europe and the world.
Russia has a vital stake in a stable, successful and economically powerful Ukraine: our country needs and values such a neighbour.
Our states are two powers with a huge potential for development and we are jointly responsible for the preservation of peace and stability in Europe, its progress and sustained economic development.
At the turn of the 1990s the choice made by our peoples extended the European space of democracy and freedom, and I would like to stress that.
Dear friends,
Our countries have already achieved significant positive results. We have demonstrated that we can come to terms and respect each other’s national interests. During the past ten years we have successfully resolved the problems we have inherited.
But life throws up new questions. One of these is working out joint mechanisms of adaptation to global political and economic processes.
Among other things, our countries are reliable and very promising markets for each other. Today 60% of Ukrainian enterprises are cooperating with Russian ones. Such interdependence, naturally, generates an interest in effective cooperation.
Progress in promoting interaction is obvious: our trade is growing steadily, inter-regional and border ties are developing rapidly and we have fruitful cooperation in such areas as aviation and space.
The business communities, the people of Russia and Ukraine wait for the leaders to give them a green light. So far many ideas, projects and investments are waiting in a queue to be approved by government agencies. But civil, entrepreneurial and cultural initiatives in the end will prevail over bureaucratic barriers.
In spite of all the complexities the cultural, business and friendly contacts between Russians and Ukrainians have never been interrupted and are successfully growing.
I am glad to tell you that we have decided to hold a Year of Ukraine in Russia. Our special relationship and feelings are not for years, they are for centuries.
Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: August 23, 2001, 00:00
Text versionEvents
News Conference at the End of a Meeting with President Alexander Kwasniewski of Poland
August 23, 2001
00:02
Kiev
Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon.
My colleague and I would like to inform you very briefly about what we discussed today. I must say that I am very pleased with our consultations. And I want to thank the Polish President for the attention he has been personally paying to relations between Russia and Poland. I think it would be no exaggeration to say that his efforts have contributed a lot to our relations, achieving new highs in practically all areas. It is enough to say that Mr President’s visit to Russia and our repeated contacts – personally, by telephone, through correspondence – have had a positive effect above all on the economic sphere. Last year we set a 10-year record: trade between our two countries reached almost $5.5 billion.
We discussed the need to develop these contacts in all fields and spoke about the necessity of diversifying our economic ties. We also spoke about steady power deliveries to Poland from Russia. And discussed some specific plans.
Mr President agreed and pledged his word that he would come to Moscow to attend the Days of Polish Science in Russia. We will welcome the Polish head of state with pleasure. Especially since this is one of the areas which, as people here say, has much room for cooperation. And I am sure this area will be one of our priorities. Also, we are interested in ties between Russia and Poland in the humanities, culture and education.
We also took up regional issues. Russia and Poland are interested, for example, in the future of Kaliningrad. As you understand, this matter interests us in the first place, since this is a territory of the Russian Federation that may soon find itself surrounded by a united Europe, by European countries belonging to the European Union. And Mr President agreed that – and this is his opinion as far as I understood – Kaliningrad should naturally fit into the united Europe, while at the same time remaining an undoubted part of Russia as one of the Russian regions. I think this interest is shared both by Poland and Russia, and above all, of course, by the people of Kaliningrad. That is far from complete list of the issues discussed.
Mr President kindly invited me to visit Poland, and we agreed that the visit by the President of the Russian Federation to Poland would take place in mid-January of next year.
It should be added that we also discussed some international issues, including the situation in the Balkans. And, if I correctly understood Mr President, our assessments practically coincided.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: August 23, 2001, 00:02
Text version