Events
Opening Remarks at a Security Council Session
September 28, 2001
00:02
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Esteemed colleagues,
The question of our agenda is the fight against the illicit drug trafficking and the spread of drug addiction. Today this problem is extremely acute, and not only in and by itself. It is directly connected with the success of the fight against crime, or failure if we poorly fight the phenomenon which we will today be talking about, and indeed a whole variety of social and economic issues. And of course most closely intertwined with the number one theme in the world – the struggle against terrorism.
Narco-business is one of the financial sources for terrorist groups and bandit gangs.
It is well known that 80 percent of heroin is supplied to the world market from Afghanistan. And gunmen of certain movements control drug transfer from there to Central Asia and on to Europe through Russia.
Terrorism and drugs are absolutely kindred phenomena. They have common roots and similar destructive power. Terrorism, just as narco-business, has a ramified international network and without doubt bears a trans-national character.
Narco-business also has a pronounced economic aspect. And you and I know: drug addiction as a medical and social phenomenon doesn't exist without a criminal narco-market network, drug sales. And the specialists will confirm today during our discussion what huge profits this business brings in. And this black market does bring in super profits. And the ”dirty“ money is being spent on ”dirty“ aims.
Our country has today become a colossal user of the narco-potion. Today, according to official data alone, there are about 269,000 drug addicts on the register. And the actual figure for drug users is much higher.
Moreover, the narco-market structure is changing. We have a conspicuous growth of the share of highly concentrated drugs, and in the first place Afghan heroin, the proportion of which in total drug use constitutes 28 percent. I think even more.
There grows local drug production in the country, including that of synthetic drugs, cheap and producing instant dependence. What's particularly dangerous is that the number of such laboratories by some expert estimates has greatly increased in Russia in recent years.
Unfortunately, the social base of drug addiction is expanding. Today this disease has percolated to all sections of society, encompassing the territory of the entire country, especially the depressed areas. This is leading to an avalanche-like spread of AIDS. By experts' estimates, 90 percent of the HIV-infected catch the virus precisely through intravenous drug use.
As before, most of the drug addicts — up to 53 percent — are unemployed. It is they who reinforce the army of distributors now as well, which in its turn gives rise to a crime flare.
The saddest thing is that drug addiction has got much younger. The total number of sick persons has increased by nine times over the recent period, and among adolescents by 17 times. The ”average age“ of those who have for the first time tasted drugs barely exceeds 14 years.
In drug trafficking Russia is not only a ”terminal,“ but also a trans-shipment point. Drug syndicates have undertaken a real expansion in Russia. It has become a favorable transit corridor for them.
By experts' estimates, one dollar invested in a narcotic — for example, in Afghanistan — grows into super-profits after the sale of the drug item in European countries. And the overall volume of your and our market — the Russian market — exceeds 1 billion dollars.
Power agencies obviously bear the brunt of the fight against the drug mafia. Here we will inevitably have to strengthen, both financially and with cadres, all of the services that are associated with this kind of activity — the fight against the drug mafia.
By the detention of drug goods alone we cannot solve this problem. Only a small part of merchandise gets confiscated. Experience shows that the detainees are mostly petty retailers, and sometimes also those who need being treated themselves.
In this connection it is time in general to revise the criteria of work in this direction. We must put up a barrier to all the ways for drug penetration into illegal trade, smash the infrastructure of drug networks and eliminate demand.
Dear colleagues,
The reasons for the powerful drug ”invasion“ lie not only in the proximity of the countries of the Golden Crescent. For it there are loopholes in Russia itself — financial, legal, administrative and, of course, social. It is therefore our aim to shut off all the channels for drug distribution — both external and internal.
And one more important aspect of the problem — the attitude to this question of society itself. Drugs are percolating even to social institutions which are responsible for the upbringing of young people. Called upon to serve as an obstacle to drug pushers, the educational institutions, unfortunately, are becoming a bridgehead for drug distribution.
We're encountering the indifference of both the school and parents. Today every fifth recruit brings to the army with him an experience of drug use with all the ensuing consequences for security agencies.
Drug use should not be allowed to become a subculture or fashion. Unfortunately, we're observing signs of this. Even worse, books are being freely sold that propagate a ”narcotic lifestyle.“
All of these manifestations of a grave social disease have to be fought by legal and administrative and educational methods.
Here a considerable workload falls on legislators, legislation in general, and law enforcement practice. Changes ought to be directed toward stiffening criminal responsibility for the most dangerous narco-crimes. Thought should also be given to the introduction of a practice of replacing punishment with coercive treatment for drug addicts. And let us discuss the possibility of providing punishment for drug advocacy.
Obviously the emphasis should be on prevention. We should not limit ourselves to isolated establishments, we must be creating a network of rehabilitation centers. Developing our own methods of treatment and return of people to a normal social life. Unfortunately, drug addiction has ceased to be a ”disease of the rich only,“ and hence we must expand the network of state institutions for the poor. But at the same time we need to develop and create a transparent legal base for the work of private centers.
An important set of tasks is connected with the elimination of financial channels for narco-business, which can be cut off not only by fighting against criminal elements, but also through the use of a whole system of special measures. Including the struggle against the legalization of criminal proceeds.
The border will require intense work. Today the border guards are performing serious tasks and generally working effectively. Over the recent period a particularly great amount of narcotics coming from Afghanistan has been confiscated on the border. Drug pushers and producers are trying to hide away what they have accumulated over many years in huge quantities, commercial quantities, to urgently transfer it abroad, to save it from possible destruction. We must give this our special attention. We also need to consider how to improve the work of the border guards, how to fortify the borders.
The Government Commission for countering drug abuse and trade must, at last, begin to work at full steam. I ask the Chairman of the Government to pay special attention to this problem.
Dear colleagues, the situation with drug addiction in the country is acute. And we must respond to it skillfully and most swiftly. Now I suggest we proceed to discussion.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: September 28, 2001, 00:02
Text versionEvents
Speech at CIS Heads of Government Council Meeting
September 28, 2001
00:01
Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: First of all, I would like to thank you for making a decision to gather in Moscow. This was, as you know, a common wish of the CIS heads of state as well. Because a heads of state jubilee meeting is due very soon this year and we had deemed it correct if the heads of government gathered here in Moscow. And we ask you to think about how to fill November's meeting of the heads of state.
I want to ask that special words of appreciation be conveyed to Saparmurat Niyazov for his backing this decision. I know Turkmenistan was preparing to host the meeting of the heads of state, but when I called him he said without a doubt that yes, we hadn't taken it into account that the anniversary in November would be marked in Moscow, so it was more advisable if the heads of government also met in the Russian capital.
Of course I cannot fail to say in what conditions we have gathered for work in Moscow. All of us well know and feel what the world is feeling after the catastrophe in the US, I am certain this cannot but leave its imprint on our work too.
In recent days, the CIS heads of state have held very intensive consultations with each other on defining a common stand in the struggle against international terrorism, and in defining the place of the Commonwealth's states in the international efforts to meet this threat.
It was after consultations with our counterparts – the heads of the CIS countries, and it is no secret, with the heads of the Central Asian states in the first place – that Russia defined its stand on this question.
We have agreed that we will act on a common platform, guided by common principles and common agreements.
I, by the way, the day before yesterday, in Berlin sounded this just so, and presented it exactly as our common stand. I think that the heads of government too should define themselves with the questions relating to support of the structures that have been set up to solve the problem of combating terror. I mean, above all, the Antiterrorist Center. I have a big favor to ask you – to give it attention from the viewpoint of economic support for structures of this kind, timely financing, and so on.
I must also say that our states, just as the Russian Federation itself, are a unique place, all of our states. They are multinational countries, multi-confessional ones. To us, this is not a new thesis, but still, in the context of today's talk about the struggle against terror, I once again want to underscore and outline the position of Russia.
We consider it not only counterproductive, but also harmful and indeed dangerous to confuse terror and Islam. Terrorists who use slogans as a cover, in this case Islamic slogans, have nothing in common with this world religion, however they may try to associate themselves with this.
Terrorists, as we know, can be of every ilk, of varying nationality and can profess any religion. And when we talk of pooling the efforts of the entire civilized world, we mean not least the representatives of Islam as well.
That's why we have actively backed the idea of leaders of Russian Moslem communities to hold an international conference in Moscow under the slogan ”Islam against Terror.“ And my next favor to ask you is that you discuss this with the heads of state and at your level give it support. Nothing more is required of us. As the representatives of the Moslem communities have told me, they will do everything themselves, it is a public initiative. Our job is not to interfere, and where necessary, to support.
Now directly on the themes of your meeting today.
I have already mentioned that your meeting will be held ahead of the meeting of the heads of state. Of course a jubilee is always a festive occasion, but in this case we would like to sum up the results sooner, to see what has been done and review mistakes which always rather abound in such a big task as the building of interstate relations between, without exaggeration, even if this is an old, overused word, fraternal states.
Building relations on a new basis is a large-scale action. And here, too, there may be no mistakes, they also have to be reviewed, weighed up and appraised, defining ways to overcome them, and fixing the direction of our cooperation for the medium- and long-term.
I would like that in the course of work you pay attention to this. Because without your expert appraisal here we are unlikely to succeed, indeed concrete action and concrete appraisals are required here.
Basically, that's all I've wanted to tell you.
Once again I want to greet you in Moscow and wish you successful work.
All the best!
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: September 28, 2001, 00:01
Text version