Events
Remarks and Answers to Questions Following a Meeting with British Prime Minister Tony Blair
October 4, 2001
00:02
The Kremlin, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: Ladies and gentlemen,
We would like to brief you on the results of our meeting. But first I would like to once again thank the Prime Minister for promptly reacting to the invitation to come to Moscow to exchange opinions on the current situation in the world.
We see the consultations we are having today as a natural extension of our contacts with the United States, with the EU, with all European countries, and with Central Asian countries in order to define the positions of all those who have firmly committed themselves to the fight against international terror.
The fact that we can meet at such short notice and coordinate our positions is one more proof of the high level of relations achieved recently between the United Kingdom and the Russian Federation.
We have closely followed the recent developments in Britain and the stand taken by the British Prime Minister, and it deserves respect and without any doubt will have Russia’s backing.
Of course, we discussed a number of bilateral issues. We will continue to exchange opinions on economic interaction and cooperation in all other areas. But what you have said now and the general prevailing mood gives me grounds for saying that the level or relations achieved between Russia and the United Kingdom will help us to tackle the most acute problem confronting humankind, the fight against terror.
Tony Blair: First of all can I express my thanks to President Putin for inviting me here and for seeing me so swiftly after the telephone conversation we had a few days ago. We have now met many times together, and even before 11 September there was a clear strengthening of relations between our two countries and also I believe between Russia and Europe and Russia and the United States of America.
The events of 11 September have given us a renewed sense of urgency. I would like to pay tribute to the strength and leadership of President Putin at this time and I believe that in part that is due to the experience of people here in Russia of the dangers of terrorism, not least the appalling terrorist act of 1999 in which several hundred people lost their lives, many here in Moscow. And the fact that Russia has shown its solidarity with the victims of 11 September is a sort of tremendous support, and indeed comfort at this time. But it is very much part of a changing set of relationships that is putting relations between Russia and Europe, Russia and the United States, Russia and Britain on a new footing for a new age. Today certainly we meet as two countries, not talking to each other out of necessity but working through problems in the spirit of friends and true partners. And for that I thank President Putin again for his leadership and the Russian people.
Question: Mr Putin, at your previous meeting with the British Prime Minister in St Petersburg you spoke a lot about the threat of Islamic terrorism. Perhaps you think that the West has been somewhat dismissive of that threat? Is Russia capable of making an independent contribution to resolving the current situation, I mean the elimination of Osama bin Laden?
Vladimir Putin: Yes, the things you have mentioned were discussed during our first meeting with the Prime Minister in St Petersburg. I don’t think that Western leaders have treated what I am saying with indifference or didn’t pay attention. Of course, you always hope that you will be spared the tragedy that has struck your neighbour. And you hate to think that this threat is global in character, and this is exactly what I have been pointing out, you have rightly said. But the British Prime Minister is the last person to whom such a reproach can be addressed.
I am not saying this because the British Prime Minister is my guest today, but because it is true. He and also German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder were the European leaders who initiated the building of relations that Russia has with the Western world today, in spite of the fact that the Western public was not as well disposed towards Russia then as it is today. Thanks to the stand taken by these and other leaders at the time, the West now has in Russia a reliable partner in the fight against international terror.
Besides, with what I hope is a temporary downturn in the Western economy – we are not inclined to exaggerate our own potential, but still, considering the Russian economic growth – we are ready to contribute and are already contributing to bilateral economic relations, not least by providing Europe with steady supplies of energy resources.
As for Russia’s immediate contribution to the common fight against terror, I have already described our approach and our contribution to these joint actions when I spoke on Russian television three days ago. This may lead to the neutralisation of the particularly odious international terrorists. We do not rule that out. And as I said, we are ready to expand our cooperation in other areas than those I have publicly mentioned. But that of course will depend on the level and character of relations with our partners. Thank you.
Question: My question is a bit tricky. What do you think of the combat ability of the anti-terrorist coalition as a whole? Won’t the proposed and possible military actions inflict still more suffering on the Afghan people and won’t the tragedy spread to Afghanistan’s neighbours?
Tony Blair: First of all, I think it is important to recognise that we have to take action against those responsible for these terrorist atrocities, but in doing so we do not seek in any way to act against the Afghan people. On the contrary, it is important that as well as any action that is taken in respect of bin Laden or the Taliban regime that shelter him, we put together a humanitarian coalition also, to give help on the humanitarian side so that the suffering of the people is minimised and so that those that are refugees are taken care of and given shelter.
Vladimir Putin: First, will the anti-terrorist coalition’s actions be effective? We will only be able to tell when these actions become a reality and then we will be able to see whether or not they are effective. But I have absolutely no doubt that they can be effective. The main precondition for that is the pooling of efforts of many countries and a genuine commitment to effective joint work.
As for the suffering of civilians that may result from military operations, we are of course aware of these problems. But I think several circumstances should be borne in mind. The first circumstance: the Afghan people are already suffering from terrorism and fundamentalism under the regime that has established itself in Afghanistan in recent years. Our main task is to deliver the Afghan people from this suffering. Clearly, the terrorists have made the Afghan people hostages to their goals. Those who will carry out military actions should do everything – and I don’t doubt for a minute that everything will be done – to avoid civilian casualties.
But if such casualties do happen, the blame should not be put on those who plan and conduct such operations. The blame should be put on the terrorists who have made civilians hostages to their goals. I agree with the Prime Minister, of course, that we should do everything to promote social rehabilitation of the people and rehabilitation of the territories and to render assistance to Afghanistan, to the people of Afghanistan. We must render humanitarian assistance in the broadest sense of the word.
Question: I would like to ask the President about the latest news of the air crash today. Is Russia sure that it was the result of the terrorist act?
Vladimir Putin: The final conclusions about the causes of the tragedy will be made by experts after a thorough investigation and laboratory tests of the fragments of the plane. Our rescue services have reacted promptly. Within minutes of receiving the news about the tragedy aircraft and ships were dispatched to the area. Information and materials are being collected on the spot for final conclusions. Pending that, any statements on the topic would be premature and counterproductive.
As you know, I have ordered a commission to be formed to inquire into the disaster, the commission is headed by Vladimir Rushailo, the Russian Security Council Secretary. The commission includes experts from various ministries and agencies. They should draw the final conclusions on the causes of the tragedy.
Tony Blair: Can I just add one word on that which is simply to express my profound sympathy to the families of the victims of the air tragedy earlier today, and to give through President Putin my sympathy to the Russian people that were victims, and obviously to the Government and nation of Israel as well for the lives of those they lost in the tragedy earlier today.
Question: I have a question for both the Prime Minister and the President. How do you assess Russian-British relations today? Have they changed over the past year or year and a half? What are the main achievements of recent days and recent hours? And, if it is not a secret, have you finished your talks or are you going to continue them?
Vladimir Putin: I have already addressed that topic. It remains for me to repeat that the building of relations between Russia and Britain has a long history, but more recently it was the British Prime Minister, Mr Blair, who initiated moves to lend these relations a new quality. And what is more, he did so at a time when Western public opinion was not benevolent towards Russia. We remember that. We know that it was he, together with the German Chancellor, who laid the first stones in the foundation of our relations with the West. Today we understand that those were far-sighted and correct moves.
Of course, much has changed since then. Our relations have grown stronger and more stable. This is visible not only in the sphere of security and international relations, but also in the economic sphere. We are highly satisfied with this, but of course, more can be done. We intend to develop our relations further.
This is not the end of our meeting and exchange of information and exchange of opinions today. This is not the end of our consultations. We will continue. The Prime Minister has kindly agreed to come to my place after the press conference, and we will continue to talk over dinner.
Tony Blair: First of all, can I say to you that I have now had, I think, eight different meetings with President Putin. We spoke together many, many times and I think that is a very good indication of the strengthening relationship, not just between Russia and Britain, but a strong personal relationship too, which I greatly value and I believe that something is happening in our world today that is immensely important. The Cold War is over. Many of the old difficulties of the past can be set aside. We have a real opportunity to forge new relationships and I think it is immensely important that we do so because we face common interests, and common problems today. And when we are battling something like the issue of international terrorism, but also on many other issues too, we need Russia there as a partner and a friend. And that is the relationship today, and I welcome that and from the very first meeting I had with President Putin in St Petersburg I recognised someone who had the vision and the imagination to set the past aside and build new relationships for the future and I think that is very important. And the fact that we have Russia today standing alongside the other countries of the world, including the United States of America, including all the countries of Europe, including Britain and giving its strong support to action against acts of terrorism that took place in the United States of America, that is living proof, visible proof, of the changed world in which we live. And I believe that we are only at the start of what we can gain from this new world. We have now got to take it further, deepen it further at every single level.
Question: Mr Putin, one more question, please, about the plane. Some reports say that the plane has been shot down by a Ukrainian missile. Could you comment on that?
Vladimir Putin: From the information we got from our Ukrainian partners it is true that military exercises were underway in an adjacent area.
But, first, all the relevant services had been notified about them. And secondly, the weapons used in these exercises in terms of their performance characteristics could not have reached the corridors used by aircraft in the area where our plane, the TU-154, was at the time.
Our servicemen were not involved in these exercises, but we have observers on the ground. So for the moment everything I have told you is based on the information from our Ukrainian partners. We have no reason to mistrust them. But of course the Defence Ministry – and the Russian Defence Minister has already discussed the matter with the Ukrainian Defence Minister – and these two ministries will clarify the details, including technical details. Considering that we had our observers there, obtaining information is not going to be a problem.
So, I would urge you not to dramatise things. All the information relevant to the problem will be studied and eventually presented to the public.
Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 4, 2001, 00:02
Text versionEvents
Speech at a Meeting with the Participants in the 24th Conference of European Justice Ministers
October 4, 2001
00:01
The Kremlin, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon,
I am glad to welcome the participants in the Conference of European Justice Ministers at the Kremlin.
Integration into the European Community is one of the priorities of Russian policy. So it is very important for us that this conference is being held in the Russian capital.
Russia is taking part in the building of the Greater Europe, and we hope that it will be taking an ever more active part in the future. This process has many components. However, the foundation is the European legal system. Much still remains to be done to finally form that system, as I think you would agree with me. And besides, ever new challenges are appearing.
I can’t help recalling the events in the US on September 11, which influenced the agenda of your Conference. The issue of terrorism was added to the agenda, and I know that you had a substantive discussion on this topic today. In recent years Russia has repeatedly called on the international community to combine efforts in fighting terrorism. We did it in expert meetings, such as the one being held today, and at the political level.
Now, after the tragic events in the US, countries and international institutions are working out new approaches to rise to the challenge of the situation in which we live and of which we have become aware. All this calls for improvements in the legal framework, and for uniform standards in anti-terrorist legislation, which should then be included in national legal systems.
The position of European Justice Ministers, their view of the international legal documents required to fight terrorism are very important. Obviously, it is true to say that we are facing an international threat, so combining our efforts is an imperative. Not a single task in this sphere can be solved without it.
You know that a tragedy has occurred in this country. A civil aircraft appears to have crashed, and it may be due to a terrorist act.
I would like to say a few words on the original topic of your conference. Enforcing court rulings is a fairly sensitive issue for Russia, as our specialists, and not only specialists, know very well. Businessmen and ordinary citizens are very keenly aware of it.
Until several years ago court rulings often remained on paper. It was a real scourge of the court system in the Russian Federation. The introduction of the institution of court bailiffs has dramatically changed things, but it has not solved all the problems in this sphere. The reason is above all that these problems are closely linked with the overall situation in the judiciary. You will know that Russia is in the midst of reforming its judiciary system. We intend to change the situation for the better very soon. And that applies to the enforcement of court decisions. There is a dire need for uniform European standards in this sphere. While in the criminal sphere many problems are successfully tackled at the international level, common European standards are clearly insufficient in the civil law sphere. So it is very important that the justice bodies of European countries are working together on this problem. Of course, every country looks for its own means and methods of enforcing court decisions proceeding from its needs, traditions and available resources.
The overall goal of European justice is to follow precisely and fully the legal standards sealed in the European Convention on Human Rights. It is an undoubted priority for the Russian Federation too. It is important that we work all together towards that end and understand that the territories where civilised law is powerless become “terrorist havens”. It is from there that the threat of terrorism comes, and not only to neighbouring countries but to the whole world.
The work of your conference is sure to be fruitful, we have no doubt about it. It involves experts of the highest legal qualifications and people who are vested with powers and responsibilities.
I wish you successful work, I wish success to all those who have come together with you, successful work for our common good.
Thank you for your attention and I would be glad to take part in your discussions.
Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 4, 2001, 00:01
Text version