Question: Globalisation demands that we tackle the tasks facing us jointly. What are the challenges, dangers and threats to Europe which Russia can help it to confront? And does that require that Russia have a stronger military potential?
Vladimir Putin: It is true that the processes ongoing in the world are tying up all countries into a “knot”, not only economically, but also politically. Many modern threats and risks have a global, trans-border character. And to a certain degree they affect the vital interests of all the countries and nations.
So, we cannot do without effective multi-lateral mechanisms to manage international processes. We cannot do without universal instruments that will ensure security at the global and regional levels.
Naturally, we as Europeans care about the fate of our continent. We are convinced that the hard-won social and economic prosperity of Europe should be preserved and protected against very real threats, against the spread of weapons of mass destruction, international terrorism, aggressive separatism, organised crime, drug trafficking and environmental disasters that may seriously upset the overall strategic stability. Clearly, only close international cooperation can set up solid barriers to these threats. Russia seeks such cooperation. Moreover, we are well aware of our responsibility for the destiny of Europe and we are open to constructive interaction.
Russia is committed to the agreements on strategic and conventional arms and to bringing down the level of armaments in Europe and the world. As part of its military reform, Russia plans significant cuts of its armed forces. Russian proposals on reducing nuclear weapons and initiatives on peaceful space exploration are well known.
And yet, the main dangers today are not of a military character. And they can be countered on the basis of cooperation and respect of mutual interests.
Question: Sustained economic growth is the main problem facing Russia today. What model do you believe to be the best for Russia, especially in the light of the dismal experience of the command economy and the “wild capitalism” that replaced it?
Vladimir Putin: I am sure that there are no ideal or universal economic models. But there are countries whose economic achievements are impressive. And we certainly have to “graft onto our soil” the best and most suitable practical solutions. But in doing so we should carefully consider all possible consequences.
By the way, we find the Austrian development model very interesting. You have managed to effect a successful blend of leading economic schools and trends. The results of such thoughtful synthesis are obvious.
We would benefit by studying the system of relations in your country between the Government and the business community. I am referring to the new principles of social partnership geared to national objectives and not to ensuring profits for a small group of individuals. I think this is an important untapped potential for economic development.
As for Russia, we are building an economic system that is competitive, effective and based on social justice. The Government’s main economic task is to create economic freedom. So we are trying to make our economy less bureaucratic, to relieve it of excessive government regulation and to reduce the tax burden. We are doing much to improve the investment climate.
We are fully aware that it is important that the Government does not seek to supervise all and sundry and to guarantee that market rules are complied with. Above all, we must protect property rights, provide an equal playing field and pass simple and high quality self-implementing laws.
The economic situation in Russia has become much more stable in 2000. The problem of timely payment of wages, pensions and social allowances has been practically solved. We have adopted a balanced budget for 2001. Production has grown by 7%. I think these positive trends in the economy will be preserved.
Question: Russia is already more stable politically and economically. At the same time, your critics say that you seek to establish an authoritarian regime. Could you tell our readers how you see democracy in the complicated Russian conditions?
Vladimir Putin: I have had to answer that question many times already. But the very fact that it is being asked indicates that our policy is not fully understood. Apparently, the stereotypes of the past era are still ingrained in the minds of Europeans. I sincerely regret that sometimes they prevent people from perceiving the new Russia objectively.
Russia’s path towards democracy has been arduous. And hard-won gains are usually valued more. So, we will preserve and build on what we have already achieved in the way of democratic development.
All the main democratic institutions are functioning in Russia, and what is more, they are functioning effectively. We have a real market economy, an independent press and free and fair elections. I must stress that much of the credit for this goes to the first President of Russia, Boris Yeltsin. He recently marked his 70th birthday and I know how many warm and sincere congratulations he has received.
Of course, we are not going to be complacent or slacken our pace. We are doing much to strengthen the government system and create legal mechanisms to protect people’s rights and dignity. This, I am convinced, is the Government’s main task.