Events
Introductory Remarks at the Plenary Session of the Council of the CIS Heads of State
November 30, 2001
00:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: Distinguished heads of state,
Let me say from the outset that we were preparing for this Summit not so much as a gala event, but as a frank and critical review of the path we have covered. Our discussion among the heads of state now has confirmed that this is indeed the prevailing mood. We have left behind a certain stage of history, the experience of dealing with a number of complicated tasks and an equally significant experience of mistakes.
But before moving on to their analysis I should note the main thing that has characterised the activities of the Commonwealth during the past ten years. First, the CIS has succeeded as a form of integration in the post-Soviet space that is necessary and inevitable for everyone. And second, the CIS has succeeded as a major international regional organisation, an organisation whose functions are already evident, and they include the key functions of unification, coordination and stabilisation.
Russia, together with the other CIS countries, has been and remains a key outpost in the fight against international terrorism, illegal migration, and contraband of arms and narcotics.
The main results of the past decade are summed up in the analytical report. It contains a lot of information for serious thought, and for obvious lessons that we must derive. I will permit myself to dwell on some of these problems.
First. Although we sometimes differ in our approach to cooperation between states, we have become convinced that the national interests of each of our countries are best served by integration processes, but the determining factor is the degree of readiness for such integration.
Second. We have achieved victories and successes only when we acted pragmatically, when we were doing something real to bring closer together and combine multilateral – primarily economic – interests. And practically all the setbacks were caused by failure to act in accordance with our declarations or by attempts to impose our will on one another.
Third and very important. Problems in our interaction have arisen each time the states wittingly or unwittingly infringed upon the interests of their own citizens. We have faced this in solving the problems of the common education space, the possibility of preserving the native language and other humanitarian issues, and of course in dealing with the problems of compatriots living abroad.
In this connection I would like to stress that Russia, where many citizens of the CIS, your compatriots, live, has always regarded creating worthy living conditions for them as a matter of principle.
And finally, another lesson is an economic one. We have already lived through the stage of integration that we described as “renewal of economic ties”. Now we have reason to talk about another stage, a qualitatively new nature and a new international division of labour in the economies of the Commonwealth countries. The CIS today is a huge common market with a serious potential for development — development on a truly market and modern basis.
Our economic partnership is inherently rooted not only in our common history, but in the single infrastructure, compatibility of technical regulations and standards, energy and transportation systems. It is very important in our times to be able to see these advantages, and to use them to solve the tasks facing our countries.
The present day of the Commonwealth is marked by almost simultaneous upsurge of business life and an increasingly apparent mutual interest based on mutual benefit. Market relations have already become the predominant principle in the building of national economies and then of economic integration. The main driving force of economic ties is increasingly not so much the governments as enterprises, businessmen, the citizens of our countries. They are opting for cooperation with their closest neighbours and partners tested over many years of history. And political leaders cannot afford to lag behind their peoples and businessmen, especially since the producers themselves have long learned to overcome the outdated economic barriers.
It is impossible not to see that our citizens are not only convinced that there is a common labour market in the CIS but – and I can confirm this 100% on the basis of Russia’s experience – they are actively working in this market.
I am convinced that countries – and still more a community of countries – must learn to work as effectively as business, by providing political support for it and also determining the strategy because the interests of states and interstate associations are much broader and more responsible than the interests of individual corporations, no matter how large.
And finally, I would like to stress another aspect. The CIS countries are some of the basic suppliers of energy to the world market. So, we should not forget that our interaction in the present-day conditions is emerging as an ever more serious factor for financial and economic stability not only of the Commonwealth, but of the world as a whole. I have spoken about a noticeable upsurge of our economies, and we undoubtedly must coordinate our actions in all areas, and not least in the energy sphere.
Dear friends,
We have lived through the hardest ten years together. In terms of the depth and consequences the changes we have lived through cannot be compared with other historical processes, even those that took centuries. A practical reordering of the vast space of the former USSR and the creation of the CIS are events whose significance is yet to be assessed by historians and politicians. But it is already clear that we all have a stake in multilateral integration. The question is, how we see the CIS today and tomorrow: as a debating club or an effective association.
I think the geopolitical situation of the Commonwealth countries and their role in maintaining world stability – and of late nobody has had any doubt that this role is significant, if not huge – all this does not tolerate the dynamics of our relations up until now which has hardly pleased us, and the very tone of our communication, and especially the weak and loose mechanisms of interaction.
Of course, a qualitative transformation of the CIS is a matter for the future. But the question about the future of the Commonwealth is of immediate concern to millions of ordinary people in our countries. It is not by chance that, as we said in the meeting with the heads of state today, our citizens see the Commonwealth as a key guarantee of stability and economic prosperity, in short, as a guarantee of a better life for the ordinary citizen. We should not only remember it, we should act accordingly.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 30, 2001, 00:00
Text versionEvents
Answers to Questions at a Joint Press Conference with the CIS Heads of State
November 30, 2001
00:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
Question: Hotbeds of separatism manifest themselves to varying degrees in the CIS, and they nearly always provide a spawning ground for terrorism and impede full-scale cooperation within the Commonwealth. The Statement on the 10th Anniversary of the CIS signed by the CIS heads of state says that the heads of state will seek an early settlement of the armed conflicts making better use of the potential of the Commonwealth and that these conflicts will be settled by peaceful means. At the same time, the analytical report contains the reservation that the CIS countries, with an exception of Azerbaijan, intend to use the Commonwealth potential more fully. Does it indicate that there are doubts about the effectiveness of the Commonwealth in solving these conflicts?
Vladimir Putin: I think that the CIS has a good chance to work in this sphere. And the best proof of that is our successful activities in the settlement of the conflict in Tajikistan. It is in general a unique example of solving such issues in the present-day world. Frankly, I do not know of any other examples. It is a credit to the CIS, all the heads of state present here because each of them in his own way contributed to the resolution of this conflict and influenced the situation in his own way. The CIS as a whole has had a positive impact on the situation in Tajikistan. It gives us grounds to believe that in other areas too the CIS can make its contribution to resolving conflicts in the Commonwealth countries. At the same time, I would like to stress that while in the USSR the contradictions were as a rule of an inter-ethnic character, today they have an inter-state character, which has merely exacerbated them. It has become more difficult to settle such conflicts after the break-up of the Soviet Union. But it can safely be said that because the CIS was created, these mechanisms were functioning on post-Soviet territory, even though they were weak. It enabled us to avoid a worst-case scenario, to avoid “Yugoslavisation” of the former Soviet Union, and that is a big plus. Of course, there is a lot to be done, but we are in a positive mood.
Question: Georgian territory was bombed recently and there are conflicting claims regarding as to whose planes did the bombing. How would you comment on these theories? What are the ways out of this situation of worsened relations between the two states? What concrete steps need to be taken?
Vladimir Putin: First of all, I would like to thank the Georgian President for displaying his usual statesmanship and coming to Moscow in spite of all the problems. I think he has come in order to meet and talk, and exchange opinions on this situation and on the relations shaping up between Georgia and Russia.
For my part, I have this comment on your question: I agree with the Georgian President on the need to look into this issue more closely and not to postpone it until the next incident. We hope we won’t see anything like it again. But an investigation must be put in place and a bilateral commission must be created now.
At the same time, I would like to mention the following circumstances: if it is alleged that Georgian villages have been bombed and at the same time we hear that there are no victims, the question arises: what sort of air raids were they if they struck communities and claimed no victims? Of course, it prompts some questions. It means that either there were no air raids or that they were not aimed at communities. And if the clashes that may have occurred there – we do not rule it out, and according to our tentative data there were clashes between militants – claimed no victims either, that calls for further examination and study. I absolutely agree on that with Eduard Shevardnadze.
I would like to inform you that before noon today Russian special units carried out an operation in Chechnya and captured a well-known deputy of one of the most odious Arab mercenaries in Chechnya, Abu Sayad, who was bringing money, organising terrorist attacks in the Russian Federation and maintained contacts with his units in Georgia. These are accurate data of the Russian special services. From our data – and we have made them available to our Georgian colleagues – some of these international terrorists are on Georgian territory. Regrettably for us and I think for the Georgian authorities, and certainly for the Georgian people, it means de facto occupation of part of Georgian territory. I repeat, we are ready for joint work to investigate what happened there. I find it hard to imagine how we will go in there to carry out the investigation because these territories are hard to access even for official representatives. The area where the incident occurred does not just have militants, their bases and ammunition dumps, it has enterprises for commercial production of narcotics. The markets for these drugs are our peoples, they are poisoning the people of our countries. All that naturally creates problems and we intend to discuss them very thoroughly with the President today. And of course that enclave has relay towers which the militants in Chechnya use to communicate with their sponsors in the Gulf countries and in Afghanistan. All this is a very real, and not an imagined problem for us. And I appreciate the Georgian President for his readiness to discuss these problems frankly. Our special services are in contact with each other and I hope that these contacts will result in practical joint work.
Question: If Russia joins the World Trade Organisation, won’t it create problems in cooperation within the Eurasian Economic Community?
Vladimir Putin: Let me finish my answer to the previous question: where do we go from here? I think we can continue to cooperate positively in accordance with the Georgian President’s proposal on drafting a new joint treaty. I can say more, I recently met with the potential participants in the process on our side, including State Duma deputies who are getting down to the business of drafting that joint document.
As for the Eurasian Economic Community and the WTO, I can say that we discussed the problem with Kazakhstan’s President yesterday and we have agreed to coordinate our efforts and our interaction with the international economic organisations, including the WTO. I have no doubt that the coordination will be successful.
Question: Don’t you think that EurAsEC will duplicate the goals and tasks of the CIS as a whole?
Askar Akayev: I think the two will mutually complement each other. I am convinced that the sooner we realise the goals set before the Eurasian economic community, the sooner it will help solve such issues as the introduction of free trade zones and other aspects of economic integration that will contribute to the strengthening of our Commonwealth. I believe in the future of the CIS, and I think it will benefit the social and economic development of all the Commonwealth countries.
Vladimir Putin: I have nothing to add, I subscribe to what has been said.
Question: The Russian Federation will withdraw the first military echelon from the famous arsenals near the village of Kalpast tomorrow. Does it mean that Russia will stick to the Istanbul Agreements and to the deadlines set? And a related question: what do you think of the decision of Transdnestr’s authorities not to accredit the main Russian TV channel, RTR? How does that square with the principles of the common information space?
Vladimir Putin: First, Russia intends to comply with all its obligations, including in the framework of the OSCE. We do it in sometimes difficult conditions. The Moldovan leadership knows it and we coordinate our actions with the leadership of Moldova and, as you see, we achieve some positive results. We will continue to work in this area and we will fulfil all our obligations.
As for the failure to accredit our television channels, it is deplorable.
Question: In the two years that you have been President, has your attitude to the CIS changed in any way? And if so, in what way?
Vladimir Putin: I can say without exaggeration that during my term as the President of Russia and working with my colleagues from other Commonwealth states, I have been reinforced in my conviction that the organisation is necessary to maintain stability in our region and to ensure economic growth. I agree with the opinion of those heads of state who believe that we must improve the mechanisms of cooperation in the areas discussed and that the results will benefit the people of our countries.
Question: What novel features has this summit brought to the themes of cooperation of the CIS countries in the fight against international terrorism, including on the territory of the Commonwealth?
Vladimir Putin: I have to say that the CIS countries were confronted with the problem of terrorism much earlier than many other countries. That is why we are able to be pro-active within the CIS. It is because we are aware of the scale of the terrorist threat that we have agreed our positions on key aspects of the fight against terrorism in a timely manner. That is why we have created the Anti-Terrorism Centre. That is why we have created rapid deployment forces which, as you know, have already had exercises in Bishkek. All this shows that such acute issues and problems as the fight against terrorism can be tackled very effectively in the framework of the Commonwealth, in any case we devoted much time to it today and we will keep this topic under review until the problem has been solved.
Question: One cannot fail to notice the successes achieved by the European Union, and they are achieved mainly due to massive development of economic relations, trade and so on. But we in the CIS often focus on military and political issues. My question is, how soon will the concepts of economic development be worked out and free trade zones created? What will be the basic principles in the further development of the CIS, proceeding from the experience of development and practices of the first 10 years?
Vladimir Putin: Thank you for your question and I absolutely agree with you that any integration – be it political or military – must be based above all on addressing economic problems. But, replying to this question, I would like to say that in addition to being the Chairman of the Council of CIS Heads of State, I also happen to be the President of the Russian Federation, and in addressing all these issues I will be guided by the national interests of Russia, just like my partners behave when discussing these issues.
As regards the creation of a free trade zone, we are having a very intensive and positive dialogue on the matter. We have agreed on all the issues connected with the introduction of the regime with practically all the countries with the exception of three: Tajikistan, Ukraine and Belarus. I hope that our experts will manage to finalise the unfinished work soon. Thereafter Russia will implement in full on its territory the agreements reached on this highly sensitive question. I have no doubt that further integration in the economic field will provide the basis for improving our interaction in the military, diplomatic and other fields.
Ladies and gentlemen,
In conclusion I would like, in your presence, to sincerely thank the heads of state who have gathered in Moscow today for their very positive attitude and constructive joint work. And not only the work today – and today it was indeed highly constructive and businesslike – but for everything they have done in the previous years. These were very difficult years for our countries: there have been ups and downs in internal political spheres, ups and downs in terms of the economic situation of our countries.
Now we are experiencing a kind of upsurge. In any case, the vast majority of CIS countries are experiencing noticeable economic growth. This is due to many circumstances but not least due to the state of the Russian economy, which is connected by thousands of threads with the economies of the Commonwealth countries.
Our shared commitment to positive work gives me confidence that we will be able to solve all the problems facing us through joint efforts.
Once again, I would like to cordially thank all my colleagues for the meeting today.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 30, 2001, 00:00
Text version