Events
New Year Message to the Citizens of Russia
December 31, 2001
00:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: My fellow citizens of Russia, dear friends,
In a few minutes another year of our lives will become the past. It is fast receding into history, and we are remembering the key events.
There have been many. Some have been good and some dramatic. For Russia as a whole it has been a successful year in domestic affairs and in foreign policy. And every day of the year put more and more distance between us and the difficult times of economic and social upheavals.
We have contributed much to this end. We have worked together to make our lives more predictable. We have achieved modest, but visible results.
2001 has been very different from the previous year. We have not just maintained economic growth, but also improved the life of our people, if only slightly. We have proved that the good results of the previous year were not accidental, that they are not just an episode in our life.
Much has been done in the outgoing year that will be useful in the future. A legal framework has been created for new and serious steps in the economic and social policy. Decisions have been taken to change the business climate in the country in the long term, for several years ahead.
Russia has come to be regarded with greater trust and respect in the world. The world has come to understand us better. It has become obvious that a consistent fight against terror is prompted not only by our national interests, but by the fact that it is a global threat. The world community responded with an unusual degree of international cooperation in facing the challenge of terrorism. Nations have rallied and have taken a stand together with Russia in the defence of peace, calm and life itself.
Dear friends,
We have not accomplished everything that we have planned. Our challenges still outweigh our achievements. Not all the citizens of our country have come to live better in the outgoing year. And not all of them can achieve it by themselves without the support of society and the state.
We must remember it as we review the results and make plans for the future. Now that so little time is left before the New Year I would like to wish prosperity to all the citizens of Russia.
In these final seconds of 2001 let us wish each other happiness. Let us say kind words to our close ones. Let us speed our children on their way. And let us wish each other health and success.
Success, Love and Faith to all of you.
Faith in yourselves and our Homeland.
A Happy New Year, dear friends!
A happy 2002!
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 31, 2001, 00:00
Text version