Events
Talking with Journalists after a Working Trip to the Chechen Republic
April 14, 2001
00:05
Vnukovo 2, Moscow
Question: Why this surprise visit to Chechnya?
Vladimir Putin: Nothing surprising about it. It was a planned trip. And there was no emergency. But there was a reason of course. It is a little over a year since the 6th Company of the Pskov paratroopers fought an unequal battle against bandits on a height in Chechnya. It is no exaggeration to say that it was a unique occasion, a unique example of selfless performance of military duty and heroism in the history of our country. I wanted to visit that place and pay tribute to our soldiers.
As you know, one of the units is stationed nearby. It is stationed there permanently. I met the servicemen and together we unveiled a modest monument to honour our soldiers, the Pskov paratroopers. That is one thing.
Besides which, I had to see for myself how the main unit that will be stationed in Chechnya permanently is billeted. It is the 42nd Division. Some of the troops are being withdrawn from Chechnya, but I would like to repeat what I have already said: Russia will have as many troops there as is necessary depending on the situation. Some of these troops will be stationed there permanently. The 42nd Division will form the nucleus of these troops.
We know in what conditions our servicemen had to carry out their duty in 1995. We remember how they complained that they didn’t have the bare necessities, and about the conditions they had to live in. I must say that I am pleased with what I have seen. And I would like to thank the Chief of the General Staff and former Defence Minister Igor Sergeyev. The 42nd Division is at full strength and I think the conditions for service are good.
And finally, one of the main parts of the trip was a meeting with the head of the administration Akhmat Kadyrov and – and he had long been asking me to do it – a meeting with the heads of regional administrations in the Chechen Republic. It was a very useful and frank talk. I deliberately had military commanders invited. The discussions were very sharp, sometimes emotional, but well informed. I got very useful information and the same is true of all those who accompanied me on the trip. It was useful information for the heads of various ministries and agencies, including the Government’s economic unit.
In my opinion, one of the main tasks today is to establish good and effective cooperation between the heads of security agencies and the local government. Of course we won’t be able to solve the main tasks of fully restoring the republic without the support of the local population. This is evident and we have reached a point when it is necessary to restore the economy, law and order with the support of the local population. So the federal authorities, the federal special services and the Armed Forces should interact more and more with local leaders and the local population, and as conditions mature, build up the capacity of the law enforcement bodies of the Chechen Republic itself.
I think this is generally understood. To forestall any speculation on this topic I would like to stress that it will be a phased process as the necessary conditions are created. But we are determined to move in that direction. I am sure that we will succeed in addressing this and all the other problems that we still have there.
I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate all Russian Christians on the approaching Easter holiday. I say all Christians because this year the Orthodox and Catholic Easter falls on the same day. Orthodox and Catholic believers are part of the Christian population, which can be described as the bulk of Russia’s Christian world. They have a major holiday, we all have a major holiday and I offer my heartfelt congratulations. All the best to you. Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 14, 2001, 00:05
Text versionEvents
Excerpts from a Talk with Journalists after a Meeting with the Administration of the Chechen Republic and the Command of the Joint Force in the North Caucasus
April 14, 2001
00:04
Khankala
Question: What new things have you learned during this trip to Chechnya?
Vladimir Putin: We have heard from the heads of district administrations. It was a very useful talk, a very frank talk. I have learned a lot.
Question: Can you be more specific?
Vladimir Putin: I have learned more about the situation on the ground, about the problems facing the heads of district administrations and above all the problems facing the people of Chechnya. I think that is the main thing.
Question: What can you say about the problems with pay to servicemen in Chechnya?
Vladimir Putin: You know, when I watch the main television channels, I am appalled to see pictures of people demanding to be paid the money they earned a long time ago. Moreover, these are people who put their lives on the line doing their duty to their country, who are fighting to restore constitutional order in the North Caucasus. They are risking their lives. And they are not paid their salaries on time. That is outrageous.
And it is one of the topics we have been discussing here and one of the topics we will be discussing tomorrow with the Finance Ministry and the Defence Ministry.
And one of the reasons that brought me here is to look at what is happening on the ground, including the financial issues.
Question: What do you think about the appeal of the Council of Elders in Argun not to withdraw the troops? They are afraid that they will be left without protection.
Vladimir Putin: That is also a topical issue. We should decide how many troops to withdraw and where they should be stationed. In any case I can tell you Russia will have as many troops here as it deems necessary. The cuts apply only to excess contingent and they will take place as the law enforcement bodies build up their capacity. All that will be analysed and decisions will be taken after the conclusions are drawn from the analysis.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 14, 2001, 00:04
Text versionEvents
Concluding Remarks at a Meeting with the Chechen Republic Administration and the Command of the Joint Force in the North Caucasus
April 14, 2001
00:02
Khankala
Vladimir Putin: Life cannot be brought back to normal without dealing with criminal activity. And the seats of criminal activity and terrorism cannot be liquidated unless normal conditions are created for the people. One thing flows from the other…
We will revisit the issues discussed at the Conference in Moscow and here in Chechnya, in Gudermes and in Grozny: I mean wage arrears and lack of jobs. We will revisit the issues of financing and of the spring sowing season. The chances are that we won’t be able to do everything on the required scale and in required quantities at the same time. But I want to bring this message to you: we have no other option but to work steadfastly, calmly and without hysteria. To work together. We must understand that no miracles will happen, that we will all simply have to work if anything is to be achieved. Of course the leaders should work too, beginning from the district level to the Government of the Republic and the Head of the Republic and of course it applies to the federal ministers too.
If problems are to be solved they must be tackled on the ground here. That is why I have with me today the federal-level executives. That is why I have brought them along with me.
And last, but not least. I would like to stress that in spite of the withdrawal of troops – and it will continue – Russia is not going to leave. There should be no doubts on that score. The excess troops are being removed precisely in order to make it easier for the heads of local administrations to work with the people. You know what happens to the armed forces when they are inactive. And the heads of administrations gave poignant accounts of the abuses that occur at checkpoints. That should also be food for thought. Without any doubt, one of the key tasks is to establish communication lines with all the structures operating in the Chechen Republic.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 14, 2001, 00:02
Text version