Events
Excerpts from Opening Address at a Meeting with Teachers and Students of the Yerevan State University
September 15, 2001
00:02
Yerevan
Vladimir Putin: Thank you for the warm reception. Thanks to the republic’s administration and the Armenian people for their hospitality.
The university’s scientific council awarded me an honorary doctorate on September 11. You know, we are all impressed with the events in the United States. I feel responsibility for these events. Yes, we had talked a great deal about this threat, but evidently not enough. Perhaps, we didn’t find the words needed to create an effective defence system.
A horrible evolution of terrorism has taken place in front of our very eyes. Now it is a global threat of the new century. I can say without exaggeration that we have every reason to compare these events with the horrifying crimes of the Nazis.
The events in the United States have a special significance for Russia and CIS countries. The world community has been taught a lesson: it needs to work out a defence system which will guarantee security for all. Today, during the talks with Robert Kocharian, we discussed this problem.
We discussed a wide range of issues. I think that the talks were very successful. We reached important agreements and now we should realise all that has been put in writing. It will improve the lives of the Russian and Armenian people. We agreed on general directions of Russian-Armenian relations.
<…>
Our present relations have a good, solid legal base: The Treaty of Friendship, Cooperation and Mutual Assistance, signed in Moscow in September 2000. This is also the Declaration on Strategic Cooperation between Russia and Armenia. Today, we signed some more good agreements. We have shared views on the main problems of the world policy. Both Armenia and Russia support strict compliance with international laws, and we fruitfully cooperate in international organisations. Our countries stand for strengthening the Commonwealth of Independent States and work on formalising the Collective Security Treaty. We are grateful to the Armenian government for the favourable environment it has created for the Russian soldiers.
Naturally, the situation in the Greater Caucasus is a long-standing issue in our talks. Both parties actively oppose international terrorism in the region. We are building an effective security system with the efforts of Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia and Russia.
Russia is a principled supporter of a fair settlement of the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict. I believe that Armenia and Azerbaijan, as Robert Kocharian said, should reach a consensus between themselves. Russia will accept their compromise and guarantee it. We will stand for any option the Armenian and Azerbaijani people support. It is important not to retreat from the negotiations. This work is difficult, but we will make a breakthrough only if stick with it.
<…>
There is one more important point I would like to mention. Armenians living in Russia along with Russians living in Armenia are a sound human bridge between our two countries. This bridge needs to be protected and strengthened. The Union of Russia’s Armenians can serve as an example of successful people’s diplomacy. The union is working actively and contributes to developing the Russian-Armenian friendship.
The treaty on the status of citizens living in both countries, which came into force in 2000, gives Armenians in Russia and Russians in Armenia almost the same rights as to the citizens of its own countries. I think the fact that we have concluded an agreement which is so beneficial to every citizen shows the success of our foreign policy. After all, everything we do is focused on the improvement of ordinary people’s lives.
The Russian language draws Armenians and Russians together. We have talked much about that with the President and in the parliament, and we have agreed to pay more attention to the development of contacts in the social sphere and encourage scientific and student exchanges.
Today, we have signed an intergovernmental agreement on the mutual recognition of documents on higher and secondary education. There are no obstacles for Armenian citizens to enter Russian universities.
<…>
Once again, thank you for the warm reception and I wish you all the best.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: September 15, 2001, 00:02
Text versionEvents
Press Conference following Russian-Armenian Talks
September 15, 2001
00:00
Yerevan
President Vladimir Putin: First of all, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the President of Armenia and the Armenian leadership for inviting me to Yerevan.
We have finished an important stage of our work in the capital of Armenia. We have held negotiations at the highest level. We can say that by signing the Declaration of Allied Interaction between the Russian Federation and Armenia in Moscow in September 2000, we secured considerable progress in all areas of our interaction. The main purpose of the visit today is to discuss trade and economic issues. The potential of Russia and Armenia can be used to its utmost in this field.
The situation is favourable for the development of trade and economic ties. As you know, the Russian economy is beginning to pick up and the economic situation is improving. Last year, economic growth was 8 percent. We can say with confidence that there will also be considerable growth this year, more than is planned, and favourable conditions will be created for the development of trade and economic ties.
The President of the Republic of Armenia, Robert Kocharian, and I have reached concrete agreements. Prerequisites for setting up Russian-Armenian enterprises in key fields of the Armenian economy will be created in the near future under the auspices of the inter-agency commission on economic cooperation. We hope very much that new and well-paid jobs will be created. These enterprises will work for the benefit of both the Armenian and Russian economies.
We signed the Treaty on Long-Term Economic Cooperation up to the Year 2010 as the main document of the visit. We signed it in your presence, dear colleagues. It will lay a firm legal foundation for enhancing our joint business activities. During a broad-format discussion today, the President of Armenia noted that the legal basis between the two countries seemed sound enough. At the same time, the Treaty on Investment Support, which is one of the cornerstone documents, as we can say now, in the legal basis of cooperation, had not been signed until now. We filled in this gap today.
The synchronization of the positions of Russia and Armenia on the main issues of international politics revealed identical views, including on key aspects of strategic stability. Armenian-Russian political interaction is proceeding at the highest level and in the most effective way, both in the UN and the OSCE.
The negotiations showed that Moscow and Yerevan are determined to further strengthen the CIS. We have noted the need to support and develop our cooperation within the framework of the Collective Security Treaty. I would like to express gratitude to Robert Kocharian as Chairman of the Collective Security Council for his work to make the Treaty more effective.
I cannot but touch upon what happened in the US on September 11. These tragic events made us reevaluate the existing collective security system. Terrorism has become the main threat in the new century. This is why we will continue to enhance the CIS Anti-Terrorist Center as a tool to fight this evil. We also had a detailed discussion of problems in the Caucasus. We consider the Caucasian Four to be a good model for building a regional system of security and cooperation in the Caucasus.
We could not, of course, ignore the Karabakh problem. I want to stress one more time that Russia is ready to play a positive role in the policy of conflict settlement pursued by the President of Armenia and the President of Azerbaijan.
Russia considers Armenia as a reliable partner. The policy of enhancing and improving Russian-Armenian interaction is a fundamental choice of not only the leadership of Russia but of all peoples of the Russian Federation.
Thank you very much for your attention.
Question: Will it be necessary to take new measures to fight international terrorism and how do you assess the current situation in the world?
Vladimir Putin: You know, the situation in the world has changed not because of the terrorist acts. It changed a long time ago. Unfortunately, we simply didn't notice this. The tragic events in the US only confirmed these changes. Of course, terrorism has become one of the main threats to modern world, and we cannot but respond to this. But the parameters of new security systems have yet to be discussed.
I will soon meet with the US President in Shanghai and I will make a visit to the United States later this year. There will be a meeting with the EU leadership and at the NATO headquarters in Brussels this month. And we will discuss this problem in all these meetings. I would only like to avoid looking for scapegoats for what happened. I think that the accusations we hear now that someone overlooked the strike, that someone failed to do something properly are unfair. It's just that the old security system was not adjusted to avert such threats. Having drawn conclusions from what happened, we have to create this system. I am sure that everybody is interested in this, at least Russia is.
Question: Considering the situation in the world, are military operations against international terrorism involving Armenia and Russia possible?
Vladimir Putin: You know, we should not, of course, act like bandits who strike stealthily. We must weigh our decisions and adopt them on the basis of real facts, veritable facts we will have. I am absolutely convinced that evil must be punished. I have no doubt about this. As for the participation of Armenia and Russia in some anti-terrorist actions, we believe that we can solve such questions at the regional level within the framework of the recently created CIS Anti-Terrorist Center.
Question: What additional efforts can Russia take in order to settle the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict?
Vladimir Putin: This is a problem we have inherited from previous times. We did not create this problem. It concerns, first of all, the peoples of Armenia and Azerbaijan. And it is these peoples and the leaders of these countries that should find a solution to this difficult problem. Russia will support any solution that is acceptable to both countries and is ready to act as a guarantor.
Question: Much has been said about the transfer of some enterprises or part of their shares to Russia against Armenia's debt. Has an agreement been reached on this issue, and has the list of such enterprises been specified?
Vladimir Putin: You must surely know about the discussion that was under way in Russia and CIS countries in the beginning and the middle of the 1990s when we were determining ways of attracting foreign capital into our economies. Today, thank God, hysteria about ”selling the motherland“ has stopped. Everybody understands very well that attracting foreign capital means entering the economy of Europe and the entire civilized humankind. Robert Kocharian is a very progressive person. He is very knowledgeable of modern economic development. He initiated closer interaction between the Russian and the Armenian economies. What matters are not even debts but how to attract the attention of Russian business and how to attract Russian capital to the Armenian economy. This is actually what Robert Kocharian's proposals boil down to. We understand this and share his position. We think this is a correct thing to do. However, it is necessary to choose a promising area. The President of Armenia and I, when we discussed this problem, talked about concrete enterprises and concrete areas and industries. I am not prepared to tell you right now that Russia or Russian business will come here tomorrow with such and such amount of investment or such and such package, but our negotiations on this issue were concentrated as much as possible on concrete facilities and concrete topics. And I hope that we will be able to tell you about decisions before the end of the year.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: September 15, 2001, 00:00
Text versionEvents
Excerpts from Speech to the Armenian National Assembly (Parliament)
September 15, 2001
00:01
Yerevan
Vladimir Putin: We attach great importance to expanded inter-parliamentary ties. I want to say that we are quite satisfied with the positive and sustained development of Russian-Armenian relations. However, expanded and strengthened parliamentary ties are called on to play an extremely positive role in improving the entire system of Russian-Armenian relations.
We therefore consider it important to invigorate the work of the Inter-parliamentary commission for cooperation between the Armenian National Assembly (Parliament) and the Russian Federal Assembly. As I see it, both national parliaments must more effectively oversee the implementation of previously signed bilateral treaties and agreements.Members of Parliament could then make a substantial contribution to invigorated contacts and could help elevate them to an entirely new level.
In our opinion, dialogue involving members of Caucasian parliaments, including Armenian and Azerbaijani legislators, could help overcome mutual distrust between nations and would expedite the settlement of the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict.
I want to say once again: Russia advocates continued, direct dialogue between Presidents Robert Kocharian and Heidar Aliyev. Russia would support any mutually acceptable solution to the conflict. As I have already said, and would like to repeat it once again here, in the Parliament of Armenia, Russia could guarantee the fulfilment of such agreements. We are ready to take part in the post-conflict reconstruction of Nagorno-Karabakh and adjacent territories.
The discussion of bilateral trade and economic cooperation, which, in our common opinion, still lags behind the current level of military-political cooperation, is a top-priority objective of my visit. The Russian-Armenian treaty on long-term economic cooperation was signed after the September 15 top-level bilateral talks. I hope that the Parliament of Armenia will ratify this treaty as soon as possible. And I promise that the Russian side will promptly submit this document to the State Duma.
We are moving to establish Russian-Armenian joint ventures in key sectors of the Armenian economy. Moreover, we discussed the situation in the fuel and energy sector and in some metallurgical companies during our talks.
President Kocharian proposed converting his country’s debts to Russia into Russian property. To my mind, President Kocharian wants to involve Russia and to make Russia interested in solving the problems of Armenian economic sectors and enterprises, , which now require additional investment.
The situation is very good for accomplishing this objective because the Russian economy grew by 8.3% last year; we expected 4% economic growth this year but will post 6% instead. We have the required resources, and some industries are chalking up growth of 25–30%. Export-oriented sectors are growing even more quickly, with revenue increases of 40–70%. They are ready to invest available resources and would like companies and entire sectors to prosper.
We must choose attractive and mutually acceptable projects and areas of mutual cooperation. We are no longer in a panic over the alleged sale of our Motherland; in my opinion, people here are also grown-ups and understand everything. We must therefore promote our mutual interests, and that is possible.
<…>
Parliamentary ties are necessary to formalise bilateral allied cooperation. At the same time, we must pass legislation aimed at enhancing and expanding mutually beneficial cooperation in different spheres. The State Duma has already ratified important agreements, including those on avoiding dual taxation and on the delivery of Russian diamonds to Armenia. Both national Parliaments must ratify several legislative acts on joint military planning in the interests of Russian-Armenian security.
The President of Armenia and I have discussed ways of strengthening the status of the Russian language. I want to stress once again that I have told colleagues from executive agencies that we do not want to impose anything on anyone, but that we are tackling this problem in a broader social context. The Russian language is the foundation of our cooperation and a spiritual aspect that has united our nations over the ages.
<…>
I want to discuss cooperation in the sphere of education and culture. We are always paying attention to these aspects. The Parliaments of Russia and Armenia will help open a Russian science and cultural centre in Armenia as stipulated by a bilateral agreement. Russian sponsors plan to set aside large sums for repairing the Russian-Armenian Slavonic University. And we hope that Armenian organisations will also join this effort as equal partners.
<…>
We are closely following efforts to ensure ORT and RTR television-channel broadcasts in Armenia, and we have discussed this issue with the President of Armenia. This is mostly an economic issue. Russia will try and settle it as soon as possible. We know that Armenians want to watch Russian TV channels, and I must admit that this problem is mostly Russia’s fault.
I believe that we have never had any problems guaranteeing the rights of our compatriots in Armenia and Russia, nor will we ever experience such problems.
Thank you very much.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: September 15, 2001, 00:01
Text version