Events
Statement to the Press after Meeting with Georgian President Eduard Shevardnadze
October 6, 2002
02:02
Chisinau
Vladimir Putin: We have just finished exchanging opinions and information, and consultations on the state of Russian-Georgian relations. I want to say that our consultations were quite productive and absolutely candid. We had a rather candid and interesting conversation because Russia and Georgia want to solve the main problem in their relations, namely, streamlining effective joint efforts to combat terrorism. If I understand the Georgian President correctly, our secret services and experts will expand their contacts. This is the first aspect.
Second. Acting in line with the Georgian President’s proposal, we will order our border-control services to streamline their cooperation and to jointly patrol the state border. At the same time, our respective national Foreign Ministries will discuss border-control issues. And now the last thing. Eduard Shevardnadze has assured me that the terrorists who were arrested in Georgia will be extradited to the Russian Federation in the near future.
* * *
I want to add that I appreciate the latest agreements very much. And I hope that they will be implemented for the benefit of our two nations.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 6, 2002, 02:02
Direct link: en.kremlin.ru/d/21742
Text versionEvents
Statement to the Press and Replies to Journalists’ Questions
October 6, 2002
01:49
Zaporozhye
Question: Some time ago you reached an agreement to set up a gas consortium with major European countries. How is work progressing on the harmonisation of the document, and when will it be signed?
Vladimir Putin: It is progressing well, I must say. Mr Kuchma and I once signed a memorandum in St Petersburg to define the philosophy and principles of work. Almost immediately we invited our partners in Western Europe to take part in that work. Germany was the first to show interest. But we know that France and our partners in Italy are showing no less interest. Experts are working on documents and work intensely. I cannot say the progress is smooth, but it is positive. There are things that must be treated for their pragmatic interest rather than for their cult value. Above all, their economic interest. It seems to me we are within sight of agreements that observe the interests of all parties to the process.
Vladimir Putin (following Mr Kuchma’s answer): If Russia takes part in the project, if it warms to it, then we will ship our product through Ukraine’s gas transport system and promote this product together with Ukraine, our partner, on the market of third countries. If not, we will seek other avenues. We will build other pipelines and so on … But it is absolutely absurd to do this without taking Ukraine’s national interests into account. We are perfectly aware of that, realise it and are in a mood for positive efforts. I strongly hope that the undertaking, as the Ukrainian President described it, will end on a positive note.
Question: What really needs to be done to make next year a breakthrough year in trade and economic relations between our two countries?
Vladimir Putin (following Mr Kuchma’s answer): At a time of a constructive effort, when one is up defending one’s national interests, these interests often clash and lead to disputes. Unfortunately, our current coordination is not well honed. We had a common state, but it went to pieces. We do not rightly know yet how to build civilised relations between ourselves on a new foundation and under new conditions. On the one hand, there are special relations and a background feeling entitling us to press for particular preferences from each other. I do not say Ukraine expects something from Russia, but Russia, too, often expects from Ukraine what it does not expect from other partners. We must get used to working in a civilised fashion by respecting each other and meeting each other halfway. When we produce the full range of agreements, treaties and legislative acts, then, I think, these relations will become fully normalised in the economic sphere.
But what is of fundamental importance is that we are in a mood for such work. In this context the Year of Russia in Ukraine appears to be a very important undertaking, a very substantive undertaking, because it creates the kind of atmosphere we need.
Thank you very much.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 6, 2002, 01:49
Text versionEvents
Answers to Journalists’ Questions about Bilateral Meetings with CIS Heads of State
October 6, 2002
03:03
Chisinau
Question: Mr Putin, you have already described the results of your meeting today with the President of Georgia. Could you please tell us the results of the other meetings you had today – with Mr Lukashenko, Mr Kocharian and Mr Voronin?
Vladimir Putin: Mr Lukashenko and I have once again analysed our cooperation in the economic sphere and the implementation of our mutual agreements. We did some summarising and mapped out prospects. The implementation of the plan we have is subject to a certain timeline. As regards work in the political sphere, in the sphere of building the Union State, we agreed to expand the commission or task group that is drafting a union act. I am not yet ready to give names, although we discussed them as well, because we need to talk to people who we think should work in the group or change their capacity in the structure. We spoke about issues related to the economy and transport.
Question: Were you pleased with the meeting with Shevardnadze? Or could such a meeting have taken place, say, six months ago?
Vladimir Putin: Of course, it could have taken place both six months or a year ago. I am pleased with today’s meeting. I repeat I do not say this for effect: the discussion was really frank and held with open cards. Our position is absolutely transparent. It is most partner-like to Georgia and, as I said during the meeting, has never been directed against it. It was addressed at organising joint work and facing a common threat together. And that common threat is terrorism, militants and the drug trade. I feel gratified that we have a mutual understanding. At any rate, in the area on which we agreed, certain changes in the quality of our relations are emerging. I am afraid to rush things as of yet. Everything here will depend on how our agreements will pan out. Our experts will have something to work on. These are things one cannot pretend are being done but nothing happens.
Question: Was the issue of Russian bases raised?
Vladimir Putin: We did not discuss this subject, but our experts are working in that direction and the work is not stopping. It is not that special people will be sent to Georgia from Russia or to Russia from Georgia. It is that we have agreed on people who will coordinate all this work in Georgia and Russia. They are worthy people.
Question: Will you please describe your meeting with Mr Kocharian?
Vladimir Putin: As regards my meeting with the Armenian President, we discussed above all the coordination of our efforts in the economic sphere. There is certain progress here in the settlement of some questions on which we have worked in the past: obligations and property. The Armenian President himself said so. The work has taken a long time, but is practically finished. We hope that in the course of an upcoming visit to Armenia by the Prime Minister all the i's will be finally dotted.
We also discussed the Karabakh issue. The President informed me about his most recent meeting with the President of Azerbaijan. I invited the President of Armenia to pay a working visit to Russia in December or January.
Thank you very much.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 6, 2002, 03:03
Text version