Events
Joint News Conference with French President Jacques Chirac
July 19, 2002
00:02
Bocharov Ruchei, Sochi
Vladimir Putin: Good evening. I am delighted to meet President Jacques Chirac of France. We have already met several times this year. Russia has traditionally valued good relations with France. So we appreciate the importance President Jacques Chirac attaches to their development.
I think that here in Sochi we will be able to discuss in an informal atmosphere the whole range of bilateral relations. I say “to discuss” because our negotiations are not yet over. Nevertheless we have already managed to touch on practically the whole range of bilateral ties. We have confirmed that it is in the interests of our countries to create a genuinely democratic system of international relations.
The negotiations have shown that France and Russia have identical or similar positions regarding the settlement of regional conflicts. We believe that only the concerted efforts of the international community, and consistent and systemic diplomatic work to resolve crises will make it possible to take a step forward, to reduce the dangers these conflicts pose for various continents and for the world.
Both Russia and France attach great significance to cooperation within international organisations, at the United Nations. We have discussed at length the cooperation between Russia and the European community. In the security sphere we intend to promote cooperation with NATO “at twenty”.
We appreciate the French President for his support of full-scale and full-format Russian participation in the G8, and we look forward to joint constructive work during the forthcoming French presidency.
Mr President believes that we must do all we can to make our relations less bureaucratic and to create an effective mechanism of cooperation. I absolutely agree with him and I am sure that we will achieve such a quality of engagement. The Security Council at the level of Foreign and Defence Ministers is starting its work. The Commission on Trade and Economic, Research and Cultural Cooperation between Russia and France is working ever more effectively.
We have paid special attention to the need to promote joint initiatives, in particular, in the aerospace sphere. We have discussed cultural cooperation. I am an ardent supporter of some of the ideas Mr Jacques Chirac has expressed regarding ways to promote cooperation in that sphere.
I hope that the stay of our distinguished guest, the French President, in Sochi will be pleasant and useful.
Jacques Chirac: As regards the pleasure of being here, that is undoubted. First of all, of course, I would like to thank Mr Putin for his friendly and informal welcome and the quality of our talks.
This is one of several meetings recently, and we also maintain constant contacts by telephone. Mr Putin twice came to Paris and I have very fond memories of my visit a year ago to Moscow, St Petersburg and Samara. I am particularly pleased to note (the President has just mentioned it) the growing changes in our relations and the growing ties between Russia and Europe, and especially between Russia and France.
Changes are taking place very swiftly. The strategic situation has undergone serious changes in recent years. The issue of the fight against terror has cropped up on the agenda. Russia has become a member of the G8. Next month the members of the European Union are to determine the milestones in expanding the organisation and the reforming of its institutions. All of this demands constant attention and compels us look for ways of adapting to the new conditions.
Rapid change is taking place in Russia. Today the state is asserting its power in the country. Russia is back on the road of economic development and social unity. Russia today is regaining its international position amongst leading states. The European Union for its part is also seeking its place in the modern architecture of international relations. And I must say that both Russia and the European Union are important elements in the emerging world order. So today we should continue to work closely together to strengthen cooperation between the EU and Russia.
This is the situation on the European continent. But we also see evolutionary change on the international stage. Russia is a fully-fledged member of the G8. The latest summit in Rome has achieved a final agreement between NATO and Russia. I hope Russia will be ready to join the WTO soon. In short, we see a new equilibrium being shaped little by little, and that creates for us a vast and constantly evolving space for work, for cooperation and for responsibility. And we must be aware of it.
We have discussed a number of problems in relations between the European Union and Russia. Of course we have discussed Kaliningrad. That issue must be resolved with due regard to the legitimate needs of Russia to ensure the rights of the [local] population.
We were pleased to note that the European Union has recognised Russia as a market economy.
We have discussed bilateral relations, which are improving in practically every area. We have discussed the emerging cooperation between Russia and Europe in aerospace, including the use of the Kourou launch site by Soyuz spaceships.
In addition, we have discussed energy policy, considering the importance of Russia’s position on the issue.
Tonight we will continue to discuss topical international issues whose solution depends on us, on Russia, Europe and France.
In conclusion, I would like to announce that I have invited President Putin to visit France next year, and he has accepted my invitation.
Question: Mr Chirac, have you discussed the issue of Chechnya and if so, in what manner? Don’t you think that the problem poses a threat to the future of democracy in Russia?
Mr Putin, your human rights commissioner in Chechnya has made a very strong statement. He said that the “security raids” there are inadmissible. What is your reaction to the behaviour of the military?
Vladimir Putin: I must tell you that President Jacques Chirac, at all our meetings, does not only show an interest in the problems connected with Chechnya and the North Caucasus, but expresses his opinion and his vision of how these problems can be tackled. The opinion of the French leadership, of the French President is an important factor for us in determining our own position on this whole range of issues.
Secondly, I would like to note that the sharp statement you have referred to has been made by the person whom I recently appointed as the human rights ombudsman in Chechnya, and I would like to stress that he is Chechen by nationality. You understand that my choice was no accident.
But I would also like to note the following: any kind of violent actions and of combating terrorists entails certain problems for civilians. Examples are not far to seek: you have only to look at the problems we face in Afghanistan.
It means that we should do everything to minimise the problems connected with the civilian population. But I think I should stress that the responsibility rests not only with the armed forces, not with those who are fighting terrorists, but with the terrorists themselves. They use civilians as hostages and human shields.
Our actions will be as follows. We will gradually abandon violent actions, including the so-called “security raids”. We will be able to do so as the security agencies, in particular, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Chechnya, grow stronger. In fact, we are talking about giving the Chechen people the chance to defend themselves. A consistent effort is underway to create legitimate law enforcement bodies in Chechnya. It is hard for me to set any final deadlines, but the process will by and large be completed by the end of the year.
Thereafter, hopefully, conditions will be created for democratic procedures involving a referendum, the adoption of a Constitution and election of legitimate bodies of power.
The problems of course are there. They are not as formidable as they may appear to be at first sight, but we are aware of them and we will tackle them using both the security agencies and the people who are so sensitive to all the problems of this kind. Including the problem of my human rights envoy to Chechnya.
Jacques Chirac: I will be more brief. Chechnya is an inalienable part of the Russian Federation. No one can challenge that. On the other hand, France categorically condemns any manifestations of terrorism, for which there is no justification. At the same time no one in Chechnya has any doubts, as the President has reminded us, that the civilians want peace and stability. So I think (as Mr Putin has said) that there is only one answer to this question and the answer lies in the realm of politics. I understand that this is what is happening there today.
Question: My first question is to the President of France. Mr President, how do you account for the fact that there was an attempt on your life in your country, which is a democratic republic?
And my second question is to both heads of state. What needs to be done for the rate of growth of economic cooperation to catch up with the level of political contacts between Russia and France?
Jacques Chirac: I am not going to make any comments on the attempt on my life that occurred in Paris on July 14. I hope you understand.
As regards the development of our economic contacts, I would like to say that they are very strong. They are strong above all because both sides have the political will and similar economic interests. In addition, the dynamic development of the Russian economy contributes to more active cooperation in many fields: raw materials, production and the high technology sphere. France is particularly interested in cooperation in the high-tech spheres. And this is the task I have set for my Minister, Mme Haignere, who knows Russia very well and loves it very much.
Vladimir Putin: I must say that our trade is making good progress, it has increased markedly on the previous year. But the level is still not sufficient, $3.7 billion is not much for Russia and France.
Of that sum, Russia accounts for $2.2 billion and France for $1.5 billion. I absolutely agree with Jacques Chirac that we should increase our trade and make its structure more acceptable for both countries by increasing trade in high-tech spheres and products.
I can identify several areas. First: moving on from simple trade to investment activities and cooperation. France ranks fourth in terms of investments accumulated in Russia. It is a very good indicator, about 10% of all foreign investment here.
We should create a favourable administrative environment. Our French partners have taken a number of important steps in that regard, for which I am grateful to the French President. Russia’s risk rating has been upgraded. The number of Russian commercial banks whose guarantees are accepted in transactions has increased.
The French Government is actively developing relations in the framework of the Economic Cooperation Commission. We think that the new Science Minister, Mme Claudie Haignere, who is very well known in Russia, a French spacewoman, who took part in joint missions, knows Russia and speaks Russian, can do a great deal to promote bilateral ties in the trade and economic sphere.
Question: A question to both Presidents. It was announced during Mikhail Kasyanov’s visit to Paris that Aeroflot would buy several Airbuses. The deal has not yet been confirmed. What can you say about it?
Vladimir Putin: It is my conviction that Russian air carriers should primarily use domestically built aircraft.
What you have referred to should be interpreted in the following way. Aeroflot already uses foreign planes, and we are talking about replacing the fleet of foreign planes. The contract was fiercely contested. It is true that Aeroflot has decided in favour of А310 planes. These are medium-range planes.
Not the least of the factors behind the decision has been the cooperation of the French President, especially because the French leadership has offered a programme of cooperation between Russian and European aircraft manufacturers. So, it is not just a purchase and sale transaction, on the back of it follows a programme that involves the placing of orders with Russian aviation enterprises.
The approximate sum of the deal is a little over $600 million.
Jacques Chirac: First of all, I would like to reassure the journalist who has asked the question. A few days ago I was in Toulouse where I met with the executives of Airbus who had just received confirmation from Aeroflot of the purchase of Airbus planes. But the important aspect – and it was noted by Mr Putin – is that Aeroflot is buying 18 Airbuses that will replace old foreign planes. Let me remind you that our two countries have an agreement on industrial and technical cooperation, which is even more important than the present contract. The agreement paves the way for broad cooperation between EADS and its Russian partners.
Question: The first part of my question is addressed to the French President. Mr President, how do you account for the fact that after such important internal political events in your country, Russia is the first country you have visited? And the second part is to both heads of state. You said that you have discussed Kaliningrad. What ways out of the situation do you see, if only in a general sense? Thank you.
Jacques Chirac: I would like to say that I am very happy that my first foreign trip after the elections is to Russia. I am glad because on the one hand Russia is a country I have long loved and whose history, culture and people I admire. On the other hand, I believe that the architecture of the future world order – if we want to build a stable system based on a dialogue of cultures, the principles of environmental protection and respect for every member of the international community – must include a strong Russia and a strong Europe. We both have the same mission because we are in the same part of the planet and have very close ties. An awareness of all these things makes me happy here and now when I am in Sochi on the Black Sea coast.
As for your second question, I must say that of course we have discussed the Kaliningrad issue. I don’t want to go into details. I understand the position of the European Union and the technical snags we have faced. But still I would like to make two points. First, there are no insoluble technical problems. And second, the question cannot be solved in a way that humiliates Russia. The solution of the Kaliningrad issue must take into account the rights and dignity of the parties concerned. There are reasons why I think the visa system for Russians travelling to the EU via Kaliningrad and back is unacceptable. And I have put it bluntly to Mr Putin. I repeat, there are technical problems for which a solution can be found and which must be settled with due respect for people’s rights and their dignity.
Vladimir Putin: We have discussed the issue of Kaliningrad in some detail. In the event, I did not have to bore my distinguished colleague with explanations because the French President has his own vision of the development of the situation in the world and in Europe. We are aware of French support and we count on it.
Let me say a couple of words about the substance of the problem. I don’t think that anyone has any doubt that the Soviet Union and later Russia made the decisive contribution to overcoming the division of Europe and to bringing down the Berlin Wall, in the direct and figurative sense of the word.
I don’t think a division of sovereign Russian territory and the drawing of new dividing lines and the creation of new “walls” in Europe (around Russia in this case) would be the best result of such policy.
I assume that no one wants to divide sovereign Russian territory, in spite of the history of the Kaliningrad Region. Likewise, no one in Europe wants to revise the results of the Second World War. And if they do, then let us ask ourselves, why should it be only at the expense of Russia?
I think the problem can be solved, however complicated it may appear at first sight. There is a solution, and not only in a general, but also in a very concrete and hands-on way. All it takes is common sense and political will. I very much hope that a solution will be found.
Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 19, 2002, 00:02
Text version