Events
Excerpts from Opening Remarks at a Meeting with the Federation Council members
July 11, 2002
00:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon,
We met in about the same format at the start of the spring session. We discussed organisational issues. I think the upper house has managed to get off to a flying start and quickly form an effective team and the relevant bodies. Many of the things you have done are new, but at the same time I think you have managed to preserve certain traditions in the work of the upper house of Parliament, which I believe is very important in terms of continuity and in building on what your predecessors have achieved.
And finally, I think we are seeing a vindication of the whole rationale of making the corresponding changes in the way the house is formed. Indeed, the members of the Federation Council are becoming professionals in the full sense of the word, people who have an opportunity to concentrate on law making, which tends to improve the quality of the laws and make them more balanced. In this connection, I believe it right that you are looking to cooperate more closely with the State Duma. I am referring to the conciliation commission, which contributes to a more thoughtful approach to law making and enables you to deliver a higher quality product.
During the course of this session you have passed, I think, 77 pieces of legislation. Admittedly, the work in the main areas has not been without difficulties, arguments and clashes of opinions. But still, the job has been done. It includes land reform, the reform of pensions, the justice system, the military and taxes – all that forms the basis of the nation’s life and creates a new foundation for the functioning of Russia.
By the way, such a constructive approach prevailed in the final days of the session when key laws were approved. I am aware that they have not been passed without some arguments, but I would like to thank you for completing this work in the positive way proposed by many members of the Federation Council and the Government.
There are some other issues that I consider to be important. One of them is international politics. A good deal has been done here too. The Federation Council is playing a growing role in protecting Russia’s interests in the world. You know that this year and especially the past two months have been riddled with international events. Russia’s position in the world has strengthened. We see a real contribution to greater security and, most importantly, there has been progress in the resolution of issues connected with foreign policy and foreign trade. I would like to say that the upper house is supporting the foreign policy efforts of the Russian state in a very tangible and visible way, for which I would like to thank you.
I think the creation of the Legislative Council has been important for bringing the regional legislatures closer to the federal centre and most importantly, for providing an opportunity for regional colleagues to have a direct say in the ongoing processes of the building of the Russian state at the regional level and for the federal centre to monitor the enforcement of the law at the local level. That work is particularly important in view of the ongoing process of delimitation of powers between the federal centre, the regions and municipalities. I would like you to pay particular attention to this and to take an active part in the work.
<…>
This brings me to the end of my opening remarks. I look forward to hearing from you and I suggest that we exchange opinions on the current work and on work in the longer term.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 11, 2002, 00:00
Text version