Events
Opening Remarks at a Meeting with the Slovenian Prime Minister Janez Drnovsek
September 13, 2002
00:00
Bocharov Ruchei, Sochi
Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister,
Permit me to cordially welcome you on Russian soil. I think this is our third meeting. I am glad to note that, during your visit to Russia, yesterday you signed a Declaration on Friendly Relations and Cooperation with our Prime Minister. We believe it is a very important document, not a mere declaration, but a document that seals certain principles in the relations between our countries. Our economic links are making good headway. I think that the targets we set – to achieve the 1 billion dollar mark in our trade – are realistic considering the political and economic situation in your country. And I think we face another and no less important task, namely, diversification of our economic ties.
I am glad to note that our relations in the humanitarian and cultural fields are also making good progress.
We know that your President intends to support the creation of a centre of Slavic culture in Slovenia. For our part, we will be supportive in every way. It is also pleasant for me to note the good relations taking shape between the Russian Orthodox Church and the Catholic Church of Slovenia. I recently discussed this topic with Patriarch Alexii II of All Russia. He confirmed that the Russian Orthodox Church sets great store by these relations and looks forward to their development.
The relations between our respective ministries and agencies, including security and military structures, are developing well. Some important agreements have been signed and further strengthening of the legal framework for cooperation is on the agenda. It is pleasant to note that we have similar positions on many international issues, above all the problems of settlement on the territory of the former Yugoslavia.
I am very glad to see you. Welcome.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: September 13, 2002, 00:00
Text version