Speech at the Signing of a Three-Way Agreement between Vympelcom (Russia), Alpha Group (Russia) and Telenor (Norway)
November 12, 2002
23:50
Oslo
Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister, Mr President, colleagues and friends,
First of all I would like to thank you for the opportunity to say a few words about our vision of Russian-Norwegian cooperation in the economic sphere, and to exchange opinions in an informal atmosphere on what we should do together for cooperation to become still more effective.
We know the pragmatism, common sense, balanced approach and correctness of the Norwegian business circles, and we value these business qualities and believe that business contacts will draw on the entire previous positive experience of our cooperation and will develop in an upward spiral.
Cooperation with Norway is important for Russia. The Prime Minister today repeatedly referred to the different economic potentials and size of our countries. I must say that we feel quite relaxed about it. In fact, Norway is an important partner for us, especially in the north. For us the north-west of the Russian Federation is one of the key regions where a large potential is concentrated: scientific-technical and human resources, and highly skilled human resources at that. Ever new possibilities for developing natural resources and riches are opening up in northern Russia, as they are in northern Norway. And we have a lot in common and much common ground there. I think in the old days Norwegians used to say that the road to the north meant the road to death, that is, sending somebody to the north meant sending somebody to his death. Today it is the other way around: business is moving northward in Russia and business is moving northward in Norway as many opportunities arise. It is the road to the wealth of resources and to the prosperity of our countries.
The successfully established Norwegian corridor to the north has opened the gates to the future. And it is continued in Russia to the east. Both our country and Norway are embarking on that road with ever greater assurance and confidence.
Life has shown that both countries stand to gain from cooperation.
Our common economic interests include offshore hydrocarbon deposits – and we have discussed all this with the Minister – they include marine navigation, shipbuilding and fishing. All that creates objective prerequisites for production cooperation. The priorities are the joint development of oil and gas, introduction of modern technologies in the process of converting Russian shipbuilding facilities from military to civilian use, in the production of mineral fertilisers and wood processing, modernisation of the fishing industry and port management. We would welcome expanded cooperation in such areas as transport, telecommunications and information technologies, medicine and agriculture.
The Prime Minister has already noted that trade between our countries amounted to about a billion dollars last year and it is now even a little more. That is a substantial growth, but in general it could be greater. According to my data, trade increased by 3% on last year. Our exports to Norway amount to $800 million and imports are approaching $300 million. As for investments, we are making only the first steps: we have just 120 registered enterprises with Norwegian participation, mainly in the north-western regions of Russia.
Russia is certainly interested in increased investments from Norway. Today’s signing of the agreement between the Russian company Vympelcom and the Norwegian company Telenor on additional major Telenor investments in the development of mobile communications in Russian regions marks a positive development in this sphere. It is a promising and very fast-growing market in Russia. I think the pace and volume of growth will increase as people’s incomes grow. The trends are encouraging.
We welcome the participation of Norwegian firms in the joint development of gas condensate fields. The company Norsk Hydro is involved in the development of the Kharyaginskoye oil field. It is a partner in a production sharing agreement.
We invite you to cooperate in the development of the Shtokman gas condensate field. It could become the major Russian source of gas for the European region. A total of $15–20 billion are to be invested in its development.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 12, 2002, 23:50Events
Statement for the Press and Answers to Questions at a Joint Press Conference with the Norwegian Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik
November 12, 2002
00:04
Oslo
Vladimir Putin: Ladies and gentlemen,
First of all I would like to thank the Norwegian side, His Majesty King Harald V and the Prime Minister for the invitation. We were very happy to see that our relations are not only developing in a very positive way, but that our Norwegian colleagues are committed to continued work along these lines in the future. In recent years our political dialogue has become much more intensive.
The calendar of events in Russia and Norway includes annual top-level and high-level visits. We know that the Norwegian Foreign Ministry has declared 2002 to be the Russia Year in Norwegian diplomacy. Russia and Norway intend to actively promote cooperation at all levels. The joint political statement we adopted today, while recognizing the success achieved in bilateral interaction, also identifies our strategic priorities for the future.
One of the central problems we discussed was deepening our business partnership. I am convinced that the documents we have signed today will take us closer to achieving that goal. These documents that have to do with the postal services, electronic communications, information technologies, control of tax and other economic crimes as well as regulation and joint work of the border agencies.
We have made considerable progress in preparing an agreement on a multilateral nuclear environmental programme in the Russian Federation. We paid much attention to the management of our shared natural resources, which are the heritage of both our countries. Above all, I am referring to the fish resources. And we have confirmed that we will do everything to enable Russia and Norway to solve the problems that sometimes arise in this area on the basis of compromise, in the spirit of respect and the good-neighbourly relations that we have enjoyed recently.
Our countries are major European producers and exporters of energy. And we value the opinion of our Norwegian partners on the entire range of these problems, including the issues of pricing. Joint work between Norway and Russia in that sphere is an important element in the ongoing European dialogue.
Contacts between the regions of the Russian Federation and Norway have been developing successfully. We have seen the growing involvement of Norwegian business in Russia, especially in large energy projects. We have discussed our interaction in the Barents/Euro-Arctic Council and other international organizations.
Anticipating some of your questions, let me say that we have also discussed the demarcation of the Barents Sea. It is not an easy problem. As the Prime Minister said during the discussion, it arose when we were still children, and we have expressed the hope that we will solve it before we go into retirement. But I must say that all the decisions should be thoroughly considered and oriented strictly towards achieving a sustainable balance of interests.
During our talks we exchanged opinions on the main issues in European and international politics. They had to do with concrete regions of the world and more general issues such as the fight against international terrorism.
We touched upon the issues connected with Afghanistan and Iraq. We have full understanding with Norway there. We have worked on these issues together. I am sure that we will build our interaction in the future in the same context.
I am pleased to say that Russian-Norwegian relations have a solid basis and a very good future. Thank you.
Question: From Russia’s point of view, who is to blame for the lack of agreement on the border in the North of the Barents Sea, and what is necessary for a solution to be found?
Vladimir Putin: I think that if we want to negotiate successfully we must rule out putting the “blame” on any parties to the negotiating process. It is a very complicated issue and the main condition for its successful solution is respect for the interests of both negotiating parties.
I have the impression that our colleagues want to solve that problem. For our part we will try to sustain this regime of joint work.
Question: Can you speak about the prospects of Russian-Norwegian cooperation on Spitsbergen.
Vladimir Putin (adding to Kjell Bondevik’s answer): I agree with the Prime Minister. The problems of the environment protection are issues about which we must think constantly and jointly. We proceed from what has been said today. The Prime Minister has just reiterated my position, the Norwegian side has confirmed that it is committed to abiding by the international law and the established practice in this sphere. We are satisfied with that clarification and we are ready to work together.
Question: My question is about the fight against international terrorism. What concrete assistance can Norway offer in the fight against extremism and do you feel that Norway and Russia have narrowed their differences after the talks today?
Vladimir Putin: We discussed these problems at length today. The problem of terrorism is global in character. If you look at the statements and propaganda of the ideological leaders of international terror you will see the following. These people have in fact set themselves the global task of creating what they call a “world caliphate”. That is very redolent of the world communist revolution, only in its extremist-Islamic edition. In other words, their goals are global. I would like to stress that it should not be confused with Islam in general. Islam has nothing to do with extremism and terrorism. But that is not the only trend whose representatives try to achieve their political goals by terrorist methods. There are others as well. All these groups are structured as networks. There is no visible enemy, no frontline. Small forces can deliver major blows, as we have seen in the United States on September 11, last year.
In that sense the efforts of each country are important in the fight against terrorism. Because we can counter the international terrorist networking only by our own active systemic work coordinated at the international level.
We never had any doubts that Norway was our partner in this joint work. And today’s meeting has consolidated that sense of partnership. I briefed Mr Bondevik about the talk I had with the NATO Secretary General. You know that we are also pursuing this work with the Russia-NATO Council.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 12, 2002, 00:04
Text versionEvents
Opening Remarks at a Meeting with Norwegian Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik
November 12, 2002
00:03
Oslo
Kjell Bondevik: We have long been awaiting your visit. On behalf of the Norwegian Government I would like to welcome you to Oslo. I know that it will be a very short visit, but we look forward to fruitful results from our talks. I think we have an interesting day ahead of us.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for the invitation. We have just been recalling our previous meeting in St Petersburg. I very much hope that this was not our last meeting in St Petersburg, Moscow and other places in Russia.
Mr Prime Minister, we appreciate the solidarity Norway and all the Norwegian people have expressed to Russia during the days of the tragedy connected with the hostage-taking in Moscow. I think we are all aware that we will be unable to solve this problem without solidarity, without pooling our efforts in the fight against terror, whatever slogans the terrorists use as a cover.
We are satisfied with the successful development of bilateral relations and we note the good contacts at all levels.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 12, 2002, 00:03
Text versionEvents
Joint News Conference with German Federal Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder
November 12, 2002
00:02
Oslo
Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon.
Today Mr Federal Chancellor and I continued our exchange of opinions on the key international and bilateral issues.
It was an unscheduled meeting, and I am glad that we had a chance to meet here in Oslo and discuss the whole range of issues that are of concern to us.
I would like once again to thank the Federal Chancellor and the German people for the solidarity they displayed with Russia during the terrorist attack, during the tragedy that Moscow and Russia faced just recently, on October 24.
Naturally, we could not but discuss interaction in the fight against international terror. For my part I briefed the Chancellor on the efforts Russia is exerting to settle the situation in Chechnya. The relations between Russia and Germany have developed very dynamically in recent years. I am referring above all to economic interaction: our agenda includes a whole range of investment projects that are interesting and important for both sides.
The Year of Russian Culture begins in Germany in February next year and we would like it to be a major event in terms of its scope and content. I think it would be proper if we hold a reciprocal event in Russia in 2004. 2004 will be a Year of German Culture in the Russian Federation. As regards the opening of the Year of Russian Culture in Germany, I would be glad to take part in the opening ceremony in Berlin. I thank the Federal Chancellor for the invitation.
We have agreed other joint measures for the near term. Our dialogue will be very full and it will deal not only with our bilateral contacts – key ministers and representatives of the business community will take part in it.
As you know, I arrived here yesterday after a meeting in Brussels and today I briefed the Chancellor on the results of the Russia-European Commission work. I know that the German Government and Mr Chancellor took a very constructive position on one of the key issues of interaction with the European Union, currently a very sensitive issue for us, and that is the life support of the Kaliningrad Region in the light of the coming enlargement of the European Union. And I would like to thank the Federal Chancellor for this.
I think Mr Chancellor and I will have a chance to further discuss the problem of interaction in the development of Kaliningrad, the development of cooperation in that part of Europe, and I am sure it would be good for the united Europe, for Russia and for Germany.
Of course we discussed a wide range of international problems, in the first place, the problem of Iraq on which the Russian and German positions are practically the same. We exchanged opinions on the situation that exists there at present. I would like to stress that Germany’s opinion is very important for us and we will remain in contact on this and many other issues on the international agenda.
Gerhard Schroeder (translated from Russian): I have a lot of things to add. It is true that our relations are developing successfully not only in the economic but also in the cultural sphere. We are glad that Mr President will take part in inaugurating the Russian Culture Year in Germany in 2003.
Russian-German interaction is multifarious. Cooperation in the energy sphere is a strategic area for both countries. We have also discussed the possibilities of cooperation in the aviation field.
Of course we are very glad that at the Russia-EU summit yesterday the two sides came to an agreement during the course of the negotiations in which the Russian President personally took part. It opens up new vistas for the European Union and Russia. I agree that now we must work together to develop the Kaliningrad Region.
We have always expressed and are expressing today our solidarity with Russia and its President on the issue of the fight against terrorism. I follow with great interest and I support the political process in Chechnya, both the way it is organised and the methods used. I am referring in particular to the constitutional process. It marks a good beginning that deserves every support.
As regards Iraq, we welcome the constructive role Russia plays in this process in the framework of the UN Security Council. We believe that the resolution that has been passed gives the Iraqi leadership a chance to solve the existing problem by peaceful means. We hope that scrupulous adherence to the UN resolution will make that possible.
And of course we look forward to seeing the Russian President in Germany in February.
* * *
Question: Mr President, do you expect concrete assistance from the EU or Germany and the German Chancellor personally in dealing with the problem of Chechnya?
Vladimir Putin: You know, that problem is so complicated that it is unlikely that anyone could give an all-embracing recommendation on how to solve it. The problem has its pre-history and there is its current state. Just the day before yesterday I met with the representatives of the Chechen public and the clergy. I think it is an internal problem of Russia, which Russia must solve independently together with the Chechen people in the interests of the Chechen people and the whole of the Russian Federation.
Of course we are not indifferent to the opinion of our colleagues in Europe, the opinion of the Federal Chancellor. We are interested in the experience of other countries. There are some good examples of the resolution of disputes in Europe. True, there are also instances of conflicts which have dragged on for hundreds of years and have still not been resolved.
I would like to say that we are not going to be arrogant and say that we don’t care about your opinion and we will do as we like. Of course we will heed your opinion and react to all the friendly advice from all those who really want to help us to resolve that situation.
But we are not going to palm that problem off on anyone, it is a problem for the Russian Federation, we must solve it and I am sure that we will do it.
Question: Mr Chancellor, a German TV channel recently broadcast an interview with a former citizen of Grozny [Subar Magomedova] who admitted to killing three Russian soldiers and a Chechen policeman. Under the rules of German justice can such a person be free and have the status of a political refugee in Germany?
Gerhard Schroeder: I cannot give you a legal assessment just now. I haven’t seen that broadcast. But I proceed on the basis that the German authorities should look at these statements and look at these words to see if they correspond to the German Constitution and German legislation. If a person admits to having committed murder, then of course consequences must ensue. There will be a corresponding assessment and a corresponding reaction. As soon as I am back in Berlin today I will call the Justice Minister and draw her attention to this fact.
Question: What is your assessment of the UN Security Council resolution? Do you have direct contacts with Baghdad? Do you know what Hussein’s answer is? What could be the consequences of a negative answer?
Vladimir Putin: As regards contacts, we have such contacts; we are explaining our position to the Iraqi side. Our position is known: the adoption of a resolution, in our opinion, is a good way to avoid war. It is tougher than the previous one and we assume that Baghdad will take this chance in order to avoid a showdown.
As to what decision the Iraqi leadership and Hussein will take, only he knows. We have the impression that there are different points of view on the issue in the Iraqi society, but on the whole, we feel that there has been a positive response to the UN Security Council resolution.
We hope that the Arab countries will express their point of view on the issue, will influence the position of Iraq considering that the interests of the Arab countries at the Security Council were represented by Syria, which also voted for the resolution.
I must add that in the process of work on the Iraq resolution we were in permanent contact with the German Government, with Mr Chancellor; and it is to a large extent the result of the work not only of the group of countries that are members of the Security Council, but it is the result of a broader effort. So we are highly satisfied with our joint work with Germany on this matter. I think the leadership of Iraq is aware of it and it must take it into account.
Gerhard Schroeder: First, we have no official contacts with Iraq. Secondly, I made it very clear that we hope and expect that the UN Security Council resolution will be implemented in full. And full compliance with the Security Council resolution is precisely the task that faces the Iraqi leadership. Allowing international inspectors into the country and allowing them to act in the framework of the resolution would permit the conflict to be settled by peaceful means. This is the position of the German Government.
Question: What is the current state of energy cooperation between the two countries?
Vladimir Putin: Yes, we have discussed these issues. Broadly, we spoke about the implementation of the earlier agreement. I have briefed Mr Chancellor on other possible energy projects. We have agreed that we will not only continue this work at the inter-governmental level, but will involve businesses in it.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 12, 2002, 00:02
Text version