Events
Address to Russian and American Cosmonauts During a Linkup with the International Space Station
April 12, 2002
00:02
Moscow
Vladimir Putin: Hello dear friends,
First of all I would like to congratulate you on the 41st anniversary of the first manned spaceflight, and on your holiday, Cosmonauts Day. I know that all those involved in space exploration share this holiday with you. I also wish to congratulate you on behalf of the President of the United States with whom I have just spoken over the phone. We are following your work, we admire your courage and we wish you success.
The President of the United States and I agreed on many issues today, including further work in the Russia-NATO framework, disarmament, some economic issues and the resolution of regional crises. These were the topics of our conversation.
We do not underestimate the significance of the work being done by the Russian and American crew members on board the International Space Station. What you are doing is very important for our countries and for all of mankind. It is not only an important theme of cooperation between the two countries, but an achievement of practical results for the United States, the Russian Federation and the other countries taking part in the grandiose project of the International Space Station.
All the best to you, and goodbye.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 12, 2002, 00:02
Text versionEvents
Excerpts from a Statement for the Press Following the Signing of Joint Documents after the Meeting of the Supreme State Council of the Union State of Russia and Belarus
April 12, 2002
00:01
The Kremlin, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: … We have signed important documents which have long been recognized as necessary.
The first – as Alexander Lukashenko has said – deals with the equating of our economic systems and the creation of a level playing field for business entities. We have agreed to give Belarus the domestic Russian prices for energy and railway tariffs. The energy tariffs will be introduced from May 1 of this year and the railway tariffs on July 1 of this year. By the same token we have agreed that we will seek to create a common joint stock company which would own the gas pipeline system on the territory of Belarus.
These procedures should go through several stages in accordance with the laws of our countries. We hope to complete them within the year. The first stage will occur approximately this summer and the final stage next year. On May 1 of this year, after our agreement on energy prices comes into force, the Decree of the President of Belarus canceling customs duties and tax breaks for some business entities in the Republic of Belarus will come into force. I repeat, all this is being done to create equitable conditions, a level playing field for our enterprises both in Belarus and in the Russian Federation.
We are to sign several more agreements, including on the principles of collecting taxes in the destination country and the need for certain compensations in connection with the Belarusian budget losses. Our experts are working on these issues together and I have no reason to doubt that this work will be crowned with success…
<…>
On the whole, we give a high assessment of the results of our work. I have every reason to believe that this is how we will work together in the future and that eventually we will achieve our goals of building a common economic space, introducing a single currency of the Union State and the ultimate goal of building the Union State we are talking so much about.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 12, 2002, 00:01
Text version