Events
Concluding Remarks at a Plenary Session of the Meeting of the Heads of State and Government of the Conference on Interaction and Confidence-Building Measures in Asia
June 4, 2002
00:02
Almaty
Vladimir Putin: Joint work to form a common security space is powerful proof of the fact that the member countries of the Conference are aware of their collective responsibility for the strengthening of peace and stability in Asia. Today we have discussed many issues and have seen how complicated and acute the problems in Asia are. But we all know well – and this was also mentioned today – that the whole world is watching the development of relations between India and Pakistan with bated breath and special concern. It has been a major topic recently in our meetings with President of the People’s Republic of China Jiang Zemin and other leaders of UN Security Council states. We have paid particular attention to this topic at the summits between Russia and the European Union, the NATO heads of state and government and during the visit to Russia by US President George W. Bush.
Discussing the India-Pakistan conflict with President Bush, we couldn’t help but recall the Cuban Crisis between the USSR and the US in 1961 when the whole world was on the brink of a catastrophe. At the time the leaders of the two countries displayed a sense of responsibility and ended the dangerous standoff. It is hard to even imagine what the fate of mankind would have been if events had taken a different turn.
Today in Alma-Ata we have heard some ideas that give all of us hope. The Indian Prime Minister said it is necessary to take a decision on preventing the first use of nuclear weapons. The President of Pakistan has spoken to condemn terrorism and has assured us that there will be no room for terrorists in Pakistan. Both leaders have expressed their readiness to have a dialogue. This is precisely what the world has been impatiently expecting from the two leaders with hope. I am aware that any step in that direction has to be well prepared if it is to be successful. At the same time, we all hope that the wisdom of the leaders of India and Pakistan will enable them to stop the escalation of tensions through dialogue and to continue the political efforts to overcome the crisis. And finally I would like to thank the President of Kazakhstan for giving us an opportunity to gather here and discuss the most pressing issues that concern all of us.
Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 4, 2002, 00:02
Text versionEvents
Speech at a Plenary Session of the Meeting of the Heads of State and Government of the Countries Participating in the Conference on Interaction and Confidence-Building Measures in Asia
June 4, 2002
00:00
Almaty
Vladimir Putin: Mr Chairman,
Ladies and gentlemen,
First of all, I would like to extend cordial thanks to our host, the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Abishevich Nazarbayev, for organising this meeting. To a large extent it has been made possible by his initiative and energy and the growing authority of Kazakhstan.
Our conference is a unique event. For the first time in history, the heads of 16 countries from various parts of the Asian continent have gathered to discuss ways to strengthen security and stability in the region.
I am sure that what has brought us all to Almaty is the desire to ensure peace and stability, and to discuss the mechanisms that would help settle old conflicts and prevent the emergence of new ones.
To be honest, one must admit that there are many threats in the Asian region today. They include terrorism, growing extremist sentiments, the spread of weapons of mass destruction, transnational crime and drug trafficking.
Russia has long voiced its concern about these things, especially about international terrorism which – and this is something that must be stressed – has nothing in common with any particular religion or nationality or territory.
After the September 11 tragedy the world community made a firm commitment to uniting its efforts in the fight against that evil. I believe that there was no alternative to that choice.
Russia, together with its partners in the Collective Security Treaty, the Eurasian Economic Community and the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation, seeks to carry out practical measures to promote integration in Asia. We are consistently developing multilateral cooperation in the sphere of security and the fight against terrorism. We are actively cooperating in the social, economic and humanitarian spheres.
The Shanghai Cooperation Organisation is due to hold its summit in St. Petersburg in a few days’ time. It will consider some fundamental matters of organisation, and lay down guidelines for practical work in the spheres of security and economic development. I would like to stress that the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation is open to constructive interaction with other international associations and individual states.
Asia today sees the emergence of some promising regional structures. Russia supports efforts to enhance the role of the regional ASEAN Forum, and together with ASEAN countries continues work on the Pacific Harmony Declaration, a kind of code of conduct for the Asia-Pacific states.
Meanwhile the situation on the Asian continent still gives cause for concern: the Middle East is ablaze, explosions occur every day and civilians suffer. The explosive situation in relations between India and Pakistan cannot but give cause for deep concern, for it seriously destabilizes the situation in the whole South Asian subcontinent. I am convinced that we, the heads of authoritative states in the region, must use our best efforts in order to contribute to the solution of these problems together.
The neutralisation of the international terrorist hotbed in Afghanistan has greatly diminished the threat to the security of the Central Asian region. In this connection I would like to welcome the head of the Interim Administration of Afghanistan, Mr Karzai, who is present here and who carries out very important and very complicated work aimed at the rehabilitation of his country. However, further development of the situation in Central Asia would greatly depend on how the political development in Afghanistan proceeds.
In the meantime the situation in the south and south-east of the country, where the antiterrorist coalition has to continue military action against extremists, gives cause for concern. We hope that the Loya Jirga will become a real guarantor of the restoration of legitimate and effective government in the country and create conditions for the building of a stable political system and for social stability in Afghanistan.
As I said during Mr Karzai’s Moscow visit, Russia intends to continue making its practical contribution, to the extent that it is called for, to the common efforts of the international community in helping the social and economic resurgence of Afghanistan.
This summit may make a tangible contribution to mobilising efforts aimed at solving problems, creating a climate of confidence and mutual respect, and forming a common security space on the Asian continent.
It is necessary to continue to actively fight against the threat of terrorism using the whole range of means embedded in the United Nations Charter and international law. I am sure that common efforts are required for successfully fighting that global evil.
Speaking about the new global threats one should not forget about their root causes. They spring, among other things, from poverty and backwardness and the widening gap between the developed and developing countries.
We believe that many of these problems can be solved through economic cooperation. We need uniform rules of trade corresponding to WTO standards, an improved social sphere and a developed transport, energy and communications infrastructure. It is necessary to use the water resources of border regions rationally, to improve environmental protection and regulate the flow of migration.
The Almaty Statement and Declaration on elimination of terrorism and promoting dialogue between civilizations, to be adopted by this summit, are fundamental documents that identify the main areas of our efforts in shaping the new face of Asia. That is a guarantee of the success of our Conference.
The Conference on Interaction and Confidence-Building Measures in Asia will undoubtedly help us to compare our positions and form an ideology of joint actions. At the same time a large amount of challenging practical work must be carried out through many channels, ranging from bilateral cooperation to large-scale joint regional projects. Russia is ready to work jointly with the other members of the Conference to make Asian cooperation an absolute reality.
Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 4, 2002, 00:00
Text versionEvents
Press Conference Following a Meeting of the Heads of State and Government of the Conference on Interaction and Confidence-Building Measures in Asia
June 4, 2002
00:03
Almaty
Question: How do you assess the results of the meeting of the heads of state and government of the Conference on Interaction and Confidence-Building Measures in Asia?
Vladimir Putin: The President of Kazakhstan has done much to organize this meeting and we believe it has been very timely and extremely useful. This is the first meeting in such a format to discuss the problems of confidence and security in Asia. We know that it is a region where there are, unfortunately, very many conflicts including some very explosive ones. The progression and tension of confrontations in Asia have repercussions in practically all countries. We are all aware of the confrontations in many Asian regions. The fact that we have not only gathered here today but have adopted two very important documents is a very positive sign and a strong beginning to the process of resolving all the complicated situations taking shape in Asia. In our opinion, it was, I repeat, a very useful and timely meeting.
Question: Could you tell us about the outcome of your talks with the leaders of Pakistan and India?
Vladimir Putin: First, the very fact that the President of Pakistan, Mr Musharraf, and the Indian Prime Minister Mr Vajpayee arrived in Almaty and took part in the general discussion is a very good sign which shows that the leaders of both states have the good will to solve all the problems accumulated between them through peaceful means. I would like to stress that during the course of our meetings, where we discussed both bilateral relations between Russia and Pakistan, between Russia and India, and of course, the Indian-Pakistani relations, both sides expressed ideas that can only be interpreted as a commitment to solving the problems diplomatically. That is very important in itself. We hope that the relations between the two countries will develop along the same lines. Russia for its part, together with our partners in Europe and America, is ready to continue to make a positive contribution to scaling down the confrontation. Both leaders have stressed their interest in direct contacts.
Let me say outright that the two leaders still do not quite see eye to eye on the conditions for organising such meetings, but there is an expressed desire for engagement on both sides. And, just as importantly, the two heads of state have stressed that they do not intend to use force to resolve the problems of the past few years. In my opinion, it is very important and, I repeat, we intend to strengthen our efforts to bring about a resolution of Indian-Pakistani relations. This situation worries not only Russia, but many of our partners in Europe, America and of course in Asia too.
Question: May Russia come forward with initiatives towards the settlement of the Indian-Pakistani conflict?
Vladimir Putin: The meetings with both leaders lasted quite a long time, for about an hour and a half. That is why we have managed to discuss in detail the whole range of very complicated issues between the two states. Actually, we have not counted on anything more. I repeat, the very fact that both leaders have agreed to and have come to Almaty speaks volumes. And it inspires serious hope. I have invited President Musharraf to come to Russia for an official visit, and he accepted. I received an invitation to visit India this year and I hope that I will manage to make that trip. Of course, we will discuss bilateral relations between Russia and those two states, as we have done here, but obviously we will not ignore Indian-Pakistani relations. I would like to stress again that during the consultations today both leaders sent very positive signals regarding the possibility of resolving the conflict by peaceful means. Of course, we will build on the current progress in their relations in order to increase the positive efforts of Russia and other states and do everything to bring the two countries closer together.
Question: How do you assess the situation in Afghanistan and what worries you most of all?
Vladimir Putin: The situation in Afghanistan, of course, is still very complicated. We have said that we are worried by the drug situation. The international community is exerting major efforts to help the Interim Administration to solve that problem. We have spoken about crime and terrorism. We know very well that clashes with organised terrorist units are still taking place in some regions. These problems have been accumulating in Afghanistan over many years. But that is not the main thing. The main thing is that the central government of Afghanistan is increasingly taking control of the country’s situation. The preparation for the Loya Jirga is proceeding vigorously and positively and we very much hope that it will be a success. I am absolutely convinced that Russia, like other partners in the world, must do everything to support the central government of Afghanistan. It is of the utmost importance if Afghanistan is to become a full-fledged democratic state and a full-fledged player in the world. This is the goal we seek. And judging from what is happening in Afghanistan that goal can be achieved.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 4, 2002, 00:03
Text version