Events
Joint News Conference with Kazakh President Nursultan Nazarbayev
June 7, 2002
00:03
St Petersburg
Question: What is your opinion of the documents you have just signed?
Vladimir Putin: We have a very high opinion of these accords. In fact, they lay a solid foundation for long-term cooperation in the energy sector, which is one of the key spheres of both our economies. On the one hand, they provide a sequel, as it were, to our agreement on the Caspian, but they also have a significance of their own.
We believe that the agreement fully corresponds to the interests of Kazakhstan and Russia. To Kazakhstan because it guarantees the pumping of Kazakh oil considering its growing output. That is good for us too because it consolidates Russia’s status as a transit country. Moreover, I can say that the plans that Russia has to develop the transport infrastructure will now be made with due account of the reserves and needs of Kazakhstan. In that sense Kazakhstan is becoming our main partner in determining the priorities in the development of the Russian infrastructure.
Let me explain. The agreements signed today deal above all with existing routes in southern Russia. But we have agreed with our Kazakh colleagues that Kazakhstan’s needs will also be taken into account when building the second part of the Baltic transportation system here in the Leningrad Region and in pursuing our projects with our partners in Greece and Bulgaria. That summarises the oil situation.
The second and no less important agreement is a milestone, especially for Russia. I am referring to the creation of a gas enterprise. I see this as a follow-up to the agreement and statement on cooperation in the gas sphere made by the four heads of state in Almaty some time ago. It means the implementation of that statement on a bilateral basis.
For Russia it signifies a qualitative policy change in this sphere. You know and experts certainly know that in recent years Russia has been relying mainly on its own potential. It has not always been easy for our partners to use Russian pipeline systems to sell their commodities in the CIS and west European markets.
In the relations with Kazakhstan we are moving to a different format of cooperation. Kazakhstan is becoming a major and full-scale participant in that process and in that business. That fully meets the interests of the Russian Federation because it guarantees the necessary volume in the long-term perspective. It is also in the interests of Kazakhstan because it is able to promote its products in external markets. We are talking about a fairly large volume, 3.5 billion cubic metres of gas, but we proceed from Kazakhstan’s potential to develop its gas sector and we set the target at 30–50 billion.
Nursultan Nazarbayev: Mr Putin has practically said it all. I can just add some specifics. During two months we have achieved colossal agreements in the sphere of economic relations between Kazakhstan and Russia, more than we have achieved during the 10 years of independence. I don’t think any other CIS countries have such agreements. First, we have finally resolved the issue of dividing the Caspian seabed on the basis of a median line equidistant from its shores. They cover three fields which are being divided on a 50–50 basis. It is a long-term contractual job. Today the relevant agencies have signed an agreement on the transportation of 15 million metric tons of oil annually through Russian pipelines over 15 years with a possible extension if neither side has any questions.
Three or four years ago when there were suggestions that Kazakhstan wanted to abandon Russia in favour of the Baku-Ceyhan pipeline, I told journalists: “Why doesn’t Russia want to pump Kazakh oil through its pipelines?” Now that issue has been addressed.
The second question is the creation of a joint enterprise by Gazprom and Kazakhgaz. At present we are talking about the Karachaganaksk field with reserves of 3–4 billion cubic metres. But in 8–10 years’ time when Kazakhstan brings its oil output to over 100 million metric tons, accompanying gas will reach a volume of more than 80 billion cubic metres. If that gas goes via Russia as a continental state, it is good for Kazakhstan because it will give it access to the world gas markets. And Russia will earn dividends from transporting gas and oil through its territory. We are about to sign an agreement on the Ekibastuz hydroelectric power plant GRES-2, a 50–50 joint venture. Next we will sign an agreement on the transmission of power to external markets. Rather than exporting trainloads of coal we stand to gain much more by selling electricity, and it is very good for the environment. In the fourth quarter we hope to achieve agreements on railway transport. Thus, our agreements elevate the economic relations between Kazakhstan and Russia to a new level. Trade and economics provide the basis of relations in all the other areas. Proof of that is the creation of the EurAsEC during Vladimir Putin’s presidency. Today we have finally decided the issue of the Shanghai Organisation. In other words, the economic and political component of our relations is elevated to an entirely new level.
Vladimir Putin: I would like to emphasise a point to confirm what our colleague, the President of Kazakhstan, has just said. I want to make things absolutely clear so that there are no doubts left.
The level of interaction and the quality of partnership between Russia and Kazakhstan are acquiring an unprecedented character. It is exerting and will exert far-reaching influence on the interaction of the two states in the long term. And on our position in Europe and the world. What we are signing today will without any doubt have far reaching consequences for the energy policy in Europe at a minimum, and I think actually in the whole world.
Question: Are there plans to expand the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation? Will we see new members admitted to this organisation in the short term and what requirements should they meet in order to qualify for being members of the SCO?
Vladimir Putin: The Shanghai Cooperation Organisation is not a bloc and it is not a closed bloc. Theoretically, anything is possible. At present the issue of expansion is not on the immediate agenda because we have just created the current organisation and have signed the statutory documents. It should start working first before the members of the organisation will be ready for its expansion.
As regards the requirements for possible new members, they are known. They are set forth in the founding documents. All those who share the principles spelled out in the Charter are eligible to become members. I repeat, the issue is not currently on the agenda.
Question: Mr Putin, who proposed the idea of holding the SCO meeting in St Petersburg?
Vladimir Putin: We met in Shanghai a year ago and during an informal talk Chinese President Jiang Zemin recalled that the next summit was to be hosted by Russia. He said it would not be a bad idea to hold it in St Petersburg, and I happily agreed.
Question: Mr Putin, what do you consider the priority areas in the work of the SCO?
Vladimir Putin: We discussed all the priorities today. The media had a chance to follow our work closely. I can repeat that the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation is a multi-purpose structure which concentrates on political and economic issues. We have also discussed humanitarian aspects, public health, education and culture. Coordination of law-enforcement activities in fighting crime, including across borders and terrorism, will get its due share of attention.
Nursultan Nazarbayev: The documents are transparent, they will be published and you will be able to see them. The first component is security, including the fight against terrorism and drug trafficking. The second component is trade and economic cooperation. And the third is cultural cooperation.
As regards accession to the organisation there are three institutions: the institution of observers, the institution of attendees and full members. The CIS and EurAsEC do not have it, and it will not be easy to gain admission.
The state wishing to join must have observer status and accept all the terms, because it is a more rigorous organisation which acts under more rigorous agreements. There is even a provision whereby members can expel a member by a consensus for systematically failing to comply with the Shanghai Organisation agreements. That is an important point.
Question: Mr Putin, what other measures is Russia going to take to prevent the conflict in Pakistan and can Pakistan ever become an SCO member?
Vladimir Putin: You probably meant to ask what efforts can Russia exert to end the conflict between Pakistan and India, and not in Pakistan?
Journalist: Yes, of course, I am sorry.
Vladimir Putin: I spoke about it in Almaty. We are in contact with our partners in Europe and North America. We are in constant dialogue with Pakistan and with the Indian leadership. As you know, I have invited President Musharraf to visit Moscow and we are working out the date of the visit through the Foreign Ministry. I am due to pay an official visit to New Delhi this year. Obviously, in both cases the situation between India and Pakistan will be an item on the agenda.
However, I think the main responsibility for scaling down the confrontation rests with the two states. And if we recognise that the roots of the conflict are connected with terrorism, we must call on the leadership of Pakistan above all to put an end to the terrorist activities that are launched from its territory against India, in Kashmir, and to do everything to make society in Pakistan transparent, democratic, predictable and understandable.
I have grounds to believe, especially after the last meeting with President Musharraf, that he personally is committed to working along these lines. I very much hope that it will be done in practice.
And there has been an important signal from President Musharraf. He said he was ready to consider extraditing international terrorists who are not citizens of Pakistan, who commit crimes on the territory of India if they are arrested in Pakistan and their guilt is proved. I think that is a show of goodwill and I hope that these signals too will be heard.
Question: Can you see the SCO gradually replacing, in the security field, the structures that exist within the CIS? Can a non-Asian country, for example, the US, seek to join this SCO?
Vladimir Putin: Of course, anything can be imagined. Such talented people as media representatives can imagine things we have never even dreamt about. But what you have said is not our target. The Shanghai Cooperation Organisation and we, the leaders of the states which have founded it, do not set the goal of replacing or ousting anyone. It can and must complement the existing mechanisms of conflict resolution and create a favourable atmosphere in various parts of the world. Considering the geography of our countries, its prime concern is problems in Asia. I very much hope that the corresponding CIS structures would complement all these efforts.
As regards references to certain foreign policy moves on the part of the Russian Federation and its partners, including the United States, they were mentioned in the overall context of what is happening in the world. We do not know that the United States intends to seriously consider joining the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation, although we do not rule it out. Our Foreign Minister briefs his counterpart, Secretary Powell, on the work of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation. I repeatedly said this to President Bush. He knows about it. And you can simply take my word for it, our partners in Europe and in the United States support our efforts in Asia. It is not by chance that when they learnt that I was going to attend the event in Almaty, which was mentioned by the President of Kazakhstan, they reacted very positively. Everybody hoped that I would convey to the leaders of Pakistan and India the concern of all our partners, within the Russia-NATO Council and bilaterally, in particular of our American partners. If we proceed in such a cooperative manner, supporting each other, we will be able to create a new framework of security in the world. I think we are on the right track.
Question: Mr Putin, what do you think about yesterday’s decision by the US Administration to recognise Russia as a market economy?
Vladimir Putin: Naturally, I welcome that decision. It was long overdue, but it took President Bush to show political will for the decision to be taken. Of course we discussed it during the President’s visit to the Russian Federation. I hope that the atmosphere of the visit and the results had something to do with the final decision. The American leaders have become convinced that in Russia they have a reliable partner. They have looked at the realities in our country and took the decision you have referred to.
I repeat, the decision was long overdue and non-recognition of the market status of the Russian economy was not in the interests of the world economy or in the interests of the American economy in my opinion. Why? Because the lack of such a status made it possible to interpret any commercial deal struck by Russian commercial entities in an arbitrary fashion. It meant that our foreign partners faced some objective obstacles in investing in the Russian economy because the fate of goods produced in Russia was uncertain.
Those who know need not be told, but I can explain it for the benefit of the general public. If a country does not have a market economy status, other countries, and I am referring in particular to the United States, can initiate so-called anti-dumping investigations without hearing the other side’s opinion in a practically extrajudicial procedure. This has resulted in blocking the movement of $1.5 billion worth of goods.
But I repeat, it is not only the question of the $1.5 billion. It sends a strong signal to the world business community that the Russian economy is ready for full-scale work and that one can fully cooperate with it. It is a very important decision and we welcome it.
Question: Mr Putin, last year and the year before last you held very large news conferences attended by 500–600 journalists. Is anything similar planned for this year?
Vladimir Putin: How many journalists are present here?
Journalist: 230.
Vladimir Putin: Perhaps that is enough. But if you still have some questions that the media would like me to give more detailed coverage of, I am ready. You can arrange it through the Presidential Executive Office and through the press secretary. If there is a perceived need, we can repeat that event this year.
Today marks the 50th anniversary of the Moscow University journalism department. Are there any graduates of the journalism department here? Let us congratulate all the journalists. I would like to congratulate them and in recognition award the last two questions to its graduates.
Question: Mr Nazarbayev, did I understand you correctly that you have effectively discarded the CIS? You have said: “Thank God, the CIS existed.”
Nursultan Nazarbayev: What I said was, thank God that the CIS exists and that it has fulfilled its role in its time. However critical we may be, it continues to play its role. And the integration associations at various levels are not an alternative to the CIS. What’s wrong with the CIS? The presidents meet and have a good time together (laughter), we talk and sometimes have spirited arguments and calm each other down. Everybody has his say. After all, there must be a place where you can voice your concerns and get them off your chest. And gradually, as you see, more tight associations are emerging within the CIS and in the end something will “pan out”.
Vladimir Putin: I think it was Zoshchenko who wrote: they say that a word is not a bird, once it is out you can’t catch it. Well, with us they chase it down, catch it and jail it. I think you have almost succeeded in catching my friend and colleague at his word, but I don’t think Mr Nazarbayev meant to say that the CIS is dead. I wouldn’t say so.
Nursultan Nazarbayev: The CIS was created in Almaty on December 21, 1991. I am an ardent supporter of all the integration processes, and it is not just politics. I still believe that integration in our region must prevail for our own good. And that will happen in the end. I think it will happen through EurAsEC.
Question: To return to the SCO. Talks are underway on the fringes with India about its possible accession to the SCO. Some time ago, three years, I think, seers predicted that western hegemony would be overcome and balanced out and that peace and tranquillity would prevail in the world when an eastern alliance of Russia, China and India was created. Have you heard anything about such forecasts?
Vladimir Putin: I listen to Mr Nazarbayev and I do not pay much heed to such forecasts. I try to hear my colleagues. I try to hear the deputies of the State Duma and the people of the Russian Federation. As for the forecasts you have mentioned, perhaps some people should heed them, but I must tell you that I am not a believer of such an approach. To speak about hegemony means automatically to engage somebody in a confrontation. We speak about a multi-polar world. We want to see a diverse world. A world where the states respect each other and one another’s legitimate interests, make certain compromises and further their national interests through interaction and not by confrontation. This is the goal we are working towards and these are the tasks we are setting in creating EurAsEC and the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation. I have the impression that we are managing to agree on basic things. I think it will continue to be that way.
As for India, it is true that India has shown an interest in the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation and it is feeling out, and I am using words carefully, the possibility of getting to know the activities of that organisation more closely through the Foreign Ministry. We take a positive view of that. Mr Nazarbayev has said that the SCO envisages different degrees of cooperation. It is for us to jointly decide to what degree we would like to work with our partners which are not members of the organisation today.
Thank you very much. All the best to you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 7, 2002, 00:03
Text versionEvents
Speech at the Heads of State Meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization
June 7, 2002
00:01
Saint Petersburg
President Vladimir Putin: I wish to thank you for the high assessment of the foreign policy initiatives, efforts and practice of Russian activity on the international scene in the last few years.
We regard our present meeting and work within the framework of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization as a natural extension, continuation and integral part of the common efforts by the international community to prevent conflicts and threats of today. We all know and often speak of the fact that they bear a global character and cannot be solved without the broad involvement of key players in the international arena, both on the Western and on the Asian tracks.
It was very important for us to hear your opinion on the priorities of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization.
I want to thank in your presence your colleagues who had keenly and intensely worked for a year on the basic statutory documents of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization.
Allow me on behalf of the Russian leadership also to say a few words on the substance of our present meeting.
A year ago we together proclaimed the establishment of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization in the home town of President Jiang Zemin, in Shanghai. Today we are to make a qualitative step forward in the matter of embodying this joint undertaking and to approve a Charter of the Shanghai Organization as its basic statutory document. I think we have the right to say: it has turned out to be a document of high quality, laying a solid foundation of the Organization. The Charter defines the main goals and objectives of the Shanghai Organization, as well as the mechanisms really enabling the bodies and structures of the SCO to work effectively and our ministries and agencies to coordinate. In addition, the creation of a regional antiterrorist structure as a permanent body of the SCO is provided for. The special agreement, which had been prepared towards our present meeting, gives an idea of the specific aspects of its formation and activities. Its signing will be a weighty contribution of all the SCO member states to the creation of a global system of counteraction against terrorism.
I would like to express my appreciation to the Chinese partners for the invitation to house the secretariat of the Shanghai Organization for Cooperation in China's capital of Beijing, as well as to our Kyrgyz friends for the consent to receive the headquarters of the antiterrorist structure in Bishkek.
I think it is necessary, without putting if off, to already embark on preparatory measures for their deployment now. In the morning we discussed the various schemes for practical realization. I think that they are all acceptable. We have every reason to believe that this will be done.
There also seems to be a need for us to organize practical cooperation with respect to the suppression of illicit drug trafficking, as already mentioned here. I would add to this the illegal trade in arms, and other kinds of transnational crime. Let this be a new priority assignment for the Bishkek group, and the directors of law enforcement agencies and special services of the six states.
Furthermore, we should build up the efforts to implement the Shanghai Convention on the Combating of Terrorism, Separatism and Extremism, which we signed in June last year. The year since Shanghai has shown the good dynamics in multilateral cooperation under SCO auspices in various fields, including that between the defense ministries, border services, and agencies responsible for the elimination of emergency situations.
I would like to dwell on certain other, important, to my mind, and perhaps even key aspects as well.
First, the meeting of heads of government of the six countries in Almaty on September 14, 2001 (as already mentioned by our Honorable Colleague President Nazarbayev today) set forth the chief guidelines as to the development of the international situation in the world. I would mention both the Conference of September 14, 2001, and the meeting held just now within the framework of the Conference on Interaction and Confidence Building Measures in Asia. It seems to me that we should adopt the spirit of Almaty also in the framework of the work of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization.
Secondly, the SCO is already being spoken of as an international structure with high potential, which is capable of giving an answer to the challenge of our times. I think we should endorse the initiative of the heads of the foreign affairs agencies for organizing a mechanism of foreign policy coordination.
Thirdly, an important humanitarian component has appeared in our Organization over the past year. And the colleagues have already mentioned it. I hold that we should think how better to use the considerable potential available here. I feel good possibilities are there for organizing cooperation in the environmental field, in education and in public health.
I am convinced that we must continue to move forward at the speed we have already picked up and which suits our entire association. Only such an approach will ensure our Organization stability, effectiveness and attractiveness.
And two more, to my mind, very important points. The momentum-gathering Shanghai Cooperation Organization is being closely watched in the world. We bear special responsibility for security and stability in Central Asia. It will be worthwhile to adopt the accomplishments, as I already said, of the recent meeting within the framework of the Conference on Interaction and Confidence Building Measures in Asia, and perhaps even use the documents which were produced there, for bolstering our efforts within the framework of the SCO.
The formation of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization occurs in rapidly evolving conditions when the world community faces responsibility to find the answers to new challenges and threats to security. This can be achieved only on lines of multilateral and equitable cooperation.
The SCO agrees to this — I already said about it. This is an open association, without any things left unsaid about its activity. In the final political document of our meeting — the Declaration — our common vision of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization is reflected, along with the indication of specific guidelines for its long- and immediate-term development.
The Declaration also sets forth our common positions on a number of pressing international problems. I consider this one more demonstration of the openness of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization.
The tasks which the Organization is called upon to solve as a regional association cannot be viewed outside the context of major events in the contemporary world. That's why each of the colleagues who spoke gave a brief, but, I would say, very precise, in-depth analysis of the situation on the international scene. And the effectiveness of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization is inseparably connected with the processes and trends occurring in the global dimension.
I consider it fundamentally important that the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, with its geographical reach from the Baltic Sea to the Pacific Ocean, should play an active and initiative-laden role in these processes.
Esteemed colleagues, the development of affairs in the world confirms that the strategic decision on the establishment of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization was absolutely justified and correct. It meets the long-term, basic interests of all our six states.
Over the past year we have done very big work. But the Shanghai Organization has, perhaps, an even longer and more difficult road ahead.
The Russian Federation is ready and will help to ensure in every possible way that the Organization be an effective instrument and play an independent, weighty and constructive role in international affairs.
I thank you for your attention, esteemed colleagues. We are finishing our work. I want once more to thank all the Heads of State for their fruitful and keen participation in the debate. Our common mind-set is obvious — to strengthen the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, to enhance the effectiveness of its mechanisms and to impart to the activities of the Organization a concrete working character.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 7, 2002, 00:01
Text versionEvents
Press Statement at Conclusion of Shanghai Cooperation Organization Heads of State Meeting
June 7, 2002
00:02
Saint Petersburg
President Vladimir Putin: A very important step has been taken today, in our view, along the road of strengthening mutual understanding and constructive cooperation between the six member states of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization.
The year since the Shanghai Summit has convincingly borne it out: we are all interested in the deepening and consolidation of interaction in the fields of mutual concern.
We are prepared to find points of contact with due respect for the opinion of each state. And our association already, we know this firmly, evokes a growing interest in the world now.
The documents signed today are of system-forming importance for the formation of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization and the further development of cooperation in various fields among our countries. These documents give a real idea what our organization will be and how it will show itself in the present-day international situation.
I want to stress that the SCO is neither a bloc, nor a closed community. Its goals, principles, objectives and mechanisms of interaction are absolutely transparent. We are fully aware of the complexity of the tasks we have set ourselves, and understand that a lot more has to be done in order to really launch the mechanisms of interaction. The Russian Federation will make the necessary efforts for the successful accomplishment of these tasks and early transformation of the SCO into a dynamic and effective organization. I want to express the confidence that this interaction will be one of the key elements in the cause of promoting stability and security in Central Asia, in Asia as a whole and in the world. There are no countries with which the Shanghai Organization could not cooperate in some or other forms. There are no themes on which the Shanghai Cooperation Organization could not foster and develop such interaction.
I want to note that for a year our experts had been intensely working on all the documents which have been signed today, and this work had been completed successfully.
Thank you for your attention.
In conclusion I want once more to cordially thank all the colleagues for the joint productive work. And the members of the press — for the patience, for the close attention to the progress in this work and for the objective coverage of the results achieved.
All the best.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 7, 2002, 00:02
Text version