Events
Opening Remarks at a Meeting with Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko
November 27, 2002
00:01
Volynskoye residence, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: I’m very pleased to welcome you to Moscow. Thank you for accepting my invitation. A number of questions have piled up and I think this is the right moment for “synchronising our watches” on integration problems and disputed issues. At the same time, despite all the arguments, work is progressing. And in general, it is moving in a positive direction. As you know, as part of solving the issues connected with the transition to a single currency, the Russian Central Bank has transferred another tranche of 1.5 billion roubles for the stabilisation of the Belarusian national currency.
We are doing quite well in implementing the former agreements in the energy sphere. By and large, I repeat, despite the arguments, there is noticeable and evident progress. The Prime Ministers are actively preparing for a meeting of the Council of Ministers. And I think that we too should discuss it in order to form the agenda in such a way as to include the relevant issues and ultimately solve them.
In general, I think we have things to discuss and I would like to cordially welcome you to Moscow once again.
Alexandr Lukashenko: Thank you for the opportunity to discuss the acute problems that have arisen recently. They need to be addressed. The issues do not get so much coverage in the media and may not be very well-known to our citizens. I would like to confirm that in the economic sphere, despite all the odds, our trade and economic relations have grown 103.5–105%. That is the growth in trade we will have.
I will take this opportunity to publicly say a couple of things. I have already said it in Belarus, but unfortunately, it has not been reported in Russia and it has apparently not reached you.
Recently, the media in my country and in Russia have been suggesting that there are major problems with the building of the Union State and that Belarus has allegedly decided to change course. I have already said and I repeat here for all the Russian people to know that Belarus and Russia are building their relations proceeding from objective reasons which even you and I are unable to change. Our peoples are close, and we proceed from that. Our economies are integrated, which is what we are doing now. So, there is no question about changing Belarus’ course with regard to our fraternal state. That would be suicidal, as I have already said.
There is another topic that is debated in the media. Recently, I have been reading all the newspapers and articles about Belarus that are published in Russia. We follow that very closely. They are pushing the line that Russia is giving up Belarus under Western pressure. What do we make of it in Belarus? We see it this way: of course, the Soviet Union, the great power that kept up balance in the world no longer exists. Of course, we have grown weaker. You have said it frequently and we are aware that in a certain sense we have grown weaker. We have not grown weaker spiritually or morally, because moral strength has always been a feature of our peoples. And politics in general requires compromises, even sometimes concessions. But to respond to the idea that is introduced in the minds of our people regarding Russia’s surrender of Belarus, I would like to say the following: Russians and Belarusians have always seen Belarus as the final frontier from which there could be no retreat, no matter how hard the pressure, and it has never happened in history. And we believe that today Belarus for the Russian man is the frontier which he would never retreat from. He would never surrender it. Russia has nowhere to retreat because Moscow is behind it. So we are relaxed about the noise that comes from our enemies.
And the third thing. I am aware of an initiative by our ill-wishers, although you probably do not yet know about it. They are trying to start a quarrel between us, to drive a wedge in our personal relations in order to torpedo some processes that we initiated together – good and useful processes for the sake of our peoples. I would like to repeat that we are both far too responsible to allow ourselves to be pushed to the opposite side of the barricades. We will do everything, and I am sure because I know your position, everything in the interests of our peoples. And we will do it even though some people in our country and here and perhaps beyond don’t want it. This is what I wanted to tell you personally so that the journalists hear it and, if they feel like it, convey it to the Russian people, that Belarus has always been and will always be a true friend of the Russians.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you. You know my position very well. Like any other country in the post-Soviet space, Belarus is an independent state and it has the right to choose its domestic and foreign policies and determine their principles. But the fact that you have reaffirmed (as I had no doubt you would) the commitment of Belarus to integration in the post-Soviet space, above all with Russia, sends us an important signal.
During the past decade Russia has given away so much that the question of whether or not we should surrender anything is irrelevant. We will take things back, but only within the universally accepted international norms and within the framework of the agreements that meet the national interests both of the Russian Federation and our partners. We will move towards integration because of the objective needs and historical laws and national interests of our countries. We have done a lot, and thank God nothing has been lost. I am sure we will still accomplish a great deal within the framework of the Union State in the Commonwealth of Independent States together with all our CIS partners. And I think we should think of ourselves as part of Europe. I am sure we will work together with our partners in the other part of Europe, together with the EU and those countries which are not yet its members. In any case, Russian foreign policy is absolutely open and transparent and that is how we will approach all our partners, including Belarus.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 27, 2002, 00:01
Text versionEvents
Joint News Conference with Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko
November 27, 2002
00:02
Volynskoye Residence, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon,
We are ready to brief you on the results of our work. I would like to thank the President of Belarus for agreeing to come to Moscow for consultations on bilateral relations and on our interaction in international affairs.
We have talked a great deal about practically the entire agenda of our relations, we have talked about the problems of the economy, we discussed energy, the relations connected with customs rules and relations in that sphere.
Of course, we spoke about the process of moving closer together within the framework of the integration processes between Russia and Belarus and we have scheduled our meetings, both personal and summit meetings, and meetings of the heads of our governments. We spoke of the need to hold a meeting of the Council of Heads of State of Russia and Belarus late this year or early next year. This is the range of issues we have discussed. If you have any questions we would be glad to answer them.
Alexander Lukashenko: I would like to thank you for the attention you have paid not only today to our delegation (members of the Government are with me and they have worked for two days and nights with the Government of the Russian Federation). First of all, I would like to thank you and the Russian Government for preparing a large list of economic problems within the space of two days, the problems that we have been discussing with you. It is a whole range of issues, some of which have been reported in the media and some have not, but need to be discussed.
I am very pleased with today’s meeting. It moved us forward not only in understanding certain problems in Belarusian-Russian relations, it moved us toward practical implementation of the problems that face us.
We have discussed the situation in the world. I am grateful to the Russian President for briefing me on the latest talks in Europe and with the United States. We support the efforts of the Russian Federation in Europe and in Russian-American relations. I am also grateful to Vladimir Vladimirovich (Putin) for the information he gave me about Russia’s bilateral actions within the CIS. We discussed that spectrum of our relations.
So, we gave another impetus to the international aspects of the foreign policies of our countries and to the economic problems which had been previously discussed with the Government of the Russian Federation, and to our political relations.
The main thing, as Vladimir Vladimirovich has said, is that we have agreed on our short-term actions, on how we will work in the framework of the Belarus-Russia Union and in the framework of the Belarusian and Russian governments. On December 11 or 10 the Russian Government will meet to discuss economic issues and the fuel and energy issues. It is of interest to us and we will attend that meeting with the consent of the Russian side. Immediately after December 11 there will be a session of the Government of the Union State. And then we will agree together on the date of the Supreme State Council meeting to endorse the budget and other actions for 2003 and for the longer term.
Question: What needs to be done to establish cooperation on foreign policy and what measures should be taken to further promote economic cooperation between Russia and Belarus?
Vladimir Putin: As regards coordinating actions in the sphere of international relations, we fully agree with this approach and we took time to discuss it today. I have asked our Foreign Minister, Igor Ivanov, to join us for that part of our talk. We said that the actions of Russia and Belarus must be coordinated and must meet our national interests. As regards the economy, it took up 80% of our time. We are satisfied with the way Belarus is handling these issues. We had certain agreements on coordinating actions in the customs sphere, and both Russia and Belarus have done a lot. We have certain agreements on interaction in the energy sphere. We know that the Belarusian parliament has recently passed a law that gives the green light to the implementation of earlier basic agreements in this sphere, and that is also a cause for optimism and for hope that these processes will be completed. In general, in spite of the arguments – and we have had some arguments, and they are well known – I would like to confirm that there is obvious positive progress.
Alexander Lukashenko: Belarus is grateful to the Russian Federation for the support on foreign policy issues it gives us everywhere. We are aware of that support.
We have a plan for coordinating our foreign policy efforts approved by the Supreme State Council of the Union State, and we are adhering to it. At least neither our side, nor the Russian side have any complaints been voiced regarding the implementation of that plan. We have agreed to continue to tie in our foreign policy plans closely.
As for the economy, it is true that we devoted 80% of the time to economic issues. I have just said that we will take an active part in the meeting of the Russian Government on the problems that are of concern to us. The Council of Ministers of the Belarus-Russia Union State will hold a meeting to take the final decisions on all the economic issues we have discussed.
We have also discussed the participation of Russian capital in our enterprises. There are some questions to be answered and Vladimir Vladimirovich has promised to look at them, for example, on the issue of creating joint stock companies. Not everything depends on us. For example, a company would like to buy into an oil refinery, but the quotas for the supply of Russian oil to that facility are tiny, so the project turns out to be loss-making. Vladimir Vladimirovich has promised to look into it. He believes it need not be an obstacle.
We discussed many questions. And I would like to stress what was the main problem for us: the Russian Federation recently passed a law on the status of foreigners, stateless persons and so on whereby Belarusians were to be treated as foreigners. But knowing that problem Vladimir Vladimirovich said: no, we have an agreement with Belarus, an interstate agreement which prevails over internal legislation. So Belarusians are not covered by it. To me it was the most important statement, as indeed it was for Russians and Belarusians. Under that law Belarusians are not foreigners in the Russian Federation. These are very important things. I think the authorities in the Russian Federation and in my country will act accordingly.
Vladimir Putin: I confirm that.
Question: Have you managed to resolve the recent problems, especially in the gas sphere? And another question: do you see eye-to-eye on the fundamental problems of building the Union State or do you still have differences?
Vladimir Putin: As regards gas, naturally we discussed it at length and, as my counterpart has said, we will discuss it at a meeting of the Russian Government. It is an open discussion connected with the energy mix in the Russian economy. Of course we will take into account the interests of our Belarusian colleagues. The discussion continues, but it is proceeding in an absolutely business-like tone.
The second question is about the building of the Union State. We see eye-to-eye on the most fundamental issue, which is that these processes must continue. Number one. Number two: we have agreed to intensify these processes by working on the Constitution of the Union State. We have agreed to upgrade the status of that commission and we will determine who will be on this commission on both sides by the end of the week.
Alexander Lukashenko: As regards the gas problems as they have been reported, we have not discussed the issue because it has been closed. At my initiative we discussed the issue from a different angle. I raised the issue of the quantities of gas supplies next year and it will be taken into account in the fuel and energy balance of the Russian Federation which will be discussed at the Government meeting in a few days’ time, in which we, Belarusian representatives, will take part. We hope to be able to settle the matter there. Yes, I have asked the Russian President for his support on the issue of the volume of supplies. He will order the Government to look into these issues, to look into the gas problems.
In general, I don’t think there will be any problems regarding the supply of gas in the amounts that Belarus needs for 2003 because there are many suppliers who are ready to supply gas and with whom we are ready to cooperate.
Regarding our progress within the Union State and the approaches, you know, I agree with Vladimir Vladimirovich: we have worked intensively on this and I think the work will pick up even more after the composition of the new joint commission on finalising the Constitutional Act is approved. A lot of material has been prepared. In principle, I don’t think we should have any problems. We have the fundamental document on which we are working and will continue working.
Vladimir Putin: I can merely add that we are well aware of the needs of the Belarusian economy for energy and gas. I can say with full responsibility that these needs will be met by supplies from Russia. As for the price and the terms, that is a commercial issue and we do not discuss them with the President.
Question: Mr Lukashenko, how do you see the development of relations between Belarus and the OSCE?
Alexander Lukashenko: Luckily, our positions coincide. The Russian Federation is currently negotiating with the OSCE because the OSCE group’s mandate in Russia has expired. We are prepared to talk with the OSCE (just like Russia is) to frame the mandate of the OSCE group in Belarus and determine the time frame of that group’s work. We are ready to sit down and have a dialogue. Only, we don’t want any pressure, any prodding. We are a sovereign independent state. We have our national interests and we would like our national interests to be taken into account even though that may involve compromises.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 27, 2002, 00:02
Text versionEvents
Interview with the Chinese News Agency Xinhua and Chinese Central Television (CCTV)
November 27, 2002
00:05
The Kremlin, Moscow
Question: You are to go on a visit to China shortly. It has a special significance because it is taking place soon after the 16th Congress of the Communist Party of China. What do you expect from the upcoming trip and what are the things that most interest you in China?
Vladimir Putin: It is a planned visit. We agreed with Chairman Jiang Zemin that we would regularly exchange such visits: the Chinese leader would come to Russia and the Russian leader to China.
But this is a very special visit. As you have rightly said it is taking place shortly after the 16th Congress of the Communist Party of China. It is a key event not only in your country. Considering the growing economic potential and growing influence and importance of China in world affairs, the Congress was a major international event. We all understand why it has attracted such attention.
A change of generations is taking place in the top state and political leadership of China. And it is of course important for all your partners to know how China will build its relations, not only with its neighbours, but with other states. To us, it is an issue of paramount importance because China is one of our partners in world affairs, and we have many serious plans in the bilateral field. Besides, we are neighbours and there are many issues connected with our interaction because of that factor.
I have a scheduled meeting with Chairman Jiang Zemin with whom I have formed a very good personal relationship. A year ago I became acquainted with the new General Secretary of the Party Central Committee, Comrade Hu Jintao when he was in Moscow on a working visit. We had a chance to meet personally and discuss some bilateral and international problems.
You know that recently we signed a Treaty on Friendship, Good-Neighbourly Relations and Cooperation with the People’s Republic of China. And I must say that it was mainly on the initiative of the Chairman of the PRC. We appreciate it and we believe that this is undoubtedly a historic event in our bilateral relations. So we have to synchronise our efforts on how the tasks set by the signing of the treaty are being fulfilled.
There are many issues to be discussed in the economic, energy, and military-technical fields. We have things to discuss because we have to co-ordinate our actions on the world scene. I must tell you that coordinated global actions of the People’s Republic of China and the Russian Federation are a substantial factor in dealing with a number of major world problems.
Question: You have referred to the Treaty on Friendship, Good-Neighbourly Relations and Cooperation between China and Russia. We believe that the treaty is particularly important because it laid the foundations for the further development of the relations between our countries in the new century. How should China and Russia strengthen their bilateral cooperation and what are its priorities?
Vladimir Putin: China has impressive plans for development. I must say that the pace of the Chinese economy’s development and the competent way in which China goes about it, especially in recent years, attract special attention to the experience of the PRC. So we will focus attention on interaction in the economic sphere. There are many things to discuss here. I have already referred to energy projects. The Chinese economy is expanding and so is its energy consumption. China has limited resources, but Russia has ample. We are talking about long-term contracts which are of interest both to Russia and to the People’s Republic of China.
I have already mentioned the need to coordinate our actions in the world, but I must single out some priorities. China is a nuclear power and our interaction with the People’s Republic of China in ensuring world stability and nuclear non-proliferation – non-proliferation of all weapons of mass destruction and means of their delivery – is a substantial element of our cooperation and a substantial factor in world politics. So it is a separate package of problems that we will discuss.
Then there are the so-called modern challenges and threats. Among the main threats, of course, is international terrorism. International terrorists threaten many countries, and this worries both the People’s Republic of China and the Russian Federation.
I must say that even before the terrorist attacks on Washington and New York on September 11, 2001 China and Russia adopted documents within the framework of Shanghai Cooperation Organisation warning the world about that growing threat.
Unfortunately, not everyone listened to us at the time. But I think we will pay significant attention to this issue during the course of the visit. Of course, we are very interested in the situation in the Asia-Pacific Region. We will work on the agreements reached within the framework of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation. We have put in place special mechanisms of interaction with the centre in Bishkek and we agreed on exchanging information in a number of sensitive areas. That too will be the focus of our attention.
Question: International terrorism and national separatism pose a serious threat to peace. What role should the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation play in combating that evil? What is the outlook for its work?
Vladimir Putin: It is no secret that since the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation was established it has been growing and its influence and the attention it commands on the part of world powers have also been growing. This is not accidental because its zone of interests includes not only the Central Asian region, which is very important, but the adjacent regions as well. And we know that unfortunately, many of the terrorists’ targets are located in these regions.
Examples are not hard to find. We are aware of the tragedies that happened in the Philippines, Indonesia and some other countries in the region. We are aware of the problems that China encounters. We know that it too is eyed by international terrorists. This cannot but worry us. And we must pool our efforts in order to effectively combat that threat.
Naturally, the zone of our interaction within the framework of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation, initially established only to deal with border issues between neighbours, expanded. We saw that the potential of our cooperation is much broader and we will spread it to the economic sphere and to the fight against terrorism. As I said, we have created certain mechanisms for joint work: we set up a centre in Bishkek and we agreed on how to deepen our cooperation within the framework of that organisation and on a bilateral basis, how not to confine it to cooperation between political leaders and to expand it to involve the secret services and law enforcement bodies.
Question: Thanks to your resolute actions a large number of hostages seized by terrorists in Moscow in October have been released. What impact will this terrorist attack have on Russia’s foreign and domestic policies?
Vladimir Putin: First of all, I would like to thank the people of China, on whose behalf the PRC leaders supported their friends in Russia during the difficult and tragic days when hostages were taken in Moscow. They showed their solidarity with us and, I repeat, they acted on behalf of the Chinese people. I would like to cordially thank all the people of China.
Second, the terrorists made miscalculations. They hoped to split Russian society, but that did not happen. On the contrary, they were faced with a strong and united resistance. Their actions proved to be counterproductive: they further consolidated Russian society and gave it new insights into the essence of the ongoing processes. And these processes essentially stem from the fact that international terrorism, under the cover of false slogans of fighting for the independence of Chechnya, is actually pursuing goals that have nothing to do with the interests of the Chechen people. In effect, it is part of a global terrorist network, and their aims are different: to separate the North Caucasus from Russia and then continue on.
The awareness that these were the true intentions came not only to the majority of Russian citizens, but to the people who live in Chechnya. The processes of restoring the political, economic and social spheres received a new impetus there. After the attack, authoritative public and religious leaders in the Chechen Republic raised the issue of speeding up the formation of legitimate bodies of power and adopting the Constitution of Chechnya. We are ready to help them.
I think it is the “threat” of restoring normal life in Chechnya that prompted the terrorist attack. It was aimed at disrupting the peace process.
The aim was not achieved. As I have said, on the contrary, it will speed up the process of consolidating the whole Russian society and the solution of political problems in Chechnya.
Question: How, in your opinion, can the Chechen issue be resolved once and for all?
Vladimir Putin: There is only one way: the Chechen people must be given a chance to adopt their own constitution and form legitimate government bodies that ordinary Chechen citizens will trust and with which they will jointly work to restore peace in Chechnya. We are going to follow that path. And all those who carry weapons, those who do not want to embark on peaceful life, will be held accountable or eliminated.
Question: So a referendum on the Constitution in Chechnya will take place next year?
Vladimir Putin: Judging from the mood during the meeting with the representatives of the Chechen Republic and Chechen public figures, they expect to complete the preparatory process within several months. In other words, we can look forward to the referendum on a constitution by the spring of next year.
Voice: That is, after the final defeat of the Chechen militants…
Vladimir Putin: You know, there are no large-scale military operations there. There are sporadic terrorist acts and attempts to disrupt the peace process. But the terrorists are unlikely to succeed. I think that the process of peaceful transformations in Chechnya is irreversible.
Question: We know that the economic situation in Russia has improved in recent years. The gross domestic product is steadily growing. What measures should the Russian Government take to ensure a sustained economic growth, and especially to attract investments?
Vladimir Putin: Of course, what is needed to attract investments and create a favourable investment climate is stability: political and economic stability, predictable actions of the government at all levels, lack of red tape in decision making, a good administrative environment and an efficient court system. We are going to proceed in all these areas.
You, perhaps, know that we recently passed a package of laws strengthening the judiciary system. We will continue to work to liberalise the tax system and currency legislation. We will seek to relieve the tax burden and of course we hope that the key conditions I mentioned earlier will be ensured.
Question: The CIS countries are a foreign policy priority for Russia. How has Russian policy with regard to these countries changed in the new international situation? What prospects does the CIS have as an international organisation?
Vladimir Putin: We do not intend to be overly optimistic, but we believe it would be wrong to belittle the importance of our interaction with the CIS countries. Not only because we all come from the former Soviet Union, but also we are linked by a vast number of invisible threads in the spheres of the economy, culture, language and common history. Suffice it to say that more than 20 million Russians live in the CIS countries, across the border from the Russian Federation. More than 20 million people. That is a large number for us.
But it is equally important that the overwhelming majority of people in the CIS consider Russian to be their second native tongue. We have no language barriers. That and the fact that we are still heavily interdependent in the economic sphere make the strengthening of interaction with the CIS countries the main priority of the Russian foreign policy. In that respect no changes in the world can influence this priority in Russian foreign policy.
Of course, the world community is developing. We assume that the only thing that does not change is our respect for the sovereignty of these countries and their domestic and foreign policy.
But our priorities remain unchanged.
Question: Belarus and Ukraine recently declared that they were ready to join NATO. What is your reaction to this?
Vladimir Putin: I met the Belarusian President today, and he didn’t tell me about it. Our position is that in order to meet the modern threats – and the main threats today, in my opinion, are international terrorism and nuclear weapons proliferation – one does not need to expand the NATO military-political bloc. The expansion of the bloc does not address the main tasks facing mankind today. But on the other hand, every country has the right to determine its foreign policy priorities, as I said answering your previous question.
We will not regard it as a tragedy. Each country has every right to join any organisation as a sovereign state.
For our part we are also expanding our cooperation with NATO. You know that a NATO-Russia Council has been set up. We are satisfied with the way our cooperation is developing. Indeed, we do not rule out that we can further expand our cooperation with that organisation. But only if NATO itself – as the heads of its leading member states say – gradually transforms itself and adapts to the new tasks and gears itself up to react to the new threats and if the activities of the organisation meet the national interests of Russia. However, to ensure the security of Russia, I am sure that full membership in NATO is not necessary.
Question: An easier question. Since you became president, you have enjoyed massive popular support in Russia. How do you account for the confidence the voters have in you?
Vladimir Putin: You think it is the easiest question? I think it is the trickiest question.
I may be mistaken, but I think there is a Chinese proverb that says: “May God spare you living in the times of change.” Do you have such a proverb?
Voice: Yes.
Vladimir Putin: We have been living through change for 17 years, since 1985. People want stability. They don’t want stagnation because it breeds boredom and apathy, but they want stability in the positive sense of the word. They want to see light at the end of the tunnel; they want to live better; they want their children to have the prospect of a better life.
You know, I have never engaged in political populism, I never make promises that cannot be kept. I set myself and the Government only realistic tasks. I admit that things do not always work out the way we want and we cannot always solve the issues we would like to solve to the fullest extent. But still gradually, very slowly, real incomes are growing, although there are still instances when the payment of wages or pensions is delayed, but it is no longer a large-scale phenomenon as it was, say, a couple of years ago. On the contrary, the pensions are growing little by little and the wages of public sector employees and the salaries of servicemen are also growing.
I think everybody in Russia would agree with me that we want to live in peace and friendship with everyone, not only with our neighbours, but with all the countries in the world, but we expect that our partners will respect the national interests of Russia.
I think the commitment to move in that direction is met with a positive response among many Russian citizens, at least for now. I think however, it would be an unpardonable mistake on my part and on the part of my colleagues if we look at the opinion polls and decide that we have it made and that nothing else needs to be done. On the contrary, I for one believe that if the people trust us it means they expect results that would make a difference in their standard of living, the level of their wellbeing – make a huge difference. Only then would we have good reason to say that we are coping with the tasks we have set ourselves.
Question: You have promised a better life for your people. How will you go about that task?
Vladimir Putin: We have managed to preserve economic growth. This year we have set the target growth at 3.5%. It looks as if we may achieve a 4% growth, perhaps a little more. That is not so bad. Having said that, I know that the Congress of the Communist Party of China set a target of 7% annual growth. If we managed to achieve a 7–8% annual growth I think we could say that we are doing a satisfactory job.
Question: The people of China have very high regard for you and they want to know more about you. Could you tell us about your life principles and your hobbies?
Vladimir Putin: My hobbies are known: I play sports, although not Chinese ones. But I must say that members of my family, my daughters for example, are into wushu, and one daughter has started learning Chinese. So, we pay great attention to the Chinese language, Chinese culture, Chinese literature and history. I hope that considering our closeness, the historical roots of our interaction, and most importantly, the positive development of our relations, Russian interest in the People’s Republic of China will constantly grow.
Question: You work very hard. At the same time you are very lively and energetic. Do you have a special secret? How do you manage to keep so fit and active?
Vladimir Putin: I like what I do and I enjoy doing it.
Question: And the last question. Many books about you have been published in Russia. Do you read them?
Vladimir Putin: I haven’t read a single one of them. I am being quite frank with you, I haven’t read a single book about myself because I am sure that I know a lot more about myself than those who write about me.
Thank you very much.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 27, 2002, 00:05
Text version