Events
Statement and Answers to Questions Following the Russian-Kyrgyz Talks
December 5, 2002
00:02
Bishkek
Vladimir Putin: Taking this opportunity, I would like to congratulate all the Moslems of Kyrgyzstan on the upcoming Festival of Uraza-bairam. Askar Askayevich said that arriving on this bright, pre-festive day, plus with good news is a good omen. We are very glad it so happened; in this there is an omen of fortune.
Now permit me to briefly inform you about the content of this good news. We, indeed, discussed with the President and with the colleagues in the extended composition the full range of bilateral cooperation, and exchanged views on key regional and international issues.
We indeed, I want to confirm this, have no problems which we could consider outstanding. There is complete mutual understanding on all the matters discussed. This holds for the sphere of politics and for economic and for humanitarian cooperation. Russia cherishes this level of achieved teamwork. It is our common view that Russian-Kyrgyz relations are evolving dynamically, in the spirit of traditional friendship and good-neighborliness. And today's talks have again borne out the two countries' resolve to strengthen allied work.
Askar Akayevich and I dwelt at length on questions of economic cooperation and on ties in the military and military-technological fields.
Mutual trade has substantially grown over the recent period — by 49 percent. In absolute terms this, of course, is so far a modest figure, but the trend is very good.
I am convinced today we need to concentrate on key areas of our partnership. In the economic field it is electric power production, water conservancy, cooperation in the defense and agro-industrial sectors, the stimulation of direct interregional ties.
We also paid serious attention at the talks to questions of humanitarian cooperation and to developing contacts in the fields of science, culture and education. I will especially stress that we highly appreciate the consistent policy of the leadership of Kyrgyzstan toward the Russian language, which is here given the official language status. I consider that this substantially expands the possibilities of Kyrgyz society, of young people above all, to freely orient themselves in the information space of Russia and the CIS, to get an education and develop scientific and cultural contacts. For its part, Russia intends to help this comprehensively. We discussed in what areas this assistance can be realized.
An important part of the talks was discussion of our cooperation involving the CIS, the Eurasian Economic Community, the Collective Security Treaty Organization and the Shanghai Cooperation Organization. Among other things, this is important for the solution of the common task of countering the terrorist threat. Of great importance here we think is our partnership within the framework of the Collective Security Treaty, CIS Antiterrorist Center, and SCO Regional Antiterrorist Structure.
Askar Akayevich and I are convinced: combining our efforts and coordinating foreign policy steps will serve to bolster the security of both Russia and Kyrgyzstan, will serve the cause of ensuring stability in all of Central Asia. The just signed Agreement on Security Cooperation opens up new possibilities for that.
In the course of the meeting we also exchanged views on urgent topics of international politics. Among them: Middle East developments, the situation in Afghanistan, other questions. It is important to note here that on all these issues Russia and Kyrgyzstan hold very similar positions.
In conclusion I want to stress: we believe in the great future of Russian-Kyrgyz cooperation and are open for the broadest interaction. And therefore we are convinced that our work in these directions will be successful.
Thank you very much.
Question: What is your vision of the future of the CIS and the Eurasian Economic Community?
Vladimir Putin: CIS is a universal organization, a good platform for our cooperative effort in very many areas of cooperation. I think that if there were no CIS, it would have been difficult for us to solve very many questions which now seem to be natural for solution, or we do not notice that problems exist. In my view, it is a viable structure. We shouldn't only exaggerate its importance. It has to be filled with real content. Therefore we feel that, where possible, relations should be developed on a bilateral basis, or multilaterally, within the framework of such organization as the Eurasian Economic Community or the Collective Security Treaty. They complement the activities of the CIS.
The Eurasian Economic Community was set up recently and has proved its efficiency. It is created on certain principles which differ from the principles of the creation of the CIS. This organization is directed solely to dealing with economic problems of the participating countries. The growth of trade among its member countries is the best proof of the correctness of the steps which were taken at the time of its creation.
This does not mean that the organization mustn't seek better performance. We intend to act in this direction. One topic which we today discussed was just how to adjust our ways of coordination in terms of the organization of the Community's work and of achieving more effective cooperation in the economic field.
Question: What do you think are the prospects of military cooperation of Russia with the countries of the region, primarily Kyrgyzstan, in the light of the recent events which are taking place in Central Asia?
Vladimir Putin: As to military cooperation, it figured prominently in our present talks. We intend to build our relations with the region's countries and with Kyrgyzstan in two directions, on a bilateral basis. We signed the Security Agreement today. This is a good initiative, we actively supported it and we think that this will provide a solid legal basis which makes our cooperation in this field absolutely transparent, understandable to all — our own publics and our partners all over the world. This cooperation is not directed against third countries, it is directed solely to the assurance of our security, the security of Russia and Kyrgyzstan — and we are going to strengthen this collaboration on a bilateral basis, in this case within the framework of the Collective Security Treaty.
You know that the decision has been taken and the Rapid Deployment Forces of the CST countries are already created, with its headquarters in Bishkek. This means that we have about a thousand servicemen detailed by such countries as Russia, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Kazakhstan. This is regional cooperation, which also takes place within the CST framework. But the way chosen to form the Rapid Deployment Forces is such that all the detached contingents are stationed within their own territories. Therefore, the creation of an aviation group of these CST Forces, which is to be permanently based in a Kyrgyzstan airfield, imparts to them an entirely different qualitative significance. This means that, first, these Forces now have strong air cover, and second, they have gotten transport aviation facilities for a quick transfer of manpower and resources to the required areas. Including Bishkek, if necessary.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 5, 2002, 00:02
Text versionEvents
Speech Before Start of Russian-Kyrgyz Talks in Enlarged Format
December 5, 2002
00:01
Bishkek
Vladimir Putin: Dear Askar Akayevich,
Dear colleagues and friends,
First of all, I and the members of our delegation want to thank you for the invitation. The President of Kyrgyzstan and I have many opportunities to solve problems of interest to the two countries. We do that regularly, we are constantly in touch. But in just this format we meet infrequently. Members of the Russian and Kyrgyz leaderships can now discuss straightforwardly, within the framework of this visit, all the problems of interest to them, specific to their departments. We have many things accomplished and, of course, we also count on this visit to be a stage, summing up certain results of the work done over the previous time and determining the prospects for the development of our contacts.
Askar Akayevich Akayev and I discussed the full range of problems, different questions, and talked about ways for our cooperation on a multilateral basis within the framework of the CIS, Collective Security Treaty, Eurasian Economic Community and the Shanghai Cooperation Organization. We also thoroughly went over certain regional and international problems.
One of the principal tasks is that from the high level of political cooperation we need to move to more substantial work in the sphere of economy. Askar Akayevich outlined the most promising areas. And I too will allow myself to say a few words about this.
It is gratifying that the decline in mutual trade has been overcome recently. We not only have overcome it, but a growth tendency has taken off — 49 percent in 11 months.
Of course, the volume in absolute figures thus far is very small, but the trends are positive. I think that more effective use should be made of the Intergovernmental Commission on Trade, Economic, Scientific and Technical Cooperation to step up the practical collaborative effort in the economic field.
We have a good buttress — the Treaty and Program of Economic Cooperation for the 2000–2009 Years. Based on these documents, a lot can surely be done and it is my conviction that we need more frequently to draw on the experience in arriving at mutually acceptable solutions — we have that experience. The Ministry of Finance and other departments had worked ahead of our meeting, had prepared three documents which we, for our part, are ready to sign.
We regard the resumption of real cooperation in electric power production as promising. Russia is a natural partner of the Central Asian countries in developing water resources. I was at one of our enterprises, saw finished product which could be used. It is obvious that the program can't be limited to those products; there is a need for large capital investments, it is necessary to combine the efforts of not only Russia and Kyrgyzstan — the capabilities of international financial organizations also need to be attracted. We discussed that with the World Bank leadership. Here we have something to talk over.
These are not simple, but promising, realizable projects. We have the potential and work experience in this field. RAO UES Russia could make supplies of equipment and materials to generating plants of Kyrgyzstan in exchange for electricity supply to Kazakhstan. There we also have relevant economic interests and joint ventures.
The time has come to consider the possibility of deepening this cooperation, and on this question we absolutely agree with the Kyrgyz President.
We are interested in cooperation in water conservancy on a bilateral basis and in a multilateral format, involving other interested countries. And it may well be possible to arrive at the adoption of appropriate programs.
It is important to encourage more ties under the auspices of subjects of the Russian Federation. We also support this line of cooperation. We are very glad that direct contacts are being established, and it is no coincidence, of course, that our delegation incorporates the heads of major regions of Russia, those which directly work with Kyrgyzstan. We will continue to encourage this work in every possible way.
Actively and dynamically our ties are evolving in the humanitarian sphere. We regard cooperation in this field as one of our priorities. We highly appreciate the policy of the leadership of Kyzgyzstan in questions of the preservation of the Russian language use, of the Russian-language cultural-information space. For our part, we will continue to render comprehensive support to your efforts in these fields. I believe that the practice of meetings similar to the All-Kyrgyzstan Meeting of Alumni of Russian Colleges and Universities, in which you took part, could be continued. We are pleased to invite you to carry out such an undertaking in Russia, in Moscow. We know of the decisions to constitutionally enshrine, impart to the Russian language the status of an official language. We highly appreciate this position of the Kyrgyz President and the deputies of parliament.
Russia is duty bound, of course, to respond appropriately to the policy which Kyrgyzstan pursues toward cultural and educational issues linked to Russia, including the Russian language. This must find a positive response.
We understand your anxiety over the migration processes. These issues, too, may well be resolved through bilateral agreements.
I know of the Kyrgyzstan side's interest in deepening cooperation between the Russian Olympic Committee and the Kyrgyzstan’s Olympic Committee. We count on this cooperation to be effective, we know Kyrgyzstan's capabilities. I hope that the plans which both Olympic Committees have will be implemented. We are ready, at a state level, to support these initiatives.
That's what I would like to say at the beginning of the talks.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 5, 2002, 00:01
Text version