Events
Excerpts from Introductory Remarks at a Meeting on the Problems of the Caspian Region
April 25, 2002
00:00
Astrakhan
Vladimir Putin: … in the light of the Ashkhabad accords I would like to propose the following topics for discussion.
First, transportation problems. These have always been important problems for Russia and they remain bottlenecks in our economy to this day. Several bottlenecks in the transportation network can nullify all the efforts in other parts of the system. Transport is a particularly important problem for the Caspian region. It is a zone of cooperation not only for the five littoral Caspian states, but for many other countries whose goods pass through the region. That is why it is necessary to take a thorough look at all of the economic and technological conditions of the North-South Transport Corridor project. As you know, we have signed a corresponding intergovernmental agreement with Iran. Our other partners and neighbours have also evinced a keen interest in this work.
<…>
Second, but no less important, is the development of new hydrocarbon fields. The Caspian region has enormous opportunities for that. We are interested in the most effective operation of the Caspian Pipeline Consortium. It is important that it carry not only Kazakh but also Russian oil to consumers.
Of course, the remaining differences among the Caspian states on dividing lines and terms of exploitation of border fields complicate the activities of energy companies. They impede the economic activities of the oil and gas companies in the region. I repeat, we made substantial progress towards solving that problem in Ashkhabad, but here, in the region, the potential of development must also be tapped. Some of our companies, such as LUKoil, are very active and committed and in general, in my opinion, have been able to build up a good relationship with the partners in the Caspian states. Such activities, of course, merit support on the part of the state.
The third problem is closely connected with the development of subsoil resources – environmental monitoring. It should be particularly strict in the region. I am aware that the company uses very environment-friendly technologies. And tomorrow, together with some of the colleagues attending this meeting, we will be able to visit one of the oil derricks.
However, as practice shows, a growing scale of production often leads to a less demanding approach and a loosening of control over these issues. That is very dangerous and we should prevent such a development.
The next topic for discussion is preserving the biological resources of the Caspian. The Caspian has 70% of the world population of sturgeon fishes, of which 40% are harvested in the Astrakhan region. It is our priceless national heritage. Everybody knows that in the last 30 years we have been squandering these resources and choking them with industrial waste. The regional environment has improved somewhat in recent years. However, illegal fishing has increased to appalling proportions. It continues with the involvement of various levels of government. The latest measures taken in this sphere have failed to turn around the situation.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 25, 2002, 00:00
Text versionEvents
Answers to Questions from Journalists After the Meeting on the Problems of the Caspian Region
April 25, 2002
00:02
Astrakhan
Question: A Caspian crusade has been announced today. What are its goals and tasks? Will it be a military exercise?
Vladimir Putin: It is the first time in ten years that Russia will be conducting military activities of this kind on the Caspian. The Caspian Flotilla ships are regularly put to sea, but no large-scale exercises of this kind have been held in the past ten years. There are very many military-political problems on the Caspian. Routes passing through the Caspian may be used by terrorists. You know that hostilities in Afghanistan which is in the immediate proximity of the region have not yet ended. We have yet to fully solve the problem of terrorism in the Caucasus, also next door. The drug trafficking routes from Afghanistan to Russia and Western Europe pass through the Caspian.
The first task that the military will be tackling during this exercise – and it will of course be a military exercise – is to practice cutting the channels that can be used by terrorists and drug traffickers.
The second task is to practice better coordination of the fleet in addressing the problem of rescue at sea. No Caspian country can claim that it has a comprehensive approach to that task today, but then no Caspian state has such a powerful fleet on the Caspian. I think it would be right for our sailors to set an example.
Question: Reports today say that Khattab has been liquidated. How will that impact the whole antiterrorist operation in Chechnya?
Vladimir Putin: If he has indeed been eliminated, that is another blow to terrorism.
As to whether the situation will change, if the reports are confirmed, I would say the following: I think it is not the question of Khattab, but the whole range of measures that we must conduct in the Caucasus in general and in Chechnya in particular. These are political as well as military, economic and social measures. If we do all this in a comprehensive, persistent and successful manner we will reverse the situation. If we grab just one link in the chain we will hardly achieve a satisfactory final result. But we will act in a comprehensive way and will be sure to achieve the result.
Question: You introduced a new term, “bioterrorism”, during the meeting today. How will you go about fighting that phenomenon at the government level?
Vladimir Putin: That the state has lost a measure of control over the biological resources is a manifestation of its weakness. It has manifested itself in many other areas of the country’s life. The problem at hand, the problem of terrorism, is also a sign of the weakness of the state which has been unable to control the processes for which it must be responsible. As for the topic you have raised, it has many facets and they were discussed at today’s meeting. It is not only about the people who engage in illegal fishing on the Caspian. It is also about the masterminds that transport and sell the products and engage in financial swindles. There too, a multi-pronged approach is needed on the part of the state. We will proceed in this way and address all the links in this chain.
But I believe that the challenge is larger and more important than just illegal fishing. We must think about preserving the very vulnerable ecosystem of the Caspian and that hinges on concerted actions of all the agencies and ministries involved in the exploitation and protection of Caspian natural resources. There is no one-size-fits-all approach. What is needed is a purposeful state policy to preserve these biological resources. It is the aim of our meeting today to work out such a policy. We will have such a policy and it will be implemented.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 25, 2002, 00:02
Text version