Events
Speech at the Military Parade Celebrating the 57th Anniversary of Victory in the Great Patriotic War
May 9, 2002
16:34
Moscow
President Vladimir Putin:
Comrade soldiers and sailors, sergeants and sergeant-majors!
Comrade officers, generals and admirals!
Dear veterans! Citizens of Russia!
I congratulate you on this holiday – Victory Day!
I greet all of you who fought selflessly for this victory! All of you who fought on the frontlines and in the rear. All of you who fought for your Motherland and for other peoples’ freedom and independence.
Fifty-seven years have now passed since the end of that just war and our Great Victory. But this victory came at a terrible price – at the price of the lives of our fathers and grandfathers. They endured inhuman suffering but they put an end to the total extermination of people, saved our Fatherland, delivered the world from fear and gave it a future.
The enemy was unable to bring our people to its knees. We stopped the enemy here, outside Moscow, in 1941. In 1943, we broke the backbone of the enemy’s forces at Stalingrad and Kursk, and in 1945, we finished the enemy off in its own lair.
Here, on Red Square, our victorious soldiers threw 200 banners taken from the defeated Nazi armies at the foot of the Kremlin walls.
Our Armed Forces have kept this spirit of victory alive, this spirit that has always supported Russia’s military throughout history and that is its backbone and moral foundation.
The world has changed greatly over these last years but it is still very vulnerable. Again and again the forces of evil and violence raise their heads in our world. Today, they bear different names but their actions are the same. They still bring with them death and destruction, and it is our duty not to forget that at any moment they could become just as great a danger as was Nazism.
Victory Day is a lesson and a warning to us. It reminds us that adopting an international wait-and-see position and showing unjustified tolerance only served to make the fascists stronger. The international community’s lack of action at that time allowed the fascists to spread around the world and gave free rein to hatred and cruelty.
The only way to counteract threats such as these is for countries and peoples to unite. The anti-fascist coalition was proof of this. The allies were able to defeat the enemy at that time. And today, we have once more joined forces and are uniting against a common threat – the threat of terrorism.
Dear comrades!
Today is a day of national pride and of gratitude to our veterans. The dignity and unity of the generation of victors is the most precious heritage that has been passed on to us, their children and grandchildren.
Our fathers and grandfathers never waited for anyone to come from outside and save them. The greatness of our people and our country is the fruit of their own personal feats, their unity and heroic labour.
The times demand action from us, too. We must work honestly and have respect for ourselves and for our Motherland. During the cruel years of war the country rose as one to defend itself. We need just such unity today, too, in our peacetime lives. It is this that will assure a worthy future for Russia and that will assure the freedom and prosperity of our people.
I congratulate you on this great occasion!
Happy Victory Day!
Glory to our Fatherland!
Glory to the victors!
Hurrah!
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 9, 2002, 16:34
Text versionEvents
Speech at Meeting with Veterans Marking the 57th Anniversary of Victory in the Great Patriotic War
May 9, 2002
16:40
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin:
Dear veterans!
Dear comrades!
Today we are celebrating – celebrating an event that is most dear to our people. But even as we celebrated today, an explosion went off in Kaspiisk.
At the parade just before I compared terrorism to Nazism. Indeed, it is just as inhuman and just as bloodthirsty.
This crime today was committed by scum for whom nothing is sacred. Their crime gives us the right to treat them as we did the Nazis, whose only aim was to bring death, sow fear and kill. Even on this day as we celebrate victory and remember those who died in the war, even on this day, bandits are killing civilians, including children, in cold calculation.
During the Great Patriotic War, people went to war with the call to “Crush the Vermin!” in their minds, and the vermin were destroyed.
And no matter how great the challenges facing Russia today, we will resolve them.
I now ask you to honour the memory of those who died in Kaspiisk.
Today, on the day of the Soviet people’s victory in the Great Patriotic War, I want to address special words to our veterans. I greet all of you who endured much and achieved victory, all of you who not only brought it to your own homes but gave it to the whole world.
To you, dear frontline soldiers, we offer our eternal gratitude and our wishes for health, prosperity and warmth. You deserve this for your achievements and the way you have lived your lives.
The spring of 1945 brought us more than one victory. After our victory in the war came victories in peacetime: victories in rebuilding our economy, achievements in education, culture, in the exploration of outer space and the development of science.
But we also learned difficult lessons from our victory in 1945. This is why, as we build up our country’s economic might, we must ensure that every family has enough for its needs, and as we strengthen the state, we must give greater freedom to our citizens. As we modernise the armed forces, we must not only improve combat preparedness but also raise the civic consciousness of our military and resolve the social problems faced by servicemen.
Today, 57 years after the war, we must also remember that the defeat of Nazism came at the cost of millions of human lives lost, cities devastated and entire countries destroyed. This cost was the consequence of the lack of unity between countries who were unable to unite in time and see the full danger facing the entire world.
The solid coalition of allies dealt the final blow to fascism. Today, when the Nazi ideas of terrorism, intolerance and racial superiority are still present in this world, it is our duty to remember how invaluable is this resource of cooperation that we have.
Dear friends!
The history of the 1940s is permanently bound with the history of World War II. It is a time that was defined by the concepts of war and peace. But it is also defined, ultimately, by the spirit and heroism of our people.
This was truly a national war and it brought truly a national victory. This war is forever written in the chronicles of our Fatherland’s great dates as the feat of our soldiers and the triumph of our commanders, as an example of our people’s unbending will in the fight for the independence of their Motherland.
It is tradition to hold a salute throughout the country on this day in honour of this celebration. This salute will remind us of victory and will also remind us of those who lost their lives in this tragic war. The salute is short-lived but our memories and our understanding of the lessons of this war are infinite – our memory of the great achievement of the Soviet people and our national pride for this most difficult and just victory.
Today we have the full right to remember all our heroes.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 9, 2002, 16:40
Text version