Neglect of international agreements and understandings is absolutely unacceptable. Equally unacceptable is the practice of “double standards” and attempts at the uni-lateral use of force. On that issue, our foreign policy approaches and priorities are absolutely identical with those of China.
* * *
Ladies and gentlemen,
We see this Russian-Chinese summit as a milestone in the relations between our two states.
Today millions of people are involved in cooperation between China and Russia. It is a multi-level system of contacts, exchanges and links in the most diverse areas. We must constantly feed new ideas and initiatives to this living organism.
We already have many interesting programmes, including in the spheres of energy, high technologies and transport. These projects do not only bring tangible benefits and create new jobs. In fact they are changing the configuration of the economic infrastructure in Eurasia. That is our common contribution to the development of integration processes in the world.
I believe that scientific and technical cooperation between the two countries is opening up new opportunities. All the more so because we have a solid base, a rich experience of decades of joint work in diverse areas of science and technology. Modern joint developments in the sphere of high technologies have a big future. Given proper support on the part of our governments they can well occupy a worthy place in world markets.
Coordinated efforts in the protection of the environment are very important. The scientists of our countries are well equipped to coordinate their actions in fighting the diseases that threaten the health and the very future of humankind.
The benefits of joint work are manifesting themselves in the regions of Russia and China. I believe that direct cooperation between regions can be a key element in our bilateral ties. It is not by chance that the Russian delegation today includes the Presidential Envoy to the Siberian Federal District and the heads of some regions of the Russian Federation adjacent to Chinese territory who are actively cooperating with their colleagues, the governors of these Chinese provinces.
* * *
The pace of the development of our humanitarian cooperation is highly indicative. Early results of the work of the inter-governmental commission on humanitarian issues at the level of the deputy prime ministers of the two states are already apparent.
Centres for the Russian language in China and for the Chinese language in Russia are developing. A decision has been taken to create cultural centres and hold annual festivals of the two countries’ cultures. Our plans include the promotion of cooperation in sports, tourism, cinema, and the mass media. China won the right to host the 2008 Olympic Games, and we are sure it will be a highlight of international life, of international sporting life. I am sure that China will prepare well for that major event. And we wish success to the Chinese athletes.
Finally, we have started creating joint educational establishments. It is heartening that Beijing University is a leader in this effort. As your rector told me a few minutes ago, Beijing University and Moscow University have jointly set up a post-graduate school.
* * *
Dear friends,
I had a meeting with the General-Secretary of the Chinese Communist Party, Comrade Hu Jintao, yesterday. I believe there is every chance that our relations with the representatives of the “fourth generation of leaders” will be as good and personal as with their predecessors.
The scale of the tasks we are contemplating today is very large. Many of them will have to be tackled by young people, above all, the young people of Russia and China.
Chinese philosophy is full of wise sayings. One of them goes like this: “May the descendants enjoy the cool in the shade of the trees planted by their ancestors”. The saplings of friendship planted by our peoples have already grown into powerful trees. And I am sure that you will not only give due credit for what has been done, but will yourselves initiate many good deeds which will benefit our great peoples.
In conclusion I would like to thank you for the warm reception and wish success to your university, and of course prosperity and happiness to all the Chinese people.
Thank you.
* * *
Question: Mr President, I am a teacher of the Russian language and literature. We are aware that our country’s leaders have a keen interest in Russian culture. For example, during the visit to Tsarskoye Selo our President Jiang Zemin recited Pushkin’s poetry. Can you tell us what are your usual means for becoming acquainted with the Chinese culture and China in general? Thank you.