Events
Speech at a Ceremony for Presenting Credentials
September 26, 2002
00:02
The Kremlin, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon,
In the coming years you will live and work in a complicated, but very interesting country that is experiencing a period of large-scale social-political and social-economic transformations. I think you have already had an opportunity to become convinced that this is the sound approach.
Russia, as it enters the 21st century, is confidently moving along the path of renewal and democratic reforms. The civil society and legal state institutions are growing stronger and our main economic performance indicators are improving. All that offers additional opportunities for our mutually beneficial and many-sided cooperation. I count on your support in making the best use of these opportunities.
There is a broad field for joint work in the international arena as well. The era of globalisation and the new challenges and threats it has brought, above all international terrorism, necessitate a special view of the problems facing mankind. To meet them, it is imperative to have a new philosophy of cooperation based on a solid legal foundation, mutual respect of one another’s interests and equal rights.
Our country is a reliable partner of those states that really seek to form a genuinely democratic system of international relations and are aware of their responsibility for our common future.
The Republic of Poland is our neighbour and one of our key partners. We are satisfied with our intense political dialogue. Today it is important to translate the existing agreements into concrete projects. I am pleased to note that business contacts with our Polish colleagues are developing not only at the state and government levels, but also, quite effectively at the level of experts. For us, of course, the solution of the Kaliningrad problem is very important. Solving all the issues of interaction will help to form an atmosphere of trust not only between our countries, but in Europe as a whole.
We are interested in promoting bilateral trade and economic relations with the Republic of Albania. Normalisation of the situation in the Balkans and the maintenance of stability and sustained development of the region meet our mutual interests.
The relations between Russia and Iraq have a long history. We support an early settlement of the situation in that country by political and diplomatic methods on the basis of the existing resolutions of the UN Security Council and in strict accordance with the principles and norms of international law. The decision on the resumption of the work of the UN inspectors in Iraq opens up real opportunities for that. Early implementation of that decision will meet the concerns of the international community.
The Federal Republic of Germany is one of our key partners in the world. Our relations are marked by a high degree of mutual understanding and trust. We are moving confidently along the road of partnership. Russia and Germany have a huge potential for interaction in all the spheres. We intend to be consistent in translating that potential into concrete actions.
We cherish the traditions of friendship and mutual understanding that have been established between Russia and the People’s Republic of Bangladesh. Early this year marked the 30th anniversary of diplomatic relations between our countries. I am sure that we will be able to give a new impetus to our links in various spheres and will interact even more intensively.
We highly value the positive development of relations with Lithuania. Of course I must tell you frankly that the tone of the development of our cooperation will depend greatly on how the problems connected with the survival and development of the Kaliningrad Region will be solved. In that respect, very much depends on Lithuania. We intend to continue to build up Russian-Lithuanian economic ties, above all in the field of energy and transport.
We attach great importance to the relations of traditional friendship and partnership with Egypt, the leading country in the Arab and Muslim world. We are interested in a continued fruitful dialogue on pressing international and regional problems and the strengthening of mutually beneficial cooperation in various areas.
In conclusion I would like to stress and confirm that the Russian ministries and agencies will give you all the necessary assistance in your work to strengthen the interaction between our countries.
From the bottom of my heart I wish you success in fulfilling this task.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: September 26, 2002, 00:02
Text versionEvents
Speech at an International Conference of the Association of Election Organisers in Central and Eastern Europe
September 26, 2002
00:00
Central Election Commission, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon,
I am pleased to welcome you in Moscow. This is the second time that Russia is hosting your representative forum. And it is taking part in its work with great interest.
I would like you to know that the Russian Government is doing everything possible in order to strengthen the material basis of our national agencies that deal with elections, and this time the Central Election Commission of the Russian Federation is hosting you in a new building. So, I would first of all like to congratulate them on their house-warming, because it is the first large event to be held in the new building.
Your association is the only international association of election organisers in Europe. And you claim much of the credit for the fact that democratic institutions are taking root and the legal principles of the electoral process are being established in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe.
As I have said, our country has great respect for the activities of the association, above all on account of its practical work to promote open and fair elections and to adhere to the democratic principles.
We regard the fact that this conference is taking place in Moscow as the recognition of Russia’s progress in creating an effective and democratic electoral system. Indeed, much has changed in our country in recent years. Today when our lawmakers prepare for the elections they are concerned not with filling the legal void, as in previous years, but with improving the legal system that is already in place.
But I must also stress that many positive changes in our country have taken place precisely because regular and well-organised elections are emerging as a basic condition of ensuring the rights and freedoms of Russian citizens.
In organising the electoral process we do not merely draw on the progressive experience of other countries. The principles, norms and practice of elections in our country fully meet international standards. They have become part of our public life and our political tradition. I think that is very important. They have become part of the professional mentality of those whose duty it is to organise the electoral process in our country.
However, democracy – if it is genuine democracy of course – needs to be constantly fostered and cherished. Your association, which unites representatives of 18 countries, knows that better than anyone else. But many more countries are interested in this work. And that merely underscores the fact that constant exchange of experience and information is important even for “mature” democracies. In fact, we know cases of complicated electoral situations that have arisen in recent years in developed democracies.
By the way, I am aware that there are proposals to expand your association by incorporating representatives of other European countries. Such initiatives aimed at promoting cooperation can only be welcome.
Dear friends,
We in Russia know the price of truly democratic elections. And we see clearly that there is a lot of room for improving our own electoral system. We are moving steadily along that path as we develop both the political institutions and the legal framework.
To be sure, our lawmakers as well as the chief executives and all the staff – I would like to stress that – of the central and local election commissions play a huge positive role in these processes. Theirs is a very complicated and challenging job, but it is very important and necessary for the country. It is also very important for us that the Central Election Commission of Russia is actively cooperating with the European countries in the framework of your association.
As far as I know, the theme of this conference has been proposed by the Central Election Commission of Russia. It builds on the initiative that Russia put forward at the OSCE two years ago. We then pointed out that national legislations had to be screened for compliance with international standards of electoral rights and freedoms.
Today Russia, together with other members of the association, is offering a draft European convention on the standards of elections, electoral rights and freedoms. I hope it will mark a good beginning of the work on a single European international legal document.
I believe that the initiatives aimed at harmonising the approaches in the sphere of electoral law have a big future. They logically fit into the process of legal cooperation among European countries, and remove the possibility of double standards in assessing whether elections are democratic and free.
Of course, we understand that a law-based electoral system alone cannot ensure a fully-fledged democracy unless it is “built into” the genuine democratic institutions of the whole society. Moreover, taken out of the context of overall democracy in society, it can merely serve as a veil and a screen for undemocratic principles of a state. That is true. But the system itself is very important and is in need of a common approach in the world, and certainly in Europe.
In conclusion, I would like to note that most of you have extensive experience in the professional preparation of elections. Therefore I am sure that your discussion will be meaningful and highly constructive. And its results will serve the key common goal, as I said, the formation of common principles of building democracy in Europe in the 21st century.
And, of course, I offer heartfelt wishes of success to you.
Thank you very much.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: September 26, 2002, 00:00
Text version