Events
Extracts from Opening Remarks at a Security Council Session on the Country's Economic Security
July 8, 2002
00:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon.
Today we are discussing the economic aspects of Russian national security. The issue is directly connected with the protection of the national interests of the country and the success of our economic policy in general.
<…>
Over the past several years not only has the world changed, but Russia has changed and our economy has changed. Accordingly, the character of threats has changed. I would like to stress that knowing these risks and threats is a necessary condition of effective economic policy. So the Government and executive bodies must not only be clearly aware of them, but also factor them into their forecasts, programmes and strategy for the social and economic development of Russia. The documents before you attempt to objectively assess the current state of affairs, to identify the economic aspects of security and the instruments that can be most effective in protecting our national interests.
We need to know objectively how the Russian economy is affected by such factors as the demographic situation, illegal migration, and the border and customs problems. I would especially like to draw your attention to border problems. We know and we have said it more than once that because of the change in the geopolitical situation many formerly internal Russian regions have become border regions. That has dramatically changed the situation in the country.
We must be aware of the present and potential threats that hold back structural reform, above all in the energy and transport fields and in the process of transition from an economy based on fuel and raw materials to science-intensive development. It is also important to know in advance the risks that are in store for us as we enter the World Trade Organisation, and proceeding from that, to look for mechanisms to protect the domestic producer and enter promising segments of the world market. By the way, the relevant instructions were issued to the Government some time ago and I would like to have an early report on the results of that work.
And finally, the most important thing. We must have a clear idea of what factors may have a negative impact on the key indicators of the country’s development, that is, the rate and quality of economic growth. Knowledge of these parameters, timely warning about possible risks and selection of adequate instruments to counter them are key conditions of our competitiveness and the capacity of the Russian economy to cope with unfavourable internal circumstances and changes in the world market.
The main areas of effort have been identified in the documentation and, from what I have seen, they have been identified correctly. But we had expected to get a complete, detailed and coherent document, a document that would provide clear guidelines for our work. I think to match these requirements, the document will need to be revised in line with our discussion today.
Our meeting today is also an opportunity, both for the Government and for the Security Council, to have another look at all the problems connected with the issues that we are to discuss. So, I urge the Government and the Security Council to take an active part in finalising today’s document and to tap the full potential for cooperation between you.
<…>
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 8, 2002, 00:00
Text version