Events
Introductory Remarks at a Meeting of the Interstate Council of the Eurasian Economic Community
May 13, 2002
00:01
The Kremlin, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon,
Allow me once again to cordially welcome you to the Russian capital, Moscow. We all hope that the Moscow meeting will mark another important step in developing and strengthening our interaction. Our ability to cooperate and remove barriers that hinder business activities goes a long way in determining the wellbeing and progress in the vast Eurasian expanse.
During the past year we have accumulated what is in many ways unique experience of cooperation in the economic and the humanitarian spheres. EurAsEC, without exaggeration, is gradually emerging as the engine of integration processes. It is not by chance that there is growing interest in the experience of our interaction and the experience of our organisation on the part of our partners and other states.
I am glad to note that the President of the Republic of Moldova, Vladimir Voronin, is attending our meeting for the first time, and I would like to welcome him on your behalf.
Our chairman, the President of Kazakhstan, has just had a conversation with another colleague, the President of Ukraine, which, like Moldova, has demonstrated a desire to expand its cooperation with EurAsEC and, as the first step, take part in the work of our organisation as an observer.
Once again, I welcome you all to Moscow.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 13, 2002, 00:01
Text versionEvents
Press Opportunity following a Meeting of the Interstate Council of the Eurasian Economic Community
May 13, 2002
00:02
The Kremlin, Moscow
Question: Is there a danger that the desire of member countries to join the WTO will have a negative impact on EurAsEC?
Vladimir Putin: That cannot be ruled out. The prevention of such a development was high on the agenda today. We have passed a special decision on the issue whereby all the EurAsEC countries, in the course of their consultations and talks on WTO accession, would coordinate their positions based on the principles enshrined in the rules of that organisation. You would all agree that the acceptable terms are those Russia is bargaining for because owing to its economic clout it is better placed to negotiate terms than other countries. That, I think, is one of the main decisions to emerge from today’s meeting. I subscribe to the assessment given by our Chairman, the President of Kazakhstan.
Question: A year since it was formed, can it be said that EurAsEC as an organisation has a future?
Vladimir Putin: If we didn’t believe in the future of that organisation we wouldn’t have created it in the first place. After the disintegration of the USSR much has been lost. The earliest sufferers from the rupture of economic relations were ordinary citizens. The challenge is to preserve what should be preserved, considering the processes of globalisation in the world economy. Not to lag behind these processes, but to offer the goods and services that are competitive and to use together in the world market the advantages of interaction within the Commonwealth.
All that will combine to create favourable conditions for development. The chairman of our organisation has already mentioned the rate of economic growth we have achieved recently. I must say that Kazakhstan is the indisputable leader in terms of growth rates. 13-odd percent growth of GDP in the first two or three months of the year is, in my opinion, a brilliant result. Tajikistan is doing quite well, with more than 8%. That is a very good indicator. I think one of the reasons for this is that within EurAsEC many barriers to cooperation have been removed. We have discussed energy and transportation projects, interaction between customs and border services. If we move in that direction vigorously I am sure the organisation will have a future.
Question: EurAsEC has recently been compared to the European Union. These organisations are similar in character. Did you consider in the course of today’s meeting the creation of a mechanism for closer cooperation between EurAsEC and the European Union?
Vladimir Putin: Of course, one may compare EurAsEC with the European Union but today the comparison will certainly not be in our favour. The European Union has traversed a long road of cooperation and interaction. As you know, it all began with coal and steel. Just recently in Europe they recalled the French Foreign Minister [Robert Schuman] who initiated that process.
As regards interaction, it is of course possible. We know that the European Union is open to interaction. Russia is actively cooperating with the European Union. Similarly, EurAsEC is an organisation created above all to strengthen interaction mechanisms in the economic sphere.
I am absolutely convinced that the European Union will be interested in cooperation with EurAsEC. I am referring to the huge energy potential of the EurAsEC member countries, transport potential and other infrastructure we would be ready to make available for effective interaction. We have the markets and we have the production, not only raw materials, but also high technologies. All these are of course the priorities that can be effectively used. We did not discuss that particular option today in a hands-on way, but whenever we meet we always think about the processes going on in the European Union and compare and try to borrow the best of their experience. Just today I talked about the European Union’s decision to create a common border service. This is more than coordinating policy on border matters, this is the creation of a supranational organisation. As you know, one of our decisions today is to coordinate our interaction in the sphere of customs regulation. I wouldn’t say it has been done under the direct influence of the European Union, but I repeat, we are comparing what we do with the actions of the European Union and we will try to structure our common work within EurAsEC so that there should be no obstacles to cooperation with the European Union, so as to clear the decks for interaction.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 13, 2002, 00:02
Text versionEvents
Opening Remarks at a Meeting with Kazakhstan President Nursultan Nazarbayev
May 13, 2002
00:03
The Kremlin, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: How do you see the progress in preparing the document on the Caspian?
Nursultan Nazarbayev: In 1998 we signed the basic treaty on the division of the Caspian mineral resources along the median line equidistant from the shores. It is a time-tested approach in world practice. I think the document being signed marks a breakthrough in the solution of the Caspian problem, especially in the wake of the Ashgabad summit. First, it solves the issue and the Caspian Sea and its resources are again being shared. It is a shared and demilitarized sea. And we jointly tackle the issue of environmental and biological resources.
Second, the mineral resources on that line are shared by Kazakhstan and Russia. Today we signed an agreement on three fields and we have equally divided the resources there. That dramatically elevates the economic relations between Russia and Kazakhstan to a much higher level. I don’t think Russia or Kazakhstan have such contracts with any other CIS states. That is all I can say.
Vladimir Putin: I think you have identified the absolutely correct priorities. You began by mentioning the problems of the environment which were stressed by Heydar Aliyev back in Ashkhabad. In addition to economic issues, when looking at the Caspian problems, we must give priority to the use of the resources and the environment of the Caspian Sea. The Caspian ecosystem is very vulnerable and needs special regulation. That issue can only be effectively addressed by combining our efforts because it is impossible to exploit the resources there without affecting the interests of our neighbours. We are aware of it and these are our priorities in approaching the issues of the Caspian as a whole.
Nursultan Nazarbayev: It has to be noted that our experts have been working hard. It was not easy to determine the median line because there are meridian-based methods and there are the shoreline-based methods. But our governments have found a way out. I think it owes much to the mutual trust and the relations between Kazakhstan and Russia.
Vladimir Putin: I must say that our bilateral meeting with you in Almaty was very constructive because the proposals you spelled out there have provided the basis for this document.
Nursultan Nazarbayev: In that case I would like to reciprocate with a compliment. But for your decision and your political will we would never have resolved this issue because there are many nuances. And for the benefit of the media present here I would like to say the following. The Kurmangazy field, which we will develop together with Russia, is a colossal project and you will hear a lot about it in the days to come. I must say that in this way we offer all the world investors an opportunity to come there and work confidently. We will develop the two other fields likewise on the basis of parity.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 13, 2002, 00:03
Text version