Events
Opening Remarks at a Meeting with Moscow Mayor Yury Luzhkov, Presidential Envoy to the Central Federal District Georgy Poltavchenko, Internal Affairs Minister Boris Gryzlov and Moscow Chief of Police Vladimir Pronin
October 24, 2002
02:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: A monstrous terrorist attack was made in Moscow last night. I know that the Moscow Mayor visited the site, saw it all with his own eyes and took part in the emergency headquarters’ work.
I must say that Moscow is an open city, just as the whole Russia is open. Terrorists are surely provoking us to introduce into our country the patterns they introduced in Chechnya in their time. We shall not succumb to those provocations.
Now, we must focus our efforts on one thing—to guarantee the safety of the area round the site of the attack, help the hostages and support their relatives. To help the people is what matters most.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 24, 2002, 02:00
Text versionEvents
Opening Remarks at a Meeting with Internal Affairs Minister Boris Gryzlov and Federal Security Service Director Nikolai Patrushev
October 24, 2002
01:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: The first information offered by the spokesmen of the terrorists who took hostages in Moscow the previous night came from abroad as another proof that the attack—one of the most atrocious terrorist attacks not only in Russia but in the whole world—was arranged in overseas terrorist centres, where it was plotted and the force recruited.
I don’t think anyone doubts that it is the people who have been terrorising Chechnya for years and are now calling for an end to the conflict, the people who sowed death and destruction in Chechnya and outside it, and are out now to spread it farther afield.
Nevertheless, to rescue the hostages and guarantee their greatest possible safety shall be the main goal of our law enforcement agencies and secret services in planning and carrying out whatever operations.
Now, let us take stock of the situation.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 24, 2002, 01:00
Text version