We have mentioned the Constantine Palace. It lay in ruins. It was crumbling. Only the walls had remained, even the roof had collapsed. And how did the idea arise? I must say honestly that I cannot claim the credit for it. It was about two years ago. I remember the time exactly because it is connected with the premiere of War and Peace at the Mariinsky Theatre. I was in St Petersburg and I was awaiting the British Prime Minister and his wife at the entrance to the theatre. I was approached by a man, who struck me as being rather young and who began talking to me about the problem of the Constantine Palace. He produced some kind of papers, historical evidence and photographs of the dilapidated building and argued that it was necessary to prevent its final demise, to revive it, etc. Frankly, when I went back to Moscow I put all this aside not knowing what to do about it because the cost was too high. The budget does not have that much money. And even if it had, it was hard to justify spending budget money on this because there are far more important problems needing solutions in the social sphere. Later, when it was decided to stage events in the city to mark the 300th anniversary and to hold a Russia-EU summit there, it was suggested that the palace could be restored to become a venue for major international events. We went to our big private companies which gave 99.9% of the money needed for the restoration, a total of $290–300 million. I repeat, everything has been financed by private Russian companies. The budget earmarked 5–10 million roubles and then only to enable the Government to monitor the progress of the work: how the contractor spends the money and so on. That is how the idea was put into practice and, by the way, I have never since seen the man who initiated it. I don’t know his name or his address. So, if he hears this, let him come forward and contact Valentina Matviyenko. They will have things to discuss…
A.Manilova, St Petersburg League of Journalists: People are wondering whether the Constantine Palace is a residence of the Russian President.
Vladimir Putin: By the way, there is not a single residence of the Russian President in St Petersburg. The Constantine Palace is not a residence.
It is a place where major international events are held and I think that Russia needs such a place. I think it would be a good idea to have such a venue in St Petersburg, especially since the complex is outside the historical centre and is unlikely to be much of a hindrance to people as they go about their daily business.
A. Gubankov, Russia-St Petersburg Broadcasting Company: We have mentioned the Constantine Palace and this will be the venue of the summit. In general, a lot of important people will come to St Petersburg, which has prompted a lot of talk among city residents who say that it will not be a democratic holiday, but that it will be mainly a holiday for guests. Can you comment on that?
Vladimir Putin: As far as I know the holiday will start on May 23. And the important people you are talking about will not have arrived yet. They arrive as guests of the city and the country for a day or a day and a half, and some will spend just a few hours. They will be in town in the evening of May 30 and on May 31. They will all have left by evening of May 31 or June 1. I have already mentioned that the festivities might have been treated as a local event, but then the funding I mentioned earlier could hardly have been obtained. I must say that the fact that the 300th anniversary is treated not only as an all-Russian, but at least as a European event has convinced the State Duma deputies and the heads of various ministries and agencies that the city needs money and resources to maintain its appearance, its infrastructure and so on. But that is not the main thing. The main thing is that it is truly a city of an all-Russian and all-European level, so I hope that the presence of VIPs for a day and a half and the celebrations of the 300th anniversary by the local people and those whom we are inviting for the occasion will not clash. At least I hope that they won’t clash.
A. Gubankov, Russia-St Petersburg Broadcasting Company: A follow-up to the topic raised here. Many people in St Petersburg have expressed this kind of fear: the celebrations will be over, they say, the President will go away, the festive banners will be removed from Nevsky Prospekt and that will mark the end of the large-scale work to revive St Petersburg. Can you dispel these doubts and fears?
Vladimir Putin: I think that the city has recently been somewhat neglected. It has been underfunded, in my opinion. I repeat, the 300th anniversary provides an occasion to remind the whole country and Europe of the importance of St Petersburg. Your colleague has just mentioned VIPs. Actually, it was not from us that the idea of having them here originated. Two years ago, in March 2001, I was invited to attend an EU summit in Stockholm, and during a meeting the Prime Minister of Luxembourg stood up and said he had a suggestion to make. “We all take a positive view of what is happening in Russia. In two years’ time St Petersburg, which has been regarded as Russia’s “window to Europe” since the times of Peter the Great, will mark its 300th anniversary. Let us all come to St Petersburg and display Europe’s flags as a token of solidarity and support for Russia.” Naturally, I welcomed the idea. I said that of course we would do everything to organise the event properly. In general, it was a scheduled event. The Russia-EU summit takes place every six months alternating between Moscow and some European capital, but because the event coincided with the 300th anniversary we have invited more of our colleagues than usual.
As for not leaving what has been started, I think that is one of the main challenges for the future. This is my view. Honestly, I have regarded the 300th anniversary exclusively as an occasion to draw the country’s attention to the problems of the city which belongs to all of Russia and all of Europe. As I have said, I am thinking mainly of the city’s cultural heritage. Therefore the city authorities, the city legislature and administration will bear much of the burden of these problems, but the major infrastructure projects that have been initiated and that cannot be completed without federal assistance, will be continued. A start has been made; the arrow has been shot and it cannot be stopped. In any case I very much hope that and I will do all that is necessary to keep things going. We will see these projects through: we will complete the metro, the Ring Road and the dam. And the other facilities too.
I.Pavlovsky, Rosbalt News Agency: Let us look at the European conference that will take place during the celebrations of the 300th anniversary of St Petersburg. An opinion poll conducted in 12 European countries in late April has produced some interesting figures. One in every three respondents has heard about the jubilee of St Petersburg and half of them believe that it is a European and not a local Russian occasion. That shows the reservoir of good will that Europeans have for St Petersburg. Do you think St Petersburg can capitalise on that for its further development? And if so, in what way?Events
Opening Remarks at Talks with President Hu Jintao of China
May 27, 2003
00:02
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Esteemed Chairman,
Esteemed colleagues,
Allow me once more to wish you a warm welcome to Moscow.
Relations between the Russian Federation and the People’s Republic of China are at a high level, higher perhaps than they have ever been before. We have signed a contract on strategic partnership and are working intensively on its practical details. The peoples of the Russian Federation and China are linked by ties of friendship, business co-operation, and co-operation in the military sphere.
It is with particular satisfaction that we note that you have made your first foreign visit to our country, Mr. Chairman. I am absolutely certain that this visit will be a bright page in our bilateral relations, and will give new impetus to the development of multilateral Russian and Chinese ties.
We welcome to Moscow both a major political figure of China and the entire friendly Chinese people in your person.
* * *
 I want to emphasise the fact that we regard the state visit of the Chairman of the People’s Republic of China, Hu Jintao, to Russia as a very important event in the relations between our countries. This is not just a good opportunity to sum up the work done over the last few years, but to set perspectives for our co-operation in both the medium and long term.
I am absolutely certain that this will be a very important milestone in the development of relations between China and Russia. And our dialogue today, face to face, is very positive, very constructive and substantial, with plenty of details, I would say, on the entire system of Russian and Chinese relations. This shows us that the leadership of Russia and the new leadership of China give special significance to the development of bilateral relations.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 27, 2003, 00:02
Text versionEvents
Joint News Conference with President Hu Jintao of China
May 27, 2003
00:03
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Hu Jintao: Esteemed friends,
First and foremost, I would wish to express my profound gratitude to the mass media for the tremendous contribution you have made to the cause of strengthening the Sino-Russian friendship and mutual understanding throughout many years. I am here on a state visit at the invitation of President Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin. We have just held with President Putin very good talks in a warm and friendly atmosphere. The sides exchanged opinions on matters of bilateral relations as well as modern important international and regional questions of mutual interest. We have reached a broad unity of opinions.
Today we expressed with President Putin a common readiness to accept the baton relayed from previous generations and to carry it into the future. Building on the results already achieved, we are prepared to continuously deepen the goodneighborliness and friendship between the two countries, to steadily broaden the mutually advantageous cooperation in different fields, to make common efforts to open new horizons, new prospects for expanding the Sino-Russian relations, partnership and strategic interaction.
I invite President Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin to make a regular visit to China at a time of convenience to him next year. And although this current visit of mine is not yet over, I already feel that this trip has been quite successful and has already brought very important results.
President Vladimir Putin: First and foremost, I want to thank President Hu Jintao and all his colleagues for their having accepted our proposals and come to Russia on a state official visit. We highly appreciate the circumstance that Mr. President found it possible to make his first foreign official visit precisely to our country. This underlines the fact that the new Chinese leadership attaches special significance to the Russian-Chinese relations.
I must say that the talks held were very substantive, productive and useful. We have analyzed how the Treaty on Strategic Partnership, Cooperation and Friendship between Russia and China, signed two years ago, is working in life, and in realities. We talked in detail about cooperation in the trade and economic sphere, in the sphere of military-technical cooperation, and in humanitarian fields.
The economic relations between the two states are developing as rapidly as they never did before. The political interaction, including collaboration on the international arena, is at a very high level. The positions of Russia and China on the key issues of modernity are very close or coincide.
In discussing questions of economic interaction, it was very pleasant for me to note that President Hu Jintao knows some projects, individual areas of our interaction literally in detail. On some of the projects, his knowledge and the depth of understanding an issue even somewhat surprised me. He said that he is an engineer by his education. One could see that the leadership of the People's Republic of China is indeed in practical terms taking a very serious attitude to interacting with Russia.
It was very pleasant for me to note that Mr. President agreed to take part in the celebrations of the 300th anniversary of St. Petersburg, where he will hold another series of bilateral meetings and contacts with world leaders. All this is creating a very good atmosphere of development of the Russian-Chinese relations. I am positive that they have very good prospects.
Thank you for your attention.
QUESTION by Renmin Ribao correspondent:
Both China and Russia regard cooperation in the energy sphere as a historical thrust of interaction. What measures does the Russian side intend to take to build up cooperation in this sector?
President Vladimir Putin: I must say that cooperation in the field of energy is one of the very important but not the only field. Regarding the energy sector, there are several areas of our interaction. First and foremost, it is well known that in regions of Siberia, in Eastern Siberia in particular, Russia has well explored and not fully tapped reserves of energy raw materials. And the growing, energetically developing economy of China is experiencing a certain shortage of energy. And of course, we can in a natural way complement each other and help each other.
Last year we supplied 3 million tons of oil to China. We intend to increase the supplies. An opportunity is being examined to build oil and gas pipelines from the territory of Russia into the People's Republic of China. The question is how, in what way these routes will develop. This is a question to be answered by specialists.
But at any rate I wish to point out Russia's interest in getting to the Chinese market. We intend to facilitate implementing these projects.
In addition, we have good perspectives in the area of nuclear energy. We have a positive experience of cooperation in implementing the project related to the Tanwan atomic power plant. We hope to continue working together with our Chinese partners in this sphere.
We have good experience of working in the field of hydropower and in the area of generation of heat and electrical power in thermal electrical stations.
We are prepared not only for supplies of equipment but also for cooperating with Chinese enterprises.
This is the list of our possibilities and plans, which is far from being complete.
QUESTION by Interfax correspondent:
Question to the PRC President. Why did you decide to make your first state visit to Russia? And the second question — to the two leaders. Russia and China decided to bring their trade up to 20 billion dollars. To what extent is this realistic and within what deadlines?
President Hu Jintao: Russia is a great country and China's largest neighbor. At the same time it is a major power with world authority and immense world influence. From the start of the 90s of the last century, through our common efforts, the Sino-Russian relations gained development in a healthy and successful direction. The successful development of the Chinese-Russian relations is not only bringing real benefit to the peoples of both countries but is making its major contribution to the cause of safeguarding peace, stability, and contributing to the development and prosperity in the region and in the world at large. The leadership of China attaches immense importance to building up the Chinese-Russian relations. We believe that it is necessary to continue putting the Sino-Russian relations in a priority place in our foreign policy.
It is precisely based on the importance and significance that I attach to our relations, that I — with great expectations for their further development — have chosen Russia as the first destination of my first foreign trip after being appointed to the post of the PRC President.
I very much hope that this visit will serve further strengthening of the Sino-Russian interaction and partnership and opening up new perspectives for intensifying our cooperation.
Concerning the trade and economic relations between our countries. Indeed, in the 90s of last century the leaders of our countries together set the aims of taking out trade to the level of 20 billion dollars. And in 10 years, with our reciprocal efforts, the trade turnover increased from 6 billion to 12 billion dollars, in other words to two times.
It is especially important that we accomplished this result against the backdrop of flare ups of financial crises in some regions of the world, against the backdrop of a sluggish development of world economy. That is why such result did not come easy to us. We are glad to have accomplishments in developing the trade and economic cooperation. At the same time, at talks with President Putin we said we could not be satisfied with the current status of our cooperation because we see potential opportunities that we have so far been unable to fully utilize.
The Chinese and Russian economies are at a stage of rapid growth. Both countries have a big population, possess rich natural resources, an immense market and big market needs.
Based on cooperation of many years, we have accumulated a certain experience of business interaction. But even more important is the circumstance that our favorable political relations have created good conditions and situation for organizing entrepreneurial cooperation.
I am profoundly convinced that thanks to our common efforts in the near future we are bound to accomplish the objective — we will take our trade turnover to the level of 20 billion dollars.
President Vladimir Putin: I practically have nothing to add. It can only be said that these almost 12 billion dollars are the volume of trade that gets registered. According to our estimates, the volume amounted to about 11.8 billion. But this is not yet all. There is also the unregistered trade and, according to different sources, it constitutes roughly 10 billion dollars. This is in addition to 12. As regards the registered trade, the rates of its growth, as President Hu Jintao said, have been doubled in several years. Thus, if our trade and economic relations continue to develop at such a rate, we will within 4–5 years be able to reach the level of 20 billion dollars of registered trade.
This will of course depend to a large extent on the rates of growth of the Chinese and Russian economies.
QUESTION from a correspondent of the Central Chinese Television:
Recent years have seen successful development of the Sino-Russian relations, that bring a wealth of results. President Hu Jintao, you have just had very productive talks with President Putin in a businesslike atmosphere. How do you intend to further keep the continuity and stability of Sino-Russian relations?
President Hu Jintao: From the start of the 90s of last century the Sino-Russian relations have been developing in a healthy and successful direction. Especially after we asserted the relations of partnership and strategic interaction with Russia in 1996. The political trust between our countries is steadily deepening, and our mutually advantageous cooperation in different fields is continuously broadening. We are also setting in place a close cooperation on major issues touching upon our sovereignty, territorial integrity and national dignity. At the same time we are pursuing fruitful cooperation and coordinating efforts on the international arena.
The development of the Sino-Russian relations is bringing real advantages to both states. At the talks with Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin, he and myself have expressed satisfaction with the results obtained in developing our relations.
Concerning your question as to how to further keep the continuity of the Russian-Chinese relations of partnership and strategic interaction, I would note the following points. Firstly, such interaction between China and Russia meets the best interests of our states and constitutes common aspirations of our peoples. It also corresponds to the mainstreams and currents of the epoch.
The policy that meets the national interests has the support of the people and corresponds to the exigencies of the times, will and cannot change. Secondly, the leaders of China and Russia have repeatedly declared a readiness to take the baton relayed from our preceding generations and to carry the baton into the future, to further strengthen and develop interaction of the two countries.
Thirdly, at these talks we expressed our commitment to the Russian-Chinese Treaty on Goodneighborliness, Friendship and Cooperation, as well as to the spirit of those major political documents that have been signed in recent years. We have also reaffirmed our readiness to continue to abide by the treaties and agreements we have concluded.
All this represents the guarantee that will ensure the continuity and stability of development of the Sino-Russian relations, the guarantee that the tendency of developing these relations will not change merely because of personnel changes.
Fourthly, we have agreed with President Putin, that considering the changes and development of the international situation, we will further strengthen our strategic interaction in all spheres. This indicates that we not only intend to strengthen the results attained, but that we cannot be satisfied with them. We will further continue to open new prospects of our relations.
In a word, I am confident of the excellent perspective of the Russian-Chinese relations.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 27, 2003, 00:03
Text version