Events
Interview with Star-TV Television
October 19, 2003
16:30
Question: Mr. President, last year at the meeting of APEC heads of state and government, issues were examined in great detail connected with cooperation in the war on terrorism. It is expected that this year member countries of the APEC will devote a great deal of attention to economic cooperation. What are Russia’s expectations and plans in the upcoming discussions and meetings at the APEC summit?
Vladimir Putin: We attach a great deal of significance to regional cooperation, and in the framework of such a large organization as the APEC, this is extremely important.
For Russia, it also has serious importance also because two thirds of our territory is in Asia, and over 30 million Russian citizens live there. The enormous natural resources are concentrated in the regions of East Siberia and the Far East. We know that the Asian and Pacific region is developing very actively, and is in need of the resources that Russia has.
Therefore, in close cooperation with our neighbours and partners in the APEC, we also intend to play a very positive role in the development of this region, and expect that cooperation will be beneficial to Russia itself, as it will allow us to develop the Eastern provinces of the Russian Federation effectively.
As far as we understand, the main topics of discussion will be problems connected with globalization processes, with the efforts of countries directed towards using everything positive that globalization brings, and overcoming its negative consequences.
From the very beginning, the main direction of the APEC was economic. And we believe that this will be preserved. At the same time, of course, we understand that we can not, and do not want to avoid discussing complex political issues, issues in the area of security.
Additionally, as always when an event of this nature is held, a series of bilateral meetings are planned, and this will give us the opportunity to talk with our colleagues about the development of relations between Russia and our bilateral partners.
In general, my colleagues and I are in a very positive mood, and we are sure that the results will be in keeping with this.
Question: Who do you have meetings planned with, Mr. President?
Vladimir Putin: The foreign ministry will clarify this schedule, but there will be about 10 meetings.
Question: Recently, one Russian oil company and the Chinese National Oil Corporation signed an agreement to build an oil pipeline to connect Siberian oil fields and the Chinese city of Daxing. However, Russia soon found itself in a dilemma because of the Japanese involvement in the project as a potential competitor with China. How does Russia intend to solve this problem?
Vladimir Putin: We have been discussing this problem for some time, and our position is that the more global access is to Russian mineral resources, the better this will be for the development of the Asian-Pacific region.
But the most important thing that will guide us is economic considerations. We should calculate what route is the optimal one from the viewpoint of the interests of the Russian Federation. We should think about the development of the regions of East Siberia, about the development of the Far East, and we should of course think about solving problems of an economic nature.
So far, our economic specialists have yet to study any of the proposed routes to the end.
But I can say quite definitely: in any case, we will develop our relations with our traditional partners, including the People’s Republic of China. Whatever route we choose, we will increase delivery of crude oil to China. This may be done either by laying a direct pipeline to Daxing, or by adding a side branch to the pipeline that goes to Nakhodka, or by increasing delivery by railway. This is being worked on. And as this decision develops, we will inform both business circles and our partners about it.
Question: Taking into account the almost ten years’ experience that the Soviet Union had in Afghanistan, we are interested in your opinion of the operations that the United States is conducting in Iraq and Afghanistan. Do you get the impression that the Americans have “got stuck” there?
Vladimir Putin: The success of such operations depends to a large degree on the justness of the goals that are set at the beginning of the operation, and which are seen as the final goal.
I think that everything that has happened in Afghanistan recently can be characterized as a coordinated effort by the international community to establish order in this country, to start a return to a constructive process there again, and to peaceful life. The international community and the forces which are stationed on the territory of Afghanistan have done a great deal in this time: above all, the infrastructure of Al-Qaeda and the Taliban was destroyed, and they no longer pose a threat to their neighbours. And in this sense it can be said that there is success, and cardinal changes have taken place in Afghanistan over these past months.
Remember, quite recently – and you can trust me, I know what I’m talking about – we thought about what would happen on the borders of Afghanistan and its northern neighbours. This affected us directly, and we were already forced to make specific plans, including in the area of armed combat. Now this situation no longer exists. The international authority of the Afghanistan leadership is growing. The peace process is going slowly, but it is nevertheless gaining momentum.
And at the same time, of course, many unresolved problems still remain: the ethnic conflicts in both the north and the south; and the situation is still unstable, and quite honestly not controlled by the central government, on the border between Afghanistan and Pakistan. We are seeing alarming tendencies connected with attempts to rebuild the infrastructure of the Taliban and Al-Qaeda. The economic situation remains very complex, and we are extremely concerned by the increase in drug production.
But what gives us a certain feeling of optimism? The fact that there are no rifts in the international community in relation to Afghanistan. There is a single approach and a common desire to solve the problems of Afghanistan.
You mentioned the experience of the Soviet Union. The Soviet Union tried on its own to establish the order there which they considered just. Today the entire international community sets itself united tasks and works on united goals, on the mechanisms of solving problems.
Russia also contributes to this work. Just a few days ago, we signed a bilateral agreement with the Federal Republic of Germany, which for the first time in the history of mutual relations between Russia and NATO countries, allows transit of military cargo through Russian territory by railway to solve the problems of Afghanistan. A significant number of Russian soldiers are concentrated on the border between Afghanistan and Tajikistan – soldiers who are stationed there in divisions, and border guards. There are several thousand of them. And together with our partners in Tajikistan, we make a considerable contribution to normalizing the situation in the region.
I repeat, there are many problems, but in our view things are developing in a positive direction. I feel a reserved optimism about it, I would say.
As for Iraq, the situation there is different. I think that the first thing that needs to be done to achieve the unanimity of the international community in approaches to solving the problem of Iraq.
Now, as you know, work is continuing on preparing the resolution of the UN Security Council. And we expect that we will be able to reach mutually acceptable solutions, above all ones that are acceptable for the Iraqi people themselves.
Question: A question on proliferation of nuclear weapons: North Korea has backed out of the Nuclear Weapons Non-Proliferation Treaty, we know that India and Pakistan have nuclear weapons, and there are suspicions that Iran does too. In this situation, has the time not come for Russia to become the leader, the initiator in developing a new document, a new treaty that establishes the non-proliferation regime?
Vladimir Putin: The topic you propose to discuss is in my view one of the most important topics of the 21st century. Of course, we are also concerned by the situation connected with the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, above all nuclear weapons. We will help to consolidate the non-proliferation regime in any way we can. And, indeed, we are also concerned about the tension between India and Pakistan.
Incidentally, after these countries got nuclear weapons the relations between them did not improve. This once again confirms that proliferation of nuclear weapons does not resolve problems in international relations, but only makes them more complicated and more dangerous.
Given this situation, we are in favour of a nuclear-free Korean Peninsula, and let us also not forget that Israel, too, has not yet joined the treaty.
We are in constant contact with our partners on this issue, and I think that the idea you just mentioned, the idea that we should act together to strengthen the non-proliferation regime, is absolutely correct.
But the question is how to go about this. Do we propose additional documents for signature, or do we build on what the international community has already come up with in this respect? This is a practical question, and one for the specialists to work on. The main thing, in my opinion, is that we need to have a common position on all the problems in this area. There cannot be different interpretations. There must be a common approach and common understanding of what is happening in this area. We all have to speak the same language. I think this could certainly be discussed in various international forums, including the G8.
You mentioned Iran. That is a very important subject. We think that we really do need to proceed very carefully here and not push the Iranian leadership into going to extremes. But at the same time, we have to have a clear understanding that this common approach will apply to everyone who works with Iran, including in the sensitive area of nuclear energy. We are willing to tighten controls within the country in this area, but we expect that our partners will take the same measures with regard to their own firms.
We know that sanctions have been imposed on Russian companies, but we have never heard of sanctions being imposed on European or American companies that work with Iran. But there are also certain questions regarding the quality and nature of what they are delivering to this country in the nuclear energy sector.
We support strengthening the non-proliferation regime, but we are against having this issue used as a pretext for unfair and dishonest competition.
Question: Mr President, on the eve of your last visit to India, you spoke of your concern that nuclear weapons could fall into the hands of terrorists, including through Pakistan. Do you still have such concerns today? And a second question: when you meet with President Musharraf, do you plan to raise the question of Pakistan’s commitments to fighting terrorism and ensuring security in South Asia?
Vladimir Putin: I must say that if I meet with President Musharraf, and I think such a meeting is planned, apart from the questions you mentioned, we will also have many other questions of bilateral interest to discuss.
We were concerned and still are concerned by terrorism, and all the more so by the prospect of terrorists getting their hands on weapons of mass destruction. This is without doubt a very sensitive and even painful issue for the entire international community. These are not just empty words. I already mentioned the very complicated situation in the south of Afghanistan, on the border with Pakistan, as it happens. We know how the situation develops historically there, and we know that these territories are not really under anyone’s control.
We hope the Pakistani leadership will all do within its power to ensure that no information on weapons of mass destruction that terrorists could use in any way falls into their hands. The same goes for rebels and terrorists infiltrating the conflict zone in Jammu and Kashmir. We expect that the Pakistani leadership will not allow rebel bases to function on its territory and will do all it can to control the situation I referred to before.
At the same time, I would like to say that we welcome India’s initiative to restore full diplomatic relations and rebuild trust between India and Pakistan after the tragic events – the terrorist acts – that India was hit with, and that we regret.
Question: This question is about the Russian Prime Minister’s visit to India that is planned for next month. As I understand it, a whole range of issues of mutual interest is to be discussed. What are the most significant issues for both countries that will be on the agenda?
Vladimir Putin: I had the pleasure of seeing the Indian Prime Minister just recently in New York, and we agreed on the agenda.
India is our longstanding and reliable partner, and I think that our cooperation on the international stage has been very effective. This is a significant element in international relations today. Of course we will talk about further coordinating our approaches on the key questions the world faces today, we will talk about international security issues and strengthening the role of the United Nations, and we will talk about the situation in Asia, of course, with regard to Afghanistan and the other problems we have.
We have a lot of items on our bilateral agenda. This includes strategic military-technical partnership and economic relations in general. We need to make an effort to gradually but surely bring the level of our economic relations up to that of our political cooperation.
Our volume of trade with India is almost ten times lower than our trade with China. This absolutely does not fit either the level of our cooperation or of our possibilities. I could use all my fingers and more to count the potential areas for our cooperation, for there really are many of them, and they are all of great interest for both countries. We will work with the Prime Minister to look for opportunities to develop and diversify our relations.
Alongside all of this, there is in Russia a traditional interest in Indian culture. I hope that our specialists in this area will also find opportunities for cooperation that can be developed right away, rather than being put aside for some time in the future.
Question: Mr President, a somewhat unofficial question, if you will allow. We have learnt that your daughters are studying Chinese. That is somewhat unusual for us. Is this an indication that Russia is showing more interest in China and Chinese culture?
Vladimir Putin: One of my daughters did become interested in this after she went to China at the invitation of the wife of former Chairman of the People’s Republic of China, Jiang Zemin. But I think you are right; I think this is a sign of a growing interest in Russia in China, its language and culture.
This is not happening just by chance. It is not chance because our ties with the People’s Republic of China are growing. We also want to develop our ties with other countries in the region that have large Chinese communities playing a significant role in the economy. We also take this into account and think that there are interesting opportunities here, for example in the high technology, aviation and space sectors. I don’t think there is anything unusual about this. I think it is natural, but at the same time complicated.
Reply: Thank you, Mr President.
Vladimir Putin: And I would like to thank you also for your interest in Russia and in our country’s participation in APEC events. I would like to wish your viewers well-being, prosperity and development.
Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 19, 2003, 16:30
Text versionEvents
A Speech and Answers to Questions at the APEC Business Summit
October 19, 2003
18:45
Bangkok
Vladimir Putin:
Mr Chairman,
Ladies and gentlemen,
First of all, allow me to thank you for your kind words about Russia, and of course for everything that has been done to ensure that this meeting is successful and opens up new opportunities for business contacts.
As you know, Russia is quite a “young” member of the forum. It joined this authoritative international organisation five years ago. But despite our relatively short work term in APEC, we do not feel like novices here. The forum has accepted us, and we constantly feel its support and respect for our interests and approaches to solving common problems. We attach particular importance to business summits.
APEC intentionally emphasises its attention to collaboration with business representatives. And I should say that our participation in this business section of the forum is already bringing the Russian economy noticeable dividends, and palpable benefit. We also believe that our partners will see Russia as a reliable and promising partner. A partner that actively develops its trade and economic ties with all countries in the region.
The topic of the present forum is strengthening the system of stable development of APEC. Stable development is the key condition for the predictability of the world economy. It is a prerequisite for the favourable, comfortable development of our ties in the future.
However, stable development is impossible without removing numerous barriers and threats, which continue to make themselves felt. So we support the contribution that APEC makes towards fighting the most dangerous threats of the present day, among which, of course, it is vital to single out terrorism and its accompanying forms of crime, such as the drug trade, illegal immigration and weapons smuggling. We are certain that this will affect the development of the world economy on a growing scale if we do not correctly and adequately react to these threats at the right time.
Russia strictly fulfils the articles of the anti-terrorist statement passed last year in Mexico by the leaders of the forum member countries. There were a number of our initiatives in preparing APEC measures to prevent the spread of SARS, and for creating conditions for trade activity in the Asian and Pacific region.
Our actions follow one goal – to create favourable living conditions for all people in this region of the world. The imbalance of economic development is particularly alarming. And not just between developed and developing economies, but within these groups and even within individual countries. Shutting ourselves off from these problems only increases general instability.
The entire activity of APEC is designed to smooth out this imbalance, and a special role here is played by the business component of the organisation. I suspect that one of the ways to improve the situation is by liberalising trade and investment systems; of course, on the basis of a sensible balance of the interests of all countries. The rates of our common progress in this direction should be acceptable to all economies, and the advantages of each of them should be used to the maximum.
We expect that achieving these goals will also help Russia join the World Trade Organisation. I must particularly stress that we are grateful to the forum for supporting Russia on this issue.
Ladies and gentlemen,
Russia’s policy for the further development of multi-lateral cooperation with Asian and Pacific region countries is our own conscious choice. It was made because of the growing inter-dependency in the world, which we cannot ignore. And also because this region has today become one of the most dynamically developing. Accordingly, our opportunities with APEC grow as the economic situation of the Russian Federation improves, and as democracy develops and a legal base is consolidated.
You undoubtedly know that in the next decade we have determined a complex, but in our opinion, an attainable task – to double our GDP. Without goals that unite people and give them hope and open up new possibilities, it is impossible to move forward. And it is extremely important for our country and society to develop effectively.
For the fifth year in a row in Russia, there remains a high dynamic of economic growth. This year we also expect a 6% growth in GDP. In recent years, the federal budget has had a surplus, and in 2004 we will set ourselves the task of creating a fund which in some countries is called the fund for future generations. And Russia is not just efficiently and consistently paying off its foreign debt, it also writes off foreign debts of the least developed economies in the world.
I should say that by the level of absolute debt write-off, we are third after Japan and France. This is an enormous amount of money.
Since the beginning of this year, the gold and currency reserves of our country have increased by more than 30%, by 30% in nine months. Financial and economic stabilisation can be clearly seen, which among other things has increased Russia’s credit rating and caused the active growth of the Russian fund market.
One of the main spheres of our economic activity in the Asia and Pacific region is transport and energy. At previous meetings within the framework of the Business Summit, I have already talked about several infrastructure projects, including possibilities for the Trans-Siberian Railway and its attractiveness for investors. So far, Russia has invested over $1 billion in modernising and developing this system. I won’t repeat myself today, I only want to point out that even Spain, at the very west of the European continent, already actively uses this route to deliver cargo to countries in Asia. We expect that our partners in other countries will actively use these possibilities.
Russia is also prepared to make its contribution to creating a new energy configuration in the Asia-Pacific region. This will allow consumers of energy resources, which are widely represented in APEC, also bearing in mind the prospects of economic growth of these countries, to diverse deliveries of energy resources, and, which is especially important, to ensure their safety. For example, there are plans to build a factory for liquefying natural gas on Sakhalin in 2007 – one of the largest factories in the world. Work is also planned for the long-term to explore and develop oil and gas fields in Eastern Siberia.
I believe that it is worth making a note of this information when forming investment portfolios.
Recently, several measures conducted by APEC took place on our territory, including in the east. This year we came up with the initiative of starting APEC dialogue on creating favourable conditions for the non-ferrous metals market. Recently, the first international test seminar on this issue was held in Bratsk. And as we understand, the idea of putting this mechanism into action has been met with approval.
I would also like to state our readiness to work in the spirit of another of the so-called prior initiatives. This involves gradual progress towards implementing proposals in the updated Kyoto convention on simplifying and harmonising customs procedures.
This convention is undoubtedly designed to play an important role in increasing the volume of world trade. This is our assessment, and it is also conditional on the passing of the new Russian Federation Customs Code.
In conclusion, I would like once again to stress: we aspire to build our economic policies in the Asia and Pacific region primarily through APEC. We will continue to pay attention to cooperation within the framework of this organisation. This path opens up new opportunities for us, excellent opportunities, including for the development of the regions of Siberia and the Far East of the Russian Federation.
In our view, the field for joint work for entrepreneurs in Russia and our partners within the framework of APEC is virtually limitless. And of course, I cordially invite you all to work with us, including on a multi-lateral basis.
Thank you for your attention.
* * *
Question: Mr President, you just recently attended a session of the Organisation of the Islamic Conference at which the Malaysian Prime Minister made statements that were considered anti-Semitic. What are your thoughts on this?
Vladimir Putin: Russia attended the OIC summit as a guest. We think it would only be right for the Russian Federation, where 25 million Muslims live, to strengthen its ties with the Muslim world and with authoritative Muslim organisations, of which the Organisation of the Islamic Conference is definitely one.
Russia is a country of many religions and ethnicities, and we have developed traditions of cooperation between our different faiths and peoples. I can say with full assurance that over thousands of years, Russia has been a unique example of how different religions, peoples and cultures can co-exist. In this sense, we want people of all ethnicities to be able to feel accepted and at ease, in every corner of the planet. This is our basic position.
Question: What are your views on Russian-Chinese relations?
Vladimir Putin: The People’s Republic of China is a great country and our great neighbour. We share a border stretching for thousands of kilometres, and centuries of history. Today China is one of our largest trade and economic partners. I’m afraid I might get some of the details not quite right, but last year the trade turnover between Russia and China came to around $12 billion. This year we are probably looking at a figure of $14 billion. That is not a bad result at all for us as things stand today. I would point out that our trade turnover with the United States comes to somewhere around $10 billion. So the prospects are obviously good. We can complement each other from an economic point of view, in areas such as technology, energy and transport, and this is what we are doing. We have an agreement with China on friendship and strategic cooperation. This is a long-term agreement and we greatly value these relations and fundamental agreements that we have, and we will make every effort to fulfil our commitments.
Question: You have said that you want to double the GDP in 10 years. Which sectors of the economy and which regions do you expect to show particular growth?
Vladimir Putin: We have set ourselves this goal and I very much want us to attain it. What’s more, I have no doubt that this is entirely within our power given that many countries have achieved results just as good or even better over an even shorter period. I don’t see why Russia should not be able to do the same. We have everything we need to achieve this goal. We now have a situation of political and economic stability in the country. We have highly qualified specialists, well-developed science and education, material and natural resources. Essentially, what we need to do is make effective use of what God has given us and properly organise our political and economic life.
We don’t need a revolution, we just need to organise our work properly. The tools and mechanisms needed to do this are well known throughout the world. We need to create conditions for attracting capital, using information and attracting highly qualified specialists, both our own and from abroad. I think that if we are able to do all this we will reach our objective.
As for regions, we will base ourselves above all on what makes economic sense. But there are, of course, certain regions in the country that are of strategic importance for us, and the state will have to focus particular attention on these regions. One of these regions is the Far East.
Question: Mr President, would you say that from Russia’s point of view, the situation on the Korean Peninsula is stable?
Vladimir Putin: I don’t think I would be very original if I said that the overwhelming majority of countries, or better yet, all countries, have an interest in ensuring that the weapons of mass destruction non-proliferation regime is not violated. We strongly oppose any steps that would lead to a violation of this regime. We are in favour of a nuclear-free Korean Peninsula and will do all we can to keep the Korean Peninsula nuclear-free for as long as possible.
But at the same time, it is my firm conviction that we can regulate this situation only if we take into consideration the interests of all sides involved, including the security interests of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.
We will make every effort to convince our partners, including our partners in the Group of Six, to be careful in their actions and not jeopardise the negotiation process that has begun, but rather, strengthen it. I think that if we let these principles guide us, we will be able to achieve positive results.
Question: As you know, the United States has withdrawn from the Kyoto Protocol, and the world’s only hope now is that Russia will ratify it. Can we expect this to happen?
Vladimir Putin: The United States has withdrawn from the Kyoto Protocol but we have not, and that is already not a bad result.
We understand that environmental protection and climate change are among the fundamental issues of today and the future. And of course we will work responsibly with our partners throughout the world to resolve these complex tasks and problems.
But the commitments we take on must be fair in the legal sense. There is a whole list of countries that have ratified the Kyoto Protocol but have not introduced restrictions on their own atmospheric emissions. These are countries with powerful economies and a high level of emissions.
We hope that this negotiation process will not end in Russia being turned into a milch cow that can be used to solve the world’s problems. We do want to solve these problems, but we want a fair approach. Of course, it won’t be easy to convince the State Duma deputies to ratify this agreement. I say this outright because many think that the Kyoto Protocol will impose certain restrictions on economic growth and the country’s development. But I emphasise that we do want to move in this direction and will do so.
Question: There is a certain instability in the world today as a result of military and economic imbalances. As a country that works with many other countries, what does Russia think should be done to restore balance to a world dominated by the United States?
Vladimir Putin: We need to strengthen the basic principles of international law.
I agree with you that the situation has become worrying and unpredictable following the collapse of the bipolar world. You have raised a very complicated and very important problem in the modern world. We all now face the challenge of building a new global security framework. Today we see that old alliances and commitments are breaking apart, and this is because they were put together within a different system of coordinates.
I can tell you about the so-called Eastern Bloc from the inside. We lived in a situation of strict discipline within the bloc, because the view was that a step to the left or a step to the right was an attempt to pull free, and to jump in place was a form of provocation that brought a tough response from partners in the bloc. It was essentially the same in the Western Bloc, despite the nicer packaging and more civilised phraseology. Today there is no Eastern Bloc. The threat that perhaps came from the Soviet Union is gone because the Soviet Union itself is gone. Now there is only one bloc remaining with its internal machinery still in place, and I can say this in all responsibility because I see it almost from the inside. This internal machinery, it still runs according to the old rules, but of course, it no longer works.
I won’t start giving examples from recent history or from today, because you are aware of them yourselves. I am not happy about this situation, and like you, I am more concerned than anything. The world has become less predictable, and it depends a lot now on how we go about building the future international security system.
We firmly believe that the world will be stable only if it is a multi-polar world. A multi-polar world is one that takes into consideration the interests of all countries, peoples and groups of states. We do not see rivalry or hostility as being part of a multi-polar world. To us, a multi-polar world means something else. It must be based on the cultural, ethnic and religious multi-polarity that in reality already exists in the world. We think that if we take into account this situation that already exists in the world, then we will be able to create a system of checks and balances and achieve a balanced world. I think that some of the outlines of this world are already emerging. If all of the international community takes this approach, then we will achieve positive results. But without doubt the main condition for this common work is that we strengthen the principles of international law and its main institution – the United Nations.
Question: We have seen serious progress in the oil and gas sector in Russia. I’m referring to the creation of joint ventures between Russian and foreign companies, which could have a big impact on energy supplies, especially gas supplies to Asia. Could you comment on this?
Vladimir Putin: I already spoke in my address about our plans to build a liquefied gas plant on Sakhalin. These kinds of projects cost a lot of money; they are expensive undertakings. But since the shareholders have decided to go ahead with this project, it means they calculated the market and think that demand is very high. I must say that it is not just Asia that is showing a lot of interest in our energy potential. Many of our other partners, including the United States, are also showing interest. Preliminary calculations show that liquefied gas supplies to the United States would be an absolutely profitable and very promising business. It is not by chance that I mentioned our plans to focus more on exploring deposits in Eastern Siberia, and I think it would be right for corporations to show more interest in this. For our part, I can promise you that you will immediately find partners with whom you can enter a dialogue on this subject. We have an interest in developing these regions of Russia. We hope that investment in this sector will bring in its wake the development of infrastructure, transport, communications and construction. That is what we are seeing now on Sakhalin, and we will do what we can to encourage it. Of course these are promising areas of activity.
We will work towards diversifying the Russian economy. We are going to focus more on the modern sectors of the economy, the new economy based on information technology. But we will also continue to do everything within our power to make effective use of our natural advantages, one of which is without doubt the large energy resources that Russia possesses.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 19, 2003, 18:45
Text version