Events
Opening Remarks at Russian-Saudi Talks at an Enlarged Format
September 2, 2003
00:02
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Your Highness, esteemed colleagues, friends,
Let me once again wish you a sincere welcome to Moscow.
Throughout its history Russia has always had special relations with the Muslim and Arab worlds. Over a long period of recent history we have always looked on the Arab world, the Muslim world as being among our closest allies. This is a traditional line in Russian foreign policy and it emerged as the result of a whole range of economic, foreign policy and domestic political circumstances. Among our partners, Saudi Arabia is one of the states on which we place particular significance. Saudi Arabia is one of the recognised leaders of the Arab world.
We have just held far-reaching and substantial talks on all the issues of mutual interest to us. I would like to note the depth and detail of discussion present throughout these talks and the high degree of openness in our discussions of issues on the bilateral and international agendas.
Your Highness, your visit and the visit of your colleagues and members of the royal family will give a powerful and positive new impetus to the development of our bilateral relations.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: September 2, 2003, 00:02
Text versionEvents
Start of a Meeting with the Chairman of the Central Election Commission, Alexander Veshnyakov
September 2, 2003
00:03
Novo-Ogaryovo
Alexander Veshnyakov: Intensive consultations are underway and meetings of the political parties, for example at the forum of the mass media and election commissions of all the Russian regions. There is a general sense that everything is ready for the official start. So, under the Constitution, you have every right to sign the decree.
Vladimir Putin: As we have agreed, I have already signed the decree announcing the elections for the State Duma.
* * *
Vladimir Putin: Obviously, it is up to a court of law to supervise compliance with the laws during the election campaign, but the signal and initial impetus for court action may come from the Central Election Commission as well. I expect that the Central Election Commission will do everything within its power to ensure a fair election campaign; to ensure a normal competitive process free of any dirt which, unfortunately, tends to appear in the debates in the several months preceding the elections. Many things have already become bywords. This does not add to the authority of the administration and to our country in the international arena. This is due to flaws in the legislation. The efforts made in recent years to adjust electoral legislation must bring some positive result in terms of the organisation of the process and in terms of the outcome, which is the most important thing because the voters, the country’s population, would like to see the power and administration bodies, especially the supreme legislative body, staffed by professionals who are able to fulfil the promises made during the course of the election campaign.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: September 2, 2003, 00:03
Text version