    Events Interview with French Television Channel TF-1     February 11, 2003  00:02  Paris       Patrick Poivre D'Arvor (TF-1): Three years ago you were avoiding France: Paris turned out to be the last of European capitals which you visited when you assumed your office. Today the impression is that French-Russian relations have noticeably warmed up. President Putin: Yes, indeed, this is so, and it seems to me only natural because we are bound by common interests. Common serious interests, especially those of a geopolitical nature. Question: Yesterday you signed jointly with Berlin and Paris the Joint Statement, an important declaration directed to exploration of all the avenues for the preservation of peace, to a continued search for a solution in Iraq. How far are you ready to go and how long to hold? For Washington has the means of pressure on large countries, including on your country, financial means in particular. Will be you be able to hold under pressure from the United States? President Putin: You know, it's not just about Iraq. If I speak to you in the varnished cliches of diplomats, then I can say that the positions of Russia and France practically coincide, because they are very close. But I consider that it's not about Iraq, although this is an important question. An even more important question — what kind of world do we want to build and what sort of world we will hand over to future generations. If we look at the problem from this point of view, then we will understand that if we want the world to be more predictable, more prognosticated, and then safer, it has to be multipolar, and all the participants of international intercourse have to abide by certain rules, namely, the rules of international law. That's, strictly speaking, towards what all our efforts are being bent — not towards shielding the Baghdad regime or making a screen for it, but towards solving problems by proceeding from common interests and in accordance with the rules of international law. As to Russia's opinion on this issue, this is a separate big theme. Russia always had its own opinion on key issues in international relations. In recent years these relations have undergone substantial transformation, and although we do have our own opinion, it does not bear a confrontational character. It does not lead to any additional crises like the Caribbean one. And I absolutely agree with the President of the United States when he says that Russia and the United States have ceased to be enemies and opponents, but have become partners. I fully subscribe to this and can name with satisfaction the President of the United States, who is a very serious politician and a very decent man, I can name him my friend. But when we state our opinion, even though it may be quite different from others' views, this does not provoke such a stormy reaction as does the opinion of members of the Western community if they begin to state their own opinion. I think that the Western community members are not only upholding their position on Iraq; they are also upholding their right to have their own position. But the earlier we grasp the depth of the external changes, the better. Question: Since you don't like diplomatic inarticulateness, let me ask you the following question: Are you prepared to use the right of veto in the United Nations Security Council? President Putin: We don't see any need to use the right of veto. We are confident that we shall be able to come to an understanding with all the members of the Security Council, as has been the case up until now. We cherish the Security Council's unity. If something that's bound to lead to an unwarranted use of force is undertaken today, we shall do that with or without France. I would like to draw attention to our joint statement — of France, Russia and Germany — on the problem of Iraq. I guess that not all have yet understood what happened. It seems to me that not all have yet appreciated this step. True, it is about Iraq and about a concrete problem, but I want to draw attention to the fact that this is the first attempt since the end of World War II to resolve an acute, serious international problem, an acute crisis in an outside-a-bloc mode. Outside a bloc an attempt was made to resolve a problem in the realm of international security. I think that that document is the first building block in the construction of the very same multipolar world of which I spoke. Moreover, I think that in no other European capital could such a document have emerged. In Russia it couldn't have emerged because we would at once have been declared to be trying to drive a wedge between America and Europe, and other European countries are not ready for any such moves. Therefore, if this could really happen, then only in France, and I think enormous, even, perhaps, historic, credit goes to President Chirac. Question: And what if America suddenly resolves to act against the Russia-France-Germany bloc, if it begins unilateral action in circumvention of the Security Council? Will you, your country, protest? Will you consider this a major international crisis? President Putin: You said if the bloc does this and that… I would not like to reason in this logic. We — Russia, France, Germany — made a statement not with the aim of creating an axis or a bloc. We aren't working against somebody, but for something. In this case — for the resolution of an acute international crisis by peaceful means. And we very much hope that our opinion is heeded. It would be a great mistake if unilateral actions were taken, outside the bounds of international law. Question: Does for you a direct link exist between Al-Qaeda terrorism and Iraq? For recently bin Laden called upon the Muslims of the world to support the cause of Iraq. Do you establish a link between the September 11 Al-Qaeda terrorism and the Iraqi threat? President Putin: You know we received information from our American colleagues about that link between Iraqi authorities and Al-Qaeda only recently, in the UN Security Council, when the relevant statements were made by our US friends. I've been in politics not so long. Before this, you know, I had worked in special agencies, intelligence agencies, and had thought that I was so clever and smart, understanding it all. I thought I knew everything from within. But when I came into politics, I realized that I and my Russian colleagues and my French colleagues who work in special agencies are children in comparison with the politicians; because then in our country it was all simpler in that environment, it was all more straightforward and more open, strange as it may seem. We and our American friends have a good dialogue established between our special services but we never received information of this kind from them. We ourselves have no information confirming Baghdad's links with Al-Qaeda. But we, of course, will carefully verify this information, which we have received lately. Question: For four years now a merciless war has been going on in Chechnya that terrorizes the population. You justified this war by a desire to eradicate terrorism. Today you have marginalized it. Why are actions continuing against innocent civilians? President Putin: First, you are absolutely inexact in expressions. You said an implacable and harsh war is going on there. Actually, there is no war there at all. The large bands of terrorists are destroyed. Their infrastructure is destroyed. They can still deliver individual blows and commit terrorist acts, but that's all they are capable of. And this capability will be reduced to naught. That a gang of international terrorists is operating in Chechnya, this I think no longer needs additional proving. Al-Qaeda camps are no longer there, but in Chechnya there is Al-Qaeda money which is working there. In Chechnya there are instructors who are working there. There are mercenaries from a number of Muslim countries there, whom radicals recruit. All of this is still there. And, of course, with those people we will be waging a harsh, implacable war. At the same time we understand that by provoking us to act harshly, terrorists set up the civilian population. And I do not want to say that such problems never were, nor are there now. Of course, when combat actions are going on, civilians are bound to suffer too. And it is our task to minimize these negative consequences. In this regard, we understand the concerns of our partners, including in France. By the way, the French leadership devoted much attention to the problem of Chechnya in our talks. But I repeat that the terrorists operating there have links with Al-Qaeda and with international terrorism. This is an obvious fact, among others confirmed by French special services, when in France, then in Germany and Britain terrorists were detained who had been preparing terrorist acts, including with the employment of biological and chemical weapons, and who had undergone appropriate training on the territory of Chechnya. It is our task not merely to fight the terrorists. Our task is to solve the problem by peaceful political means with the peaceful Chechen people. Lest the Chechen people are used as an instrument for achieving aims that have nothing in common with the interests of the Chechen people. You know that the problem began with separatism, with the struggle for the independence of Chechnya. And with what did it end? It ended with us granting that independence, granting it wholly and entirely. I want to remind you of that. Question: Will the question of independence be considered in the referendum scheduled for next month? President Putin: No, we aren't returning to this question because it is clear to us that Chechnya did not get independence: the power vacuum that had emerged was at once filled by extremists from certain Islamic states. And they attempted to use the territory of Chechnya as a staging area for the expansion of this aggression. The issue was no longer about the independence of Chechnya, but about tearing away from Russia additional territories, the whole of southern Russia, with the formation of a new quasi-state — the Caliphate. As we know, this was contemplated as the first little step towards creating a worldwide Caliphate. No one, I think, will demand of Russia capitulation, even less so to the terrorists. On the contrary, we are all interested in bringing an end to terrorism. But with the Chechen people themselves we should and can solve problems only by peaceful means and only by political means and that's why we supported the Chechen public's political initiative and will switch to processes of peaceful settlement. As a peaceful stage, as the beginning of this process, we plan to hold the referendum on the adoption of a constitution of the Chechen Republic. Question: Do you condemn the crimes that were committed there? In particular, all those executions and tortures. When you hear these stories, it gives you the creeps… about the so-called ”bundle of brushwood“ technique, when they bind about twenty people together and make them jump, beating them with wooden switches… Are any sanctions being taken against the military, for these are the soldiers of your government who engage in this? President Putin: With regard to executions and tortures, I can tell you that executions and tortures were used by the previous criminal regime. If you know, there was no judicial system there — in the contemporary meaning of the word. There was no prosecutor's office, there were no courts — people were being tried by a quasi-court and shot on the squares, publicly, including women and foreigners. With regard to the situation today, we have re-established the system of police, prosecutor's office, courts and lawyers. We are not going to shield anyone whoever has committed crimes in the Chechen Republic, including members of the Russian army. More than 127 criminal proceedings have been instituted against the servicemen who had violated the law. Over 25 persons have been held criminally liable and convicted; the courts' convictions have taken effect. We will continue to act in this manner. Question: Is it easy to get rid of the legacy of communism three quarters of a century long? Twelve years have passed since Russia ceased to be a communist country. Do you consider that it has today become a democratic country or a country on the road of democracy? President Putin: That Russia is moving along the path of democratic evolution has long ago ceased to arouse any doubts — and it is also moving along the road of development of a market economy, along the road of development of democratic institutions. Moreover: the mood of society is such that a road back simply does not exist. This is the best guarantee of Russia's stable development. Russian society does not conceive the development of its country otherwise. As to the question whether this is easy or difficult: it is, of course, complex, and the complexity lies chiefly in consciousness. Because socialist consciousness — not in its best, but in its worst manifestation — of course, is intrinsic to very many people. All want very much, the maximum of what can be received from the state, without thinking from where in market economy conditions the state gets the resources for solving these or other social problems. But we are acting very delicately, very carefully. I consider it would be the greatest mistake to undermine trust in the actions of the Government and President. Trust in the state is the largest resource which can and should be neatly used for the conduct of reforms. The reforms must lead to an improvement of the life of people, not to a worsening. We are doing our best to act in this manner. Question: I will continue in the same direction: Do you consider Russia a European country? Have you an intention someday to apply for Russia's entry into the European Union? President Putin: Russia, of course, is a European state, both geographically and in mentality. What is Europe? It is the culture of Ancient Rome, it is the culture of Ancient Greece, and it is the culture of Byzantium — that is, eastern Christianity. Russia is wholly and entirely incorporated in all these three components and does not conceive its development without Europe. We welcome the development of the integration processes in Europe. I cannot say that everything there suits us. We are worried by some things. For example, we often hear that it is necessary to get rid of dividing lines, but we do not want to see new dividing lines appear. Almost 50 percent of our trade is with Europe. With the admission of new members to the European community, where certain rigid rules are in force, our special relations, political relations may be subjected to serious tests. This is the first point. The second is that our citizens could freely travel without visas to the states of Central and Eastern Europe. Now Russia is deprived of this. Sometimes you get the impression that Russia is being pushed to the wayside of European politics. At the same time, we all the time hear that all want to develop relations with Russia. There are these concerns, but there are also the proposals coming from European politicians how to prevent such a dangerous development. We are interested in cooperation and we hope that the situation will develop in a positive spirit.                     Publication status Published in section: Transcripts  Publication date:    February 11, 2003, 00:02  Direct link: en.kremlin.ru/d/21869    Text version        NaN /  Events
Replies to Russian Journalists' Questions
February 11, 2003
00:03
Paris
Question: It turns out that a breakthrough by ”old“ Europe towards Russia has occurred. You agree?
President Putin: It seems to me that indeed an event has occurred which not all have yet appreciated. What's the novelty? It is that for the first time in postwar history an attempt was made to resolve a complicated, acute international security problem outside the bloc. This, in essence, to my mind, can well be regarded as the first step towards the creation of the very same multipolar world of which we have so much spoken. This could have occurred nowhere but in France. If we had attempted to do that in Russia, we would at once have been accused of driving wedges between Europe and the United States.
Question: Is the US attitude to the Russian-French-German initiative known?
President Putin: It is known. We're making no secret of our position. Our position, in principle, remains unchanged. We are against the use of force. We do not consider that we must shield the Iraqi regime. We feel that pressure needs to be exerted and clear demands formulated upon Iraq. If the inspectors lack something, let them say what demands we are to make upon Iraq. We will make them on behalf of the United Nations Security Council and see how Iraq reacts. If it reacts badly, we will be ready to take other steps, tougher. There are no changes in our position. So I think this is a logical sequel to our joint work and we count on being listened to. … We aren't creating any axes. I consider that this is but the first little building block in the construction of a truly multipolar world.
We suggest a solution of the problem and hope to convince our partners that the option we propose is far more productive and corresponds to the realities of today on this issue. I think that if we will work accurately, consistently and tactfully, then the number of supporters of that position will keep increasing. I hope so. How events develop we shall see. Maybe we will manage to convince our American partners as well. I must say a very important thing: without the tough stand of the United States, we could hardly have pushed Iraq towards cooperation in its present form.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: February 11, 2003, 00:03
Text versionEvents
Speech at a Meeting with the Scientific and Cultural Elite at the Institut de France
February 11, 2003
00:00
Paris
Vladimir Putin: Let me say first of all that it is a great honour for me to be speaking in this historic hall and to be a guest of this world-famous scientific centre. Especially since some of my outstanding fellow countrymen have earlier visited the French Academy.
It is of course a great pleasure to me to listen to you and to have a chance to speak myself. Let me say from the start that the French political tradition has always been to Russia a vivid example of how the government can be perceptive of the position of the intellectual elite. Fortunately, in your country that tradition has not been interrupted as frequently and as tragically as in my country.
It is not at all times that the ideas of Russia’s philosophers and thinkers could influence the development of the state and society. Meanwhile Russia has always sought to borrow from European experience. This was particularly true in the era of Enlightenment, when Russian rulers began to seriously study the culture and political traditions of western countries. France was among those countries. We know from history that your Royal Academy of Sciences and other academies were visited by Peter the Great, and scholars tell us that he was far more interested in scientists and scientific and technical achievements than official ceremonies.
This audience will of course know that upon his return from France the Russian emperor made the final decision to establish a Russian Academy of Sciences. Subsequently many French scientists became members of that academy. I am not going to list the numerous names of famous Russian and French scientists who over the centuries provided a connection between our academic schools. And today your experience is one of the models for Russia and undoubtedly a very attractive model in the context of our ongoing reforms in education and science.
I would like to say a few words about how I see the present state of Russian-French relations whose roots go deep into history and to which this enlightened audience has a big contribution to make. I believe that our political partnership has traditionally been a stabilising factor in Europe. We were often allies in the creation of peaceful alliances and in the military and political association against the threats that arose. Both Russia and France are equally convinced that world problems are much better solved on the basis of the principles and norms of international law. Not least because it is equally in tune with both Russian and French political thought.
I would like to go back to one of the earlier speeches. The speaker here said that there can be no order and stability without a harmony between laws and customs. It is furthest from my intention to launch a discussion, but I think many would agree with me that the law always lags behind real life, life is always ahead. The law is still in the works, but life has already raced ahead. But it is also true that unless we follow these rules there will be chaos. Our task is not to break the laws but to change the rules in a timely manner yet follow these rules both inside our countries and in the international scene.
I think you would agree with me that Russian-French relations have always been something more than just cooperation between two states or communication between two peoples. There are ample grounds for speaking about a unity of cultures that are in tune with each other and mutually enrich each other. And if this constitutes a privilege, then our privileged partnership owes a great deal to the humanitarian component.
In our days the similarity of our worldviews helps the two countries to effectively cooperate at the UN Security Council, in the G8, the OSCE and other partnership mechanisms. It helps us to closely cooperate in tackling pressing international problems, proposing and promoting constructive approaches that derive in many ways from the traditions of European political philosophy.
Scientific links between Russia and France have always been a powerful engine of economic and industrial progress in our countries. These new times present our countries with new challenges and they can more effectively be met if we join forces. I believe that the highest dividends would accrue from pooling our research efforts on the cutting edge of scientific and technological progress. I am aware that several dozen such themes are being jointly developed by our academies and that these innovation projects already serve the development of business in both countries and the interests of our economies.
I see great prospects for the interaction of the French institutes with the centres of scientific innovation in Russia. Indeed, the most topical and important areas of cooperation have already been identified.
They are above all aerospace, energy, environment, biological and information technologies. I am sure that strategic partnership in these areas will help our countries to make the best of the advantages offered by world globalisation and to minimise its negative consequences.
Language is particularly important, of course, for the preservation and development of a people’s cultural identity. This is a truth well known to the French Academy, one of whose original tasks has been to create a literate and clear French language. We in Russia seek to preserve the purity of the Russian language and watch its evolution.
I believe that a key joint task should be mutual support of the international positions of the Russian and French languages. Language is also the main instrument of mutual enrichment and interpenetration of cultures, ideas and knowledge.
I also believe that work to make our education systems more competitive and develop fundamental sciences is extremely important. Knowledge in the modern world is the main resource of development and the development of relations among countries.
But we all understand that all these plans will remain on paper unless solid conditions for cooperation are created. That is why it is so important to expand scientific and cultural exchanges, to facilitate the movement of students, young scientists and specialists of the two countries.
Dear friends, I cannot help touching upon another very important topic. It is our joint struggle against the common enemy of the 21st century, international terrorism. I won’t dwell on it, but I think you will agree with me that in the 21st century an intellectual and moral vaccine against terror and permissiveness is just as vital as the vaccines against mortal diseases developed in the 19th century by Pasteur and Mechnikov.
In conclusion I would like to stress that the experience of your state and of our state equally attests that the best antidote to wars and bloody revolutions is enlightenment and reformism, strictly objective knowledge and progress initiated by democratic society and put into practice by democratic government.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: February 11, 2003, 00:00
Text versionEvents
Speech at a Meeting with Representatives of the French Business Community
February 11, 2003
00:01
Paris
Vladimir Putin: Of course I am glad to have another chance to meet representatives of the French business world. A similar meeting was held two years ago. I think such meetings are important both for you and for your Russian partners.
The experience of business cooperation between Russia and France has already shown that the political dialogue that is based on the national interests of the two countries is sure to deliver economic benefits. This is proved by some results of the last year. At the end of 2002 mutual trade had grown by more than 11% to $4.2 billion, according to our data, and to over $7 billion, according to French statistics.
To us, the fact that French capital and companies have been more active in Russia is an important sign. Among the hundreds of enterprises working in our country are some French industry leaders. They include Renault, Gaz de France, Alcatel, Michelin and others. More than 20 ventures have been set up in France with the participation of Russian capital. They are active in banking, insurance and transportation. We also have major long-term joint projects in metallurgy, construction, tourism, agriculture and fuel and energy. You know that the company TotalFinaElf is making major investments in the development of oil in the Krasnoyarsk Region and the Nenets Autonomous Area. I am aware that it is planning to take part in developing the Shtokman gas condensate field.
On the whole experts believe that France will soon be the biggest investor in the Russian fuel and energy sector, provided of course, it steps up its efforts. I think you know that British Petroleum has announced that it is buying into the Russian company TNK. It will invest over $7-$10 billion. These are not just investments; for Russia it marks the attainment of a strategic partnership, because British Petroleum works not only here but is a major operator in China; it owns some fields not far from the Chinese border and it is basically an issue of bilateral cooperation. Other major international companies have similar plans. It is a sign of confidence in the policy pursued by the Russian leadership. It is a sign that the economic situation is stable. We hope that it will ultimately encourage investments not only in the fuel and energy sector.
We are making progress not only in traditional industries. We have started working together on high technologies that set the pace in the 21st century economy. These merit special attention. With the assistance of the Russian-French working group work is getting underway in various industries such as biotechnology, optical electronics and nanotechnology. We are also planning commercial launches of satellites from the Kourou launch site by Russian Soyuz rockets. We have discussed this topic with the French experts at length. We have ambitious plans of joint work with the European Commission for the development of aviation and aerospace. We have a project worth about $2.5 billion. I think that will be a big growth area. Practice shows that combining our efforts in the field of innovation technologies gives a competitive edge to Russian and French producers. That is our common potential for strengthening our positions in the world market.
Russian aircraft builders are establishing production and technological cooperation with the company Thales and with the European Airbus consortium. The production of a European heavy transport helicopter based on our Mi-38 is another promising project, involving French, German and Russian firms.
However, for all the evident successes I think you would agree with me that there is a lot of untapped potential, a lot of opportunities for increasing our business ties.
Unfortunately our cooperation is also being held back by all kinds of discriminatory barriers. The recent decision by the European Union to recognise the market status of the Russian economy has yet to lead to a revision of the EU’s anti-dumping measures against Russia. And I draw your attention to the fact that of the 14 current anti-dumping investigations against Russian enterprises, 11 have been initiated by French firms. I am sure these are issues that we can settle. I don’t want to dramatise things and I am confident that everything will click into place. I would just like to urge you to look for compromise solutions together. Solutions in which the main criteria are mutual economic benefit and firm awareness of the promise of civilised cooperation.
To reach new frontiers it is necessary to do more to improve the infrastructure of bilateral cooperation. I am referring to financial, organisational, legal and information mechanisms. I would single out the decision of the French agency COFAS to increase the volume of guarantees offered for financing bilateral projects.
One more point to be mentioned. At present the main investors in the Russian economy are French transnational corporations, whereas small and medium-sized enterprises, a dynamic sector, are hardly involved at all. This is an important part of our economies. If used competently, it will help us not only to diversify trade, but to increase its volume.
More active cooperation between regions can also improve the situation. As far as I know a delegation from French business circles this year is planning a trip to the Siberian Federal District. And meetings with representatives of the Russian regions have already taken place in France. I must say that our delegation includes many distinguished leaders of major Russian regions.
Finally, we should welcome direct links between our business communities, in particular, between the Association of French Entrepreneurs and the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs.
You surely follow the dynamics of the economic situation in Russia. And you will know that by the end of 2002 our economy has increased by 4.1%. Real incomes continue to grow in the country. And for three years in a row we have had a steady federal budget surplus.
Since 1998 the national currency reserves of Russia have increased fourfold, to nearly $50 billion. Russia’s credit rating is steadily improving. Perhaps for countries with stable economies the size of gold and currency reserves is not a very important indicator. But here, as long as inflation is still fairly high, that indicator is important and is a factor of stability.
We are glad that the positive dynamic is the result above all of the new growth factors, an improved business climate and investment environment as well as the development of the internal market.
Accumulated foreign investment in the Russian economy now stands at about $40 billion. In the first nine months of 2002 almost $13 billion was injected in the Russian economy, that is 33% more than in the same period of 2001.
To conclude this review I would like to say that France so far is the fifth biggest investor in Russia. But considering the great potential of French business we are sure that this is not the limit. Of course we appreciate the caution of the investors and their reasonable wish to have firm guarantees for their capital. At the same time I am sure that there are many people in this room who are working to strengthen property legislation, the stock market and the banking sector. As part of WTO accession negotiations an agreement has been reached to substantially raise the ceiling on foreign capital participation in the Russian banking system, from 14% to 25%.
We are also aware that foreign partners have problems because of the discrepancies between federal and regional laws. But that issue is already being addressed. I must say that as part of the administrative reform, government administration will be made more effective. The tax and budgetary sphere is being modernised. International principles of corporate governance and audit are being introduced by Russian companies on an ever-wider scale.
All these moves are aimed at creating a transparent economy provided with legal guarantees, an economy open to the broadest international cooperation.
In conclusion I would like to once again express confidence in the successful future of Russian-French business partnership. A partnership that serves not only the interests of the two countries, but deepens European integration.
Thank you for your attention.
Question: You have said that the Russian economy has been performing well recently. Don’t you think that it has been easy growth due to the rising oil prices? Don’t you think that structural changes in the economy are in order?
Vladimir Putin: Whenever I discuss the Government’s plans I urge the ministers to take bolder actions. But at the same time I would like to tell this audience what I would perhaps have refrained from telling my audiences at home: my task is not to praise but to criticise Government members to make them work harder. But to this audience I must say that the results of recent years have been achieved not only due to high energy prices, but also due to other transformations in the country, especially in the sphere of taxation.
In general, a lot remains to be done in that area. But major steps in the right direction are already being taken. You know that the Law on Income Tax was passed a year and a half ago. It is not only that we have established the lowest tax rate in Europe, we also cut profit tax to 24%. We have carried out transformations to make the tax system less bureaucratic. I must confess that we have not been uniformly successful. But we will move steadily in that direction.
We have taken some measures to cut red tape in the economy. These are early steps, but we will move in that direction. A number of important measures are under consideration to introduce the European standardisation system. And that in my opinion will make a substantial impact on the investment process. We have carried out a reform of the justice system, passing a whole package of laws to strengthen that system. I don’t think it is already up and running, it is only just putting its act together; but I am sure that it will have a positive impact on the economy.
We have at long last passed the law on land, which is important for every country. And not only on land used by industrial enterprises, but on agricultural land and its sale. In general, that is a revolutionary move for Russia. In our country land has never been freely sold and bought.
I have mentioned just some of the accomplishments of recent years. I must say that if any European country could boast that it had carried out one or two such measures in three or four years that would already have been great progress towards reform. We have done it within one and a half to two years. But the pace of these reforms must be moderated by our social obligations to the Russian population. And this brings me to another important component that we have managed to preserve. We have managed to preserve not only civil peace, but the authority of power. I think that is the decisive condition for progress. We will move along that road.
Question: What measures does Russia take to stimulate the inflow of foreign investment?
Vladimir Putin: I have already referred to this area of our activities. We will continue to improve tax legislation. I would like to warn you that this sphere is still in the process of development in our country. We will see how to best improve our tax legislation in line with international standards, but we also hope that such decisions will bring stability to this sector on the understanding that no revolutionary changes will take place in my country. We will think about the problem of security and how to steer it on the right course. But we will continue to do all we can to cut down on red tape in decision-making.
Question: What would be your advice to businessmen who have not yet entered the Russian market but would like to try to enter it?
Vladimir Putin: The answer is simple. Hire good lawyers, study Russian law and be bold in coming to our market. If you have good Russian partners, that increases your chances of success. But in my brief introduction I have already told you what we need. Of course we are interested to see not only those who work in the energy sphere, which is very important for us, but also those who work in other areas. If there is something that you miss or something that hinders you, say so and we will try to react appropriately. There is an agency reporting to the Russian Prime Minister which constantly meets with the representatives of foreign business. It is headed by the Prime Minister. You can put your questions directly and discuss problems. I assure you, the Russian Ministry of Economic Development and Trade will take it into account.
Question: Mr President, you have spoken about structural reforms in your country, in particular the tax reform, and the legal framework for investments. But there is one area in which reform is lagging behind and that is an important area for business, I mean the banking sector. I would like to know if you are going to speed up the restructuring of the banking sector and what measures you are going to take.
Vladimir Putin: When I spoke I said that we count on your cooperation in the high technology sphere. One such sphere is aerospace; and we have long been discussing the issue of using the Kourou site to launch Russian Soyuz rockets. I think it would benefit both Russian and French partners. Why are we so persevering in this sphere? I think the answer is simple: this is an area in which Russia is competitive and our partners are not in a hurry to allow us to enter that sector.
As for the banking sector Russia’s competitive capacity is small. So our bankers are afraid to let you into that sector. That is a fair reflection of the situation. At the same time I am on your side. I think if we artificially set obstacles to foreigners coming into this sector of the Russian economy, the market players in Russia and ordinary citizens will have to wait a hundred years before they get quality services.
But of course we should proceed stage by stage in order not to kill the banking sector in Russia. We have certain plans, we will move in that direction and I have already commented on decisions connected with the possible accession of Russia to the World Trade Organisation. That is a major concession on our part. I think it is a justified concession. Nevertheless, it enables us and your colleagues to work actively in banking services. Besides the Central Bank and the Russian Government have prepared laws on currency regulation, which also seek to liberalise that sphere. I think that the decisions proposed will also give a boost to cooperation between Russian banks and their colleagues, including in France.
Question: I would like to take this opportunity to tell you that today we signed an agreement on a joint venture with our Russian partner Mr Mordashov (Severstal) through the European bank. It has to do with rolled sheet metal for shipbuilding. We seek early mediation in obtaining a license from the Central Bank. Second question. Everybody knows that Russia has plentiful resources. Some of them are considered to be rare, such as palladium. If Russia is going to join the WTO, are you ready to eliminate the obstacles that we now face, for example, in the sale of metal scrap?
Vladimir Putin: First, I would like to congratulate you on signing an agreement with the respectable firm that is headed by Mr Mordashov. You can be sure that you have good connections in Russia and we will try to help you to solve that problem.
Now regarding mineral resources. There is a competitive procedure for obtaining licenses. On the whole it functions quite successfully. I think if you have specific ideas we will look at them. As far as I understand metal scrap is not a mineral. And that constitutes a certain problem. If you raise the issue you certainly are aware of it. Everything that has to do with metal has special significance in my country. The regional heads sitting here will tell you that trying to sell you metal scrap people dismantle power transmission lines, lifts and so on. So we have to introduce certain restrictions. I don’t think this is the best we can do. The best thing of course would be to introduce economic restrictions. But so far they have not been very effective. But we are taking forced measures. I am sure that gradually we will put this work on a civilised basis, although for the moment we have more problems than we have answers. I can tell you that if you and your partners have put in place a scheme for exporting scrap from Russia via Belarus, we will have to clamp down on that. We have relevant agreements with the Government of Belarus. I want you to know that we should all work according to uniform rules, even if you don’t particularly like these rules. The rules need to be changed and not sidestepped. But I agree that it is a problem.
Question: Good evening, Mr President. We are leading suppliers of industrial and medical gas. We have long-term investments, but our enterprises need a measure of stability in the tax, financial and legal areas in order to make long-term investments. I would like to know if controlling inflation is among your priorities.
Vladimir Putin: You have raised a very important question. The inflation control situation is promising. So far inflation has run high, and we are aware of it; but four years ago it was ten times higher than it is now. Last year it was 18%. This year it is only 11%. We plan to further cut inflation next year. It is one of the Government’s main tasks. So my answer to your question is in the affirmative. We have such a priority and I am sure we will gradually manage to bring inflation down and stabilise it. We still have a lot to do to reach the levels of inflation in France, but the prerequisites are there. At least the fact that our budget has a surplus speaks volumes. There are many other indicators that attest to macro-economic stability.
Question: I would like to ask a question about the social protection of the population. You have repeatedly mentioned the difficult demographic situation in your country and spoken about the shortening of life expectancy. France has a very sophisticated social security system. Our health service is practically free. By the way, it costs the state a great deal. There is a system of pensions which the Government finds hard to finance. What kind of social security system do you want to have in Russia? I mean elderly people who have very small pensions compared with what we have here in France.
Vladimir Putin: I wouldn’t speak about low living standards in Russia compared with France. Much depends on the cost of living. But it is a problem. I would like to tell you that incomes are growing steadily, at a pace unknown in Europe. They are growing in real terms. But that is still not enough.
As regards the social system there are several variants for tackling this problem. The first and most important variant is this: if we speak about budget financing I am deeply convinced that financing should not go to the institution, the hospital or school as such. Payment should be made for the quality and quantity of the services they provide. You have treated a certain number of patients – you get paid for that number. If people go to study not to school X, but to school Y, Y should get more funding. This is the principle we must introduce in our country. It is not easy but it is the most effective way to tackle the problem.
At the same time, we must and we will preserve free education and basic medical services. We still have many problems in these spheres. I have indicated the road that we are going to follow very carefully. In parallel we will develop paid-for social systems for the categories of people who are willing and can afford to pay.
As for pensions, we recently adopted a package of laws on pension reforms and have created conditions for a transition to the system of pension savings. The system was introduced this year. We will soon be able to demonstrate to our citizens who have some savings how much money is accumulated in their pension accounts. Now we must improve the way savings are used, liberalise that system without losing control over how the pension resources are used, so that they are not lost and contribute to economic development.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: February 11, 2003, 00:01
Text version