Events
Opening Remarks at a Meeting with Chinese Ambassador to Russia Zhang Deguang
October 14, 2003
00:01
The Kremlin, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, Mr Ambassador. I am glad to see you. It is a pity you are leaving. We have come to regard you as a fine professional and a friend of our country, a person who has done a great deal to strengthen cooperation between the People’s Republic of China and the Russian Federation.
Your mission here has been very noble, because the strengthening of cooperation between China and Russia meets the direct interests of the People’s Republic of China and the Russian Federation.
Basic documents have been signed with your immediate participation. Of course, this could not have been done if the top political leadership of China and Russia had not been willing to achieve the results that we now have in our bilateral relations.
This applies above all to the positions of former Chinese President Jiang Zemin and Mr Hu Jintao, with whom we are cultivating ever closer business and personal relations. We remember well the Chinese President’s recent visit to Russia. We know his frame of mind as well as the frame of mind of the current leadership of the People’s Republic of China to develop relations with Russia.
Our goal, in turn, is to fulfil all the main provisions of the treaty between Russia and China, a treaty aimed at developing our relations in the 21st century. We continue to cooperate in the United Nations and in international and regional organisations, and it gives me pleasure to know that you will be the first Executive Secretary of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation.
We actively supported your candidacy. I think the coordination of efforts bilaterally and internationally and our cooperation in international organisations will be reflected in our negotiations with Mr Hu during an Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum in Thailand.
Before we continue our present conversation, I would like to thank you for your work here in Moscow and present you with a Certificate of Thanks from the President of the Russian Federation.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 14, 2003, 00:01
Text versionEvents
Introductory Remarks at a Meeting of the Supreme State Council of the Russia-Belarus Union State
October 14, 2003
00:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: President Lukashenko,
Esteemed members of the Supreme State Council,
Friends and colleagues,
Today, we must discuss a number of issues of major importance for the long-term development of the Union State. This primarily implies the formation of the Union State budget and its execution.
It is important that the Union State budget, a highly important instrument of bilateral integration, match current and long-term objectives.
While assessing the execution of previous budgets, we must stipulate more concise budgetary-process parameters for 2004.
Moreover, we must assess the effectiveness of our foreign-policy programme. Although some positive results have been achieved, there are still numerous unused reserves and opportunities.
Today, we must also discuss preparations for celebrating the 60th anniversary of the Soviet Union’s victory in the Great Patriotic War of 1941–1945. This is our common heritage, and I am convinced that we must do everything possible to make the celebrations worthy of the country’s victory.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 14, 2003, 00:00
Text version