Events
Speech at a Ceremony Dedicated to the 125th Anniversary of Bulgaria's Liberation
March 3, 2003
00:00
Mt Shipka, Bulgaria
President Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon.
Mr President, dear Bulgarian friends, I congratulate you on this significant date and great holiday – the 125th anniversary of the Liberation of Bulgaria.
In the history of each people, in the life of each people there are dates which forever remain in historical memory. And to them, of course, in Bulgaria and in Russia belongs the liberation of Bulgaria from the Ottoman yoke and the gaining of state independence.
The war of liberation, and the battles at Shipka and near Plevna are not only heroic events in the history of the Bulgarian people, not only the turning point in the struggle for independence. They are also vivid pages in the history of the Bulgarian fatherland and in the history of Russia. They are striking examples of the heroism of our soldiers and Bulgarian volunteers. Khristo Botev said that those who fall in the struggle for freedom, in the battles for freedom, do not die, but live forever in the hearts of the people. And in order to be worthy of the memory of our great ancestors, we, of course, must strengthen the relations of brotherly friendship that for centuries distinguished relations between Russia and Bulgaria.
Relying on all the best in our relations in the 19th and 20th centuries, we, of course, should think of the future.
I am confident that Russian-Bulgarian cooperation will be a weighty contribution to developing a united, prosperous, independent Europe. Of course, behind these beautiful, yet general, words we should not forget the main thing. And the main thing in our cooperation is that it should be directed toward the improvement of life, to the enhancement of well-being, to the improvement of the social condition of the ordinary Bulgarian and the ordinary citizen of Russia.
I congratulate you on this holiday and wish you happiness.
Long live Bulgaria!
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: March 3, 2003, 00:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Russian Journalists after a State Visit to Bulgaria
March 3, 2003
00:02
Sofia, Bulgaria
Question: Today you have visited some symbolic places which are very important for the history of Russia. What is your impression?
Vladimir Putin: My strongest impression is not so much the visits to these places, although of course they are impressive, but the friendliness of the Bulgarian people. I think it has not been lost on the media. You can see it in the streets of Sofia and in the small towns we visited, not only on Shipka, but in other places as well. And that is the most pleasant and the biggest impression. As for Shipka itself, it is heartening that the people of Bulgaria still remember the Russian soldiers who shed their blood to gain the independence of Bulgaria and that they cherish these memories. This is genuine attention to our shared history. As I have said on Shipka, it is a good basis for the development of relations in the future. Remembering the heroism of our ancestors we must of course look to the future. I am sure that Bulgaria and Russia can make a significant contribution to the development of the greater common Europe. During these two days we have done much to change the situation in the Russian-Bulgarian relations for the better. We have a good basis for that: historical, moral, cultural, and economic, because there are many projects of interest both to Russia and Bulgaria, and without any doubt to Europe. I mean above all energy.
Question: Could you assess your visit to Bulgaria in a single word?
Vladimir Putin: I am not sure I can do it in a single word, but I will try to put it in a few words. I think it has been very timely and highly productive. We shall see what will follow in the near future. I am confident that the visit will not be confined to fine words and recollections of the past. I have a firm conviction that our relations will develop.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: March 3, 2003, 00:02
Text version