Events
Speech at the World Economic Forum Session in Moscow
October 3, 2003
17:08
Moscow
Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon,
It gives me great pleasure to see that the Davos Economic Forum is gradually looking more and more towards Moscow, is holding regular events here and has a permanent base here. I thank you for your warm words about Russia and I welcome with all my heart this representative forum of politicians and businesspeople to Moscow.
This forum’s work is devoted to an analysis of Russia’s economic prospects and competitiveness. Many today are interested in this subject, and I was pleased to hear the organisers speak of the interest and note the changed atmosphere regarding Russia today. We are seeing some positive trends, and we are pleased to be able to say this. We are also interested in having a fruitful discussion. The authority of the Davos Economic Forum has made us all the more interested in seeing practical results and business consequences.
Today, all the conditions are in place for Russia to become a full member of the community of economically developed countries, the countries that successfully compete on world markets while at the same time working towards international economic integration and cooperation.
I must say that over recent years the Russian economy has seen consistent, sustainable and intensive growth, and many facts point to this.
Some figures will have already been heard here, and will be heard again, too. But I will allow myself to repeat them nevertheless. Investment activity rose by around 12 percent over the last six months. The inflation rate has decreased. Inflation is still quite high here compared to the developed economies, but the downward trend is clear and positive. We, in any case, are striving towards the objectives we have set for ourselves.
GDP rose by 6.9 percent over the first six months of this year and industrial output was up by 6.8 percent. I would also like to point out the policy being followed by the Russian Government. This policy is reflected in concrete figures – the federal budget ran a primary budget surplus of 2.9 percent over the first six months of this year.
Our stock market is growing rapidly. Russian companies are borrowing actively on foreign markets, including through placing their securities abroad.
The international community has raised its assessment of investment opportunities in our country. Russia’s credit rating has been rising steadily over the last few years and there is every reason to hope that Russia will soon have an investment grade credit rating.
It is clear that successful economic development requires the state to become more effective. This is a task of prime importance, and I must say here that we are still finding it a difficult task.
We are trying to move away from unjustified state regulation and excessive intervention in the economy. This is a difficult process for a country that lived under a planned economy for 80 years. The state apparatus has the urge to tell everyone what to do in its blood, and as soon as decisions are taken at federal level to limit economic intervention, dozens, hundreds and even thousands of people appear at lower levels to introduce more and more new rules making it possible to “improve and correct” things and keep telling everyone what to do.
But despite these difficulties, we are aware of how important it is to resolve this task and have begun administrative reform. One of the main aims of this reform is to make the state apparatus more attuned to the needs of society, the economy and business. We will draw up and introduce administrative regulations that will bring greater transparency to the state agencies and the decision-making process.
At the Forum’s last session in Moscow, we talked in detail about tax reform. I am sure that many of you here today know this, but I shall nonetheless repeat that from the beginning of 2004, we will reduce the value added tax rate from 20 percent to 18 percent. This is just one step towards further improvement of the tax system and reduction of the tax burden on the economy.
We have plans for other measures of this kind and impact. We plan to cut the single social tax rate, for example.
The priority for our policies is to achieve full integration of our country into the world economic system. We hope that Russia’s accession to the World Trade Organisation will ultimately encourage the development of our national economy.
Your Forum has already held an active discussion on the possibilities and prospects for sustainable Russian GDP growth. I know that many different points of view were expressed, and that some controversial and critical comments were made. I am pleased that this is so, pleased that there is discussion on this subject. I am pleased that this subject is stirring the business community and forcing our society to think about the most promising roads we can take in our development. It is a useful subject to debate.
I must add that Russian society itself is even more actively involved in discussing this subject now. The reason for this is simple and understandable. People’s living standards and the historical prospects for Russia itself depend on GDP growth.
Analysts say that Russia’s economic growth is mostly based on rapid development of the country’s raw materials sector.
Of course, Russia is a wealthy country, and we perhaps have not even learned yet how to make use of this wealth properly. We are only learning now. But despite all the importance of the raw materials sector to us, we are concentrating more and more on developing science-intensive sectors. We will continue to make every effort to create the conditions and incentives for investment in high-technology sectors. At the same time, we are working on creating the necessary legislative basis and improving our level of corporate culture.
We also believe it very important to establish modern institutions for protecting intellectual property rights.
We see one of our main tasks as being to achieve rapid development in our processing and service sectors. We are carrying out a number of measures to diversify our economy and attract investment to the processing industry.
Let’s stop and think. We often say ourselves and hear from our partners the criticism that Russia is a country too much focused on raw materials exports. But when was Russia ever any other kind of country? When was this? Under the tsars Russia exported honey, meerschaum and back-bands, and then it began exporting oil from Baku. It was the same during the Soviet years. Unfortunately, these trends continue today.
I think that this is perhaps the first time we have set ourselves such an ambitious objective – to use new technology to develop our processing industries.
Yes, we know that in the Soviet years the country lived through collectivisation and industrialisation, but this industrialisation had a domestic focus and did not really help to integrate the country into the world economy. On the contrary, the Soviet Union isolated itself.
We have different aims, and they are larger in scale and more complicated. But we are full of determination to achieve our aims.
In this respect, we very much need to create a system for insuring export contracts in the processing sector.
Russia still faces the important challenge of carrying out structural reform of the natural monopolies. We have already approved the basic laws for the electricity and railways sectors. Not only have these laws been passed, the process is now underway, both in the energy and the transport sectors. Active work is now underway on creating the Russian Railways Company.
As you know, there is active and sometimes heated debate on how best to reform the gas sector. I hope that the Government will soon arrive at decisions that are acceptable both for the sector itself and the economy as a whole.
In the services sector, we believe it is highly important to create a full-fledged system of insurance-based healthcare and to improve our education system. Russia faces the same problems as does any economy going through a period of transition and there is nothing new here. The conditions, and unfortunately often the ways of work, carry on from the past, while at the same time the market becomes more and more a part of daily life, leading to the various contradictions that we know emerging. The number of unofficially fee-paying services increases but the quality of service does not improve. We plan to resolve this problem by following the well-known principle that money goes for the user of the service. We will do this in education, in healthcare, and in other sectors, too.
I think that these objectives I have listed will give you an idea of the scale and intensiveness of the transformations we have undertaken, and also of the difficulties that we still have to overcome and those that we have already successfully overcome, for they also exist.
In conclusion, I would like to say that the Russian economy has immense potential. This lies not just in its natural resources, but also in the education level of its people and its advanced science.
Supporting our economic prospects are the stable political system and the development of our civil society.
The state is striving to provide more effective protection for the economic and social interests of its citizens and to involve all of society in resolving the ambitious national tasks that we face.
I think there’s no need to repeat that economic progress is what provides the foundation for resolving all these tasks, and that rapid economic growth is the key to successfully achieving our objectives. This is what we will strive towards by uniting our efforts within the country and doing all we can to pursue positive work with everyone who wants to work in Russia.
Thank you for your attention.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 3, 2003, 17:08
Text versionEvents
Opening Remarks at a Meeting Dedicated to the Problems of the Agro-Industrial Sector
October 3, 2003
19:00
Oktyabrsky village, Krasnodar Region
Vladimir Putin: Despite all the problems, difficulties and concerns we faced in the beginning, I told the Government to put together a budget for 2004 that would preserve the macro-economic stability in the country, and the basic targets following their first reading seem to be pointing that way.
Remember that this year’s budget was also drawn up with a surplus of 2.5%. And next year we are not going to just collect and spend money to the last rouble. We are again planning a surplus budget, and the extra money obtained will be channeled into a stabilisation fund, or, as they say in other countries, a fund for future generations. The idea is that in the event of an unfavourable situation on world markets we will have a so-called “safety cushion”, or money that will carry us through the rough times.
We observe the same thing in social and political affairs – although our multi-party system is only taking shape. We already have a steadily performing electoral system. We are now approaching State Duma elections and elections in ten regions: St Petersburg, Chechnya, Moscow, the Moscow Region and other parts of the Russian Federation. It is my fond desire that our sense of stability does not falter and does not create the impression that all problems are solved and no other efforts are needed and that somebody else will do something somewhere without us.
I look forward to the high political activity of our people, because that is always an important sign for the authorities – the activity itself and the population’s ranking of preferences during the course of election campaigns and in elections themselves.
I would like to finish by saying that despite a tight and involved political schedule, despite the upcoming national parliamentary and presidential elections in March, we and State Duma deputies will put together not a populist budget, but the country’s main economic law aimed at developing our economy and at reaffirming our course towards Russia’s stable development.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 3, 2003, 19:00
Text versionEvents
Answers to Questions from Participants in the World Economic Forum Session in Moscow
October 3, 2003
18:29
Moscow
Question: The climate is changing for the better in Russia. You have a good opportunity to sell quotas under the scheme proposed by the Kyoto Protocol, because Russia has very low levels of industrial emissions of pollutants. This would be a good opportunity for investing in the high-technology sector.
Vladimir Putin: I think that if we join forces to solve problems on a global scale such as climate change brought about by man-made processes, then we should be guided above all by noble aims and ideas rather than by short-lived economic advantages.
Today Russia has the opportunity to sell some quotas. We hope that tomorrow it will not have such an opportunity, or will have it to a more modest extent, because we hope that the Russian economy will grow. That is why we don’t want to take decisions based on just these budget considerations. We are working on this matter. You know that we have signed the Kyoto agreements. We think that this is definitely a move in the right direction. At the same time, our specialists have to calculate how the situation will look today if we ratify the agreements, what problems Russia could face or run up against in the near future.
Specialists, too, are still debating this subject, but we have to listen to all the different points of view. Some say that even if fully implemented, the Kyoto Protocol will not have an impact on the negative climate change processes taking place. World-renowned specialists share this view and say that we can only have a minimal impact on these processes, even if the Kyoto Protocol is observed. They give a figure of only 1–2 percent.
The worst thing, though, would be to do nothing at all. The initiators and participants in the Kyoto process have made an important and positive contribution to protecting the environment. This sends a powerful and good signal to the international community. And we want to participate in this process.
The question is about making sure that our own interests are heard. I have already said before that Russia has a huge amount of forests, and specialists know what this means. We are in a position to have a very positive impact on the world’s environment, and we are doing this thanks to our natural factors. This should also be taken into account, as should Russia’s other concerns. We are carrying on a positive dialogue with our partners and we hope that it will result in a positive decision.
Question: Mr President, thank you for your encouraging words about research and design work. Could you give a bit more detail about this subject, especially as concerns software production and the conditions for foreign investors in this sector?
Vladimir Putin: I don’t think we should single out some specific directions and sectors or create special conditions for particular sectors of the economy. We want to create favourable general conditions for the whole economy. No one should benefit from some kind of preferential treatment.
In this sense, I think the area you are involved in is a very promising sector for development here in Russia. We all know about Russia’s mathematics school and its programmers. This is a good foundation for us to bring these activities here to Russia, rather than having all the programmers go off to the Silicon Valley. There half of them are running around and asking themselves what to do next.
You need to be working here and develop this sector here in Russia. If there are some specific requests, I am sure that the Government, and all of us have an interest in developing this sector, is ready to examine specific questions regarding the organisation of your work.
Question: Mr President, you have done a lot for Russia and have made many decisions. That’s very important for us, it’s important for foreign investors. As far as I know, the Government has been instructed to achieve greater predictability not only at the federal, but also at the regional level, because unpredictability is a problem for investors.
Vladimir Putin: In my speech I said that Russia’s credit rating is rising, and spoke of political stability. I must say that we value this very much. I want to say that in the future, we will do all we can to ensure that our economy and society develop in predictable and stable conditions, both economic and political.
But this does not mean that we are just going to curl up under a warm blanket of petrodollars. We are going to develop our economy. We will set ourselves a tough programme of objectives, but we think these are goals that we can achieve.
This means that we will continue with tax reform and that we will make greater efforts to resolve the tasks we have not yet managed to tackle successfully in administrative reform. It also means that we will strengthen our judicial system, and we hope that all these measures together will have a positive impact.
That is the main thing I wanted to say here, bearing in mind that most of you here today and those who will hear us through the media will probably be wondering more and more what will happen in Russia after the elections to the State Duma in December, and after the presidential elections in March next year.
I want to say again that we will do everything to keep the situation stable, but we don’t want development to stop there, we want development to be effective. That is the main point I wanted to make in answering your question.
Question: We signed several contracts with Russian companies before the war in Iraq began. We don’t know now what the situation in Iraq is, and what will the Russian Government do to back these contracts signed with the Iraqi Government?
Vladimir Putin: I didn’t really understand the question. You signed contracts with Russian companies?
Question: We signed a contract to explore deposits in the north of Iraq. We invested a certain amount of money in this and now we don’t know if these contracts will be extended. Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Now I understand. I don’t know that I can add anything to what I and other Russian representatives have already said at various levels over the last few months. But I will set out Russia’s position once again.
We think that the work now going on in the United Nations Security Council on adopting a new resolution should lead to the international community, through the Security Council, gaining real opportunities to take part in rebuilding Iraq. In this case, we suppose that contracts signed earlier could still be used and should be used to help rebuild the country.
What’s more, I am personally convinced that if we take this road, we could have some success, even if only a small success, in rebuilding Iraq because, to be frank, the people in Iraq feel a lot more trust in their traditional partners than in those who control the situation there today.
That is a serious factor that we should all take into account. I must say that our partners, including our American partners, understand this. They also very much want to improve the situation there as soon as possible. I think we should proceed very carefully so as not to create a power vacuum there. But the international community, through the United Nations, should be given a greater role.
A conference of donors for the rebuilding of Iraq is to take place at the end of October. It would very good to adopt a UN Security Council resolution on Iraq before then.
We still have time for this; we’re only at the beginning of the month. Our specialists say that everyone involved in this process wants a positive outcome. So far, we are not satisfied with the draft resolution our American partners have proposed. But we do see, including from them, a willingness to reach a compromise. I think that if we let these considerations guide us, then we most certainly will be able to find a compromise. I am counting on this.
Question: Allow me to ask you the last question. When we meet again, hopefully in two years time, what achievement would make you particularly proud, and what would you share with your audience?
Vladimir Putin: This flows on naturally from what I have been saying up until now. I have been talking about the problems we have solved and those we have still to solve. Of course, I would like us to be able to speak positively about the objectives we have set before us today. In the economy, this means achieving the corresponding rate of GDP growth, and as far as concerns putting in place the conditions for achieving this growth, this depends on the success of our administrative reform. This is one of our key tasks today. But I must add that we can give no firm guarantee that we will achieve all of this in two years.
This task covers too many areas at once for us to be able to resolve it by simply passing one, two or even hundreds of good and intelligent laws. These laws need to work not just on paper, but in people’s heads. They have to become part of our consciousness and the everyday fabric of our lives. This is a question of changing our mentality, and I don’t think it can be done in just two years.
But I very much do hope that in two years we will see some positive trends. They are already taking shape in various directions. I already said that investment has risen by 12%. I cannot say that we have the best investment conditions in the world. We know that investment growth in China came to 38%. But if we break investment down per capita, then we get $1,000 per person in China, while we have $3,000 per person. True, the Czech Republic has $5,000 per person. In this respect, we should look to the best examples. We have to create the best conditions possible for attracting capital and labour in all sectors.
One of the key areas for our work today is to change the state’s attitude to the economy and to everything that is happening in it. We need to end pressure from the state on the economy. We need to carry out careful and competent administrative reform while maintaining stability in the economy and in society. This is not an easy task, but I am sure that we will be up to it.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 3, 2003, 18:29
Text version