Events
Speech at a Presentation of Credentials Ceremony
October 13, 2003
18:37
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen,
I warmly welcome you to the Kremlin today for this ceremony that marks the official beginning of your diplomatic missions in Russia.
You represent different countries, but today, much in our world is interlinked and interdependent.
We are all equally concerned over international terrorism and interethnic strife and over the danger of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. We are also concerned over the threats arising from organised crime and drug trafficking.
Then there are the basic challenges of our modern age, including the environment protection and the fight against epidemics that we must act together to resolve.
Russia’s relations with the countries you represent are based on trust and constructive partnership.
Russia highly values its traditions of friendship and cooperation with the Republic of Kenya. We think there are wide-ranging prospects for our political, trade and economic cooperation.
Relations between the Russian Federation and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan have made considerable progress. We are ready to cooperate in various areas, including on the international stage.
Russia seeks to continue strengthening its close and friendly ties with the Republic of Uzbekistan, a country that is our longstanding and traditional partner. I am sure that we shall continue to build our relations on the principles of equality and consideration for each other’s interests. We will develop our cooperation in the fight against terrorism and drug trafficking in order to ensure stability and security in Central Asia.
The high level of political understanding between Russia and the Republic of Mali shows how close our views are on the processes underway in the world. I must say that we have a lot of potential for developing our cooperation.
There is positive growth in our relations with Luxemburg, one of the world’s leading financial centres. We are happy to see the high level of investment activity and the increasing energy in relations between Luxemburg and Russia. We want to further develop and strengthen our diverse ties.
Relations between Russia and Canada are now going through one of the most fruitful and successful periods in their development. This applies to the whole spectrum of political, economic, cultural and other ties.
The visit to Russia in September by Adrienne Clarkson, the Governor General of Canada, confirmed once again that we share common views on the key issues the world faces today. Our task now is to broaden the spectrum of our interaction.
Russia also seeks to continue its friendly contacts with the Republic of Mozambique. We hope that through our joint efforts we will considerably broaden and enrich our cooperation.
I am sure that we can bring our relations with the State of Qatar to a new level. There is no doubt that we can settle all questions and develop our cooperation in a positive direction.
We have every opportunity to continue moving forward in our political dialogue and practical cooperation with Ireland. Ireland’s presidency of the European Union from the beginning of next year will undoubtedly help to strengthen cooperation between our countries.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
The peoples of every country need prosperity and security, stability and a decent life, regardless of their nationality, religion and citizenship.
I am convinced that we can harmoniously balance different countries’ interests and build a safe and just world order only if we firmly stand on the foundation of international law and its practical working mechanisms, the most important of which is the United Nations.
We in Russia greatly value your countries’ commitment to this position. I hope that the feeling of shared responsibility for the future of humankind will be a reliable beacon for us in our common work.
I am sure that in your work in Moscow you will find not just understanding at a political level, but will also be satisfied with the cultural environment Russia’s capital offers, and that you will see and feel Russians’ friendliness towards you and your countries.
My colleagues and I will do our best to help make your lives here enjoyable and your work fruitful.
Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 13, 2003, 18:37
Text version