Events
Opening Address at the Congress of the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs
November 14, 2003
20:35
Column Hall, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon,
Your forum has brought together a very representative group of industrialists and employers from all over the country. Arkady Volsky just said that colleagues have come here today from all 89 regions of the Russian Federation. This gives us an entire cross section of the modern Russian business community.
Present here today are people who have managed to build up their businesses, organise profitable production and create new jobs in the difficult and complicated conditions of the last decade. The Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, through its active position, has played a large part in this success. It represents all the main sectors of the economy and practically all forms of Russian business.
The main question we face today is what do we see as being the most effective ways of developing the Russian economy? This includes, of course, strengthening the institution of property, carrying out tax and administrative reforms, developing the financial and banking system and reorganising the infrastructure monopolies.
In many of these areas we are already working together through the most effective means of influence – improving legislation. I would add here that this cooperation should bring the country tangible and visible results, above all in the form of an increase in the economic growth rate, real development of a civilised market in Russia and an economically justified, effective and socially oriented tax policy.
I would also like to mention an issue that has already been discussed at meetings with the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs. Active work is now in progress on optimising the structure and functions of the still rather unproductive bureaucratic apparatus. There is nothing surprising here, because we are all in some way, and the bureaucratic apparatus all the more so, products of a planned, command economy.
We are fully aware that these reforms arouse great resistance in officials who have become used to giving their powers a broad interpretation and who only know how to authorise, distribute, restrict and decide for others. I must say that people within the bureaucratic apparatus also understand this problem. In this very hall I met recently with the top municipal officials, and I must say that they are all very modern-thinking people and they understand these problems. They have these problems and you also have these problems. The question then is for us to work together to find the most effective solutions for the country.
It is not easy, but we will see administrative reform through to its completion and in accordance with the principles stated earlier.
The government and its apparatus are to draft and approve standard provisions on the functions of ministries, agencies, services and committees. They will also draw up administrative regulations setting out clear descriptions of the procedures to follow for how documents move through the corridors of the executive branch of power. It is no secret that many of the original objectives set by reform programmes end up being revised and often finish by going nowhere.
I think that state agencies’ specific functions not on the list of basic, general functions of the state should each be examined to determine how justified they are from an economic and political point of view. As you no doubt remember, I spoke about this matter in my annual address to the Federal Assembly.
The functions performed by state agencies should above all reflect the functions of the state as a whole. There are not so many of these functions and they are set out in the provisions of the Constitution. Any surplus functions, therefore, should be seen as a direct road to abuses and the potential for corruption of either the agency itself or of individual officials.
I know that administrative reform is one of the items on your congress agenda and I would ask you, the participants in this congress, delegates and the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, to take a more active part in helping to carry out the administrative reform plans. The Government and the Presidential Executive Office will draw up the necessary working mechanisms for involving representatives of the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs in this process.
Colleagues,
The new major national goals we have set, the list of which you are all familiar with, give rise to completely justified expectations among the public. Society expects the business community not just to come up with new ideas, but also to come up with proposals on how to make these ideas reality.
Today’s level of economic development, the conditions we have created and the economic growth rate all make it possible for us to set these new and ambitious goals, including developing a new social policy based on all these factors and taking into account the population’s high level of economic activity and its ability to influence the level of its own social guarantees.
I think the business community could also put some effort into developing a system of new social guarantees for the population that is more in keeping with the demands of the times. Once again, I would like to say that society has high expectations and I think the business community can help support the transformations that have now begun in the army, the housing and utilities sector, health and education.
We must move forward together and become a strong and genuinely competitive player on the world market. And we must build on this to become an influential modern state. Most important, we must work together to bring economic prosperity to our people, make it something they feel in their lives, and give stable and predictable working conditions.
It is my conviction that these tasks are not for the state alone to resolve, but that, fully aware of its social responsibility, all of civil society, including the business community, should be a part of this work.
 Your experience, your energy and your ability to carry out both your own plans and major national projects constitute one of Russia’s main development resources.
We know what great intellectual potential business has, what ambitious plans and ideas you have and what an organising and uniting force the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and your congress is.
I wish you success.
Thank you very much for your attention.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 14, 2003, 20:35
Text versionEvents
Concluding Remarks at the Congress of the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs
November 14, 2003
20:38
Column Hall, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: Colleagues,
Before Mr Volsky announces the break, I would like to respond to a few of the things that were said here and that I consider important.
I will start with some matters that are very specific but are, to my mind, important.
First, re-registration of rights to plots of land. If this decision is not taken, then the deadline will be postponed by two years; and this has already been agreed on. This definitely must be done. Moreover, I think that the sale of land on which privatised companies are located, that is to say, what amounts to a secondary sale of land, is unfair.
Now two very important systemic issues: bankruptcy and industrial policy.
I do not want to start a fresh discussion, but as was already said here, bankruptcy should not be used as a weapon in the competition between businesses; and we should do everything possible to ensure that this does not happen. But the issue is not the “seven kopeks” that stand to be gained from a bankruptcy, the issue is economic recovery, and we all know this. We all know that it’s not about the state collecting seven kopeks from an ineffective business. It’s about winding up businesses that are ineffective and only hamper the development of regions and the state. It was said here that other countries do all they can to prevent bankruptcies. I don’t know where this is the case, and if it is the case, then it is wrong. The state’s role with regard to bankruptcies is to protect the interests of the business and the people who work in it, provide organisational help, offer financial help to reorganise the business, help people to find new jobs. The aim is not to kill off businesses, but to find new roads for development.
If this is the way we organise our work, then this will be the right approach.
Now, regarding industrial policy, a reference was made here to the United States with the words that the situation is not the best there at the moment. The situation is not the worst there at the moment. The American economy has been developing quite well of late. This is a positive trend and can only make us happy. This is because we also depend on the world economy, and the United States is one of our main trading and economic partners. I wish them success. But not everything that goes on there is good, at least, in my opinion. To use the language of past slogans, we don’t need to blindly copy the West.
You are all aware that industrial policy is a complicated issue and that it is constantly under discussion. One of the speakers said as much today and tried to convince us that industrial policy is a necessary thing, and I know that many of you here probably agree with this view. But there is also a view that industrial policy today is nothing other than attempts by some businesses to lobby their interests through state structures at the expense of other businesses, and that it all comes down to who pays the money and how much, and that this is a decision for “his majesty” the state official.
I very much want to set our priorities. We all want to be able to set our priorities. I think this is interesting work. Yes, the European Union has indeed approved a whole programme and has allocated vast resources to it. What growth rate do the European Union countries have? 0.2%, you say. I don’t want to make any final conclusions here. I think that questions of the economy’s systemic development should be decided by the Government and the State Duma with the active participation of the business community.
Coming to another issue that was raised, and I quote here, “we cannot allow the state as a whole and the law enforcement agencies to be used as an instrument in business competition.” Of course we cannot allow this, and we now have an opportunity to discuss the matter in a broader format. But who is using such means in business competition? Who? The competitors. That is to say, business itself.
I must say that sometimes it is very difficult here to see clearly where business ends and where the state begins and where the state ends and where business begins. Setting boundaries between the state and business is a fundamental and ongoing task for practically all countries. The question is how successful we are in resolving this issue at this particular point in time. But the more consecutive our work in this direction, the more successful we will be.
It’s only natural that in our conditions where everything is tacked together in a hurry, any criminal investigations into business arouse fears and anxiety. I understand you very well. I understand that the fear is always there that maybe there will be a return to the past. But there won’t. It’s not possible.
The state, of course, has to react to violations of the law, and as I said, this has to happen no matter whether it’s an ordinary citizen, a state official or a businessman. But the state also has to provide protection, including, and not in the last case, for business, because protection for business is protection for the state economy.
We have no intention of avoiding even the thorniest questions. Concerning specific criminal investigations, we need to get used to a certain legal culture and not slip back into sorting things out by non-legal solutions. Groundless accusations against the law enforcement agencies give rise to groundless accusations of corruption against you and me, against the business community and the state. If we have a problem with the law enforcement agencies and their work, and if there’s something that raises doubts, then we need to set about improving the state institutions concerned, but we need to do this in a systemic, public and legal fashion.
The state and the business community will continue their dialogue, and what is more, I think that we are obliged to work together and will work together in the interests of developing the country and helping its economy to grow. We will work together to make this country stronger, wealthier and more prosperous.
I wish you every success.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 14, 2003, 20:38
Text version