Events
Opening of the Sixth Session of the Supreme State Council of the Russia-Belarus Union State
January 20, 2003
00:00
Minsk
Alexander Lukashenko: This is our first meeting in 2003, our first working session; and I would like to congratulate all those present, including the journalists and through them the Belarusian people and all the Russians on the past holidays, the New Year and Christmas. And we had a big holiday yesterday, Epiphany. May the coming year bring success to Russians and Belarusians.
I believe that the main result of last year is that we have preserved our Union, have not rolled back from the frontiers achieved, and have preserved our trust in each other and in good human relations. This was highlighted by our meetings with the Russian President yesterday and today. Our Ministers and the heads of all the branches of power who are present in Minsk have also met with their colleagues.
A direct and frank exchange of opinions on the strategy of Union building has deepened our work on the concept of our Union’s Constitution. I think that by the time of our next meeting, we will have an agreed draft of this fundamental document as envisaged by our work plans.
During the meetings with the Russian President, it was clearly determined that our further progress must proceed strictly in compliance with the earlier agreements. They are sealed in our Treaty on the Creation of the Union State and the programme of actions to implement it.
The success of Belarusian-Russian integration hinges on our efforts to form the common economic space.
I would like to note, in fact to repeat what Mr Putin has said: last year trade between Russia and Belarus increased by 5% to about $10 billion. But that is only the official figure. We have no borders. And I think unregistered trade, when people engage in free trade ignoring the border would add a couple of billion. So, we may well contest the place of Russia’s main trade partner with Germany. Officially, Germany is the largest trading partner of Russia. But if you factor in all trade, Belarus may well regain the first place in trade with the Russian Federation as was the case two years ago.
Last year we made important steps towards creating a level playing field for the business entities in Belarus and Russia.
In my opinion, in 2003 more attention needs to be given to addressing social issues in the context of our integration. We have agreed that our Union has been created and will develop in the interests both of the Russian and Belarusian peoples.
Some steps have to be taken to that end. The issue of addressing the social problems of Russians and Belarusians has been prepared today, and we will discuss the main areas of effort in the field of social policy.
I hope that the decisions that will emerge from this meeting of the Supreme State Council will significantly speed up the building of the Union State and enable us to produce concrete and tangible results.
I would like to give the floor to the President of the Russian Federation, who is by no means a guest in our country, let alone the Supreme State Council, the President of the great Russia, Vladimir Putin.
Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon.
Today we are to review some of the results of 2002 and, equally important, discuss the plans for the near term and identify priorities for the future.
Recently, we have had a lot of discussions on the further building of the Union State. But we have always shared the main principle: the course for the creation of the Union State is a strategic course for Russian-Belarusian interaction.
Last year, despite all the heated debates on political issues, we have managed to stay focused and to move forward on a whole range of key issues. First of all, work continued to harmonise national legislation, and work out common tariffs, tax and customs procedures. That is crucial for our integration strategy and for the formation of the common economic space.
I would like to confirm the figure cited by the President of Belarus. Russian-Belarusian trade has indeed increased to almost $10 billion, a record in recent years.
I think the result achieved in the field of trade is based on the decisions that we made in 2002: a switch to internal Russian prices of fuel, energy and railway tariffs. All this combined to produce significant economic results.
The plan of joint actions to introduce the single currency of the Union State is a little behind schedule. Work must be speeded up if this “package” is not to get stalled or collapse altogether. I hope that we will move forward more vigorously on that issue.
Successful progress towards a Union State is impossible without working out a common position on political issues. Particular responsibility is given to the joint commission for drafting the Constitutional Act. We have changed its composition to upgrade its level. Now the commission is headed by the Speakers of Parliaments of the two countries. It has been done on the initiative of President Lukashenko. The commission has held its first meeting and is to hold another shortly.
As we have just been saying with Mr Lukashenko, we very much hope that the commission will gather the necessary momentum to move forward on that key document.
I would like to draw your attention to another critical point. We have done much to enable Russian and Belarusian citizens to move freely, to enjoy equal rights to employment and social security, education and healthcare. And that constitutes one of our main achievements.
In my opinion, there are still some untapped resources. And these should be emphasised in developing the concept of the social development of the Union State.
And one more thing. I doubt that we can successfully solve our tasks if we do not make sure that payments to the budget of the Union State are made in a timely manner and in full. I am aware that there are some arguments as to how the money should be distributed in the budget. Despite all the arguments, the participants in that process manage to arrive at mutually acceptable decisions. The challenge is to ensure that all the parties in the process adhere to financial discipline and transfer money to the budget in full and in a timely manner.
In conclusion I would like to stress that we are entering a new and crucial stage in the building of the Union State. It calls for well calculated and effective decisions; only decisions that will really improve the quality of life of our citizens. And I entirely agree with Mr Lukashenko there. In fact, this is the whole point of our work.
Thank you for your attention.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: January 20, 2003, 00:00
Text versionEvents
Statement to the Press and Answers to Questions the Sixth Session of the Supreme State Council of the Russia-Belarus Union State
January 20, 2003
00:02
Minsk
Vladimir Putin: It remains for me to confirm the positive character of the negotiations held yesterday and today.
For my own part, I would like to thank my Belarusian colleagues and friends for the very favourable atmosphere created for our joint work. We have worked constructively, I repeat, both yesterday and today. We are satisfied with the results. We have reviewed the results of joint work in 2002 and outlined the perspective for the future. We discussed all the aspects which have just been named: including security issues and the future Union. You know that a commission has been set up and its status has been upgraded by the suggestion of the Belarusian President. It is headed by the speakers of the lower houses of both Parliaments. We have agreed to continue this work, I mean the work on amendments and the discussion of the proposals on both sides at the highest level.
Naturally, work to create an economic basis for the Union State should be the main area of our activities. We are approaching a milestone in our interaction. I am referring to the fact that under the treaty the Russian rouble is to become the common currency starting on January 1, 2005. It requires massive preparatory work and we discussed it today at length and in a constructive manner. Everybody assumes that the preparatory stage of that work must begin very soon with a view to proceed jointly according to a defined technical plan.
I think these are the main results because I believe harmonising the laws in the field of social policy is very important for ordinary citizens in our countries. That applies to pensions, access to medical care, movement and so on and so forth. Our experts have done some good work on that and we have approved the relevant concept. The task now is to implement it effectively. I hope we can do it.
Question: A question for the two Presidents. Are the two sides ready for the introduction on January 1, 2005 of the single currency and how do you see the situation with the creation of a joint gas transportation enterprise?
Vladimir Putin: I have just been speaking about it. We have discussed the problem. Starting on January 1, 2005 and until 2008 the Russian rouble is to be used as the common legal currency. That requires a certain amount of preparatory work, very complicated work. We have formulated our proposals. I think that in the spring we must agree on further steps and move in that direction. If that does not happen then of course we won’t be able to implement these plans by January 1, 2005. You know that initially the proposal was to introduce the Russian rouble as the single currency on January 1, 2004, but that deadline was of course too difficult. To meet it, we had to get to a flying start. We have been a bit too slow, but January 1, 2005 is a realistic deadline within the framework of the treaty.
As regards our joint work to create a single gas transportation and distribution system, we have some understandings with the Belarusian side. There is a slight shift of schedule, but on the whole we are satisfied with the way the situation is developing. Belarus has passed a law and it is about to be signed by the President.
(A. Lukashenko’s remark)
Mr Lukashenko says he has already signed the law. There is nothing to prevent us from implementing these plans within the agreed timeframe, that is, by next July.
Question: A question for both Presidents again. You have said several times, including today, that ensuring equal rights for the citizens of Belarus and Russia and creating a level playing field for them was one of the tasks in the building of the Union State. Obviously, much has already been done in this area, but there are still some questions on which there is little or no progress. What is the reason for this situation and is there a real opportunity to speed up the process?
Vladimir Putin: That is precisely what we have been doing all these years. What is the main prerequisite? What is the main condition that would ensure equality of the economic entities? It is the creation of a common economic space which is inconceivable and cannot exist unless it functions according to the same economic laws accepted by both sides.
A common economic space implies that we develop and act according to the same economic laws and recognise these laws on each other’s territory. To achieve such a situation, the introduction of a single legal currency in the shape of the Russian rouble is an important milestone. And this is what we began discussing last night and what we discussed at length today. And now, in the course of this meeting, ladies and gentlemen, it is the third time that we are turning to this key issue. If common economic laws are applied in Russia and Belarus and if we are guided by them, then our businesses will be on an equal footing. Failing that, issues will constantly arise, which will cause disputes; and we will be unable to decide who is right and who is wrong.
As for the citizens of Russia and Belarus, real people, we speak about it all the time. The Belarusian President always keeps it in mind, including the former times when he initiated the process together with the first President of Russia. This is in fact the aim of the work to create the Union State and we pay great attention to it.
I am aware that the introduction of the new Russian law on immigration has raised many questions in many CIS countries. And anticipating any questions on that topic I can tell you that Mr Lukashenko raised this issue during our meeting today. I can tell you that the new Russian migration legislation does not apply to the citizens of Belarus. The citizens of Belarus will not be required to fill out any migration cards in Russia. Please do not confuse the registration of the persons who come to major Russian cities with these migration cards. In the latter case, if they are registered in large cities, that rule fully applies to Russian citizens as well, and it is not applied only to the citizens of Belarus. It is an internal matter of the Russian Federation and we have a legal discussion going on to determine what is and what is not constitutional, but this does not mean special requirements for the citizens of Belarus.
And the last thing: the Internal Affairs Ministry of the Russian Federation has put a proposal to its Belarusian counterparts, and in Belarus the issues of migration are handled by other agencies and not by the Internal Affairs Ministry. Even so, they have established good contacts. The Russian colleagues have proposed that Belarusian officials from the relevant agency issue corresponding documents to citizens of third countries on their western border, documents that would be valid in the Russian Federation. But I would like to stress that in any case that would not apply to the citizens of Belarus.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: January 20, 2003, 00:02
Text version