Events
Excerpts from the opening address to a meeting with members of Government
December 8, 2003
19:44
President Vladimir Putin:
Now a word on the parliamentary elections, on the elections to the State Duma. I am sure that this will be discussed for a long time to come in the country. But the main conclusion that we should make today is that regardless of the results of the activity of specific parties in the pre-election period and regardless of the results on the basis of which the State Duma will be formed in the near future, the main conclusion is that this is a further step towards strengthening democracy in the Russian Federation. The analysts who paid attention to this circumstance are undoubtedly right.
The people of Russia have had the possibility once more to elect a legislative body of the country, and the state has given them free, honest democratic choice. This is the most important thing. I am sure that together with the leaders of the region, together with the Central Electoral Committee, together with the observers who worked at polling booths, we will analyse the course of this election campaign and the course of the elections themselves. We will analyse everything that is positive, single out the shortcomings, and we will work on removing them. But, I repeat, the most important conclusion is that this is another step towards strengthening democracy in Russia.
On 12 December, in several days, we will celebrate the 10th anniversary of the Russian Constitution. And both in connection with the State Duma elections, and in connection with this event, I would like to stress once more than the constitutional bases of Russia are firm. And our task is to strengthen the constitutional system of the Russian Federation, and strengthen the Constitution – the Fundamental Law of our country.
One of the serious figures in the voting process is the voter turnout. Of course, it could be higher. According to the most recent data from the Central Electoral Committee, the voter turnout was 56%. I repeat, it could be higher, but on the whole this reflects the turnout situation in many other countries. Above all, countries of Europe and North America. At the last elections to the parliament of Canada, the turnout was 60%, and it was 57% at the last parliamentary elections in Britain.
We will have final figures later, but it is clear that they will be approximately the same.
We will also talk of the results later. We will have to analyse these results. But for me, for example, it is absolutely clear that these results reflect the real sympathies of the population, and truly reflect what the people of Russia think, and reflect the realities of our political life.
I would like to warn political parties and public organizations that consider themselves to be victors to refrain from unnecessary euphoria. Large responsibility rests on their shoulders. And, talking to those who consider themselves to have lost, I would like to say that they should analyse the reasons that this happened. And at the same time, I would like to send them another signal. All their ideas, all their staff abilities which will be provided to the leadership of the country, to the Government, will be provided to society. And the ideas that are directed towards a positive solution of the tasks before Russia will be required. But everyone, undoubtedly, should make conclusions on the results of their political activity.
Formation of the parliament will take place within the time limits stipulated by law, and I appeal to the Government to establish constructive dialogue with the future line-up of the State Duma, which will be finally determined within several days, and establish collective work with it. There is a lot of work, and a great deal needs to be done.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 8, 2003, 19:44
Text version