Events
Speech at a Ceremony for Receiving Credentials from Ambassadors of Foreign Countries
November 20, 2003
17:50
Great Kremlin Palace, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: Gentlemen,
I am very happy to welcome you, the representatives of the most diverse nations and regions in the world, as you begin your diplomatic work in this country.
Your mission here, in Russia, is both responsible and very interesting. I expect that both the high authority you have been given, and your personal efforts, will serve to strengthen bilateral ties and become an important support in coordinating the efforts of our countries and people in fighting contemporary challenges and threats. And we know well what these challenges and threats are.
The recent tragic events in Turkey showed once again: international terrorism is not decreasing its activity. It strikes in virtually every part of the world. Therefore, we can only realistically oppose this threat by creating an effective mechanism of practical coordination.
I would like to repeat once again something that I have said several times before: we need unity in fighting such threats as the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, organised crime and drug trafficking. Solving such global problems as hunger, epidemics and environmental threats also requires the closest possible cooperation.
Russia’s relations with the countries that you represent are based on partnership and the aspiration to develop cooperation.
Russia and Brazil are linked by traditional friendship. Today, Russian-Brazilian friendship is characterised by its dynamic, intensive and very trusting contacts at various levels. All this creates good conditions to deepen and widen bilateral ties.
The relations between Russia and the Austrian Republic are determined by the spirit of good neighbourliness. We dynamically develop bilateral political dialogue, trade and economic ties, and investment cooperation. We have productive ties in culture, science and education. Russia counts on close cooperation in future with Austria in the united Europe that is taking shape.
Russia highly values the traditions of friendship and mutual understanding with the Republic of the Philippines. Our diplomatic relations have existed for more than a quarter of a century, and this is a good start to building close and effective cooperation. We have good prospects to take Russian-Philippine relations to an even higher level and to expand cooperation on the international arena. This also concerns our joint activity on ensuring security and stability in the Asia-Pacific region.
Traditional ties of friendship connect Russia and Mauritania. At the base of these ties are mutual respect and trust, a desire to strengthen cooperation in international and regional affairs, and the development of bilateral cooperation. I am sure that we will be able to add additional dynamics to Russian-Mauritanian ties in the trade and economic area.
I am also truly happy to welcome the ambassador of the French Republic. Relations between our countries are currently developing more dynamically than ever before. Strategic partnership makes it possible to interact effectively on the most important and complex problems of the modern world.
The non-traditional bilateral mechanism created on the initiative of the President of France, has justified its hopes – the Council of Cooperation on Security Issues. I am sure that with joint efforts we will be able not just to maintain the high level of political dialogue, but also to develop new promising directions in our cooperation.
I can also note with pleasure the positive dynamics in relations with the Kingdom of Bahrain. I hope that this will allow us to ensure the further development of Russian-Bahrainian interaction, and widen the practical component of our cooperation.
We also have prospects of taking the traditionally friendly ties between Russia and the Republic of Burundi to a higher level. We intend to increase the potential of bilateral interaction, including on the international arena. We support swift regulation of the internal conflict in Burundi, and are prepared to cooperate here with all interested parties.
Gentlemen,
I believe that closer coordination of the positions and actions of our nations, and the growth of mutual trust, is in the common interests of our peoples. By working together, we can make the world safer and more stable.
I wish you success in the start of your official mission in Russia. Here you will always find the necessary support of initiatives that serve to strengthen bilateral and multilateral interaction.
I hope that your time in Moscow will be useful and fruitful, and I have no doubt that it will be interesting.
I wish you all the best. Thank you for your attention.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 20, 2003, 17:50
Text version