Events
Press Opportunity following a State Council Presidium Session on Water Resources and the Development of Water Management in Russia
September 3, 2003
00:03
The MV Kazan , Rostov-on-Don
Correspondent: We are now on board the Kazan motor vessel. A meeting of the State Council devoted to the problems of water management ended here just a few minutes ago. The poor quality of drinking water and mismanagement of water resources were discussed. Are there any results that you can report?
Vladimir Putin: I have just talked with your colleagues. And I think the main result is not the concluding stage of the work, but what has been done by a group of experts and the heads of regions under the leadership of the Rostov Governor. I think they have prepared a very good and solid document which will undoubtedly form the basis of the policy of the state and the practical activities of the Government of the Russian Federation in this critical sphere for all of us. And our meeting to discuss the results of that work has, I repeat, just given the finishing touches to what has been accomplished by the Rostov Region Governor, Chub, and his colleagues over several months. It is a vital topic for our country, for the economy and the environment. And I must admit that we have not paid due attention to it recently. It involves everything: health, fish resources, transport and drinking water. It is our environment. I repeat, a programme has been mapped out. It will form the basis of the government’s practical activities. In my opinion, this is the most important thing.
Correspondent: I suggest that we discuss water, especially since our path will go through the Sea of Azov. It is no secret that the Sea of Azov almost became a bone of contention between Russia and Ukraine. One reason is that Russia forbids fishing sturgeon while Ukraine allows it. And it is one sea. Is there any possibility to come to an agreement with Kiev at the government level to establish order in the Sea of Azov?
Vladimir Putin: We have already said that Russia’s southern border is a new border for us in many places, including the Sea of Azov. Our approach is that the Sea of Azov must be an inland sea of Russia and Ukraine so as to best meet the national interests of the Russian Federation and Ukraine. Because a different regime would allow countries outside the region or countries that have no direct access to the Sea of Azov to feel that they are full- fledged participants in the process, if not its masters. Do we need that? This approach is shared by our Ukrainian colleagues. Some issues have yet to be discussed and a final decision on them has yet to be taken. You know that on the whole we have completed a very important stage of our work to normalise the situation on the Russian-Ukrainian border. Normalise it in terms of the documents, because, thank God, we have no problems on our border. As regards the land border we have in fact completed that work. Some more work remains to be done together on the Sea of Azov. But we have a common understanding and of course the Sea of Azov must not and will not separate us. It will be a uniting factor. I have no doubt about it. This is witnessed by the decisions of the Russian-Ukrainian Commission, which has banned the harvesting of sturgeon since 2002, and the sturgeon population is indeed in a deplorable state. That commission determined the quotas of catches for research purposes both for the Russian Federation and Ukraine. I do not remember the concrete figures but they meet the requirements of both sides and match the volumes that were caught by the corresponding entities in former years. As for illegitimate criminal fishing, these activities constitute an international crime and of course we must pool our efforts with Ukraine in combating it. I know that our Ukrainian colleagues intend to work in the same mode. By the way, we discussed it yesterday with the Ukrainian President Leonid Kuchma. In fact we have agreed to revisit the problem of the Sea of Azov and perhaps we will go there together.
By the way we have joint issues with Ukraine not only here on the Sea of Azov. Your colleague just asked a question about the agenda of the meeting of the State Council Presidium today. One of the participants in our meeting, Governor Savchenko [Belgorod Region], noted that the concept proposed by the State Council’s working group ignores the problems of the Dnieper basin. And he is the head of the region which has many tributaries of the Dnieper. The Dnieper is a great river Ukraine is very proud of. The issue will depend among other things on how we go about solving these problems. We are interested in constructive work with each other.
* * *
Correspondent: One more question. The Rostov Region can be regarded as a model of inter-ethnic relations in Southern Russia. Still, we are about to have an election. It has practically started. Some parties and some candidates for deputy are campaigning under the flag of nationalism and chauvinism. What is your attitude to this?
Vladimir Putin: To campaign under the flag of nationalism and chauvinism is always the easiest and the most harmful thing for those for whose sake it is supposed to be done. It is a false thesis which cannot be tolerated in a multinational country. If we want to destroy our country then we can welcome it. If we want to preserve Russia, we should not just resist it, we should wage a tough and consistent fight against it. We should inculcate to all, to the whole population, a zero tolerance of such manifestations. And of course it is inadmissible in the course of election campaigns. My attitude to this is highly negative.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: September 3, 2003, 00:03
Text versionEvents
Excerpts from a Speech at a Meeting of the State Council Presidium on Water Resources and the Development of Water Management in Russia
September 3, 2003
00:01
The MV Kazan, Rostov-on-Don - Taganrog
President Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, dear colleagues.
Today we are to discuss a very important issue – the state and prospects of development of the country’s water complex.
For any country, the issue of water resources is an issue of strategic importance, without any exaggeration. The state of water resources in many ways determines the quality of people’s lives. It directly affects both the economy of the country, and the level of its security.
Russia has enormous water resources. Russia has the second largest amount of water supplies in the world, and there are around 6 million rivers and lakes on its territory. Our country is one of the world leaders in supplies of such a deficit product as freshwater; water, which is now acknowledged to be the world’s main commodity of the 21st century. It is clear that effective use of water resources is a problem of national importance, and it cannot be solved at the level of departments or within one region alone.
An analysis of the state of the water complex shows that unfortunately, and this must be said, we take poor care of water supplies and make incompetent use of them. It must be admitted that in the past the situation was much better. But now, after reforms to the economy, many things which used to work in a kind of natural regime, which may not have been particularly efficient, but at least functioned, are simply being lost.
There is no modern system to clean municipal, industrial and agricultural sewage. Furthermore, 30% of existing water supply systems do not have any treating facilities at all, and as a result, a third of the country’s citizens, particularly those in rural areas, use poor-quality water.
The infrastructure of water transport and hydropower is in many ways outdated. The deterioration of hydraulic facilities is also known. In some regions it has reached a critical state. And we have already seen on several occasions the dramatic consequences of this state of affairs.
There are 65,000 hydraulic facilities in Russia. All this means that the water resources complex of Russia requires serious modernization. I will only outline several problems in generalized form.
First, it is necessary to develop modern approaches to the development of the entire water resources complex. I do not only mean technical issues – we must determine a clear state policy in this sphere. We must think over the economic, organizational and legal issues.
Second, it is necessary to seriously analyse the actual system of state administration in the water resources sphere.
I suggest that the processes currently underway to restrict authority and responsibility should fully affect water resources as well. It is important to remember that water is our common national property, and the principle of its accessibility to everyone is an absolute basic priority.
The third aspect is the development of water conserving and ecologically pure technology. Of course, mere calls to “protect nature” are not enough here. Factories must have an according economic stimulus.
We must also pay attention to regulating processes of developing areas with a high flood risk. There is a currently a great deal of confusion in land development. In general, in a whole series of regions this development is uncontrolled, and eventually causes disasters.
It is important to also think over a system of insuring civil responsibility for damage done to water and ecology.
I would also like to emphasise the important of legal regulation of systems of trans-border water objects.
And finally, separate attention should be devoted to problems of water transport. For many regions, this remains the only and sufficiently inexpensive method of delivering cargo.
As the amount of cargo increases, the fish supply quickly drops. And this once more illustrates the extent to which everything in nature is interconnected, and that if we interfere in it we must think of the consequences.
In conclusion, I would like to direct your attention to the following situation. We are all big bosses here, and we always brush aside people who point out the errors and insufficiencies in our work as if they were pesky flies. These include people who deal with ecological problems. I mean above all public organizations which expose ecological problems and propose methods to solve these problems. This is one of the spheres where sensible proposals should not be brushed aside, and however unpleasant this may be – it is always unpleasant when people stick their noses into our own mistakes – we need to rise above our own departmental and personal ambitions, and make use of everything useful that is proposed in this sphere. Under no circumstances should we ignore this.
It is clear that any idea can be taken to absurd lengths. It is clear that we are always caught between Scylla and Charybdis. We must always think about the development of the economy, the development of production, about providing people with jobs, replenishing the budget, and solving social problems – this is all understandable. But if we act carelessly when we do this, with poor effectiveness, in the old fashion, then in the end, the damage caused by our activity will be much greater than the results of our work.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: September 3, 2003, 00:01
Text version