Events
Speech at the Parade in Honour of the 58th Anniversary of Victory
May 9, 2003
00:01
Red Square, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Comrade soldiers and sailors, sergeants and sergeant majors,
Comrade ensigns and warrant officers, officers, generals and admirals,
Dear veterans,
Citizens of Russia,
I congratulate you on Victory Day! On the great and sacred holiday for us of national pride and national glory!
Today we are honoring and remembering those who won the war. Who traversed the hard and terrible, but triumphant path, who held out and threw the fascists back from the borders of the Fatherland. Liberated other countries and did not disgrace their land, their country and their people.
This heroic Victory was won 58 years ago. The powerful Wehrmacht machine had been stopped, a strong, arrogant and ruthless enemy had been destroyed. An enemy who had not doubted his success and had already conquered all of Europe. But had been overcome. Overcome here — on our soil.
We bow our heads to the commanders and privates, to the dead and to the living, to those who were in the thick of it and who forged victory in the rear.
The Great Patriotic War was an epoch of fearlessness. It was a time of exploits, a time of strengthening the spirit and of the triumph of honor. There, at the sources of this victory, we to this day draw our strength, find spiritual reliance. And strive to so live and work that a terrible war would never recur again.
All the peoples of the multinational Soviet Union made their contribution to the common buildup to Victory. And therefore veteran victors are today being congratulated in all the fraternal countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States.
This is our common holiday. And a day of our common memory of how we marched towards Victory together, how we fought together, worked together and did not think of decorations, titles or glory. Then there was but one aim — to rout the enemy, to return home and to raise the country from ruins and ashes.
This Victory came at a price of irretrievable losses, was gained through blood and courage, through sweat and pain.
Love of the native land became the chief victorious force of the war, turned out more powerful than the Hitlerite hordes and guns, stronger than torture, stronger than the hardships that befell all who lived through this war.
These days we turn to the lessons of the war. We are obliged to remember how it started and have no right to forget why the fascists appropriated the right to determine the destinies of the world, the destinies of other countries and peoples. Why they considered themselves the makers of history and hoped to remain unpunished.
Then, at the beginning of World War II, an awareness of the total menace of fascism did not come at once. The waiting and inaction of the international community had allowed the Nazis to behave aggressively and impudently. It took years and millions of victims before humanity rallied.
It was unity that helped defeat fascism. This truly invaluable experience of unity is needed in our days as well. In the world there has appeared a new global and very serious danger — international terrorism. To counter it the efforts of all civilized countries need to be united.
In order to resist evil, it is necessary to strengthen the armed forces of our country, to learn steadfastness from our fathers and grandfathers. They did not waver in the face of a cruel and strong enemy, and their experience and their Victory are both our wealth and our spiritual beacon.
Happy Victory Day!
Glory to the soldiers of the Great Patriotic War!
Glory to the victorious people!
Glory to Russia!
Hurrah!
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 9, 2003, 00:01
Text versionEvents
Speech at a Reception to Mark the 58th Anniversary of Victory in the Great Patriotic War
May 9, 2003
00:02
The Kremlin, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: Friends,
Veterans of the Great Patriotic War,
Colleagues,
Today we mark a holiday that is sacred; the day that saw the end of the bloodiest of all wars. I congratulate you on Victory Day.
This is not just another date, a page in history or a memory. May 9, 1945 was the day when our people prevailed over brutality and violence, over fear and pain. That day saw the greatest justice the world has ever known.
Victory came as the main reward for what people had lived through during the war: for their feats of courage and valour, their losses and privations. It inspired people and gave them new strength to live on in order to build and create, rebuild the country and raise children.
Our fathers and grandfathers had overcome unbelievable hardship and trials. Their experience of faith, unity and their aspirations for a better life are more relevant today than ever.
We still have many complicated problems. But they are problems of a time of peace. They cannot be compared with wartime problems. We can and must solve them. We must achieve success. Only, we should work towards that goal together, and dedicate ourselves to our cause and the interests of our country.
Our veterans set an example. During these memorable days you are of course thinking back to those times, the attacks and retreats, the trenches, the cramped dugouts. You know the truth about war. You know what genuine friendship and supporting the shoulder of your fellow soldier mean. You remember those who died on the battlefield, those who died in concentration camps, and those who succumbed to cold and injuries. And you will never forget the faces of those who were creating, loving and dreaming, but set all that aside at a moment of peril for the country in order to defend it.
And you have managed to pass on this victorious attitude towards life and these harrowing memories to the new generations, and of course to those who are today protecting the borders of our country, the security of our country and our citizens.
In 1945 your staunchness, fortitude and great love of your country helped you to overcome the enemy.
May these qualities always be with us today as we build a new Russia.
I propose a toast:
To the generation of victors!
To the soldiers in the Great Patriotic War!
To peace and prosperity on the Russian land!
To the Great Victory!
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 9, 2003, 00:02
Text version