Events
Opening Remarks at a Meeting with Forest and Timber Industry Workers at the Vigla Timber Enterprise’s Tree Nursery
July 21, 2003
20:00
Petrozavodsk, Karelia
President Vladimir Putin: Good day, esteemed colleagues,
As I am here in Karelia, I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate all the people of Karelia and above all the residents of Petrozavodsk with the recent holiday. I am sure that everyone here loves and appreciates their capital, and that all of you here today join me in these congratulations.
Now to get directly to the subject. First, I would like to thank the directors of the enterprise and the ministry for explaining the sector’s activities in such an interesting way. If everything you told me does indeed go ahead throughout the sector, then I think this will mark a noticeable step forward.
People in Karelia know very well what positive changes have taken place in the sector over recent years, and also know just what problems the forestry industry faces, because Karelia is one of the country’s traditional timber-producing regions. The head of the government and I have just had an in-depth discussion here on the state of affairs in Karelia and the situation in the forestry industry.
Russia has almost a quarter of the world’s timber resources. In this sense, it would be no exaggeration to say that Russia’s forests form the planet’s ecological shield. I was very pleased to hear from the specialists here about what is being done to replenish, clean and protect our forests. Unfortunately, we still have many problems in this respect, but let’s remember here what Russian scientists and forestry specialists were saying back in the nineteenth century. They introduced this concept of sustainable and non-exhaustive use of forestry resources, and I think that this principle still applies entirely today.
In this context, I’d like to look at the important question of raising the money to replenish and protect our forests. This burden lies primarily on the timber enterprises, but we know that they unfortunately do not all have the financial and other resources to fully meet these obligations. You are aware of the discussions that have taken place on this matter, and of the plans we have. There are various points of view on how to improve the situation in this area. One proposal is to have the timber users cover the costs of replenishing the forests. Land rental costs and forestry taxes, meanwhile, would be set through auctions and tenders. This proposal is still being discussed, so we should reflect on it, and I would like to hear your views on it today.
Another problem is protecting forests from fires, diseases and illegal logging. How many fires are currently burning at the moment? At the moment Russia has 436 forest fires burning. And how much forest does this represent? It represents around 12,000 hectares. Unfortunately, these negative trends have been increasing over recent years. I’m speaking here not just of fires, but also of diseases and illegal logging. We must improve our work in preventing these trends. First of all, we must coordinate the work of the different agencies involved. I know that there are some traditional proposals for improving the way things are run and setting up additional, unified structures. We can discuss this today if you think it necessary. One of the tools we have to help ensure effective use of our forestry resources is customs tariff regulation. We also discussed this issue in depth today. There is constant discussion on the matter. There is a proposal to examine the possibility of lowering export duties for heavily processed timber products and to increase duties on raw timber.
I agree with those who say that there should be differentiation between the types of unprocessed timber. Perhaps we shouldn’t try to apply the same treatment in every single case, but I think that the principle is good. This has been much discussed in the government. I hope that the deputy minister for economic development and trade, who is here today, will inform us where this issue stands today. Everyone agrees that this is the right approach, but unfortunately, nothing, or almost nothing, has been done yet.
Another major problem is attracting investment to develop the forestry industry. There is very little investment today, and in some cases no investment at all, in timber enterprises’ fixed capital. Specialists say that already tried and tested principles such as concessions or long-term rent of tracts of forest could encourage more investment. To a large extent this is a question of legislation, and the government has also been giving it its attention. In particular, work is going ahead on drafting a new forestry code. The draft code is almost ready, and I’m sure you are aware of its main provisions. Let us also discuss this today.
We have a lot of different issues to examine today, and I wouldn’t want us to leave anything out. We spoke of investment, and where I mentioned customs policy, we also returned repeatedly to the need to lower customs barriers for importing equipment that we ourselves do not produce. Here there is always a struggle going on between the government’s fiscal interests and the interests of economic development. I think that we in a situation today when economic development should definitely be our priority. We do have some plans in this respect, and I think that our colleagues from the government will enlighten us on them in more detail. That is what I wanted to say for a start. Now let’s listen to the deputy minister for economic development and trade, and then we will listen to the first deputy natural resources minister. After that, we can exchange information and views on the problems we have come here to study today.
Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 21, 2003, 20:00
Text versionEvents
Concluding Remarks at a Meeting with Forest and Timber Industry Workers at the Vigla Timber Enterprise’s Tree Nursery
July 21, 2003
20:32
Petrozavodsk, Karelia
President Vladimir Putin: A lot of different opinions were expressed at our meeting here today, and at moments debate was even quite heated. I think this is good because it has enabled various points of view to be heard. I hope that the Economic Development and Trade Ministry and the government as a whole will also listen to the opinions raised and take them into account in the final drafting of the documents, the very important documents for this sector, that we spoke about today. These discussions are important because everything that we spoke about here concerns the forestry code that is being drafted and the practical impact of the other package of legislation and regulations governing this sector.
I’m thinking here not even only of laws and regulations directly concerning forestry. Our colleagues raised the question of VAT, for example, and getting rebates on VAT. The deputy minister has already said that proposals on these lines are being worked on. I don’t want this to be just words. I hope that by the end of the year these proposals will be implemented, and next year, I hope that we will take even bigger and bolder steps that will enable us to reduce taxes in general and dramatically approve the administration side of things, which will also concern rebates on VAT. Such are, for the moment, the government’s plans that we recently discussed.
As for tax on profits, it was right to raise the issue here. The abolition of tax breaks has complicated various aspects of investment, and I hope that here too, suitable action will be taken. I think it would be right to take a tougher line on taxes on imported technical equipment. I agree that there should be a selective approach here. We must avoid at any costs worsening the situation for our manufacturers producing the same kinds of equipment. In certain cases, such as in the example cited here, when no one in the world in general is producing anything, there is no reason why we should put our manufacturers in a difficult situation. This could be just the case for making tax breaks available. This issue is also being discussed at the moment, and selective decisions are being prepared.
Regarding the cost of borrowing, this is, of course, more complicated. As far as the banks go, change in the situation would have to be linked to improvement in the general macroeconomic climate and the country’s economy because the state cannot take on the responsibility of guaranteeing loans and subsidising interest rates. In some cases, in agriculture, for example, we do this during the sowing period or during preparations for the next sowing period, but we cannot afford to do this for the entire economy.
The very important question of infrastructure was raised today. Of course we must develop the country’s infrastructure and bring it in line with the economy’s demands, but it is important that business not just take the use of this free state infrastructure for granted. Let’s be open here, after all, you yourselves have given examples that show that logging goes on where access roads and so on exist. But who takes the trouble to calculate how much of the people’s money has gone on this infrastructure? Yes, we should support business, and yes, we should create the conditions that will allow business to work effectively, but does business pay for this infrastructure? No.
So, looking at infrastructure development, we first have to ensure effective and transparent activities in the sector overall. We have to be clear about what the state can expect in return if it invests in infrastructure development.
I also took note of what you said about Valaam. I think that this goes not just for Valaam. I discussed many similar questions with the head of the government, including Valaam. We will definitely look into this and keep it in view.
I would like to thank you all. I, and my colleagues from the government, have taken note of the points you raised, and we will definitely take them into account in further work on the documents in this area, including the additional work on the forestry code.
Thank you very much, and I wish you every success.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 21, 2003, 20:32
Text versionEvents
Opening Remarks at a Meeting with Cabinet Members
July 21, 2003
23:59
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues!
I would like to begin with what I did in Karelia just now. As you know, I met with forestry specialists, and we discussed work on the Forest code. What we discussed with the Ministry of economic development and trade just before my visit – incidentally, the heads of several ministries and departments were present – we will summarise in the form of the following instructions. And I would ask you to take this into account during the revision of the documents which are currently being prepared.
Various opinions have been expressed on a number of key issues, including access to forestry resources: competitions and auctions. I think that this needs to be considered, given the experience with auctions in the fish industry. I won’t get into the details now, but there was criticism from specialists, and they need to be considered. This is the first point.
Secondly, we discussed housing and communal services with the leadership of Karelia and my envoy in the Northwest region Valetina Matvienko.
The Northwest Federal region is currently waiting for loans promised by the Government for preparation for winter. I know that the Head of Government has signed the appropriate decree. I would ask for efficient organisation of distribution of these resources where they are required. We have already said that we will not directly manage the process of preparation for winter. But the people who receive this money should have a feeling of responsibility, and money should be allocated according to its actual purpose.
There has been a summary of the overall results of economic development in the first half of this year. This gives us the opportunity to define accurately all the figures and parameters of economic development, and begin the final stage of preparing a draft budget for 2004. We have talked about this many times, and I know that the Government is working on this. Intensive work is underway by State Duma deputies who have a direct relationship to preparing this extremely important document for next year. They have not gone on holiday, they are still working. We have grounds to believe that we will finish this work within the required time limit. I ask you not to forgot about this, and would like to direct your attention to it.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 21, 2003, 23:59
Text version