Events
Opening Remarks at a Meeting with Maurice Greenberg, Chairman of the Board of the American International Group
July 28, 2003
18:15
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Mr Greenberg,
First of all, I am very happy to welcome you to Moscow. We are well acquainted with your corporation’s activities. The work that you have been doing with our Chamber of Commerce and Industry means a lot to us. As for your plans to sign documents aimed at developing mortgage loans in Russia together with Gosstroi, they are of paramount importance.
I know that your corporation is also quite active on the U.S. market and that you have a lot of experience in this area. We took into account the American experience when drafting our documents on mortgages, and your practical participation in this work in Russia is of great importance for us now.
Other areas are no less interesting. There is no shortage of work to do here in Russia. It is good to see that the investment process is now becoming a two-way street. One of our companies, Norilsk Nickel, has acquired a controlling stake in a major American platinum group metals producer. I think that this kind of mutual investment is the direction in which we should work to develop our cooperation. I would like to point out that last year unfortunately, the United States was only in eighth place for volume of investment in Russia.
The United States still has a good position in terms of overall investment over time, but at the moment it is only in third place for volume of investment here. My colleagues and I are preparing now for the meeting with President Bush in September. George and I often discuss economic issues. I think that this meeting should also concentrate on economic development and cooperation issues. I very much hope that the American business community will help to create favourable conditions for developing our economic cooperation.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 28, 2003, 18:15
Text versionEvents
Opening Remarks at a Meeting with Deng Rong, the daughter of Deng Xiaoping
July 28, 2003
19:20
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Good day,
It gives me real pleasure to welcome you to Moscow.
I’m happy to note that the Russian public and a wide range of readers here have the opportunity to read books about your father’s life, and to read his own works.
I’m even happier to see that the ideas set forth by Deng Xiaoping are being implemented in China’s domestic policy and continued in its foreign policy. Here I have in mind the economic cooperation between Russia and China and the development of the strategic partnership between our two countries.
Even the handover of power to a new generation of Chinese leaders took place as Deng Xiaoping had said it would. I am pleased that after Jiang Zemin and I signed the Agreement on Good-neighbourly relations, Friendship and Cooperation in 2001, we are now working with the new President of the People’s Republic of China to implement its provisions in practice.
(After Deng Rong made a gift of the second volume of her book, ”My father Deng Xiaoping & The Cultural Revolution: A Daughter Recalls the Critical Years)
Thank you very much. I will read it with pleasure and keep in mind that it was written by someone who knows probably more than anyone about the events, both public and not so well known, that took place during this very interesting period of your father’s life and the history of the People’s Republic of China.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 28, 2003, 19:20
Text version