We talked about these subjects, and I repeat that we have very good prospects. But, along with everything else, joint efforts in these areas will undoubtedly enable us to consolidate Russian and European security, and also stability in the world.
There is another direction for cooperation which we discussed – coordinating our efforts in the common European space. In this sense, the chairmanship of Italy in the EU has great significance for us. We are working on preparing a productive Russia-EU summit in Rome in November.
We still need to discuss several international problems. We discussed the problem of Iraq again this morning, touched on the Middle East, and this is on the agenda for the remaining time – for this evening and tomorrow morning. There are also issues of interaction between Russia and the EU, which are of primary importance for us in the context of our cooperation with the World Trade Organisation, and on several other issues. I repeat that this will be the topic of a special discussion at the summit in November. But now, as part of preparation for this summit, we cannot ignore this topic, and we have also discussed it.
On the whole, I should say that we are satisfied with the talks and consultations. And in conclusion I would like to thank Prime Minister Berlusconi and all our colleagues for the excellent organisation and work, and the atmosphere which was created for this meeting. Thank you for your attention.
Question (Trud newspaper): You observed the demonstration flights of the fire-fighting plane. How do you feel about their possible use in Europe? To what extent can they help fight fires in Europe?
Vladimir Putin: I want to make the Prime Minister’s task easier because I am more familiar with this equipment. I have already said that no one has anything like this plane. It is the best such plane in the world at this moment. Its characteristics are at least twice as good as existing planes. It is, of course, much cheaper than the costs of fires. According to the information that we received from the press, in Portugal alone the damage caused by fires amounts to around 1 billion euros. I am not even talking about other European countries, or about Russia itself. So it is better to have a group, say in the structures of the European Union, which could either acquire or hire planes from the Russian Emergencies Ministry on conditions of leasing. In my opinion, this would be correct and useful. Specialists have just told us about the planes’ capabilities. The plane glides over water and collects it. It can collect 12 tonnes of water in mere seconds, and the modern aviation which is currently used can only take 5.6 tonnes on board. Then it quickly returns to the area of the fire and dumps this water. It is two or three times more effective than what has existed up until now. I don’t want to go into details about the technical characteristics. You have a chance to find out about them. But, in fact, our task is not to advertise our equipment. Our task is to find options of cooperation which will be useful for both Italy and Russia.
Question (Canale 5): You talked about Europe becoming closer to the European Union in an economic and cultural sense, and also in a bureaucratic sense as far as visas are concerned. We know that Europe is currently working on a general defence policy. Don’t you think that Russia should take part in developing a policy of common European defence?
Vladimir Putin: You have touched on a very important issue. Essentially, the further structure of international security will depend on how we solve this problem. In connection with this, I would like to note the unique role which Italy played just recently, when it actively supported the process of creating the Russia-NATO group of 20.
It was in Italy that we signed the document which laid the foundation for a new quality step in cooperation between Russia and NATO. It seems to me that we have already talked about this many times, but nevertheless I will repeat it once more. The process currently underway in Europe under the name of “European security policy” does not cause us any concern or problems. We support this process. For us, only one thing is important: for this process to be clear, understandable and transparent. We are fully prepared to work with NATO and European security structures. I must say that today’s visit of the group of Russian and Italian military ships, the planned training of Russian and Italian sailors, the training of the Russian and French fleets in the north, and the further training of France and Russia in the Mediterranean – all this is proof that the level of trust between Russia and NATO countries, including between Russia and Italy, is growing. I think that this is very important. This is undoubtedly a positive tendency in our cooperation, and we will continue to move further in this direction.
Question (Channel One): How does Russia and the European Union, which belongs to the group of four international intermediaries on the Arab-Israeli regulation process, in accordance with the “road map”, intend to assist in this process?
Vladimir Putin: I don’t think that we are prepared to answer this question in full at the moment, because we have only just reached the problem of Middle East regulation according to our plan of work. This morning we only discussed this problem in general terms. We will discuss this problem today and tomorrow morning. At the same time, I can say that Russia’s approach to the Middle East regulation has not changed. Together with the European Union and the United States, Russia is a co-author of the “road map”. And we will support this process in every way we can. We think that it is absolutely unacceptable to use methods of terror in deciding political issues. And we expect that the Palestinian leadership will do everything it can (when I say “Palestinian leadership”, I mean Arafat) to put an end to the terror. We expect that Israelis and Palestinians will use this unique chance provided by the international community, and will advance towards the realisation of this plan.Events
Talk with the Personnel of the Moscow Cruiser
August 30, 2003
21:40
Sardinia
Vladimir Putin:
Good evening,
I am happy to welcome you all. This is my first meeting with the personnel of the Moscow cruiser. In 20 years of service, your ship has performed a great deal of useful tasks for the Russian Navy, for the Russian Armed Forces. It has taken part in difficult campaigns, tried out the newest types of equipment, and even taken part in diplomatic effort. International meetings of the highest level have been held on board. I would like to thank both you and the previous generation of sailors who served here. This is the first visit in recent Russian history of Russian military ships to Sardinia. Although generations of Russian sailors probably know and remember that in their time, Russian sailors took an active role in saving Italian citizens during an earthquake in 1909. But today we must not talk about what happened a long time ago, but focus on what is happening today.
Today, unfortunately, a tragedy has taken place in the Barents Sea. A Northern Fleet submarine sank. It is already clear that there are fatalities among the sailors. This shows once more that the sea requires discipline in the strictest sense of the word. The sea never forgives any negligence, and certainly not mistakes. It still remains to clarify the reasons for this tragedy, but what I just said is an old truth – the sea never forgives mistakes. They always have to be paid for dearly. There will be a thorough investigation in connection with this. The Commander-in-Chief of the Navy is already there. I think that the Defence Minister will go there this evening as well. And sad as this may be, you have your own service, and it is equally responsible or dangerous. I greatly hope that you and your commanders will perform your duty and represent the Russian navy with dignity, in both Italy, and, as the Commander told me, in Greece, and then at the base in Sevastopol, where you will have a complex training programme. I wish you every success.
Question: Will Russia have the opportunity in future to have military ships permanently at sea?
Vladimir Putin: Of course it will. If you have noticed, the navy has become much more active that it was in previous years. Training has just finished in the Far East, and recently training was held in the Indian Ocean. We are planning training here with our Italian partners, in the Mediterranean, with the participation of submarine and surface vessels. One of the main training sessions will be developing sea rescue procedures. Work will be done with Italian and Russian ships and submarines. You have already organised similar training with the French navy. We will definitely plan and carry out such training.
I agree with you absolutely that a boat that stays in port loses it military readiness. Specialists do not gain any skills, they may even lose them; and this situation is unacceptable. The navy will perform the tasks the Defence Ministry and the country’s leadership give to it.
For any state, especially for a naval state, the significance of the navy is great. It is not just a sign of active foreign policies, in today’s world it is a significant part of the state’s security. We will definitely work in this direction in future. We will also continue to work on a programme to revive the Russian navy. There is a programme which includes construction of surface and submarine vessels. In 2004, the funds for these goals in the country’s budget will be allocated.
Thank you for your attention.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: August 30, 2003, 21:40
Text version