Events
Opening Address at Russian-German Intergovernmental Consultations
October 9, 2003
18:23
Yekaterinburg
President Vladimir Putin: Federal Chancellor, consultations participants,
Allow me to welcome you here, to Russia – to the hospitable Urals.
There are a number of reasons for this choice of location for our meeting.
Above all, the Ural region is renowned for its enormous economic and scientific potential. And there are many examples of the successful realisation of projects with the involvement of companies from both our countries. There are also opportunities for effective joint work and for testing new effective forms of cooperation. Furthermore, the Urals have the potential to become one of the most powerful regional centres in Russian-German business partnership.
Now we will move to the “culmination” of the consultations – summarising results and setting new goals – both urgent and long-term.
In the time that has passed since the Weimar stage of consultations, virtually all the areas of our cooperation have gotten a “second wind”. I am certain that today we can and must set ourselves more large-scale and truly strategic goals oriented towards the long-term perspective.
Yesterday and today, Mr. Schroeder and I continued our substantial dialogue on the entire spectrum of the bilateral and international agenda. We ascertained that even in areas where we have problems, there is a desire to mobilise the entire potential of our state apparatuses towards a constructive search for mutually acceptable solutions.
Not wanting to rush ahead, I propose summarising the main results of the consultations and inform on the agreements reached after the reports by the heads of ministries and departments which have worked intensively on these topics.
This is all for my opening address.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 9, 2003, 18:23
Text versionEvents
Speech at a Meeting with Representatives of Business Circles of Russia and Germany
October 9, 2003
16:10
Yekaterinburg
Vladimir Putin: Mr Federal Chancellor,
Allow me to welcome you to the Urals. I should tell you right away that this region is traditionally considered one of the strong and dynamically developing territories of our country.
This assessment of the region is quite fair and justified. Not just because the Sverdlovsk Region occupies third place in Russia in volume of industrial production. It is important that this region today skilfully uses all its advantages and the opportunities that an open economy provides.
I expect that because of this, the meeting of business circles of Russia and Germany here, in Yekaterinburg, will be useful, interesting and fruitful.
The inter-governmental consultations are held here regularly – every year – and your business forum will take place at the same time, only at different venues. But it is very important for politicians and the business community to share a common mood. A mood of mutual understanding, of constructive cooperation and achievement of specific results.
I think it will not be superfluous to repeat that relations between Russia and Germany have a strategic nature. Strategic in the sense that these relations are directed towards achieving long-term goals, including in the area of economic cooperation. It is this promising approach that should determine both the sense and dynamics of business relations.
I note that economic cooperation between Russia and Germany is traditionally one of the most advanced areas of our partnership.
Germany remains the main foreign trade partner of Russia outside the CIS. Mutual trade turnover for January-June this year came to 12 billion euros, and 24.3 billion euros last year. German investment in Russia makes up over 17% of total investment. And here, Germany is an undoubted leader.
It was pleasing for me to see how the Federal Chancellor reacted to the small exhibition that the Governor showed us at the entrance to this hall. The vast majority of major projects in the Sverdlovsk Region are carried out with the help of capital from German partners and German industry. Recently, a meeting of the Consultative Council on Foreign Investment under the Russian Government confirmed serious progress in the attractiveness of our country for investment. And as you know, yesterday Russia’s investment project rating rose two points.
It is clear that after the expansion of the European Union and the completion of the process for Russia’s entry into the WTO, where we count on Germany’s support, our countries will play a greater and greater role in the formation of a common European economic space. And this means we will have a real influence on transformation processes of the global distribution of work.
And these are truly strategic challenges, which Russian and German business will have to react to together. Therefore, the more precisely and confidently mechanisms of agreeing and coordinating positions work, the more successful the response to these challenges will be.
Today over 2,000 firms with German involvement are working in Russia. The number of branches of German corporations and banks working on the Russian market is also steadily increasing.
This cooperation not only brings profits, it also strengthens mutual trust. And the entrepreneurs of our countries gain invaluable experience in conducting joint business, experience that is founded on the principles of business etiquette and a careful attitude to one’s own reputation.
Expanding their business, Russian entrepreneurs show an increasing interest in Germany’s economy. They show they are ready today to invest their capital in creating new chains of industrial cooperation. And we expect that this activity will find understanding and support from the leadership of Germany.
In connection with this, the Federal Chancellor and I give great importance to the strategic group on trade, economic and financial issues. It should be emphasised: in three years of work, the general conditions of economic cooperation have been improved significantly. At the same time, a number of chronic problems have been solved. Now the group’s portfolio has many large-scale projects that have European significance. A number of agreements on them will be signed here, and in the near future they will also be signed outside the territory of Yekaterinburg, and they are in an advanced state.
A clear sign of this is the construction of the North European gas pipeline. I know that work on signing this document is nearing completion, and it will be signed in the next two to three days. We highly rate the readiness of our German partners to take part in new plans on extracting, transporting and storing Russian energy resources.
Both sides also well understand all the prospects of cooperation in the sphere of high technology. The scientific potential of Russia, including in the Urals and Siberia, is well known. It is both unique and universal.
Nevertheless, several truly large-scale projects are so far in the developmental stage. They require effective schemes of financing and administration, and an organisation of work is required which in practice opens up new, wide possibilities for us. This includes selling high technology products on the markets of third countries, for examples, in the aerospace industry.
I expect that we will be able to discuss all these topics next year at the bilateral forum on cooperation in the sphere of high technology and innovations. And your ideas and recommendations would be very useful here.
I want to separately discuss the topic of cooperation between the regions. Over the last year alone, representatives of the largest federal states of Germany have worked in Russian regions – from Nordrhein-Westfalen, Bavaria and Hessen. Currently a delegation from Baden-Wurttemburg is in Yekaterinburg, and there is a delegation from Lower Saxony in Perm.
The Urals and North-West federal districts have already shown their economic and scientific potential in Germany, as have Moscow and St Petersburg. The Southern Federal District is preparing for a demonstration of its economic capabilities.
Direct cooperation between enterprises is becoming the norm. In the majority of cases, it no longer requires the involvement of administrative resources or state guarantees.
Today, it is also important to activate dialogue between entrepreneurial associations, including those organised according to regional principles. The object of their particular attention should be small and medium enterprises, and developing optimal mechanisms of their cooperation.
In recent years, a new generation of professional administrators has come into being. They are well versed in issues of Russian-German economic cooperation and able to contribute to its development. A major contribution to their training has been made by the organisers of the programme for training leading economic staff.
In just five years of instruction and training in Germany, over 2,000 people have participated in this programme. It is important that this results not only in an increase in qualifications, but also the establishment of contacts, giving birth to new business ideas and initiatives. And we, of course, are pleased that this programme has been extended until 2007.
It is these professional, and also simply personal contacts that strengthen the centuries-old ties between Russia and Germany. I expect that your meeting will also help not just economic but also spiritual ties of friendship between the people who live in our countries. Allow me to wish you success on this path and fruitful work here, at the forum.
I hope that the discussions and this visit to the Urals will increase the interest of German business in this very rich region.
Thank you for your attention.
Vladimir Putin (after the speech by Mr Mordashov):
I want to say literally just a few words about what Mr Mordashov has just outlined as one of the main topics. I would like to concentrate your attention on this – the problem of the Russian Federation joining the World Trade Organisation. I would like to direct the attention of all the colleagues present here, and above all our German friends, to the circumstances we are now dealing with in the discussion process for Russia joining the WTO. This above all concerns the talks with the European Union.
I think that representatives of German business, like no one else, are interested in Russia joining the WTO as quickly as possible, bearing in mind the volume of our trade ties, and the fact that Germany is an investor in the Russian economy. I would remind you that one of the main obstacles at the moment in completing the discussion process with the European Union is energy issues. But it is because Germany is our largest investor, that the German economy is interested in working within the Russian economy. This is the first circumstance. The second is, as Klaus Mangold said, that the main advantage at the moment is the economic stability in Russia. I assure you, if we drastically move to world prices on energy resources, macro-economic stability will be disrupted. The Russian economy is a derivation of the Soviet economy, which was built around energy losses, unfortunately for us. We cannot move to international prices on energy resources within the country in a single day. This is impossible. We would cause the entire Russian economy to collapse. This is impossible by definition. This means that European bureaucrats either do not understand this, or are trying to create conditions that are unacceptable for Russia to join the WTO.
We do not really understand why they are doing this. We realise that sooner or later, and the sooner the better, we must move to world prices within the country. We intend to do this in stages, first of all. And secondly, taking a flexible position, we are prepared to hold talks, but not within the framework of Russia joining the WTO, but rather within the energy dialogue with the EU. There are tools for this and an appropriate commission between Russia and the EU. There are also suitable specialists for this in the EU. We consider it incorrect and illogical to hold dialogue on energy within the framework of joining the WTO. The EU’s position towards Russia on this matter is in our opinion unjustified and dishonest. These problems have nothing to do with entering the WTO and are not related with joining the WTO. We look at this simply as an attempt to twist our arm. But I must say that Russia’s arms are becoming stronger and stronger. It is unlikely anyone will be able to twist them, not even such a strong partner as the European Union. I call on representatives of German business to pressure European bureaucrats to overcome the obstacles we are currently facing on Russia’s path to joining the WTO.
Thank you. Good-bye.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 9, 2003, 16:10
Text versionEvents
Statement and Answers to Journalists’ Questions at the News Conference on the Results of Russian-German Intergovernmental Consultations
October 9, 2003
19:55
Yekaterinburg
Vladimir Putin: Mr Federal Chancellor, ladies and gentlemen,
The annual Russian-German intergovernmental consultations have just come to an end. And this time they were held in the very heart of the Ural region – in Yekaterinburg. And I would like to make use of this opportunity to thank once again the city leadership and the city residents for their hospitality. I think that the expansion of the geography of our bilateral meetings is also a good support for regional cooperation.
The Federal Chancellor and I have met in various formats over twenty times since 2000. This intensive contact fully reflects the dynamics of Russian-German interaction. Furthermore, as the consulting format allows, here, in Yekaterinburg, Russian and German ministers have been working at the same time. They have reported to us the practical results of work in their areas and long-term plans.
The positive results are clear. Bilateral trade turnover has grown since 1999 by 80%, and is now 25 billion euros. Germany is not just our leading trade partner; it is also the leader in investment in the Russian economy – around 17%.
We plan the advancement of industrial cooperation, especially in high technology and science-intensive areas. Here there is already a whole range of interesting ideas and projects. And we have ordered our science ministers to organise a specialized forum on high technology in 2004.
The strategic group on issues of trade, economic and financial cooperation is also working effectively. It has given support to a series of projects in the areas of energy, transport, aviation, space, automobile construction and metallurgy.
It is now 30 years since large-scale deliveries of Russian gas to Germany began. The energy sphere remains a strategic area of cooperation today. Next year an energy summit of leading Russian and German companies will be held, which I am sure will allow significant expansion of our energy dialogue.
Among other themes of general European significance, we discussed the wide prospects for cooperation in the transport sphere, such as between Russian Railways and Deutsche Bahn.
Cooperation has also been discussed on dealing with emergencies. The initiative of the Russian Emergency Ministry for creating a European centre to combat catastrophes has received support.
I would like to note that in recent months, Russia and Germany have been working very intensively on key issues of international politics. We have similar positions on almost all issues, including the restoration of Iraq with the leading role of the UN, and regulating the situation in Afghanistan and in the Middle East.
Generally, Russia and Germany are united by a common adherence to the principles of a democratic, fair world order, and consolidation of the UN and institutions of international law.
The Federal Chancellor and I have decided to create an interdepartmental working group on fighting international terrorism, non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and opposing the drug threat. This is real confirmation of the high level of our partnership.
We fully understand that in the fight against common threats, the widest possible cooperation of all nations is needed. Following this logic, we have signed an intergovernmental agreement on the transit of German personnel and military equipment through the territory of Russia for participation in operations on stronger security in Afghanistan. This is a concrete contribution of Russia to strengthening the UN in this region. But I should say that it is also another aspect of our practical interaction in cooperation with NATO.
Another result of our talks is that interaction in the framework of G-8 initiatives has been confirmed. After the summit in Kananaskis, significant progress has been made on implementing and coordinating our projects to destroy chemical weapons, and scrap Russian atomic submarines whose service period has expired. The subsequent realisation of measures in this sensitive sphere will be helped by the agreements we signed before the consultations, and also the important interdepartmental agreements we signed here, several minutes ago.
The Federal Chancellor and I are unanimous in the opinion that one of the key links in our good-neighbourly relations is the development of cultural, youth and education exchanges. The large-scale campaign “Russian-German meetings 2003–2004” has particular significance here, and the Year of Russian Culture in Germany is being held within the framework of this campaign with great success.
We also agreed to continue to support the development of direct contacts between schoolchildren and students of our countries. We see new possibilities here in connection with Russia joining the Bologna process, and the decision of the German side to extend the programme for training Russian specialists to 2007.
We discussed in detail issues in the visa sphere. The Russian side consistently fulfils its obligations in the advancement of a visa-free regime with the European Union. We have also discussed founding a general consulate of Germany in Kaliningrad. We expect that this decision will help to solve some of the problems in the visa sphere for Kaliningrad residents.
We also believe that the simplified visa regime should, above all, affect youth and cultural exchanges. Foreign ministries have been ordered to prepare a special interdepartmental agreement on this in as short a time as possible.
In conclusion, I would like particularly to stress our readiness and aspiration to establish partner relations with Germany for the long term. To develop them at all levels and in all areas.
Thank you for your attention.
* * *
Question: My question is for the Russian President and the German Chancellor. You meet often. Would you say that these meetings bring results, and that the trusting relations that you have developed between yourselves are also spreading to Russian and German politicians and businesspeople, the people who give bilateral relations their substance?
Vladimir Putin: You know, when we parted yesterday I had precisely this thought that the more often we meet, the more open, trusting and informal our dialogue becomes. Of course, now the ties between our states have reached a very high level, and we’re happy with this, but this does not mean that we have no problems.
The problems we have, we come up against them constantly in our daily lives. But the level of trust in our personal relations does enable both our countries to resolve these problems more effectively. At the meeting between our business communities today we noticed a positive mood on both sides. Of course, the people working in this area are not happy with everything, but there is clear progress being made in our bilateral economic relations, progress both in what we have achieved thus far and in our plans for the future. I would like to hope that even a tiny part of the positive results we are seeing is also thanks to the cooperation between the Federal Chancellor and myself.
* * *
Question: Mr President, why did you choose Yekaterinburg as the venue for this meeting?
Vladimir Putin: We want to broaden the geography of our meetings, and we think they should take place not only in Moscow and St Petersburg. The Urals is one of Russia’s most industrially developed regions. German companies are well represented here and are working actively. The governor told us today about the major projects the region has planned. German entrepreneurs and companies are involved in almost all of these projects. In terms of contracts, this represents tens of millions, and perhaps even hundreds of millions of euros.
The German Minister for Family, Elderly People and Youth Affairs also rightly pointed out that it is important today to broaden the geography of youth exchanges and other contacts. These exchanges should not be confined to young people from Moscow and St Petersburg, but should also be open for young people from other parts of Russia. In my opinion, bringing meetings like this one closer to the regions will help to address this task.
Today Eduard Ergartovich [Rossel] showed us a little statue of the mistress of the Bronze Mountain, as was told in Bazhov’s tales. She is the keeper of the riches of the Urals and opens the way to these riches only to decent, honest and hard-working people, which definitely includes our German partners. On behalf of the governor and myself, I would like to present this silver statue to the Federal Chancellor.
* * *
Question: Do you think it would be better to pass the new United Nations Security Council resolution on Iraq before the conference of donor countries takes place in Spain? And a second question: is Russia considering the possibility of using the euro as a currency for oil transactions?
Vladimir Putin: We would very much like to see the Security Council reach an agreement on the resolution before the conference. I think this would provide a good basis for the conference’s work. While still in New York, I told the Federal Chancellor and the French President that we would take part in the conference, most likely as an observer. We want to be informed about what is going on in this area. I think that Iraq is in need of very sizable funds, and their effective use is possible only if political settlement is achieved.
Your second question was about settling oil transactions in euros. Of course, this is possible. It does not depend on us alone, though. Russian market participants sell oil and petroleum products on the world markets and the corresponding exchanges, and trading there is done in dollars.
Overall, we don’t rule out the idea. We think it is quite possible if this is of interest to our European partners, because, as you know, Russia has just recently moved into first place in the world in terms of daily oil production. We have overtaken all the other producers in terms of total volumes produced. But we do not want to upset the price policy on the world market. We think that prices should be fair and not too high, but not too low, either. This is why we will keep careful check and control of our production volumes and the volumes we transport.
* * *
Question: Mr Chancellor, Mr President, you have just spoken about the convergence of your views and about common positions on many international issues, including Iraq. What has motivated this convergence? Is it tactical interest, or is it a strategic rapprochement?
Vladimir Putin: I think our relations are strategic in nature, and I think this is not because we happen to get along with each other on the personal level and have become good friends, but because, more than anything else, the state interests of Russia and Germany coincide in many areas of bilateral relations and international life.
I am pleased to see that there is a certain national consensus now in Russia regarding the development of our relations with Germany. Practically all our different political forces that argue with each other, and sometimes argue very hard, are positive about the development of relations with Germany.
I see a similar picture in Germany. I do have the opportunity for contacts with the leaders of the opposition in Germany. I know their views on developing relations with our country, and this gives me every ground to say that Germany is serious about its desire to build long-term relations with Russia. This is not a matter we approach only from the point of view of current interests; it is something we view in the perspective of Europe and the world’s historical development. In my view, this is a very solid foundation for developing ties between our states.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 9, 2003, 19:55
Text version