Events
Linkup with the Crew of the International Space Station
April 12, 2003
00:03
St Petersburg
Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon,
I am very glad to have this chance to talk with you and congratulate you on Cosmonaut’s Day. I would particularly like to greet the crew commander and the engineer. My special congratulations to Nikolai Budarin who, I am told, recently had a granddaughter. Sincere congratulations. I would also like to wish Nikolai and Donald happy birthdays, which they will celebrate in orbit.
We have just been saying that you have been in orbit much longer than planned. It fell to you to ensure the uninterrupted human presence at the station in the dramatic weeks following the Columbia shuttle disaster.
You have fulfilled your task with flying colours, in spite of the fatigue, both physical and mental. It doesn’t take an expert to understand that. We feel for you and I must say that in Russia we all felt sympathy for the people of the United States when your colleagues and comrades died on February 1. It is a tragedy for all of us.
Today I would like to convey our respect for the courageous American astronauts. We are well aware of the contribution they have made and are making to the development of outer space. And we know of the spectacular successes they have scored in this arduous and dangerous endeavour. I am convinced that by pooling efforts, technologies, knowledge and expertise we will be able to make new steps for the sake of progress of the whole civilization. The creation of the ISS, where you are working now, is our common triumph. 19 countries took part in building it. And the station is already yielding concrete returns. Many experts are acquiring hands-on experience. It involves new technologies and some unique fundamental research. And, without exaggeration, it is an excellent experience of international cooperation.
Now that the operation of the shuttles has been suspended, it is important to keep the ISS working. We are aware of the responsibility of the Russian Federation in this connection. The problem was recently discussed at a Government meeting. A decision has been taken to expedite the use of the resources allocated this year for the construction of new spaceships. If necessary, Russia will consider increased participation in the situation that has arisen.
In conclusion, I would like to note that work in orbit will never be routine. It will always take not only good professional skills, but courage and a strong spirit to fulfill it. It will need the kind of people that we see on the screen before us. We are proud of you, we are waiting for your return and we wish you all the best.
We wish you success in your work and a safe landing on Earth. Once again congratulations on the holiday. Thank you again and best wishes.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 12, 2003, 00:03
Text versionEvents
Remarks at the International Conference ”Peace, Security and International Law: A Look at the Future“
April 12, 2003
00:02
Saint Petersburg
President Vladimir Putin: I am happy that the Chancellor of Germany and the President of France are taking part in the present conference. The theme to be discussed here is highly relevant, for it is about contemporary international security architecture and the determinant role of international law in its formation. It is obvious that the significance and interrelation of the issues of security and international law have become heightened today.
The world assembled the fundamental rules of international law literally by building blocks, erecting their edifice for many decades and even centuries. These rules and principles rest not only on the democratic experience of Europe, but also on the tragic record of the world wars. Today during the formal part of our event, when bestowing the title of Honorary Doctor of Law on Mr. Schroeder, this was already mentioned.
Yet recently many imperfections in the structure of international law have become revealed as well, along with its inner contradictions, which I think carry with them the potential for serious conflict.
Politicians and leaders of states rely upon the existing legal mechanisms. And the inadequacy of these mechanisms may entail serious consequences. I am convinced that if clear-cut operating legal mechanisms for dealing with crisis situations had been set up in good time, it would be possible to find significantly more effective solutions of the most complex world problems. Moreover, what is very important, without going beyond the bounds of the legal field.
We well understand that the world is fast changing. And it is obvious that the system of international law should also develop and improve, that is, correspond to the fast changing world. But the effectiveness of international law depends on a multitude of factors. And in the first place on a uniform understanding of the values of democracy and humanism. On the will of states and politicians to uphold and promote these values, using the recognized mechanisms of international law.
In this connection I consider it extremely important to enhance the role of multilateral cooperation among states, which until now has constituted the foundation of international stability.
The set of these questions was discussed yesterday in the course of our conversation with the President of France and the Federal Chancellor of Germany. We once again become convinced that our views on the main positions practically coincide. One of them is the recognition of the central role of the United Nations. It is important that this organization should possess effective instruments for solving global problems in world politics and security.
Any modernization of its mechanisms, at the same time, should be carried out, and I am convinced of this and would like to stress that, not only within the framework of the UN, but also with the employment of the procedures set into the rules of international law and recognized by the United Nations itself.
Of course, there are no ready-made and indisputable recipes here. Moreover, we have before us more questions than answers. And now as never before it is important to rely upon the opinion of the expert community — lawyers, political scientists and specialists in various fields of international relations.
And an event such as today enables specialists not only to gather, but also to publicly speak out, to declare their opinions on these problems. Such events I think are very important and very timely. Therefore I wish to wholeheartedly thank the university, the law department of St. Petersburg University for the initiative shown. And we, of course, are looking forward impatiently towards the results of your work, fresh ideas and proposals.
Thank you very much.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 12, 2003, 00:02
Text version