Events
Start of a Meeting with the Chief Executive of Abkhazia, Gennady Gagulia
March 7, 2003
00:01
Bocharov Ruchei, Sochi
Vladimir Putin: I am very pleased to meet you. How are you?
Gennady Gagulia: To put it simply, things are not great, but we hope that your involvement and your attitude towards our problems hold promise that things will improve. I think you are familiar with our problems.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, in a general way, although I don’t know all the details. I have just talked with [Chairman of RAO UES Russia] Anatoly Chubais because yesterday I discussed with Eduard Shevardnadze energy issues and the possibility of restoring the Inguri Hydroelectric Power Plant. I understand that you are familiar with this topic. And one proposal that came up during my meeting with Mr Chubais would restore the hydroelectric plant, expand it and see the construction of a series of power plants to provide electricity for Abkhazia, Georgia and (as was planned back in Soviet times) to export some of the energy to Russia. What do you think about that idea?
Gennady Gagulia: I think it is a good and reasonable decision to operate it together. We have a verbal agreement with Georgia, and we have divided energy on the basis of 60% to the Georgian side and 40% to us. The power plant is located on our side.
The dam is on the Georgian side, but the actual power generating units are on our territory.
Vladimir Putin: And is the control panel also on your side?
Gennady Gagulia: The control panel is on our side. In other words, the main switch is on our side, and we sometimes turn it on and sometimes turn it off, but of course quite a few problems have piled up. The Georgians are trying to solve some of them, they are working with us. We are trying to find a common language because we understand the role and significance of the Inguri Plant for the whole region. We have offered to sell some energy to Russia. I have met with Chubais’s deputy, and I discussed it with him.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: March 7, 2003, 00:01
Text versionEvents
Joint News Conference with Georgian President Eduard Shevardnadze following tripartite Russo-Georgian-Abkhazian Talks
March 7, 2003
00:03
Bocharov Ruchei, Sochi
Vladimir Putin: First, I would like to express my satisfaction with the results of our meeting today. Talks with the President of Georgia, Eduard Shevardnadze, have just ended. They have been substantive and highly constructive.
As you know, we have been jointly negotiating with the representatives of Abkhazia. Particular attention was given to the settlement of the Georgia-Abkhazia conflict.
I would like to stress that Russia’s position remains unchanged. We are convinced that the problems that divide Tbilisi and Sukhumi must be tackled in a way that will preserve the territorial integrity of Georgia and ensure the legitimate rights and interests of multi-national Abkhazia. It is our shared opinion that one of the first steps towards settlement should be the secure and dignified return of refugees. Next in line is the restoration of the economic infrastructure in the conflict zone. It has been decided to concentrate on three main areas: the return of refugees, especially to the Gali district, and reopening of the Sochi-Tbilisi railway. The proposal on modernising the Inguria–GES hydroelectric complex has also received support. These and some other agreements are reflected in the final statement we just adopted.
I would particularly like to note the importance of recreating a common economic space. Life has shown that the implementation of mutually beneficial business initiatives and projects diminishes confrontation, contributes to the economic development of the region as a whole and is in the interests of the people who live there. I am convinced that a resumption of talks on a full-scale settlement would ease tensions in the conflict zone and have a stabilising impact on the situation in the Caucasus.
Of course, during our talks today we discussed issues in Russian-Georgian relations and exchanged opinions on key problems of regional and international politics. We discussed Russian-Georgian actions to counter terrorism. Recently, law enforcement bodies and the secret services of our countries have gained some useful experience in jointly counteracting terrorism. We intend to develop cooperation in this area.
I have briefed Mr Shevardnadze about the meeting with the Presidents of Ukraine, Belarus and Kazakhstan held in Moscow on February 23. I told him in detail about the plans for overall economic integration.
In conclusion I would like to express my satisfaction with the results of the meetings and I look forward to successful implementation of all the agreements we have reached.
Eduard Shevardnadze: Mr Putin spoke in great detail about the substance and format of our negotiations today and he has outlined all the main issues and problems that we discussed. I confirm that the question of Abkhazia, the Abkhazia conflict, was the centre of attention. And I am satisfied that we have found common approaches to, and focused on the problems that need to be solved under the current conditions.
President Putin mentioned some concrete problems, including the building of the railway (it is a necessary condition for the return of refugees) and the launching of the Inguri Hydroelectric Plant. Perhaps in future we could bring in foreign capital to build new power plants designed during the Soviet period.
All that is important for bringing about a dramatic improvement of Russian-Georgian relations. Currently, we live well and work well, and we understand each other perfectly well. I appreciate the fact that very good relations have been established between the two Presidents – with you, Mr Putin – which enable us to discuss all the problems that worry our countries and peoples in a perfectly frank and honest manner. I think an important step forward has been made in that sense. And the document agreed on by the Presidents, which is about to be signed quite rightly, makes a special reference to bilateral relations and the framework treaty, the need to speed it up and to complete the work on a bilateral treaty. After the signing of the bilateral treaty I hope that Russian-Georgian relations will strengthen and expand.
As for the document signed by the Presidents of Russia, Ukraine, Kazakhstan and Belarus, I think it will call for serious study. I think it is interesting for Georgia too. I do not rule out that in future we will find a form of cooperating with what I would describe as the Big Four.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: March 7, 2003, 00:03
Text versionEvents
Start of a Meeting with Georgian President Eduard Shevardnadze and Prime Minister of Abkhazia Gennady Gagulia
March 7, 2003
00:02
Bocharov Ruchei, Sochi
Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon,
Mr Shevardnadze and I talked until well past midnight yesterday and we have covered practically the whole range of our interaction. This morning we discussed the same issues with Mr Gagulia.
I think I can speak for all of us if I note that after a period of virtual, and I stress, virtual stagnation (because some attempts to solve the Abkhazian problem have been made at the purely legal level), all the parties involved have realised that we need to give a new impetus to the solution of the main issues that worry all of us, above all the people who suffer from this abnormal situation. I am referring to the aspects to which we paid particular attention with Mr Shevardnadze yesterday: above all the return of refugees, the development of economic cooperation in the region as a whole, and in Abkhazia and Georgia in particular. We included the development of the transport infrastructure and energy among such issues.
Mr Shevardnadze, I can tell you that I have talked over the phone with the people in Moscow who deal with this range of problems, and experts believe that the proposals you made yesterday during our conversation in the evening are feasible in principle. It calls for additional efforts and further discussion, but I hope that the three of us will be able to discuss them today.
Eduard Shevardnadze: Thank you very much. I am very pleased that we are having a three-way meeting. I don’t think it is accidental. We have all become convinced that the time has come to solve all the issues in the interests of Georgia, Abkhazia and the Commonwealth of Independent States, which has passed several resolutions on the matter, as well as on the basis of the UN Security Council Resolution and understandings among us. By the way, previously, under your predecessors, we met more frequently. Unfortunately, Vladislav Ardzinba could not come this time. So I am pleased that we are having a meeting in this format. I hope we will arrive at some decisions that will suit all of us.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you. I hope that our Abkhazian colleagues will support the efforts and tentative agreements reached during our previous meetings and negotiations.
Gennady Gagulia: Thank you very much, Mr Putin. Of course, my role in this meeting is, frankly, not very clear, but we represent Abkhazia, which has many unresolved issues. I hope that this meeting will give new momentum to the negotiating process. I hope that this meeting will enable us to answer the questions that we will discuss, and enable us to solve many problems. One should start building a house from the foundation and proceed little by little. I think that by adding something every day, we will be able to build the large house of our Commonwealth, which we are all talking about, and we will solve the issues relevant to all of us in that big home.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: March 7, 2003, 00:02
Text version