Events
Speech at Enlarged Russia-Tajikistan Talks
April 26, 2003
00:00
Dushanbe
Vladimir Putin: In the course of our one-on-one meeting with the President of Tajikistan, we exchanged opinions on the status and prospects of the relations between our countries. The overall conclusion is that Russian-Tajik relations are developing progressively and have a good outlook. Further strengthening of bilateral cooperation will raise our allied relations and strategic partnership to a new level.
At the same time, we should progress from joint search for and development of decisions to their adoption and implementation. Our work must be systemic and dynamic. The ministries and agencies of our countries have their job cut out. What is important today is to raise the trade and economic ties to a level that matches our political and military ties.
The growth of trade, although admittedly slow but sustained, is a promising sign. In 2002 trade increased by 7% on 2001, and in the first few months of this year 7.5% on 2002. The overall trend is good.
We should make more active use of the potential for increasing bilateral trade. I am referring to increasing supplies of cotton and aluminium to the Russian market and expanding the range of traded goods in general. The regions of Russia and Tajikistan can make an important contribution to the development of mutual trade. The inter-governmental commission should play the main coordinating role on economic issues. It is already doing well. That trend must be speeded up. I think we should listen to the co-chairmen of the inter-governmental commission.
Hydropower is a priority in the development of Tajikistan’s economy. We have discussed it in our one-on-one meeting with the President and he has mentioned it just now. It can be a truly important element of our economic cooperation. Tajikistan is interested in the completion of construction of the Sangtudinskaya hydropower plant with Russian participation. The idea merits attention. Experts have already studied that problem. Emomali Rakhmonov has already said that RAO UES of Russia has looked at the project. In short, there is work to be done. The power generated at that station can be supplied to the Urals Region of Russia via Kazakhstan under a replacement scheme. As a result everyone will stand to gain. Tajikistan will be able to fully cover the seasonal power shortage and possibly supply power to neighbouring Afghanistan. We should think about who will pay for it and how, but on the whole let us assume that the economy of Afghanistan will gradually be restored and solvent demand there will emerge and grow. It will no longer be necessary for Kazakhstan to transmit power from its southern regions to the north. That is a major problem. Russia for its part will get the necessary amounts of comparatively cheap power from northern Kazakhstan. By the way, we discussed this subject with the President of Kazakhstan when we met in Omsk.
We believe that Russian companies, including RAO UES, could take part in implementing that project, considering that the project documentation and estimates for the construction of Sangtudinskaya power plant have already been prepared by the Gidroproekt Institute. It is possible to supply equipment and building technology. Financing the project is an important problem. The preliminary estimate puts the cost at about $250 million over three years.
The EurAsEC integration committee has raised the issue of completing the construction of the Sangtudinskaya power plant collectively. The agenda for tomorrow’s meeting of the EurAsEC Interstate Council includes the issue of joint actions to complete the construction of that power plant. The EurAsEC states are to split the cost of financing the project. We will discuss it with our colleagues tomorrow and see their reaction.
On the whole the programme of completing the construction of the power plant may be a pilot project in creating a mechanism of interstate financing of investment projects as part of the common economic space of the EurAsEC.
As regards the completion of the Ragunskaya hydropower plant, some of our companies, especially construction companies are ready to pitch in. The issue of financing needs some further consideration.
The issues are not easy to solve, but I have been told that Russian companies are interested in taking part.
Another important matter concerns the hundreds of thousands of Tajik citizens who come to Russia every year for seasonal work. We have discussed this problem with Emomali Rakhmonov. On the whole, it is a mutually beneficial process. Russia has enough economic niches in which there is a labour shortage. Russia is interested in an inflow of manpower. For many citizens of Tajikistan it provides an opportunity to support their families. I think it is also a major benefit in terms of maintaining good relations among people.
However, some of them become illegal labour migrants because they evade Russian laws on registration and employment. In our opinion, these laws need to be improved because there are still some loose ends in the legislation. But in any case people often suffer and we must close these problems and settle them.
We have agreed that work on the agreement, on the terms and procedure of employment of labour migrants will be stepped up. The agreement should be ready by May. The relevant Russian and Tajik agencies which issue papers to citizens of Tajikistan to enable them to work abroad must establish ties with the Russian governmental agencies and private companies which officially hire foreign labour for work in Russia.
I think this is a major issue. It is a problem facing concrete people and we should do everything to make them feel comfortable. For our part we will exert our best efforts towards that end.
Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 26, 2003, 00:00
Text versionEvents
Statement to the Press and Replies to Questions Following Russian-Tajik Talks
April 26, 2003
00:00
Dushanbe
President Putin: Dear ladies and gentlemen. Dear Emomali Sharipovich.
First of all, I want to sincerely thank the President of Tajikistan and all our friends in Tajikistan for the cordial, warm welcome accorded to the entire Russian delegation.
The President of Tajikistan and I held a rich dialogue and fruitful talks. We discussed the full range of bilateral ties, which are of interest to both Tajikistan and the Russian Federation. Our assessments coincide too. The relations of strategic partnership between Russia and Tajikistan are progressively developing, and they have good prospects.
In the course of the talks we substantively analyzed the possibilities for expanding economic cooperation. Here there remain many untapped reserves so far. I totally agree with Emomali Sharipovich — this applies to production and interregional cooperation, to mutual trade and to the investment sphere. It is now our common task to realize the possibilities most efficiently. For this purpose we will have to perfect not only the existing mechanisms of cooperation, but also to create new ones. So we agreed to step up the work of the intergovernmental commission on economic cooperation and intend to develop the juridical base of business partnership as well.
An important theme of the meeting was our countries' cooperative effort in the field of security and in military technological cooperation. In particular, the theme of giving legal shape to the status and the terms of stationing of the Russian military base on the territory of Tajikistan was touched upon. We have a common point of view: the Russian military presence in Tajikistan is an important factor of security on the southern borders of the CIS, and Russian-Tajik border cooperation is an indispensable element of the common struggle against international terrorism, illicit drug trafficking and trans-frontier crime on the expanses of Eurasia.
Our meeting is being held on the eve of the summits of the Eurasian Economic Community and the Collective Security Treaty. So it is only natural that we discussed the questions which are to be considered at these two important forums for us. We hope that the decisions adopted in Dushanbe will seriously bolster our integration associations and will help optimize their work substantially. We are pleased with the results of our talks.
And once again I want to thank the President of Tajikistan for the facilities which have been provided for our joint work. Thanks very much indeed.
* * *
Question: What hinders the development of economic cooperation between the two countries?
President Putin (adding to what President Rakhmonov said): Our juridical base is sufficiently large and extensive — 150 treaties and agreements — but still, it is not sufficiently well elaborated as yet for us to be certain that the economic departments of our countries and the business communities feel comfortable, in Russia and Tajikistan respectively.
Today the President of Tajikistan raised in the course of the talks, both in the narrow composition, and in the extended one, questions concerning specific projects in the field of energy, and joint work in the extraction of natural resources, and spoke of the necessity to expand our cooperation in the humanitarian field and in the areas of education and culture. I must say that practical work in all these areas must go in parallel with the strengthening of the legal basis. Today we attended the signing of the agreement on the avoidance of double taxation. This is one of the specific steps in this direction.
I repeat we shall act and move in parallel, working on documents. On a practical plane, we will act more energetically. By and large our trends are not bad. So far the volume is rather small, but the trends are not bad. Last year the trade turnover grew by 7 percent; in the first months of this year by 7.4 percent. I repeat these are but trends. In order to achieve more significant, noticeable, tangible results, a great deal has yet to be done.
We pin great hopes on the intergovernmental commission in this connection. From our side this commission is headed by Sergei Kuzhugetovich Shoigu. Over the recent period it has acquired certain dynamics. I hope such will be the case in the future as well.
* * *
Question: Why are Tajiks being subjected in Russia to humiliations, arbitrariness on the part of the Russian militia and to deportations? Why is the manifestation of a spirit of partnership lacking and why do Russia's officials and press permit themselves insulting assessments regarding the Tajik people? Why is this happening?
President Putin: Your question sounds provocative, and I think that you know what you are doing. Doing it, evidently, not badly. In essence, the problem is that Tajikistan, regrettably, is a transshipment base for narcotics to Western Europe. And Russia, just as Tajikistan, suffers a lot from this drug trafficking. This is the first thing which evokes special attention to the labor emigrants from Tajikistan. And people, of course, know this. It's the first problem.
A second problem is the unsettled nature of Russian legislation itself.
And the third problem is this. I mentioned that we need, at the bilateral level, to strengthen the juridical base. So now, and here we should by all means make terms, and in the near future, sign an agreement on labor migration. Russia is really interested in an influx, particularly of Russian speakers, to the branches of the Russian economy where there are not enough working hands in Russia itself. We today discussed this theme with the colleagues, and they also understand it. Russia will attract labor resources where the Russian economy needs them. This has to be appropriately handled on a bilateral level. People under no circumstances should be subjected to humiliations.
With regard to the press, it, just as in any other democratic country, varies. There is a serious, analytical one. There is also a yellow press, regrettably. It's the pluses and minuses of the free mass media. We do not control these mass media, do not intend to control them, but the official position of the Russian authorities will consist of settling these labor relations with all the CIS countries, including Tajikistan. In this sense, Tajikistan is in an absolutely equal position with all, except for one problem from which Tajikistan itself suffers — it's the problem of drug trafficking. We discussed that with the President. Just now your Russian colleague put this question. We think that a solution to this highly important question can be found only by joint efforts, together with the special forces of Tajikistan and together with the colleagues who are working on the border. In this direction we shall move on. And we also hope to prepare the labor migration agreement by this May already.
* * *
Question: What do Russia and Tajikistan intend to undertake to enhance the effectiveness of the CIS?
President Putin: You know in what conditions the CIS was created. And the result of its work is also known. I will not give an overall assessment right now, but at the same time I want to stress that, in my deep conviction, despite the low effectiveness of the CIS, particularly in the economic sphere, the organization is extremely needed. At least, for the coordination of positions. Extremely needed.
But, of course, this work must be filled with deep content, above all, in the economic domain. You know that CIS Chairman Leonid Danilovich Kuchma has made a number of proposals in this direction. We intend to discuss them at a Petersburg meeting at the end of this May. We will move along all the tracks: with regard to bilateral contacts, as we do with Belarus; with respect to multilateral, as, for example, in the framework of the Eurasian Economic Community. We will work in the CIS as a whole. We will advance where the advance is possible. I am confident that there will be results.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 26, 2003, 00:00
Text version