Events
Introductory Remarks at the Meeting with Chairman of the Supreme Court Vyacheslav Lebedev and Prosecutor-General Vladimir Ustinov
August 3, 2003
19:06
Novo-Ogaryovo
President Vladimir Putin: I would like to discuss with you the latest events and the results of our investigation into previous crimes of this type. I am referring to the latest terrorist attack in Mozdok and the terrorist attacks in Moscow, in other cities, and in Chechnya itself.
As one analyses these events, certain thoughts and conclusions spring to mind. The negligent attitude we have seen in a number of cases, which encourages crimes and terrorist acts, has gone beyond all limits.
Let us take a closer look at what has happened with the recent high-profile cases. Investigations drag on for months or years, and then court hearings also go on for months or years. This creates the impression that the state is not responding, or cannot respond, to events of this kind.
As in any democratic state, we have several branches of power – the legislative branch, executive branch and judicial branch – each of which is responsible not just for the abstract fate of the state itself, but for the lives of hundreds and thousands of people.
I would like to discuss with you today the matters of greatest importance, and I would like to hear from you your suggestions on how we can make our work more effective and more in line with the real challenges our country faces. This must be done within the current legislative framework, but I repeat, we should be up to the challenges our country faces at present. President Vladimir Putin:
I would like to discuss with you the latest events and the results of our work to solve previous crimes of this type. I am referring to the latest terrorist act in Mozdok and the previous terrorist acts in Moscow, in other towns, and in Chechnya itself.
You know, analysing what is going on, one cannot help but start thinking certain thoughts and drawing certain conclusions. The negligent attitude that we have witnessed in a number of cases, and that helps make it possible for crimes and terrorist acts to be committed, has gone beyond all limits.
Let us take a close look at what has happened with the biggest recent affairs. Investigations drag on for months or years, and then court hearings also go on for months or years. This creates the impression that the state is not reacting, or cannot react, to events of this kind.
As in any normal democratic state, we have several branches of power – the legislative branch, executive branch and judicial branch – each of which is responsible not just for the abstract fate of the state itself, but for the concrete lives of hundreds and thousands of people.
I would like to discuss with you today the matters of greatest importance, and I would like to hear from you your suggestions on how we can make this work more effective and more in line with the real situations our country faces. This must be done within the current legislative framework, but I repeat, it has to answer the needs of our country’s life at the present time.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: August 3, 2003, 19:06
Text version