Events
Speech at a Meeting of the Council of Heads of State of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation
May 29, 2003
00:01
The Kremlin, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: Mr Chairman,
Distinguished heads of state,
Friends,
I have already said that a large amount of work has been carried out to prepare the documents, and I believe that these documents that regulate the activities of the SCO statutory bodies have been prepared thoroughly and merit our approval today.
Our meeting today is a milestone in many ways. The process of forming the working mechanisms of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation is entering a decisive phase. We are talking above all about permanent bodies: the Secretariat in Beijing and the Anti-Terrorist Centre in Bishkek. I think we can now set a timeframe for the start of their work. One would like it to happen as early as 2004. The fulfillment of that task will call for concerted efforts of all member states. That involves the solution of legal issues, the creation of a comprehensive financial system, including the approval of the organisation’s budget for 2004.
It is necessary to prepare a number of treaty documents stipulated under the agreement on the Regional Anti-Terrorist Structure before the end of this year. I believe that at the working level all these issues could continue to be handled by the Council of National Coordinators. I do not rule out that our Foreign Ministers will have to meet before the end of the year, in fact we have agreed on such a meeting in principle in our restricted format meeting just now.
Additionally, the Council of Foreign Ministers has proposed a candidate for the post of the CSO Executive Secretary. Esteemed Ambassador Zhang Deguang is known as a professional diplomat who is thoroughly knowledgeable about the problems in the region. Russia fully backs his candidacy. We expect that Mr Zhang’s activities will help to make our cooperation more effective. For our part we are ready to give all the necessary support to the first executive secretary.
Distinguished heads of state,
Our organisation is evolving against the background of complicated changes in the world. I agree with the previous speakers, including the Chairman of the PRC, as regards the assessment of the changes that affect the situation not only in various regions, but in the whole system of international relations. In this context it is important for all of us to see the SCO assert itself as a constructive factor in world politics and possess the necessary tools to address the pressing tasks and effectively face up to the threats of the 21st century.
I believe that the SCO can be a forum for permanent dialogue and for working out agreed positions on key foreign policy issues. On the whole, our organisation must become actively involved in international life. To this end, we must make more extensive use of the provisional mechanism approved in November of this year. That applies to contacts with states and with international associations.
Our economic cooperation has a big future. We expect a great deal from the second meeting of the heads of government to be held in the early autumn of 2003. In addition to approving the SCO budget it should provide clear guidelines for the development of the organisation’s economic component. We are talking about creating favourable conditions for trade and investments and about possible specific economic and infrastructure projects.
It is necessary to complete the development of a long-term framework of multilateral business cooperation. Our interaction in such spheres as public health, science, education, new technologies and environmental protection holds great promise. We support the initiative of Tajikistan on stepping up the joint struggle against drug trafficking. I think the agencies concerned in our countries must produce a corresponding multilateral document and propose a mechanism for its implementation before this year is out.
Counteracting terrorism, separatism and extremism is a priority of the SCO. That is a major challenge for the Bishkek group of the heads of law enforcement bodies and special services. We attach great importance to the start of the work of the Anti-Terrorist Centre.
I think we should lend support to the plans of our Defence Ministries to hold joint anti-terrorist exercises in Kazakhstan this year.
Distinguished heads of state,
The stage of establishing the SCO is drawing to a close. No one in the world has any doubts that our association has become a reality. Many countries rightly see our organisation as an international association of a new type, an association that is actively involved in laying down the foundations of security in the world. I am sure that the decisions we have passed at the Moscow Summit will be successfully implemented. This is in the interests of our countries and citizens. This is in the interests of peace and security on the vast Eurasian continent.
Thank you for your attention.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 29, 2003, 00:01
Text version