Events
Opening Remarks at a Meeting with Director of the International Monetary Fund Horst Koehler
November 13, 2003
16:25
The Kremlin, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
I am very happy to see you today. Both you, Mr Koehler, and your colleagues. I am pleased that despite the discontinuance in credits received from the IMF, contacts between us continue.
I think that one of the topics which we could discuss today is organising our interaction in these conditions.
I know that specialists are discussing the possibility of our experts working directly in the Fund, in advancing several ideas of the Fund, including in the discussion of such global issue as reforming the Bretton-Wood monetary system.
Furthermore – you have just mentioned yourself that you had come here from Kyrgyzstan – I know that the Fund also has plans to work in other countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States. As you know, Russia has special relations with all these countries, due to the fact that we existed within one nation for a long time. We have a considerable degree of interdependency, both economic and financial, and we are interested in what the Fund is planning. On the other hand, we would like to discuss the possibility of our participation in these programmes, because, as you know, we are discussing various problems of economic integration in the area of the former Soviet Union, and are working on various integration schemes.
This is of special interest for us, bearing in mind our plans – and you probably know about them – to develop economic relations with the European Union. A document was just signed in Rome on a common economic space. And these plans should interconnect with our plans in the area of the former Soviet Union. In this sense, advice of the Fund, and perhaps even direct involvement in developing specific directions in this cooperation, are of very serious interest for us.
And finally, while our specialists are prepared to work directly in the Fund, and to help the Fund, we are also interested in your opinion, and the opinion of your colleagues on the development of the Russian economy.
As you know, in Russia today inflation is at a level of around 9.5% to 10%. The Government plans to keep this level under 12% based on this year’s results. Now it is around 10%. I know you have your own opinion on this matter. It would be interesting to hear it.
I would also be interested to know your opinion on what is happening with the effective real currency rate of the rouble. The Central Bank here is pursuing, in my opinion, a very careful policy. And it is in a difficult situation – an unusual situation, under currency pressure in connection with certain events on foreign markets. As far as I have heard, your specialists have their own opinion on this matter – on how macro-economic figures can be strengthened in other ways. In my opinion, what the Central Bank is doing today is based on the realities of the situation in Russia. It would nevertheless be interesting to hear your opinion.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 13, 2003, 16:25
Text versionEvents
Introductory Remarks at a Joint Meeting of the Security Council and the State Council Presidium on Enhancing Protection of Vital Infrastructure and the Population from Natural, Technological and Terrorist Threats
November 13, 2003
20:29
The Kremlin, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
Today on the agenda we have a range of issues regarding our preparedness to protect ourselves against possible technological, natural and terrorist threats. The focus today will be on the sites and facilities of the greatest importance to our national security that must have priority protection.
We made a conscious choice to raise these issues at a joint meeting of the Security Council and the State Council Presidium. First, because these problems concern every region in the country, and second, because we can find effective solutions only by uniting our potential, resources and administrative efforts. We need to do this in the interests of ensuring the smooth functioning of our entire national economy and state social services, and above all, we need to do this in the interests of our citizens’ safety.
Today we will analyse the state of affairs in this area and identify the priorities for our work, including in the long term.
The first thing I would like to draw to your attention to is the noticeable increase in technological disasters. Experts estimate that they now account for more than 70 percent of all emergency situations. Of course, worn out infrastructure is a primary cause of this negative situation, but this is a problem that can be substantially remedied if the organisations and officials concerned worked in strict accordance with the demands and rules regulating their activities. A large number of accidents and disasters take place precisely because people do not follow the standards and operating rules, and also because of poorly qualified personnel. Officials shirking their responsibilities for ensuring security at individual chemical plants is another contributing factor.
The second focus of our analysis today is how prepared we are to deal with natural disasters and their consequences. The damage caused by floods and storms, earthquakes and forest fires comes to billions of roubles. There are some losses we cannot just replace – the loss of human lives. Natural disasters kill thousands of people and it is simply our duty to develop a system of clear and precise preventive measures to protect people from them. Not only are people often unprepared for natural disasters, they also do not know how to react when emergencies happen in the workplace.
We now urgently need a clear, comprehensive and modern state policy to protect people and potentially dangerous sites and facilities from technological and natural disasters and from terrorist threats. All the separate components of this security policy should be worked out in detail and linked together in a single system.
We must, therefore, step up our work in several key areas.
Most importantly, we need to delimit terms of reference and responsibility in this area between the different agencies responsible for security. This concerns not only the different levels of state power and state agencies, but also the responsibilities of the directors heading the organisations that build and operate these sites and facilities, and it also concerns their owners.
We need to avoid any overlapping of functions and ensure that each agency and responsible person concentrates their efforts and resources on their own concrete areas of responsibility.
We also need to ensure the smooth cooperation and coordination between all the organisations working in this area. One of the most urgent tasks is to draw up standard management documents and decisions and universal technical security measures needed in emergency situations.
The next priority area is state supervisory functions at sites and facilities that are listed as being of critical importance and are in private hands. In carrying out this state supervision, we must remember that its purpose is to protect the vital interests of the country. This is obviously a complex question and so we have to work it through in detail and back it up with clear legislation regarding the powers of the state agencies concerned.
Finally, there is the question of establishing a quality and complete legal and regulatory base for this area. Many laws on environmental protection, protecting the population and territory from emergency situations and technical regulation have already been approved and are now in effect, but regulation and legislation is still required for some important questions.
I would like to ask you to examine these subjects today.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 13, 2003, 20:29
Text version