Events
Opening Remarks at a Meeting with the Cabinet
October 6, 2003
09:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon.
Today I signed a law on self-government, which has taken the Executive Office, the Government and State Duma deputies a long time to produce. The document is one of the key elements of a full-scale administrative reform, which we talk so much about. I know that this week the Government will consider related matters.
A couple of words about the law. We know that self-government provides additional guarantees for people’s rights to run state affairs. Government is brought closer to people who become more socially active. It is also a countermeasure to the over-concentration of power in the centre, and an additional guarantee for the stability of the political system.
The law becomes effective on January 1, 2006. We have provided for a very lengthy interim period for it to be introduced. This was done on purpose. The law contains a detailed plan of action for federal and regional authorities during the interim period.
I ask the Government to strictly follow the plan. It is a plan which has been drawn up with your direct participation.
It is necessary to submit parliamentary amendments to many federal laws in advance in order to bring them in line with the renewed model of self-government and federal relations.
It is necessary to relieve regional and local authorities of functions imposed on them by federal laws and unwarranted either from a financial point of view or the actual requirements of state and society. We must exert every effort to apply the stipulated principles of inter-budgetary relations to the tax and budget spheres. This will make the spending of taxpayer money more rational and increase the effectiveness and responsibility of regional and local authorities.
We are approaching winter. We know the kind of difficulties municipal bodies have faced at this time over the past few years.
The fact that the date of introduction has been postponed for so long should not allow the Government to sit back. The work should start today, in coordination with the Commission for the Delimitation of Powers and taking into consideration the opinions and proposals of Russian regions and municipalities.
The necessary instructions for the Government and the commission will be formulated in due course, although I am certain you know what to do.
Two regions of the Russian Federation, the Chechen Republic and St Petersburg, have had elections. Before the end of the year, ten more regions, large ones, will hold them. All this will have an important bearing on the domestic political situation in Russia. So you should do everything in your power to ensure that these elections run normally.
I want to draw your attention to the high voter turnout in the Chechen Republic. Preliminary estimates put it at 86.8%. I do not think this calls for comment. The fact, let alone the result, is gratifying. But even this is not the point. Such high turnout indicates that people hope for a better life, for positive change in the republic and in the life of their families, hope that social issues, above all their security, will be solved in the first place. Although the problem of security is a separate subject we discussed and will continue to discuss, and although greater responsibility will be vested with republican authorities, the social and economic issues in Chechnya cannot be resolved without the support of the Russian Government.
I ask you to continue paying compensations for destroyed housing. Now that we have a fully formed legitimate executive body in Chechnya, we must complete the lists of victims and energetically pursue work further, the work of creating new jobs, solving problems in education, medicine, social affairs, etc.
These problems are closely connected with other issues of federal significance. The Prime Minister and I recently discussed the matters you consider central: the social funds and the need to bring them in line with common sense, today’s requirements, and plans to develop the social sphere and improve the social services for the population. This is a delicate and precise process and one that cannot tolerate any delays. It cannot be done overnight, but it must be started now.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 6, 2003, 09:00
Text versionEvents
Address to Participants in the Founding Congress of the World Armenian Organisation
October 6, 2003
00:00
Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, friends,
Barev Dzes!
I warmly welcome you to the founding congress of the World Armenian Organisation. This is an exceptionally important event and it is of historical significance in the full sense of the word. I am genuinely pleased to see people here from many different parts of the world, and, of course, I would like to thank you for inviting me here and giving me the opportunity to address this congress.
It is flattering for us and symbolic that this forum was organised by the Union of Armenians of Russia, and that Moscow was chosen as the venue.
It’s not just that the Armenian community in Russia is one of the world’s oldest Armenian communities. I think that today, this community is probably the biggest in the world. I believe that other, no less important considerations also played a part in deciding where this congress would be held. This is what the President of Armenia just spoke about, these are long-standing and enduring traditions of friendship, mutual help and partnership between Russia and Armenia that have bound our countries together over the centuries and continue to do so today.
We were together through times of peace and times of great tribulation. Our fathers and grandfathers fought side by side in many wars, including in the bloodiest war of the twentieth century – World War II. We both call this war the Great Patriotic War and representatives of both our peoples have felt themselves at home and needed on both Russian and Armenian soil.
Thousands of Russian volunteers went to help their Armenian brothers following the terrible earthquake of 1988. Thousands of Armenians have come to live and work in Russia.
For many of them our country has become a second home, and we highly value the contribution that the Armenian diaspora has made to all areas of Russian life.
Friends,
In recent times the strategic partnership between Russia and Armenia has undergone new and serious changes. Without a doubt, our growing humanitarian contacts are also based on this renewed political and economic foundation.
Our partnership today serves the national interests of both our countries, serves to strengthen security, increase our international authority and foster stability and economic progress.
Finally, the benefits of our joint efforts to reinforce the Commonwealth of Independent States are becoming ever more evident, as is our mutually advantageous work to coordinate our positions on international and regional issues, including within the framework of regional organisations such as the Eurasian Economic Community and Collective Security Treaty.
Together we are effectively combating new threats and working on strengthening interethnic peace and concord in our countries. Finally, we are cooperating in the strategically vital region of the Caucasus.
Turning the Caucasus into a region of peace, stability and economic cooperation is a common task of immense importance today. Russia is ready to continue its peacekeeping role in regulating the conflicts in the Trans-Caucasus region together with its partners in the CIS.
I am convinced that no matter how complicated these problems appear, we must look for ways to resolve them as quickly as possible. We must find solutions that are acceptable to all sides. And, of course, it is not through the joint efforts of states alone that we can fight terrorism and national and religious extremism. Public opinion, the position taken by the citizens of various countries and the possibilities of people’s diplomacy must also have their impact. I would like to express the hope today that the World Armenian Organisation will contribute to this work.
It has long been noted that the more successfully a country develops, the greater its authority and the more confident its citizens feel both at home and abroad.
People in Russia know this very well and we fully understand your sincere desire and ambition to develop a modern Armenia, a sovereign, independent and democratic state with good prospects in the economic and international-political arenas.
We share your optimism and your aims. I hope that the Armenian diaspora’s contribution to its historical homeland will only develop and grow stronger, and I hope the Russian-Armenian business partnership will further promote.
In conclusion, I would like to say that our common historical heritage has been forever enriched by the works of the poets Ovanes Tumanian and Yegishe Charents, by the paintings of Ivan Aivazovsky and Martiros Sarian and the music of Aram Khachaturian and Arno Babajanian. We are all proud of this as our common heritage. Nor will we ever forget the deeds of the exceptional military commanders Ivan Bagramian, Sergei Khudyakov and Ivan Isakov. Armenians all around the world are proud of these names, and so are we in Russia.
This memory, this experience of spiritual dialogue and mutual support will continue to help us build an equal alliance between Armenia and Russia and further the relations between our two fraternal peoples and two sovereign, democratic states.
I am convinced that this is how it will be. I wish the Armenian people peace, prosperity and wellbeing. You are a people of amazing spiritual fortitude and boundless talent, a people that always were, and I’m sure, always will be a good and sincere neighbour to Russia.
Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 6, 2003, 00:00
Text version