Events
Address at the Russia-Kyrgyzstan Investment Forum
October 23, 2003
18:01
Bishkek
Vladimir Putin: Mr President, friends, colleagues,
I am glad to see many familiar faces in this hall. I am pleased that Russia is so strongly and seriously represented: present here are politicians, State Duma deputies, and regional leaders; business is also widely represented. It is nice to see that the Russian side has taken such a serious view of today’s event.
We in Russia follow life in Kyrgyzstan with great interest and attention. We always sincerely rejoice in the successes of the Kyrgyz people. We highly value your efforts to build civic accord and democracy and accomplish socio-economic tasks. It is with satisfaction that we note the strengthening of our allied relations.
In one of his recent speeches in Moscow, the Kyrgyz President said that Central Asia, as it embarked upon a new spiral of history, would establish a special relationship with Russia and that the future of that region was directly connected with close cooperation with our country. We appreciate these words by the President, fully share his position and are ready to reciprocate. We will develop relations with all the region’s countries.
Today’s forum is a further proof of the strengthening of our contact. Ties between Russia and Kyrgyzstan in the economic sphere have been and remain a solid foundation of our cooperation.
Russia is Kyrgyzstan’s principal foreign trade partner: it accounts for 16% of Kyrgyzstan’s trade. Our mutual trade turnover grows with every year and so does direct Russian investment in the Kyrgyz economy. In the first half of 2003, it increased 60% compared to the same period in 2002.
We realise of course that this is very little in real terms, that these are small figures, but the trend is still good. We welcome the flow of Russian investment into the Kyrgyz economy and support the Kyrgyz Government’s efforts to create a favourable investment climate. We are sure that such a mutually beneficial approach both on the part of Russia and on the part of Kyrgyzstan will lead to positive results.
Russia is interested in Kyrgyzstan’s raw materials and their joint use, and in state cooperation in industry and agriculture.
We are prepared to cooperate in joint programmes and investment projects, above all in transport and energy. It was no accident that today Russia took a decision to make 400 million kilowatts available to Kyrgyzstan, which will be a tremendous help to the country. Kyrgyzstan is thus joining a common grid system, which the Unified Energy System is aligning for the Commonwealth of Independent States. Other countries are under consideration.
Russian companies plan to take part in incorporating Kyrgyz enterprises. This is provided for in a treaty and a programme of economic cooperation signed by the Russian Federation and the Kyrgyz Republic for 2000–2009.
Business contacts between Kyrgyzstan and Russian regions are another important activity. It gives me pleasure to see some Russian regional leaders here. As far as I know, twenty or so regions have come forward with that idea. Some of them are already implementing such projects. And the first priority here is to restore traditional co-production links with a new quality. This, I am sure, will give a powerful impetus to the growth of our mutually beneficial economic partnership.
This forum is to consider concrete joint projects and programmes. Strategic business plans will also be discussed, of course. I would like to see Russian businessmen play a bigger and bolder role in Kyrgyzstan’s economic life. I will be honest: this meets Russia’s interests as a state.
It was not accidental that President Akayev today mentioned the opening of a Russian military base in Kant. The base has good prospects. I am absolutely certain that it will be an important element of regional security and create good conditions for business, too.
But we do not limit ourselves to just military matters. In the morning, we presented Russian state decorations to Kyrgyzstan’s cultural personalities. And that was no accident either. I think everyone in the audience will agree that culture and intellect pave the way for business.
Kyrgyzstan takes serious care of all that. You know that it has adopted a law declaring Russian a second official language. Few other CIS countries have done that.
Kyrgyzstan thinks big and acts accordingly. We should respond accordingly.
But there is more to this than that. Today, the first protocol to grant Russia WTO membership was signed here, in Kyrgyzstan. We are grateful to our Kyrgyz counterparts for understanding the importance of the problem and for their flexible approach, and consider it a good sign that Kyrgyzstan is seriously focused on working with Russia.
I wish the forum participants all the best and success in their future endeavours.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 23, 2003, 18:01
Text versionEvents
Speech at a Russian Airbase
October 23, 2003
12:14
Kant, Kyrgyzstan
Vladimir Putin: Mr President, friends,
Today we are opening the Russian airbase in the city of Kant. This is a key event in the advancing development of Russian-Kyrgyz relations, and, what is particularly important, in the consolidation of the Collective Security Treaty Organisation and the growth of our collective efforts in the war on international terrorism.
The military and political situation in Central Asia is generally stable today. At the same time, we must not shut our eyes to the danger of terrorist invasions from the outside. In these conditions, opening the airbase at Kant is a necessary and timely measure. A measure that will help resolve both national and collective tasks that stand before the CSTO. I expect that this will create a good basis for cooperation, and become a deterrent for terrorists and extremists of all kinds.
Let us remember –President Akayev and I have just talked about this – the events of 1999 and 2000, when terrorists entered the country as if it were their own home, created chaos here and killed people. If the base had been here then, the events would have developed more favourably for us. I do not doubt this for a second.
For us in Russia, the war on terrorism is not an empty phrase. Today marks a year since the tragic events when terrorists took hostages at the Dubrovka Theatre in Moscow. This is a serious wound which will take a long time to heal in our hearts. But we all know: if terrorists are given the chance to spring up in one place, they will then appear in another, using the territories they have occupied as a base for back-up support.
By creating this airbase here, in Kyrgyzstan, we intend to increase security in the region, the stability of which is an increasingly palpable factor that influences the development of the international situation. The airbase in Kant will become an aviation haven for the rapid deployment forces in Central Asia, which were formed within the framework of the CSTO. It will open up additional opportunities for adequate and efficient responses to possible threats, will give the collective forces a qualitatively new military and political significance, and allow us to use military aviation in places where land forces cannot always follow the routes of international gangs and drug traffickers due to the mountainous terrain.
The initiator of stationing the airbase here, on the territory of Kyrgyzstan, was President Askar Akayev. Thanks to his direct involvement, the necessary documents were prepared and agreed on in a short time, and practical arrangements were carried out on creating the airbase.
We highly value the unanimous Kyrgyz support that the decision to station a Russian base here received. Particular thanks goes to the administration and residents of Kant for the warm welcome they gave to Russian soldiers, and for all the assistance they provided to build the base. And now I want to address the Russian soldiers directly: please value these relations. I would also like to address local residents once more: the base was created for everyone’s common security. Please exercise vigilance, because our enemies will pay particular attention to the base.
The city of Kant is historically linked to military aviation. During the Second World War, over 1,500 Soviet pilots were trained here. They made a worthy contribution to our shared great victory, whose 60th anniversary we will soon celebrate together. In the post-war period, military pilots from 54 countries were trained here.
Friends,
I am sure that today’s event will become a new important step in the development of equal Russian-Kyrgyz cooperation, give impetus to military integration processes within the framework of the CSTO, and provide the necessary durability to the unified system of collective security created by our countries.
I wish you all the best.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 23, 2003, 12:14
Text versionEvents
Answers to Journalists' Questions during a Visit to a Russian Airbase
October 23, 2003
18:00
Kant, Kyrgyzstan
Question: Mr Putin, the American allies are stationed nearby. They are probably watching the demonstration flights attentively. What do you think they will see here, and what is the difference between these bases? How will our base develop?
Vladimir Putin: As you know, Russia is a member of the international anti-terrorist coalition and supports the efforts of the international community directed towards the war on terrorism in Afghanistan. In this context, we undoubtedly also support the activity of our partners in the coalition from the territory of Central Asian nations.
But this is an American base, or more precisely a base of the international coalition. There, as you know, the French military also recently took part in joint work. It was created to solve a specific task in the war on terrorism in Afghanistan, during the time this operation was carried out. I repeat, it is carrying out an important task, but is working in this case on the territory of the Kyrgyz Republic.
The base that we opened today is a Russian airbase, it solves and will solve another task, providing security for Kyrgyzstan itself, and the entire region in which it is situated – a region that is quite large. Of course, it will also create favourable conditions for the war on terrorism on the territory of the Russian Federation. In this sense, this task is of permanent importance, it is an extremely important, special internal task, but in the context of the war on terrorism, one could say that one activity will supplement the other, and there is no contradiction here.
The base itself is situated in an excellent location. As you can see, it is separate from any other infrastructure, has good prospects for development, a good runway and possibilities to construct additional buildings for our servicemen.
In agreement with the leadership of Kyrgyzstan, we will examine these possibilities, if the need arises, but I can already tell you now – Askar Akaev and I have planned joint exercises for next year, and numerous divisions of the Russian Armed Forces will be sent here to confirm the ability of this base to accommodate a large number of land forces for joint operations. Exercises will be conducted, we will make our conclusions accordingly, and then we will decide in what direction and at what rate we will develop this base.
Question: Do you think that the American military base will function in Central Asia only until the end of the anti-terrorist operation in Afghanistan, or will it remain there for a longer period?
Vladimir Putin: We have no antagonisms in this matter. One base will supplement the other, and we work with our American partners on a larger scale. I am sure, and I do not doubt this at all, that in this specific place we will also cooperate effectively, just as we work together on the international scale in an extremely important area – the war on international terrorism.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 23, 2003, 18:00
Text versionEvents
Press Statement on the Results of the Visit to Kyrgyzstan
October 23, 2003
21:17
Bishkek
Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon.
Today’s working visit to Kyrgyzstan is in the full and literal sense of the word a working visit. It was prepared for a long time, and designed to ensure the national interests of Russia and our strategic ally and partner Kyrgyzstan in three main directions.
The first direction is to consolidate our interaction in the cultural area. To expand and consolidate our interaction in the sphere of security and the war on terrorism, and to create the necessary conditions for further progress in the trade and economic sphere.
It is no coincidence that we began the day by presenting state awards of the Russian Federation to cultural figures of Kyrgyzstan, which my colleague has already spoken about. This is, of course, a moral gesture of support to the people who create a favourable atmosphere for the development of intergovernmental ties.
I am deeply convinced that it is the mood of the creative intelligentsia that creates this favourable atmosphere for cooperation in the economy sphere, the security sphere, and in the war on terrorism.
The second important point of our collective work today is the city of Kant, where a Russian military base has been opened. I am not going to talk now about the importance of this event for bilateral relations, and for development within the framework of the Collective Security Treaty Organisation. It seems to me that this is an obvious fact.
Indeed, this is the first Russian base in the post-Soviet space that has been registered as is required between independent nations, with a sound legal basis. But this is not all. This base has excellent prospects for development. We are grateful to the President and the leadership of the Republic for the opportunities that are given to our servicemen. There is a good infrastructure today, and most importantly – I would like to stress this – there are opportunities for expansion, if necessary, to very solid figures of quantity and quality. We, of course, will do this based on the needs of the region, the Republic, and in accordance with the agreements within the CST.
I was especially pleased by how local residents felt about the opening of the Russian military base. Without exaggeration, you could say – and this is visible to the naked eye, visible by the reaction of people on the street – that people treat this as a celebration. This cannot be ignored. And I think it is understandable why this is so. I have already answered these questions. At the base itself, the question is often asked how interaction will be carried out between the Russian military and the forces of the international anti-terrorist coalition, who are stationed at another aerodrome – at Manas. There are no contradictions here – I want to remove all questions here.
Firstly, Russia is a part of the international anti-terrorist coalition. We support the efforts of the international community in the war on terrorism, in this case in Afghanistan, and support the efforts of our American partners. It is America that has the largest burden and losses in Afghanistan. And, I think, we should all be grateful to the U.S. President for his consistent and harsh position in the war on terrorism around the world. But the base at Manas was designed to solve tasks in Afghanistan, and the Russian base in Kant to ensure security for Kyrgyzstan itself and the Kyrgyz people, to ensure the interests of CST countries in the zone of their responsibility, including Russia.
And, last of all, the third area of our joint work today is the economic forum. I want to share the optimism that my colleague just expressed. We are indeed very happy about the attention that was shown by the business community in today’s event. We note positive tendencies in economic interaction, we see opportunities and shortcomings, but we are sure that today’s event will not only be useful for the business community, but that it will be made use of by business people. And our countries – both Russia and Kyrgyzstan – will create the necessary conditions for interaction between people who represent business in our countries. I must say that a number of specific projects have already been announced, an agreement has been signed, and I am sure that this will be beneficial for the development of bilateral ties.
In conclusion, I would like to thank the leadership of Kyrgyzstan for their flexibility in the approach to signing the protocol in connection with Russia’s intention to join the WTO. I would like to note that this is the first Russian protocol signed in this area. I hope that it is not the last. And it is no coincidence that we signed this document in Kyrgyzstan: I mean that Kyrgyzstan is itself a WTO member, but at the same time it works actively in the post-Soviet space in the framework of various organisations, the main goal of which is integration in the economic sphere. Here there are many rather complex problems, and the example of our interaction with Kyrgyzstan shows that they can all be solved quite successfully.
Thank you very much for your attention.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 23, 2003, 21:17
Text version