Events
Press Statement following Talks with the Governor-General of Canada, Adrienne Clarkson
September 23, 2003
23:24
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Ladies and gentlemen,
I would like once again to welcome Ms. Clarkson, the first Governor-General of Canada to visit Russia. I am certain that this visit will be an important point in the development of Russian-Canadian cooperation. This cooperation is developing steadily and dynamically, and constantly encompassing new areas.
We hold permanent political dialogue and cooperate closely on the international arena. We exchange experience in building federation and programmes to support the native peoples of the North. Russia and Canada successfully carry out joint projects in the areas of training staff and ecology.
But we still have a large and as-yet unrealized potential – this is above all the economic sphere. And so the issue of widening bilateral relations, new paths and possibilities, and attracting a greater number of participants became the main topic of talks today.
One of the main topics of our discussion was the “northern dimension” in Russian-Canadian ties. Cooperation in the Far North and in the Arctic is a natural and extremely necessary vector of our interaction. And in this sphere, every country has its own truly unique experience. I think that combining our capabilities and our accumulated scientific and technical knowledge will make it possible to increase economic returns from the northern territories. It will also help to solve the social tasks of the North, and at the same time preserve the unique and very vulnerable nature there.
We talked a lot today about cooperation in the humanities. A whole series of projects in this sphere have already been started. They are focused on studying languages, holding joint museum projects and scientific developments. In connection with this, I can give as an example the activity of the Canadian Friends of the Hermitage Foundation.
On her visit, Ms. Clarkson is accompanied by representatives of the creative intelligentsia, and cultural and scientific figures of Canada. I am sure that during her work in Russia she will establish new contacts with her Russian colleagues.
I would like to thank our Canadian colleagues for open and very substantial dialogue, and also for the friendly atmosphere, which was an important part of our talks.
Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: September 23, 2003, 23:24
Text versionEvents
Opening Remarks at a Meeting with the Governor-General of Canada, Adrienne Clarkson
September 23, 2003
21:42
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Governor-General, friends and colleagues,
Allow me to wish you once more a hearty welcome to the capital of Russia.
We regard your state visit to Russia as an important point in bilateral relations between our countries.
This is a sign of the high level of cooperation between our nations.
Russia and Canada seem to be distant from each other, but they are in fact neighbours across the Arctic Ocean. But in the modern world, as we know, distances play an increasingly smaller role. Instead, an increasingly greater role is played by unanimity of views on key modern issues. And the views of Canada and Russia on many very important issues on today’s agenda are often very close, and sometimes coincide, which would have been difficult to imagine just a few years ago.
We can see this in practical work, and it was also confirmed during the visit to the Russian Federation by Prime Minister Chretien at the head of the so-called “Team Canada.”
Welcome!
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: September 23, 2003, 21:42
Text version