Events
Extracts from the Transcript of a Talk with Women of Tobolsk
March 6, 2003
00:00
Tobolsk, Tyumen Region
Vladimir Putin: First of all, I would like to congratulate you on the approaching holiday of March 8 and to wish all the best to you and to all the women of Tobolsk, Siberia and Russia.
On such days, as a rule, they say all the kind words to women. I think you will be told such words at home many times. I join all the best wishes to you.
It is also customary to speak about the role and importance of women. I subscribe to all that too.
At the same time I would like to note that the role women occupy in society is an important indicator and characteristic of its development. We talk about it a great deal. Indeed, women perform a very important, a key function not only in the family, but in the country. I am sure there are many teachers and health workers among you. These are traditional spheres in which the majority of women work.
More than 50% of the civil service are women. But there the problems begin. Although there are so many women in the civil service, only a little over seven percent of them are at an executive level. This means that women mostly work at the lower and medium levels of management. In the opinion of many authoritative experts, including foreign ones, legislatures begin working effectively and addressing issues of social protection, healthcare, medicine and so on when they contain at least 20% women. As a rule they pay attention to social issues. 7.3% of the State Duma are women. And in the upper house of parliament you can count all the women on the fingers of your hand. One third of the legislative assemblies in the Russian regions have no women at all.
We speak a lot about Russia becoming integrated into the economic space of Europe and the world. We will not be able to effectively function within the world economy unless we become part of the European humanitarian space. And that means that women’s self-awareness will approach that of Europe. And that is right. That will automatically make the women aware of their role in society and will change their position. I am convinced of this and I think that it is right.
I congratulate you again and wish you all the best. And now we can have an informal exchange of opinions on the issues that you consider to be fundamental and urgent.
Vladimir Putin on the problems of small business:
I think we must say frankly that an attempt has been made to cut down on bureaucracy in the sphere of taxation and to reduce taxes. But in spite of the noble intention, not much has been accomplished. We are moving in the right direction, but so far we cannot report that the Government has solved all the problems set before it. Speaking about the single social tax, the amount of paperwork involved in paying it, far from diminishing, has in fact increased. Number one.
Number two. The overall tax burden has been eased a little bit, but not much. So, the first thing that has to be done is to continue work to improve the single social tax and reduce red tape in the tax system. The tax system must be simpler and more understandable.
Small and medium businesses are unable to deal with such a huge amount of accounting. It involves a lot of additional spending for enterprises, which cripples business. And that of course is one of the tasks. The Government is thinking about it. Because the task is more or less clear I would like to express the hope that more decisions in this area will be taken.
As regards tax breaks for importers, that is a sensitive topic. It should be approached very carefully. I have spoken about it many times. The more benefits are enjoyed by importers of equipment the less chance there is that our domestic industry will ever produce all this. It is enough to offer a privilege to the importers of a single item of equipment to set the corresponding domestic industry back many years. It is always a double-edged sword and one should proceed carefully. However, something can be done in this area.
Vladimir Putin on the media:
The media are constantly the subject of discussion. This is a fairly complicated theme because the media are no worse and no better than we are: there are viewers and listeners so there is an information product that suits them. We can only influence the government-owned media outlets. With all the other outlets we should build a certain attitude in society to violence and other negative phenomena that we see in the media. This is the first thing.
Secondly, we should work out civilised standards that would enable the media to exercise a measure of self-restraint.
I must say that media executives have such awareness. The process began, unfortunately, with the hostage-taking tragedy at the Theatre Centre at Dubrovka in Moscow, but there is awareness of the need to exercise self-restraint, including in the moral sphere. If society itself works out these standards, they will undoubtedly be adopted by the media.
And the third thing. What can we do, with the support of regional leaders, to replace vulgar, inferior products with quality products for the mass audience? This calls for financial outlays. And that depends on us. That is not all that can be done, but these I think are the main areas. This must have government support, just like the problems of housing.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: March 6, 2003, 00:00
Text versionEvents
Opening Remarks at a Meeting on the Social and Economic Development of the Urals Federal District
March 6, 2003
00:02
Tyumen
Vladimir Putin: The Urals Federal District has seen many industry conferences, some of which have been devoted to gas production and the metallurgical industry. But of course the problems of individual industries cannot be effectively solved without having an overall picture of economic life. And the social situation in the district presents challenges which must be met by all the levels of government together.
That is particularly important because the regions that form the Urals Federal District differ among themselves in terms of their level of development. There are huge gaps in the incomes in various parts of the district. Consumer spending in the economically weak regions, oddly enough, has been growing much faster than people’s incomes.
The Urals District is the energy powerhouse of Russia, accounting for more than 90% of national gas production and more than 65% of oil production. Let us face it, the country’s economic growth owes much to the fuel and energy industry of the Tyumen Region. One can argue whether being dependent on oil and gas is good or bad. But in the event it is an abstract argument that does not make much sense. At present our main task is to learn to make effective use of the exploitation of natural resources in order to develop other industries. For the Urals it would mean an upsurge of such sectors as engineering and metalworking.
Last year some very positive changes have been achieved in the district in terms of entering the markets of science-intensive and competitive products. Industrial output in the district has grown faster than in Russia as a whole. Average Russian growth has been just 5.2% and in the Urals District, 6%. With a continuing shortage of internal investments in the district ways are being found to ensure domestic capital investment in the manufacturing industries. The increase of internal investments has been accompanied by the growth of foreign investments, a 41% growth during the past year.
However, corresponding conditions must be created for further successful integration of the industries and economic interaction between different regions within the district. Above all a modern infrastructure for the development of the inter-regional market must be put in place. That task has several components. I will mention some of them.
First, of course, comes the development of the transport system which determines the growth of industry and in the longer term of the whole oil and gas complex. The second important condition for the development of the district is market adaptation and competent operation of many engineering enterprises in this new context.
The issue of rehabilitation of the environment, of bringing back into the economy spoiled and polluted lands and water is still relevant. Lands polluted not only today but in previous years. Action is needed on these matters.
Moving on to another topic that is just as important today. In connection with social problems I will say a few words about the housing and utilities sphere. The utilities situation in the Urals District is as critical as in other regions. The wear and tear of the utilities is more than 60%. About a quarter of the basic assets have outlived their lifespan. They are being replaced slowly, substantially behind schedule. As a result, in the last 10 years the number of accidents has grown five fold, and 30% of heat is lost. Obviously, the fact that there are both areas that are short of energy resources and areas with an excess of such resources in the same district again points to the need for a single market for energy resources. The overall situation in the district is such that its infrastructure is capable of ensuring the supply of energy to households regardless of the weather and other factors.
That is all I wanted to say in the beginning. Various opinions on the issues I have touched upon will apparently be expressed. I am ready to react to the complex questions that arise. In short, I look forward to a businesslike conversation.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: March 6, 2003, 00:02
Text version