Events
The Start of a Meeting with President Jacques Chirac of France
April 11, 2003
00:03
St Petersburg
Vladimir Putin: Mr President,
First of all, I would like to thank you for responding so promptly and agreeing to this meeting, these informal consultations. International problems remain very acute, including Iraq, but there are also many bilateral issues which I would like to discuss very briefly, at least the issues of political interaction and improving the mechanisms of this interaction.
We have a massive economic programme, worth 2.5 billion euros, of cooperation with the EADS. The use of the Kourou space site is still on the agenda. The Federal Chancellor will be present here. The German position will depend on how fast we move on that project.
In short, I am very glad to see you. Welcome.
Jacques Chirac: Thank you, Mr President. I am happy to be here in St Petersburg with you and Chancellor Schroeder at your invitation.
I think the international situation warrants such a meeting. As you have said, the situation around Iraq and the situation in the Middle East require our attention. I think we should also consider the measures to be taken to effectively control the spread of certain types of weapons.
In addition, the European Union – Russia summit will be held in several weeks’ time. You know the significance the Europeans attach to the relations between Russia and the European Union. I think that we will have a good summit in connection with the 300th anniversary of St Petersburg. Of course we should organise it all well.
In addition, I think the three of us will discuss the G8 meeting.
You have said that bilateral relations are excellent. I think these relations are constantly growing stronger in areas such as space, the aviation industry and energy. We welcome it.
So I hope that there will be bilateral and multilateral progress. I think we should follow the path of thorough coordination and protection of our common values and principles.
(In Russian) Thank you very much.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 11, 2003, 00:03
Text versionEvents
Speech at a Ceremony to Mark the 150th Anniversary of Siemens' work in Russia
April 11, 2003
00:02
St Petersburg
Vladimir Putin: Mr Federal Chancellor,
Mr von Pirer,
Ladies and gentlemen,
I am grateful for your invitation to take part in this event. First, because in our country the Siemens trademark has long been a byword for the highest quality and the highest reliability. The second reason is the success story of the concern, which is intimately connected with Russia. That is interesting in itself and it speaks volumes.
A century and a half ago the young company Siemens und Halske, faced with serious problems in Germany, decided to develop new markets. But that was a long time ago and let us not dwell on those problems. The decision made at the time had proved to be absolutely right. Russia became its most important market. That choice has been fully vindicated over time. Russian projects have helped the company to stand on its feet. The Federal Chancellor has just recounted that story. In the early years the firm carried out projects that are impressive even by today’s standards: it built almost 10,000 km of telegraph lines.
For 150 years now the concern has been supplying high technology equipment and setting up production of such equipment in our country.
A great deal has been achieved in the past 10 years, but I think more could have been done. We have investments and joint projects, but still, I think much more could have been done.
If we look at the company’s annual turnover and Russia’s share in it, you will see that it is a very small part. It is absolutely not enough. True, there are some positive trends. The concern’s business in Russia increased by 54% during the past year. It is a very good trend and I hope it will continue.
Russia and Germany today have everything that is necessary for a breakthrough in the business sphere, above all in the sphere of production cooperation. Economic reforms in our country are gathering momentum, and that means the Russian market will become more attractive. I can tell you today that the Government will unveil its plans for a tax reform at the end of this month, and this will involve steps towards liberalizing and streamlining our tax legislation and easing the tax burden. A three-year programme in this sphere has been prepared. In other words, we hope that by that time the situation in the Russian economy will be more stable and more transparent.
I would like to stress that we will render every support to such solid and reliable partners as Siemens, whose activities set a good example for those who have not yet decided to enter the Russian market.
I think many German businessmen will confirm that today you can do serious business in Russia without excessive risks and make good profits.
The Russian Government has already done much towards this end. I would like to single out the substantial tax cuts, which I have already mentioned, and better legal protection for investors.
Russia has vast resources, a large market and skilled manpower. We have no shortage of promising mutually beneficial projects, including hi-tech projects.
We attach particular significance to the latter. We have agreed with the Federal Chancellor that we will discuss the promotion of our scientific and production cooperation at the next round of annual intergovernmental consultations to be held in Yekaterinburg in the autumn.
In conclusion I would like to say again that we welcome the expansion of Siemens operations in Russia. We support all your projects, in particular, the building of long-distance optical fiber communication lines, the creation of a service centre in Voronezh and your work on the North-Western Thermal Power Plant.
I wish you success in implementing these and other projects.
I congratulate you on the jubilee of your concern and would like to convey my warmest greetings to all you employees who work here in Russia.
I wish you all the best.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 11, 2003, 00:02
Text versionEvents
Remarks and Answers to Questions at Russian-German Petersburg Dialogue Public Forum Session
April 11, 2003
00:00
Saint Petersburg
President Putin: Mister Federal Chancellor,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
I cordially welcome the participants of the Third Petersburg Dialogue Public Forum. Our April meetings are becoming a good, decent tradition. This time they are being held in the year of the 300th anniversary of the foundation of St. Petersburg. We are sincerely happy that Germany will be one of the most active participants of the anniversary celebrations.
Such events as the forum in which we are today taking part are one more proof of the rapprochement of our countries. In the last few years it has been proceeding most intensively. And what is extremely important — relations between Russia and Germany are actively developing at the level of civilian and human contacts.
I am convinced: the development of European civilization largely depends on the degree of understanding between Russians and Germans. I think that the Petersburg Dialogue participants well feel this high bar which we call ”strategic partnership.“
In life, in everyday contacts between people such partnership is not only the similarity of interests and long-term aims. It presupposes a deep knowledge of each other, and requires mutual respect, equality and trust.
It is known that partner relations are properly built on three equivalent pillars. They are the political sphere, trade-and-economic cooperation and relations in the humanitarian and cultural fields.
The incompleteness or instability of any of these pillars can undermine the reliability of the whole construction. Therefore huge efforts have been exerted in the last few years to ensure that all the components of Russian-German relations develop consistently and dynamically. I see here also the weighty contribution of this forum.
Now I would like to briefly dwell on the main areas of the partnership of our countries.
The first is the interests of Russia and Germany in the field of politics.
One of the tasks here is the formation of an effective European security system. The stability of Europe in many respects is a synonym for the stability of our countries as well, and so to meet the certain new threats it is necessary, without doubt, to act together.
Now it is also important to emphasize our position on the most acute and crucial problem — the situation in Iraq. Military actions have now been continuing there for more than three weeks. Their results are known and they cause regret.
You know that both Moscow and Berlin came out for a political solution of the problem of Iraq. We now too are convinced of the futility of the military solution, and hold that the principal task is to return the settlement process to the UN framework as soon as possible.
Our countries can and should do everything possible to preserve a stable international legal system which is based on the supremacy of the UN. Mr. Federal Chancellor and I are unanimous in the understanding of the primacy of international law.
I must note that in the last few months Russia and Germany were very closely cooperating in the UN Security Council, were acting in one and the same system of foreign policy coordinates.
Dear Ladies and Gentlemen,
Not a single one of our meetings with the Federal Chancellor passes without discussing economic problems, which are today the pivot of bilateral relations.
To us, Germany is the chief foreign economic partner. This is confirmed by the steady tendency for the growth of exchanges of goods and the activity of German capital in Russia alike. In volume of investment the FRG continues to be the leader of this process.
There are other facts, however. Whereas Germany accounts for 15 percent of Russia's foreign trade turnover, our share of Germany's foreign trade is only two percent.
The reasons for this state of affairs are many. I think that here, at the forum, people are gathered who know them very well. In order to change the situation, officials and businesspeople all have to work together. Only a continual and mutually beneficial dialogue between the business circles of our countries will facilitate the search of new approaches and solutions.
I know that the establishment of uniform principles of accreditation for our countries will be discussed at the forum. In Russia such a system of confirmation of competence in the professional sphere is practically nonexistent. And the assistance of Germany, where it is already successfully operating, is undoubtedly useful. That approach will help solve economic tasks of a systemic character and ensure our country international recognition in this field.
Germany has also accumulated a considerable experience of the transfer of economic functions from the state to non-governmental organizations. For Russia this is also one of the most vital tasks. The very discussion of these questions is a big stride towards the reasonable organization of the economic life in our country.
It is obvious that in the sphere of economic cooperation there still exist many reserves and potentialities. That's why it is so important now to exchange views and experience, to determine the positions and to work out our common approaches.
Dear colleagues,
Briefly — on the cultural and humanitarian dimension of our relations. Russian and German cultures are absolutely self-sufficient. But at the same time they are mutually complementary. The mutual penetration of our two cultures has contributed to the enrichment of European civilization, and helped the overcoming of mutual distrust and historical reconciliation between our countries.
In February in Berlin a unique event was launched — Russian-German Cultural Meetings. Having begun as part of it, the Year of Russian Culture in Germany will give the citizens of the FRG an opportunity to discover for themselves their own Russia. We count on an equally large-scale German ”cultural presence“ in our country next year.
Here, within the native walls of St. Petersburg University for me, I consider it important to note the work of the youth section of the Petersburg Dialogue. It has become an important component of the operative mechanism of youth exchanges between our countries. As another element of this system we regard also the Baltic Star international festival, in which high school students will take part.
Taking this opportunity, I would like to invite high school students from Germany to take an active part in it. It is opening in May in St. Petersburg, will pass through Helsinki, Stockholm and Lubeck and will conclude in June in Kaliningrad.
Another effective instrument in the field of youth politics is the Russian-German Youth Exchange Council.
Thus we have established a quite good mechanism of youth interaction, which we intend to perfect in the future as well.
This will give young people an opportunity to know and understand each other and will create a reliable platform for our future cooperation.
Dear friends,
Within a fairly short time, the Petersburg Dialogue has found its audience and niche, has acquired authority and I think is completely ready for further independent development.
Such meetings provide a unique opportunity to gain insights into the planes of our relations which sometimes are outside the field of vision of the politicians and statesmen. Such human contacts strengthen and enrich relations between our countries, and I wholeheartedly would like to wish you further productive work.
Thanks very much.
Question: Didn't the leaderships of Russia and Germany make a mistake by taking an implacable position on the action of the anti-Iraq coalition? What positive and negative things can be said about the war in Iraq?
President Putin: I consider it my duty to explain my position on these problems. First — regarding the statements of the representatives of certain media that Russia, Germany and, perhaps, France will be the initiators of a ”new Yalta.“ I will not speak for Mr. Federal Chancellor, but this does not correspond to my perceptions of how the situation ought to be built in the formation of the security system in the world.
There should be no separate actions here. We should discuss this problem together with all member countries of the United Nations. We should perfect the international security system that has evolved in recent years, adapt it to the new realities and in no way allow it to be destroyed. Simply we have nothing other in exchange.
We have to perfect it — yes! But not to destroy it under any circumstances. And to act together anyway. This is the first point.
Second — with regard to the thesis of what is good and what is bad in the Iraqi events. It's already good that the regime of Hussein has been removed. And we had always said this regime did not correspond to the present-day requirements and perceptions of human rights and democracy and that it was necessary to change and remove it.
After all, we did not say that we were sheltering it. We spoke of a different thing — that problems of this kind should not be solved by means of war, by military means. Countries which do not meet the Western standards of democracy form 80 percent in the world. So what, we shall war with all of them?
These standards have to come into being within the countries themselves. The peoples of these states alone have the right to decide their own destinies. That is why we are saying that the principle of sovereignty must be immutable.
And then, are most of these countries ready for adopting in their territories the Western standards of democracy? For in the Middle East, apart from Iraq, there are many other states. And what, is it proposed to war with them all? Certainly, this mad thought occurs to nobody.
We indicated by what means we should act to attain these noble objectives. As to what was there good and what was bad, the removal of the tyrannical regime is surely a plus. But, I repeat, the means and the human casualties, the humanitarian disaster, the destructions — these are the obvious negative consequences.
As are the problems which have been created in the sphere of the system of international law observance, its being shaken loose. This arouses concern. In our opinion, we should do everything possible to restore this system of values and together with our partners, with the United States and with Britain tackle the problems of strengthening the principles and foundations of international law.
Tomorrow at the law department of the University in the course of the international conference The International Security System: A Look at the Future we shall be able to once again have a discussion on this topic.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 11, 2003, 00:00
Text versionEvents
Excerpts from Press Conference Following Talks with German Federal Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder and French President Jacques Chirac
April 11, 2003
00:05
Saint Petersburg
President Vladimir Putin: The Russian-German-French meeting at the summit level has just taken place. As you know, this is not the first summit of this kind. In March 1998 the leaders of the three countries with the same participants gathered in Moscow. The fact that we have met again now is, of course, not coincidental. This is an objective need conditioned by the high level of bilateral relations as well as by our awareness of the responsibility for the state of affairs in Europe and the world at large.
On the eve of the Russia-EU summit of May 31 this year in St. Petersburg it was very important for us to discuss the progress of preparations for this no ordinary event, 'to synchronize our watches' in regard to the entire set of reciprocal relationships with the European Union. We intend to make the upcoming summit historic not only by the composition of the participants but also by the nature of the decisions to be taken.
Much attention during our today's meeting was given by us to the overall architecture of international relations. In this aspect, a special emphasis was placed on the unique role of the UN as the main regulating mechanism of international relations. Also, a unanimous opinion was expressed that these goals cannot be achieved without the positive interaction in the European Atlantic space.
It was natural that during the talks we did not bypass the Iraqi crisis. The principled position of our countries on this question has not changed. Today the priority tasks are, of course, the transition toward restoring in that country a peaceful life and resolving humanitarian issues. All these issues can and must be solved with the UN playing a central role. We were also unanimous that the situation in Iraq must generate vigorous international efforts to overcome other regional conflicts. For this reason we also spoke about the Palestinian-Israeli confrontation, about moving ahead in the interests of a Middle East settlement as a whole. We spoke about the prospects of the 'Road Map' that you know. We also discussed the problem of North Korean peninsula and the situation around North Korea. It goes without saying that we also discussed at the talks other problems of reciprocal interests, including bilateral relations between Russia and the FRG, Russia and France.
On the whole, we view with optimism the prospects of our bilateral relations both with German and French partners. The interest of Moscow, Paris and Berlin in developing cooperative links is of a long-term nature. They do not depend on the political expediency, and I would like to stress this. We are convinced that the progressive development of these relations is of great significance for European and international stability.
Thank you.
* * *
Question: One gets the impression that the occupation authorities in Iraq have forgotten about their responsibility in that country. Looting, a humanitarian catastrophe, anarchy… What is your view of this? And do you believe the military action in Iraq has accomplished its objective?
President Putin: I agree to begin if my colleagues do not object. The first part of the question concerns the occupation forces' responsibility for the situation in Iraq. We have gathered here not in order to criticize the actions of those occupation forces. You know our position on the problem as a whole. I will repeat that it has not changed. I don't think that the members of the alliance — the anti-Iraqi coalition — have forgotten about their responsibility. On the contrary, I think that today they are doing everything to avert a humanitarian catastrophe.
It is just that the scale of the problem is so great that so far they have not been able to tackle it effectively. This is the real situation. But they have signed the appropriate UN resolution, adopted recently. Under the Geneva Convention, they are responsible for maintaining the humanitarian situation in the country. I count very much on this being done.
As regards whether the goals of this military action have been accomplished, the only goal, if one talks at least about some legitimacy, could be this — to disarm Iraq, and to search for weapons of mass destruction there. As we know, nothing has been found. Even at its last moment of struggle for survival, the Iraqi regime did not make use of those means. We still do not know whether or not the Iraqi regime had those weapons of mass destruction. But if it chose not to use them at the last moment of its existence, this either means that there are no such weapons or that they are in a state in which it was impossible to use them. Then the question arises about the feasibility of the action itself. What did they fight for? What problem were they out to resolve?
As regards the main question — that of disarming Iraq, of the existence or absence of weapons of mass destruction, — the goals were not accomplished and, incidentally, they cannot be accomplished without the return to Iraq, as soon as possible, of the inspectors of the United Nations Organization. This must be done sooner or later because the finds on the part of the forces of the alliance cannot be recognized to be legitimate, whatever their nature. So far nothing has been found. But the origin of particular means of mass destruction can be determined only by the inspectors of the United Nations Organization.
* * *
Question: The question is to each of the three leaders. Does not your meeting today introduce a rift into the international community?
President Putin: I said on purpose that it is not the first meeting in this format. In 1998 there already was such a meeting. There exists another tripartite format — France, Germany and Poland. And, as far as I am aware, a regular meeting in that format is also scheduled for the near future. I must stress that the objective of our meeting is not to divide the international community but rather on the contrary — to find ways in the joint work to build the structure and the architecture of the international security in the 21st century, acceptable for all the states of the world. This is an open meeting. I must say that it was known in advance. And our other colleagues also received invitations to attend. It is true that it was organized with very short deadlines and so we would not bear a grudge if some of those invited had no time to join. But we are prepared to work further both in this format and in a broader one.
We have of course paid much attention to Iraq. It is natural. But the problem of Iraq was not the only topic of discussion. There are more topics and we said about it. We are concerned over the situation around North Korea, we are concerned with the conflict in the Middle East as a whole, around the Palestinian territories and so on.
I would wish to add a couple of words on the question of whether or not the goals in Iraq have been accomplished. We must not in any way permit ourselves to confuse notions, we must not forget what all this problem was about. The Iraqi regime was not liked by anyone except by Saddam Hussein himself. But the issue was to disarm Iraq, to liquidate weapons of mass destruction if they existed. Did anyone doubt that the leading countries of the Western community, the militarily most powerful countries of the world would be able to demonstrate their military superiority vis a vis a poorly armed country with an average population size? Nobody had such doubts.
On the T-shirt of your colleague who stands opposite me there is the portrait of Che Guevara. See how handsome he is, — this is the brightest representative of the export of the socialist revolution theory. We cannot engage in exporting a capitalist, democratic revolution. If we only permit ourselves to do it, the world will have embarked on a very perilous, slippery road of unending sequences of military conflicts. We and you have no right to allow such a development of events. Saying ”we and you“, I have in mind not only those gathered here today, in this hall or around this table. We have in mind the broadest circles of international public, including representatives of the so-called anti-Iraqi alliance.
* * *
Question: You said that the occupation forces in Iraq shoulder the responsibility for the humanitarian situation in the country and that they will try to solve the humanitarian problems. But does it not seem to you that the true intentions of these occupation forces are not restoring a normal life in Iraq but in extracting economic advantage from this situation?
President Putin: In this case it seems to me that we are faced with an instance when people behave with sufficient consistency. This makes our task somewhat easier because our partners' logic of thinking and way of acting is more or less clear. I think that posing the question in this way is justified. It seems to me that, despite all the importance of economic issues, we now must above all think of solving the problems of humanitarian character and questions of normalizing the social and state life in Iraq itself. We must not in any case permit ourselves to pass over to elements of new colonialism. We must do everything to ensure that the fate of Iraq returns into the hands of the Iraqi people themselves. There are principles that exist for this, tested by recent practice, — variants of solutions to issues of this kind. We have, of course, discussed this topic and President Chirac gave instances of similar questions being solved in contemporary history. The scheme is simple — as was, for instance, the case of Afghanistan: an international conference under the UN aegis, an interim national administration to prepare universal democratic elections and hold the elections so as, I repeat, to return the fate of Iraq into the hands of the Iraqi people themselves.
But at the first stage, of course, the administration appointed by the occupation forces must deal with priority humanitarian issues and questions of organizing the life of the country.
* * *
Question: In connection with Iraq's dire straits, appeals were heard to write off that country's debts. What do you think about it? And how do you visualize the order and the procedure of Iraq's rehabilitation?
President Putin: Regarding a possible write-off of debts, I can say this… Some did some shooting, some did some looting, and now someone has to pick up the tab. This always happens so… But despite this irony, I must say that on the whole, the proposal, is understandable and has its raison d'etre. At any rate Russia does not object to the question being posed this way. I must say that, by the overall volume of debts written off for the poorest countries of the world, Russia ranks third after France and Japan and as regards writing off debts as the share of the GDP — it is first. We are prepared to consider this question but there are certain procedures in existence, developed by the World Bank and the IMF. This is done within the framework of the Club of Paris, in line with these procedures, through negotiations. We are prepared for such negotiations.
As regards the substance of the question, then, as far as I am aware, — and I cannot now give the exact figure — but I think that by the level of its development Iraq is ranked by the World Bank somewhere next to Algeria. There are certain procedures existing for such countries of the world.
As regards the procedure for restoring the situation in Iraq, we have discussed it only now and I do not think it necessary to repeat it. I agree with what Mr. Chirac said. I think that in principle such a question could begin to be discussed by the Eight in Evian. Bearing in mind the special situation, Iraq is not placed within the category of the world's poorest countries. In such cases the Eight would frequently join in. If France, as the host of the forum, is not against the item being added to the agenda, we would not object.
* * *
Question: You regard the ouster of Hussein's regime as a positive aspect of Iraqi events. Does it mean that in principle you believe such actions by Western democracies are possible in regard to reactionary regimes?
President Putin: It seems to me that I have already expressed myself with sufficient clarity on this question. Today at the Petersburg Dialogue forum Mr. Chancellor also referred to this topic. He said that the change of the regime in a particular country must be dictated by impulses of political life of that state itself. I absolutely agree with this. Only in this case can the changes of the political nature become stable, effective, corresponding to historical realities and to the particular experience of the country in question.
I must say that there are no absolutely similar models of democracy even in the Western community. The principles may be so, but democracies are everywhere different. If we wish to impose one model on the world, we will have to change the regimes in the overwhelming majority of the world's countries. I would not hazard an accurate figure but at least 80 percent of countries of the world will be affected by such changes. And of course in the especially grave cases we will in a particular place, sooner or later face same serious problems that we have in Iraq today. We simply risk being drawn into a sequence of unending armed conflicts. This is extremely dangerous in my view. Another road is more effective — the road of joint development of principles for solving the questions of this kind in a concerted manner and purposeful. I am sure that, pressured by the leading countries of the world, any regime in today's situation will mimicry in a quite acceptable direction. I am absolutely certain of this. And the choice in favor of war is the worst choice to make.
Question: Don't you think, Mr. President, that after your sharp words about a colonial regime some of those invited will not come to you to attend the summit in May?
President Putin: We have scheduled a Russia-EU summit for late May. I think the summit will take place any way. In connection with the 300th anniversary of St.Petersburg we plan to hold an expanded forum and we will be glad to see all we have invited.
As regards the substance of the question, I don't think this is posing the issue in a very sharp way. I would wish to stress once again that the situation we came to face in Iraq must be resolved as soon as possible in accordance with the UN Charter and the practice applied by the United Nations to situations of a similar kind in recent years. We said quite a lot about it — myself and Mr. Federal Chancellor and Mr. Chirac. There is such practice. And the sooner we take the road proposed by international law, the better. And the longer we postpone solving the issue within the UN framework, the more it will be reminiscent of a colonial situation. There is nothing special here and nothing novel. I must tell you that I am not the only one who thinks so.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 11, 2003, 00:05
Text version