Events
Opening Remarks at a Presidium Meeting of the State Council on Russia's International Affairs
January 21, 2003
00:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Last year we considered a question with an approximately similar agenda. And we decided to return today to the question of the regions' role in the pursuit of the foreign policy of the Russian state.
Tomorrow, at the first meeting of the State Council in 2003, we will discuss this question. As you remember, the Presidium has already worked out a number of materials, and they are integrated by the working groupsinto the decisions which are prepared now.
In addition, the materials prepared for the State Council meeting show that the regions quite actively employ the resources they have in this domain, bearing in mind the relevance of this task in relation to the new geopolitical position of Russia. I think it is clear what I am speaking about. The fact is that the overwhelming majority of Russia's regions have become border areas, and this determines the role which, in accordance with existing legislation, the regions play today in carrying out the foreign policy of the country.
In the regions, above all, stress is being laid on the foreign economic sphere, although not just on it alone. There are very many questions linked to migration. We know that in some regions questions of this kind are very acute, and this affects the full range of cooperation with our partner states, in the first place, of course, with our neighbours.
I must say that sometimes – and I agree with some of our colleagues – the resources available to regions in this sphere are insufficient. And I think that we both today and tomorrow should dwell especially on the traditional methods and forms of work of the regions in this field and analyze the problems which you and your colleagues have, above all, problems of a legal, organizational and methodological nature.
And, of course, look at what the federal centre can do, what the Presidential Executive Office, the Government of the Russian Federation and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs can do in order to support the initiatives and ideas of the regions in achieving national objectives in the sphere of international activity.
All of these organizations, all of the bodies of power and administration, all these levels of power, all of us have one common task: to strengthen the positions of Russia in the world, to build up its foreign policy and economic resources.
We must, of course, act here in a consolidated manner, under a common program, understanding each other, working together. And only in this case shall we be able to uphold our national interests effectively and work in the interests of global stability, which is also very important, bearing in mind the role and the increasing significance of the Russian factor in world affairs.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: January 21, 2003, 00:00
Text versionEvents
Opening Remarks at a Meeting with the Cabinet Members
January 21, 2003
00:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon.
Most of those present were in Minsk yesterday. For those who were not, I must say that our meeting was very constructive – both the informal and the official parts. We went over the whole range of our interaction in the political sphere and in the building of the Union State.
I should note that we have put that process back on a constructive track and I hope it will move in a positive direction.
I would like to ask the Government members who work on the commission preparing the Constitutional Act to step up their work. We have upgraded the status of that commission. It is now headed by the Speakers of the lower houses of Parliament on both sides.
In my opinion, it creates good premise for calling upon broad public circles. Let me say from the start that I have already made my views on this known. I would like to stress again: the broader the discussion the better. The more people involved in the process of discussing this key document, the more useful it will be. So, I am urging you to use the media, radio, television and the printed press to do intensive work at all levels for your own part.
Much attention was given to economic issues. It was perhaps the key topic of discussion. Out of the whole range of the issues discussed, I would single out the target that we set for ourselves by 2005. As of January 1, 2005 – that article is included in the treaty and we reaffirmed it in the negotiations yesterday – the rouble must become the sole legal currency on the territory of the Russian Federation and in the Republic of Belarus. As we are all well aware a common monetary policy is one of the main prerequisites for creating a common economic space. And there can be no Union State without it. These priorities are clear, they are shared by us and our Belarusian colleagues. And I am urging, above all, that the Government’s economic unit becomes actively involved and, as part of the planned negotiating process (the Government Chairman is well versed in all the nuances of these negotiations) all the possible concerns both on our side and on the side of our Belarusian friends are removed.
There are some concrete issues and large-scale projects, notably in the energy sphere. I am referring above all to our work to create a joint gas distribution enterprise. The Belarusian side has confirmed its readiness to create such a gas transportation system and enterprise will begin its work in July. The President has signed into law the bill passed by the Belarusian Parliament. On the whole it has to be noted that our relations are developing positively.
There are other areas that are well known to you: I mean the humanitarian sphere and the interaction between the law enforcement bodies. Our colleagues are particularly worried by the problems of migration. We discussed it with the Internal Affairs Minister yesterday and I would like you to keep it in mind.
That is what I wanted to say about our work in Minsk.
Negotiations with the President of Bulgaria begin today. And I invite you to share your ideas regarding the development of relations with our Bulgarian colleagues. An official visit to Bulgaria is being planned. It is necessary that the visit be well prepared and proceed in a constructive way.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: January 21, 2003, 00:00
Text version