Events
Excerpts from Concluding Remarks at a Meeting with Scientists of the Russian Federal Nuclear Center
July 31, 2003
21:27
Sarov, Nizhny Novgorod Region
President Vladimir Putin: The first thing that comes to mind and that we just mentioned is the following. While we were on our way here, one of your colleagues said: “All the work we do is for export”. And to make sure the number of potential importers of your production does not increase, and that no one will want to join this queue, Russia should and will remain a great nuclear power.
<…>
The general impression from the visit to the centre is excellent and positive. Both from the viewpoint of its maintenance, and from the viewpoint of the system for insuring security of the object, and of the actual state of the nuclear weapons complex.
The most impressive thing is the level of developments, developments of the most modern technical and scientific nature, and, what is especially important, developments in correct and very interesting modern directions.
<…>
Russia has taken on a number of very serious restrictive obligations of international law, and has not conducted nuclear tests for many years now. On the one hand, we intend in future to develop everything that is necessary to ensure that science and the practical side of your research is appropriately provided for, but the position we take is that we fulfil and intend to continue fulfilling the obligations we have taken on according to mandatory requirements, one of the most important of which is the relation to obligations that other nuclear powers have taken on. I want to make this quite clear…
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 31, 2003, 21:27
Direct link: en.kremlin.ru/d/22074
Text versionEvents
Speech at a Meeting with Scientists of the Russian Federal Nuclear Center
July 31, 2003
20:23
Sarov, Nizhny Novgorod Region
Vladimir Putin: Dear colleagues and friends,
I am very happy to have the opportunity to visit a centre which, without any exaggeration, has strategic importance for Russia.
It would be appropriate today to discuss a number of problems that are important for the safe and stable development of our nation. Above all, this concerns the work of ensuring the reliability and stability of military systems.
The quality of nuclear weaponry, which has been and remains the foundation of Russian security, should meet the highest requirements on universality of use, effectiveness and safety.
Your institute is one of the largest centres of modern science in the world. It boasts a concentration of talent along with the knowledge of entire generations of great scientists. This powerful intellectual, industrial, scientific and technological capital should serve the country in full measure.
We must strive for the maximal effective use of the potential of the Russian Atomic Energy Ministry’s nuclear centres to conduct a very wide spectrum of scientific-research and experimental-design work.
Currently you are concentrating on improving the complexes of nuclear weapons that are under development or which have been developed. However, since the beginning of the 1990s, your specialists have also actively cooperated with developers of non-nuclear types of weapons and now we have had the opportunity to make sure of this. Colleagues told me about it. The developments are very interesting. This work, of course, needs to be continued and developed in every way possible.
Today your institute’s science-intensive developments and projects, which were created on the basis of modern military technology, are also used in various branches of industry and are capable of successfully competing in international markets. Therefore, it is necessary to maximize the use of you centre’s developments in order to manufacture products for the civilian population and to use the most modern nuclear technology for peaceful purposes.
That is all that I wanted to say to begin with. Thank you for your attention. Now we will share opinions and proposals.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 31, 2003, 20:23
Text version