Events
Beginning of Meeting with Canadian Prime Minister Paul Martin
October 12, 2004
19:26
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Our relations have been developing positively, especially over recent years. After stagnating for many years our trade and economic ties have finally started moving forward and trade between our two countries showed a 20-percent increase over the first half of this year.
I am very sorry that you had to cancel your private visit to St. Petersburg and the planned business visit to Russian shipbuilding companies. We realise that this is due to the submarine accident that took place. We understand this and express our condolences over the tragic loss of one of the submarine’s crewmen, but we hope that this will not be your last visit to Russia and that you will have the future opportunity to get to know Russia better and in greater depth than has been possible during this visit.
Prime Minister Paul Martin: First of all, I would like to say how happy I am to have the opportunity of meeting with you once again and continuing the fruitful discussions that we began in the United States. I am also very sorry not to be able to go to St. Petersburg as I know that it is your favourite city. If you get the opportunity, I can recommend that you visit a Canadian exhibition taking place there.
Your country has been hit by a number of tragic events over recent months and, on behalf of the Canadian people, I would like to express our very deepest sympathy with the Russian people at this difficult time.
I was very pleased with this morning’s meeting with the Russian business community, also attended by Canadian businessmen. It is very clear that your country offers unique opportunities for both our countries together and for each of our countries individually. Canadian business, the Canadian business community, would like to invest in Russia in a whole range of different areas. I would like to say that Canadian business circles, Canadian companies are very interested in coming to Russia and making use of any opportunity to invest here.
Finally, I recently sent you a letter congratulating you on your birthday.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 12, 2004, 19:26
Text versionEvents
Press Statement Following a Meeting with Canadian Prime Minister Paul Martin
October 12, 2004
20:32
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: I very much hope that Mr Paul Martin will remember this visit not just for today’s fruitful talks but also for the chance to get to know Russia and the Russian people.
First of all, I would like to say how pleased I am with the outcome of the meeting we held today. The dialogue between our two countries on the widest range of issues has been given a substantial boost to its development. Canada is an important partner for Russia on the world stage and we place a lot of importance on increasing the cooperation between our two countries. We have a good foundation for this in the close positions we share on key issues in international life, regional issues, mutual economic interests and broad opportunities for social and cultural cooperation.
Of course, we also discussed the fight against terrorism today. We intend to reinforce our work together in this area.
I would also note the positive developments in our trade and economic ties. Our trade volume has doubled over the last six months. The Prime Minister and I did note, however, that trade between our two countries is still at a very low level. We hope that the intergovernmental commission set up several years ago to foster the development of our trade and economic ties will play its part in improving this situation.
The management of Gazprom and Canadian company Petro-Canada signed a memorandum of understanding yesterday in Moscow. The two companies plan to examine the possibility of supplying Russian liquefied gas not only to Canada itself but to the entire North American continent. It is important that we find other new, modern areas for cooperation, new projects.
One promising area is cooperation in the Arctic and the North. Russia next year will take over the relay in the Arctic Council, which was set up some time ago on Canada’s initiative. I informed our guest today about the initiatives that Russia intends to put forward as part of this council’s work and, as far as I understood, the Prime Minister supports our proposals.
I would also like to note the positive agreements reached within the framework of the global partnership, which Canada has actively supported. A bilateral project to process and recycle decommissioned Russian nuclear submarines is already underway in Severomorsk. Part of this programme is being carried out with the support of the Canadian government.
In conclusion, I would once again like to thank the Prime Minister for his constructive and interested cooperation and for the atmosphere of trust and good intention that characterised our talks today. Thank you.
Prime Minister Paul Martin: You probably know that the Russian President and I had the chance at the G8 summit to discuss a good number of questions that we continued discussing at our meeting today. All of you from the mass media received the text of our joint declaration which, in particular, draws attention to the fight against terrorism not just in our own countries but also in the global context.
At the same time, we stated that the fight against terrorism must be accompanied by respect for human rights and this, as I said, is reflected in our joint declaration. The President and I also discussed our common responsibility for our Arctic region and noted in particular environmental issues and the global nature of our cooperation in this area.
We also discussed the opportunities in the business sector and in this respect attention should go to the memorandum of agreement signed by the Petro-Canada corporation and Gazprom. This is a good example of our business cooperation.
I would also like to draw your attention to the meeting that took place this morning with Russian business community representatives and with Canadian business community representatives also participating. We discussed the possibility of setting up a Canadian-Russian Business Council on the lines of the council established by Canada and the United States. We believe this would be an important step forward.
We also discussed the Kyoto process, and in this respect I would like to congratulate the Russian President on the recent decision to join this agreement, and I assured him that we will cooperate closely in this area.
We also discussed the global threats that we face and in this respect we noted the need to promote business cooperation and partnership in the G8.
We also discussed the G20, which held its first meeting with finance ministers participating. We would like to see not only representatives of the G8 countries become involved in this work but also countries such as China, India, Brazil, South Africa and others. We believe this represents serious progress.
Vladimir Putin: I hope that Canada’s position and the Canadian Prime Minister’s support for Russia joining the Kyoto process will reflect positively on the upcoming discussion in the Russian parliament on this question.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 12, 2004, 20:32
Text versionEvents
Beginning of Meeting with Vice President of Brazil Jose Alencar
October 12, 2004
19:20
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Dear Mr Vice President, Allow me once again to wish you a warm welcome to Moscow. Yesterday I spoke with President Luiz Inacio Lula Da Silva on the telephone and today I would like to ask you to pass on my very best wishes when you see him. Good relations have developed on the personal level between the President and myself, and good relations are also developing between our countries, Russia and Brazil. We hope that your visit, Mr Vice President, and the work of the High-Level Commission – essentially an intergovernmental commission – will give a further boost to developing our relations. Our political dialogue has become broader and more substantial over recent years and the quality of our relations is improving. Brazil is very much emerging today as one of Russia’s main partners in South America. Our trade and economic ties are also growing and trade between our countries has now passed the $2 billion-mark. We are satisfied overall with the rate at which trade turnover is growing, though Russia’s trade deficit continues to rise. I hope that you will also discuss this issue today with the Russian Prime Minister, Mr Fradkov. There are many areas in which we can work together. High technology sectors, especially the peaceful exploration of space, are a clear area in which we can develop our cooperation.
As far as I know, you visited one of our aircraft makers, the Sukhoi firm, yesterday. I would be interested to hear your impressions of this visit. I hope that this will give us a good base on which to develop military-technical cooperation between our two countries. For our part, we are preparing for our visit to Brazil. Our ministries, the Foreign Ministry and other agencies are preparing documents for signature at high level. I have great expectations from this visit.
Vice President Jose Alencar: For Brazil’s part I can say that we also have great expectations from your forthcoming visit as it will be the first time a Russian head of state has visited our country. There are a number of reasons for our expectations. First, everyone realises that our two countries have a lot in common and that this brings us closer together. Yes, trade between our countries is also increasing and, as you rightly pointed out, has already reached $2 billion, but our countries have much greater potential and we would not be wrong to consider today’s trade figures still only insignificant.
Our countries have everything we require to be able to develop our trade ties further and to even out the trade balance. Yes, yesterday I did visit the Sukhoi Design and Engineering Bureau and saw for myself that Russia has indeed made great technological achievements. In fact, President Luiz Inacio Lula has appointed a special commission to wok specifically in this area.
The first step will evidently be to take a closer look at some of the technical characteristics of Russian arms and then to work on the commercial side of things. On the commercial side of things, there are very good chances because everyone believes now that it is possible to do successful business with Russia.
Mr President, I would like to once again confirm the feelings of solidarity that we expressed to your country during those tragic days when you were struck by this immense sorrow that cost so many lives. I want to say once more that we are with you during these difficult moments in life, and that we are ready to do all we can to fight this evil both at regional and international level.
Mr President, tomorrow I shall leave for St. Petersburg. I must add that the main purpose of my visit to Russia is to take part in the work of the High-Level Commission on Cooperation. This commission was set up in 1997, and as Vice President of Brazil I am in charge of the Brazilian side of its work. My counterpart here is Prime Minister Fradkov and I will be meeting with him today to discuss a broad range of issues regarding our political, trade and economic, scientific and cultural cooperation and cooperation in various other areas. I think that we will also make use of the High-Level Commission’s work to prepare for your upcoming visit to Brazil, which, I am sure, will take place in a very positive atmosphere and will be a great success.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 12, 2004, 19:20
Text version