Events
Beginning of Enlarged Russian-Korean Talks
September 21, 2004
20:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Dear Mr President, dear colleagues, allow me once again to wish you a warm welcome to the Russian capital.
I would like to repeat what a positive assessment I give Russian-Korean relations. They have reached a new, high quality. This is absolutely in the interests of our peoples and corresponds to their desire to live in friendship and harmony and to cooperate with each other in all areas. The cooperation between the Russian Federation and the Republic of Korea aims to strengthen peace and security in North-East Asia. Developing our ties with the Republic of Korea is one of our foreign policy priorities in the Asian region. Our work together is not directed against anyone else but aims only at strengthening security and expanding the opportunities for cooperation between our two countries and between all the countries of the region.
Furthermore, I am absolutely certain that developing our cooperation with the Republic of Korea is a good contribution to international security.
We are very happy to see you, Mr President, and your colleagues here in Moscow. I am sure that our work together will be fruitful and will benefit our peoples. We wish you a very warm welcome to Moscow.
President Roh Moo Hyun: First of all, I would like to thank you, Mr President, and the Russian people for the warm welcome I and the Korean delegation have been given. During our talks yesterday evening and this morning we came to some important agreements on cooperation between our two countries.
I think that it is the particular understanding you and your government have shown with regard to my visit that has made this possible.
Korea and Russia established diplomatic relations 120 years ago, and the first Korean community in Russia was established 140 years ago, but then there came a break in our relations. Over the fourteen years since we restored diplomatic relations between our two countries, however, we have developed our bilateral ties very successfully.
We, along with the Korean people, are completely satisfied with the pace and level of cooperation and the development of ties between our two countries.
I would like to note that many Korean firms are especially interested in working with Russian partners, particularly after you became president and Russia has become a lot more stable in all areas, including politically and in the economic and trade spheres, and also because Russia is now undergoing successful development.
Russia is an important player in the international community in general, but in our region, in North-East Asia, Russia has an especially important role. Russia is very important for peace and prosperity, but it also has a particularly important economic role in our region.
I would like to take this opportunity to once again thank the Russian Government for playing such an important part in the six-nation talks and in peaceful settlement of the crucial issues involved.
If we consider just how much Russia and Korea have in common in many areas, including in international politics and in the economy, I think we could say that the prospects for cooperation between our two countries are as sacred for us.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: September 21, 2004, 20:00
Text versionEvents
Press Statements Following Russian-Korean Talks
September 21, 2004
21:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The talks between President of the Republic of Korea Roh Moo Hyun and myself have just ended.
We discussed a wide range of bilateral and international issues and we consider the talks to have been very substantial and fruitful.
I can say with certainty today that our relations have reached a qualitatively new level, that of a partnership built on trust and covering a broad range of areas.
A partnership of this kind is in the interests of our peoples and serves to strengthen security and cooperation in North-East Asia and throughout the Asia-Pacific region in general.
We have signed a Declaration that sets out the key areas for our political, economic and humanitarian cooperation.
We intend to step up our political dialogue and develop ties between our parliaments, public organisations and business communities.
There are clearly very good prospects for developing our trade and economic cooperation. We have set out concrete measures for furthering our work together in the energy sector, in transport and in the aviation and space industry. We also have plans to increase cooperation in natural resource development, high technology in general, telecommunications and the fishing industry.
Today a whole range of agreements that will give a boost to our practical bilateral business cooperation was signed in our presence.
I would like to note, for example, a major project to build a petrochemical plant and oil refinery in Tatarstan.
Our plans also include providing training and organising a flight on board a Russian spacecraft for a South Korean cosmonaut, and cooperation in other high-technology sectors.
The agreements that we signed today come to a total value of more than $4 billion.
Of course, we also talked in depth about all aspects of the situation on the Korean Peninsula. Russia supports the policy of developing dialogue between the two Korean states and bringing them closer together.
Our country has always consistently supported a nuclear-free Korean Peninsula and the continuation of the six-nations negotiation process. We also hope to develop cooperation between Russia, the Republic of Korea and the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea in carrying out joint energy and transport projects. We are also ready to work together with these two countries on other projects. We think that this kind of cooperation would be of not just economic but also political benefit.
We also discussed a whole range of international issues today. I would like to note that we share similar views on both global international problems and on regional issues.
I would like to thank our Korean friends, partners and the Korean President for the atmosphere of trust and openness in which our talks took place.
Thank you for your attention.
President Roh Moo Hyun: Thank you to President Putin for his warm welcome. During our talks which have just ended, the President and I both agreed that Russia and Korea have developed their ties very actively in many areas since the 1990s when we re-established our bilateral relations. We have made a lot of effort to develop cooperation in every area.
President Putin and I shared the same view that the Korean Government’s policy of peace and prosperity in North-East Asia and the Russian Government’s policy of actively developing Eastern Siberia and the Far East are moving in the same direction. Given that we are pursuing similar aims, we both believe that we will be able to develop mutually beneficial relations in the future.
The Joint Russian-Korean Declaration that the President and I just signed is very important as it sets out the key directions for future relations between our countries and assesses the results that we have achieved so far in various areas. We believe that this document will serve as a foundation for the future continuous development of our bilateral relations.
We appreciate the constructive role the Russian Government is playing in the six-nation talks that aim at settling the nuclear issue in the DPRK through negotiations, and we have thanked the Russian Government for their active assistance and their understanding in settling this issue through a process of negotiation. President Putin and I both agreed that this kind of cooperation can serve as a foundation for expanding the cooperation between our two countries to all areas, including settling global and regional problems.
Mr Putin and I both expressed our satisfaction that our trade cooperation is increasing and will continue to develop in the future. The same goes for our cooperation in various other areas including energy, the space industry and the IT sector. President Putin and I both expressed the view that the agreements signed today, including the agreement on cooperation in the aviation and space sectors and several memorandums signed between Korean and Russian firms will help lay the legal foundation for further development of our bilateral relations.
Our Government reiterated its support for Russia’s accession to the World Trade Organisation and President Putin and I were unanimous on the need to resolve such international issues as the spread of weapons of mass destruction and international terrorism. We both affirmed our intention to work together and make every effort to fight international terrorism.
In conclusion, I would once more like to thank President Putin for his active help and attentive attitude towards our country and the development of our bilateral relations. I would like to take this opportunity to say how pleased I am that President Putin and I can speak of such excellent results to come out of our talks.
Over this short time in Moscow I have met with President Putin three times, and the meeting yesterday evening was particularly useful as the President and I had a very open and productive discussion of all the issues of key importance for the further development of our bilateral relations. I would like to take this opportunity to once more thank Mr Putin for the particular attention he has shown me.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: September 21, 2004, 21:00
Text versionEvents
Opening Remarks at a Meeting with President of the Republic of Korea Roh Moo Hyun
September 21, 2004
19:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Dear Mr President,
Let me once again wish you a warm welcome to Moscow.
Yesterday evening we had the opportunity to spend almost three hours discussing practically all the questions of concern to us.
As we agreed, today we will have further opportunities to discuss a whole number of issues, both one-on-one and together with our colleagues.
Before we begin our talks, I would like to say that I am satisfied with how our relations have been developing recently. This year marks the 120th anniversary of the signing of the first friendship and cooperation agreement that was the starting point for establishing diplomatic relations between our countries. We have celebrated this event, and I must say that much has been done to develop our relations over all these years.
Our economic ties are developing intensively. We have managed to remove all the barriers and difficulties in this area that were hampering our cooperation. Today we have not a single problem of this kind.
Our statistics differ a little on the figures, but according to the experts both here and in your country, our bilateral trade increased by well over 50 percent over the first half of this year. This is a really excellent result.
Russia has very close and longstanding ties with Korea. More than 100,000 ethnic Koreans hold Russian citizenship and live in this country.
Mr President, this is your first visit to Russia and I am sure that it will be a successful visit.
President Roh Moo Hyun: First of all I would like express my sincere thanks to you, Mr President, and to the Russian people for the warm welcome I have received. As you rightly said, yesterday evening we did have the chance to discuss many of the questions that concern our two countries frankly and calmly, and I thank you for that evening.
Russia and Korea established diplomatic relations 120 years ago, and 140 years have passed since the first Korean immigrants began to establish themselves in Russia. Since we re-established our relations we have also developed our ties in all areas quite well over the last 14 years. I think that it is our mutually complementary partnership and the trust we have built up in each other that have made this possible.
In particular, we consider that Russia has become politically very stable and that its economy is developing rapidly since you became president. This has created greater interest in Russia among our people. I think, therefore, that our relations in all areas are set to develop even more intensively than before.
Moscow lies within the European continent, but Russia plays an important part in North-East Asia.
We are grateful to the Russian Government for its active involvement in the process underway to establish peace and stability on the Korean Peninsula and throughout our region.
We believe that Russia plays a constructive and important part in bringing peace and prosperity to our region.
I know that you are very much interested in the question of developing the resources of Eastern Siberia. Your policy in this area is also of interest and importance to us.
It is our view that economic and trade ties will help speed up development of our bilateral relations.
I hope that our meeting today will also make a great contribution to the ongoing development of our relations. Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: September 21, 2004, 19:00
Text version