Mikhail Fradkov: Thank you, Mr Putin. We chose our candidates in accordance with the organisation structure that isbeing confirmed. I would like to emphasise that candidates were selected based on their professionalism, their personal qualities, work experience and how charged up they are for taking action. Of course, the proposed new organisation structure was also taken into account, its specifics, so that the candidates for ministerial posts would be up to the job and would feel the personal responsibility that you spoke about.
If you will allow, I would now like to present the candidates who will form the new Russian Government.
We propose that Alexander Zhukov take the post of the only Deputy Prime Minister. Mr Zhukov is well known in the country. He has the positive qualities that we think will enable him to begin work immediately and start taking decisive and carefully thought-out action, as is in keeping with his character and his experience.
We propose that German Gref take the post of Economic Development and Trade Minister. This is an important ministry and it is the cornerstone of the economic policy pursued in our country. We propose merging a number of services, in particular the customs and tariffs agencies, as well as the Federal Property Management Agency and the Land Cadastre with this ministry. In other words, this ministry will increase its functions. I firmly believe, however, that everything concerning federal property should be made this ministry’s responsibility, and the laws that currently make this impossible should be changed. I am now preparing proposals on this matter for the State Duma and I would ask you to support the idea of merging these functions, at the very least, in a single state agency at this stage.
Vladimir Putin: You propose merging the Russian Federal Property Fund and the Federal Property Management Agency?
Mikhail Fradkov: That’s right, the Russian Federal Property Fund and the Federal Property Management Agency.
We propose giving the post of Health and Social Development Minister to Mikhail Zurabov. With regard to this ministry, we are taking a decisive step to place someone at the head of the ministry and give it the reinforcement it needs to implement and develop social policy that will care for both people’s health needs and social needs. We must make every effort to ensure a decent life for our people. Mr Zurabov is an experienced and energetic person, who headed the Pension Fund and was First Deputy Health Minister. Here we plan to unite in one ministry both health issues and social issues – labour and employment. This is a complex and very work-intensive ministry, and we must ensure that all its functions remain within the Government’s sight. For this reason, we propose giving the deputy ministerial posts to well-known people in the country, and in particular, we propose that Galina Karelova take responsibility for the social development side of the ministry. She was Deputy Prime Minister in the last Government and was responsible for social issues. She has proven herself to be a consistent director who cares about the population’s needs. We also propose Vladimir Starodubov, formerly Health Minister, who has been actively involved in health reform lately as part of the work undertaken by the Presidential Executive Office. With such competent people in charge of the ministry we can expect that this area of work will be a real priority for the Government.
We propose Sergei Ivanov as Defence Minister. He is known to everyone and so I think there is no need to say more.
We propose Dmitry Kozak as Chief of the Government Office, federal minister and member of the Government. At a time when the Government is being seriously reformed and there is now only one Deputy Prime Minister, this means a great increase in the work and responsibilities of the Chief of the Government Office. I am grateful to the Presidential Executive Office for delegating Mr Kozak to us from his post as First Deputy Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office, because he has experience and shows determination in getting issues resolved, and he has already worked in the Government and is very familiar with it. In other words, we place a lot of importance on Mr Kozak’s personal efforts and knowledge.
Vladimir Putin: But the most important thing is that he is one of the authors of the reorganisation plan for the Government.
Mikhail Fradkov: Yes, he is one of the authors, and we will work together to implement this plan.
I do not think there is any need to introduce Alexei Gordeyev. The only thing I want to point out is that the ministry he will head now covers two formerly separate areas – agriculture and fisheries. They will now form a single ministry. It remains to increase the attention we give to agriculture, and this was made clear also during the discussions in the State Duma on approving the candidacy for Prime Minister.
We propose Alexei Kudrin as Finance Minister. I think there is no need to introduce him. He will have serious issues to work on. In particular, we plan to examine ways of improving the tax system. I think that Mr Kudrin will take a very active part in the new Government’s work.
We propose Sergei Lavrov as Foreign Minister. Mr Lavrov is highly qualified and was, until recently, Russia’s representative at the United Nations. He is very familiar with the government’s work from his previous job in the Foreign Ministry. He was also particularly recommended by the previous Foreign Minister, Igor Ivanov.
It is proposed that Rashid Nurgaliyev take the post of Internal Affairs Minister. Mr Nurgaliyev is a very responsible and highly qualified professional. He was acting Internal Affairs Minister over the last few months. We think that the pace at which work is going ahead and the potential we see allow us to say that the ministry will be in reliable hands.
We propose Yury Trutnev, currently Governor of the Perm Region, as Natural Resources Minister. He is an experienced and energetic person with an interest in this area and direct experience of working in land resources. We think it important to put natural resources use, with all its specificities, into the hands of someone we can count on.