Events
Interview with the Chilean television company Channel 13 and the newspaper El Mercurio
November 18, 2004
23:09
Moscow, the Kremlin
Question: Mr President, thank you very much for giving us your time. This is our first interview with the President of Russia.
Mr President, please tell us, what do you know about Chile?
President Vladimir Putin: I know that it is an active, developing country, which has always had great respect and sympathy for Russia. My colleague, the President of Chile, told me about this several times, and invited me to visit your country, and I am very glad to have the opportunity to go there.
Question: You are coming to Chile on an official visit. It would be interesting to hear how you would like Russia to be seen by the Chilean people.
Mr Putin: I would like for them to have an objective picture, for Chilean society, business and political circles to see Russia as a reliable, solid partner on the international stage and in the economic sphere, a partner that shares fundamental concepts of building a democratic, balanced world system.
I would like for people in Chile to learn more about our country, for people to see our country as an interesting world power, the country they would be curious to visit, and come to know its people, history, art and culture.
Question: You began answering the last question by saying that you would like there to be an objective view of Russia. Does this mean that you think that over the past few decades, the view of Russia has not been objective?
Mr Putin: For various reasons, it was not objective, of course. The world was divided into two parts. It was bipolar. There was a war between blocs, and the two opponents in this world-scale conflict tried to paint quite a negative picture of each other. Of course, we have not completely overcome these tendencies, as the world lived in the conditions of a cold war for decades. I think that this does not yet allow us to look at each other objectively. Although I believe that we are on the right path, and sooner or later this will happen. It would be good if it happened soon.
Question: And is the APEC part of this path?
Mr Putin: Yes, of course. Russia joined this organisation quite recently. A large part of our territory is in the Asia and Pacific region, and so many of our interests are connected with it. I would remind you that despite the breakup of the Soviet Union, Russia is still the largest country in the world. We have many partners in Asia and in the Pacific region. Our position is that activating our contacts with partners in this region of the world will help the development of Siberia and the Far East of the Russian Federation. Our partners in Asia and the Pacific region also require the energy resources of Russia. We feel that they are interested in Russia taking part in regulating many complex problems of world politics, including those that apply to the problems of the region.
Question: You are about to visit Chile and take part in the APEC meetings, and then you plan to continue your journey with a visit to Brazil. As far as I know, this is your second official visit to Latin America.
Mr Putin: Yes, that is correct. I have been in two countries of Latin America – Mexico and Cuba.
Question: As I far as I know, besides contacts in the framework of the APEC, during your visit to Latin America there will be discussions of possibilities for cooperation between business circles of our countries. I understand that you will be accompanied on your visit by a representative delegation of Russian business circles.
Mr Putin: Yes, that is correct. We would like to activate our business and economic contacts. Today the volume of our trade turnover is at an unacceptably low level, in my opinion. It is less than $100 million. This is almost zero, and I consider it to be zero. At the same time, the Russian economy and the Chilean economy are developing at quite fast rates. Here it is possible not just to discuss increasing and diversifying trade turnover, but also a search for other areas of cooperation, above all economic cooperation, of course.
Some traditional goods of Chilean export are gradually finding a place on our market – fruit, wine, and some other goods, but so far this is merely symbolic. On our part, we could provide products from processing industries, energy machine building, cooperation in areas of high technology, ecology, and so on.
Question: They say that in Russia, rules are not always clear and that they are not always observed. What would you like to say to Chilean business community so that they could invest confidently in Russia’s economy?
For example, some Chilean business people invest their money in developing the real-estate sector in Miami, and their investment has quite an important role in this region.
Mr Putin: As you know, the Russian economy is going through a very serious phase of changes. It is only just becoming a real market economy. This process is naturally not a simple one. It is accompanied by the formation of a legal system.
One of the main tasks that we face today is to strengthen the legal basis, and make our legislation stable. But I must say that I do not think that in Russia today we are dealing with an unstable situation. In fact the opposite is true, the economy is growing stably.
Question: And rules?
Mr Putin: I must say that rules have also stabilised. Our task is for laws to become effective, so that the state can guarantee they will be implemented. But perhaps not everyone likes to observe the law. We know that in any sphere of public life, including in the economy, there are always people who want to get around the law to solve their problems. I hope that we are able to avoid this situation. I think that economic growth (6–8% yearly over the past five years) would have also been impossible without conditions of stable development.
You gave a good example of investing in the U.S. real-estate sector. I wonder what the returns from this investment are. I am certain that returns from investments in certain sectors of the Russian economy are much higher, and the chance to receive this profit has always been the best advertisement for making investments.
Question: But at the same time, there are economic laws or economic rules which say that the greater the risk, the greater the returns. Does this mean that the risk in Russia is high?
Mr Putin: To answer this question, one needs to look at Russia’s rating and how it changes according to the world’s leading agency. The rating is constantly increasing. The principal foundation of the Russian economy is being strengthened.
I have already said that over the past five year, our yearly economic growth has been around 6–8%. The government that I led in 1999 began its activity in conditions of very high inflation. Many Latin American countries know what this means. In 1999, inflation in Russia was 36.5%. This year it will also be high, but the trend towards a constant decrease is clear. I think that this year we will reach the level of just over 10% inflation.
When I was the Prime Minister in 1999, the gold and foreign currency reserves of the Central Bank were just over $12 billion. They are now over $107 billion, and at the end of this year they are nearing the $117-$120 mark. Furthermore, the Government has created a stabilisation fund, in some countries this is called the fund of future generations, and it will contain about $20 billion.
We are able to maintain a stable situation on the labour market. Unemployment is gradually dropping, and now it comes to about 7% of the economically active population of the country. If one remembers that real earnings of the population grow every year by about 11%, then it becomes clear that all this creates quite a stable social situation. This also shows that the country has a healthy economic life.
Investment in primary capital will grow by about 11–12% this year. We are gradually reducing the tax burden. We have problems that concern the necessity of diversifying our economy. We understand this, and we will gradually solve this problem. And we will do this carefully, without violating the macro-economic figures reached in recent years, and will try to reduce the level of state involvement in spheres of the economy where its presence is not justified. This is not easy for a country which had a planned economy for decades. But we know that we must take this path, and we will continue to go further along it.
Question: You mentioned the diversification of the economy. As far I understand, the good economic figures that you mentioned, growth of the economy, earnings and others, have in recent years been largely connected with high oil prices. Speaking of the diversification the economy, you probably meant that the process of necessary economic reforms has not yet been completed. In your opinion, how much time will be needed to complete this process, given that there are companies with a large portion of state involvement, and the country does not have a sufficiently developed strong private sector?
Mr Putin: The foreign economic situation, of course, has a certain positive effect on positive economic figures in Russia, but firstly it also creates certain problems in supporting macroeconomic figures on a high level, and secondly, it is not the only reason for changes for the better in the Russian economy. I think that one of the main reasons is the balanced and well-thought out economic policies of the Government.
We could use the enormous flow of so-called oil dollars. If the Central Bank and the Government did not follow a policy of sterilising this flow, then we would not have these macroeconomic figures. This is the first point.
Secondly, despite the considerable flow of these funds, no country ever has enough money. And it would be possible to conduct economic and social policy in such a way that the state budget did not have a profit, as we have done over the last four years, but at a deficit. This would also be possible. But we do not allow this. I assure you, it is not easy to reduce state expenses. There are social issues, medicine, education, defence – the state always needs a lot of money. It is not an easy task to reduce expenses. The government is capable of keeping within the bounds of common sense and the requirements of the modern economy.
Of course, if there are certain areas that are developing actively, and there is a favourable situation for them on international markets, then capital goes where the returns are greater. But we are trying to organise the tax system in such a way as to create if not preferences, then favourable conditions for the development of other processing and high-technology areas of the economy. And from next year, the according mechanisms will function.
I could give you many more arguments. Of course, there is criticism of the Government’s activity, and it is often quite correct, pointing out flaws or indecisiveness of the Government at certain times, but these are all aspects of their work, which on the whole do not change the positive picture of the development of Russia and its economy.
Question: Please tell us, within what timeframe do you expect to normalise the economic situation in Russia, and complete the period of reforms?
Mr Putin: I think that we are already witnesses to this situation of normalisation and stability . The task is to improve mechanisms of development and reach more important goals. This process is never completed. But I think that the most important thing for us is to solve social tasks on this basis – to increase the living standard of our citizens, to achieve a situation whereby our citizens enjoy average European standards of living. But this, of course, will take a long time. But the most important thing, that pleases me, is that the correct direction for progress has been chosen, and we intend to move further on this road.
Question: Your words on additional funds coming into the budget from oil export reminded me of a speech by the Chilean minister for the copper industry. He could be proud, because the reasoning that you used was essentially the same.
Mr Putin: I am glad to hear it.
Question: With your permission, I would like to return to two topics – oil and politics. For Russia to maintain its leading position in oil production and export, it is necessary to attract major foreign investors and to look for and develop oil fields. The country depends on these investments. From your point of view, how is this connected with the agenda of the APEC?
Mr Putin: Who told you that Russia strongly depends on capital investments in this area of the national economy? We are in favour of attracting investments in any sector of the Russian economy, including the energy sector. They may be Russian investors or foreign investors. It is not important for us. Currently, Russian companies have sufficient volumes of capital to support the necessary level of investments in the country’s economy. But there are still areas, including energy, which require risky investments in oil fields where surveying has not yet been completed. Here, of course, both Russian and foreign interested structures need to join efforts. And many of our partners, including foreign partners, are already investing these funds.
If we are speaking with reference to APEC, then in the Far East, in Sakhalin, for example, investments come to dozens of billions of dollars.
It seems to me Russia even as of today occupies one of the leading positions in the world. But Russia’s capabilities and potential are still unappreciated. In several months last year and this year, volumes of oil production in Russia were higher than in Saudi Arabia. However, this does not mean that we must constantly support such high figures. Volumes of oil production, their delivery to international markets and price formation are closely connected.
Russia is a responsible partner for the international economy as a whole, I would say, because we are in favour of fair price formation.
We are not interested in prices going sky high, because in the final analysis this may damage our own economy. So we always find a common language with our partners, and try to ensure that prices on the international raw energy market are fair.
But it is not our fault that in the Middle East, in Iraq and Venezuela, the situation remains unstable and difficult.
We did not create this situation. There was a tornado in the Gulf of Mexico … . We can only be happy about the economic growth in China and India, and their growing needs for raw energy.
Certain people are trying to profit on the problems surrounding the Russian company YUKOS. At the same time, I would like to note that all Russian companies, including YUKOS, increased production and delivery of oil to foreign markets throughout this year.
And we will continue to pursue this balanced policy, and will work with OPEC. But we are not members of this organisation, and I think that things will remain this way. We believe that Russia must be independent in developing its own energy policy.
Question: Observers are not always able to define where Russia stands ideologically. You said that the policies in your country were close to the policies followed by Chilean President Ricardo Lagos. Nevertheless, it is probably not correct to say that Russia is a socialist country or is going in this direction.
Mr Putin: Of course not. I think that we should use general accepted concepts, but it is necessary to move away from stereotypes. I have met President Lagos twice, at the APEC summits, incidentally, and then he made a visit to Moscow in 2002. He made a very good impression on me – he is an excellent specialist and a reliable partner. It is not important to me that he represents the socialist party. For me, it is important that in practice, Chile and Russia have the same position on many international issues. We can see Chile’s independent policies in the UN Security Council, where your country is now a non-permanent member of the Security Council. And this independent position on key problems of the modern world naturally raises Chile’s authority on the international stage.
The Chilean government are following economic policies that are quite liberal, but at the same time socially oriented, and this impresses us. So we have many points of contact, and this gives us reason to believe that in future relations between our countries will develop positively.
Question: I would like to add something to my colleague’s question, and change it a little. There is little doubt that you and your Government are guided by democratic principles in your actions. But recently some critics have said that you are moving towards authoritarianism. What would you say to these critics?
Mr Putin: I would say that this is complete rubbish. Of course, any actions designed to make the state function more effectively are regarded with great suspicion. This is understandable. We have an expression: “If once you get scalded by milk, then you’ll start blowing on water.”
The history of Russia over the past few decades has been quite difficult. Every state looks for the most acceptable form for democratic institutions to function: in some countries, heads of regions are appointed, in others they are elected, in some countries the President is elected by direct secret vote, like in Russia, and in others he is elected by a system of electors, like in the United States. In some countries, parliamentary deputies are elected from the party alone, in others they are elected in single-mandate districts, or there is a mixed system.
Naturally, every country strives for these institutions to function effectively. We need to create conditions under which the country is not prone to the danger of disintegration, where freedom and powers of the regions do not lead to separatism, but where the state functions effectively and ensures freedom of its citizens, and at the same time solves social problems effectively.
These democratic institutions should be founded on historical experience, on traditions and at the level of development of democratic institutions and institutions of civil society.
For example, I have proposed to hold elections of parliamentary deputies by party lists, on a representative principle. One of the reasons for this is to initiate, to encourage the development of a truly functional multi-party system. Until a multi-party system is realised, people will choose between more charming and less charming people, and not between political views and plans for developing the country and region.
Russia is looking for the most optimal system of organising society, the most optimal means to apply commonly accepted institutions of democracy in the country. At the same time, we must of course take into account traditions, the level of development of civil society, the enormous territory and the colossal number of different peoples with their own way of life who live in the Russian Federation. The main principles and main tools of democracy will not merely be used, they will continue to be further introduced on the territory of the Russian Federation. Our society cannot exist in any other way.
A return to any totalitarian system is absolutely out of the question. Democracy cannot be interpreted as complete permissiveness. A free market cannot be interpreted as the right to rob the state and national riches. We will build democracy, not anarchy.
Question: Your mention of tradition is very important. With all due respect, I must say that democracy is not in Russia’s traditions.
Mr Putin: But this is also what I meant.
How can you imagine elections, for example of regional heads by the party principle, if there are no parties there? Besides the Communist party, unfortunately, no other organisational force exists here yet, in the direct sense of this word.
Of course, if there was no civil society under the Tsars or under communism, we have been striving to create these institutions over the last 12 years. But still, you must agree that against the backdrop of Russia’s 1000-year history, this is an insignificant period of time. We need to continue work on strengthening these institutions. We will persevere in doing this.
When I talked about traditions, I also meant several quite specific things. For example, in some regions of the Russian Federation, the higher bodies of power and administration were rotated according to ethnic principle, as was the case in Lebanon at one time, for example.
In a single republic in the Caucasus, which has less than 2 million people, there are about 100 ethnic groups. And in recent years, despite direct elections, constant agreements were made behind the scenes, moving representatives of various ethnic groups from position to position. It is of course possible to ignore this, but it is better if everything is done transparently and clearly.
Thank you very much for your attention. All the best.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 18, 2004, 23:09
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Director of the International Monetary Fund Rodrigo de Rato
November 18, 2004
18:37
Novo-Ogaryovo
President Vladimir Putin: Dear Mr Director,
Dear colleagues.
Allow me once more to wish you a warm welcome to Moscow. I am very happy to meet you personally. As you know, Russia supported your candidacy to such an important position in the IMF. I must say that in Russia, we have had very constructive relations with the fund throughout the period of our cooperation. I believe that Russia has appealed to the fund eight times and received support of $22 billion. And these funds were used in Russia to carry out market transformations in the economy, and create conditions for the economy to grow.
We know that the fund continues to follow closely the development of the situation in the Russian economy. We are grateful to you for your positive assessment of what is happening in the economy. I also know of a discussion that is going on between experts from the fund and representatives of the Central Bank of Russia and the Government of the Russian Federation on several nuances of development of the economy in the Russian Federation. And I am prepared to talk to you about these issues and problems.
We are interested in relations with the fund in the area that concerns Russia, and in cooperation with the fund in the world as a whole, particularly in countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States.
We know the great attention that the fund gives to the support of international finances, and we will support your efforts in this direction.
You are aware of the growing capabilities of the Russian economy and the financial system. We fulfil our debt obligations to the fund regularly and on time. We intend to do this in the future.
Of course, we also have the ability to pay off our debts to the fund and to the Paris club of creditors before schedule. And in the second case these obligations and our plans may of course be greater than in relations with the fund. We are prepared to discuss this topic as well. Of course, our considerations and interests are also dictated by the desire to reduce state expenditure related to servicing these debts, i.e. to reduce our expenditure on paying interest, Furthermore, significantly reducing our debt obligations to the fund, which will become less than Russia’s contribution to nominal capital, will make it possible to use these resources effectively and avoid the use of tools in international financial practice, which we believe are connected with the frequent incorrect us of debt obligations.
We make a significant contribution to the funds efforts to fight poverty in the world. As you know, Russia occupies first place in the world in writing off debts to the countries that are poorest in terms of GDP.
As for writing off debts in absolute values, we occupy the third place after Japan and France. Applying these rules to countries with average incomes is a separate topic, and I will be glad to talk to you about this.
In short, we are very happy to see you, and we have many points of contact and spheres of cooperation.
Rodrigo de Rato: Thank you, Mr President!
It is a great honour for me to have the opportunity to meet the President of the Russian Federation. This is my first visit to Russia as the director of the IMF. In the past, however, I made many opportunities to come to Russia as the Finance Minister of Spain. Since then I have kept many strong, durable ties with many members of Government, who are part of the economic team.
As you, Mr President, said correctly, the IMF and the Russian Government have worked together very closely and very successfully. This has allowed the Russian economy to overcome the difficult economic situation that arose at the end of the 1990s, and move towards strong and durable economic growth. We are well aware of President’s Putin large-scale plan to double Russia’s GDP over 10 years. And we think that this is thanks to the reforms and the efforts that have already been made.
Extensive additional work will be required in future. Today we can see that the Russian economy is on a very stable path of major development. And we believe that now is a favourable moment which should be used, using the economic growth which is taking place, to realise the large-scale reforms that President Putin has planned.
Russia must conduct very important reforms. And to implement these reforms fully, it is necessary to conduct them under the supervision of the President. We acknowledge the achievement of the country’s monetary and credit authorities of the country in efforts to strengthen the bank sector. We think that the intensive schedule that was established for banks to receive new licenses should be support, and that it will benefit the economy. We believe that a strong, transparent and effective banking system will enable the further active and favourable development of Russia.
As for monetary and credit policy, we can see the efforts that the Central Bank is making to reduce inflationary expectations. We believe that they should be accompanied by a strict budget policy. This will meet the requirements of Russian society. It is in the interests of the Russian people to keep expenditure under control and use it effectively. And in this sense, we believe that one of the priorities in future is to conduct structure reform and modernise the administrative system of Russia not just at federal level, but at regional level as well.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 18, 2004, 18:37
Text versionEvents
Interview with Director of News Programmes at Channel One Kirill Kleimenov, Chief Editor of the News Service at NTV Tatyana Mitkova and Political Correspondent at Rossia Television Channel Nikolai Svanidze
November 18, 2004
17:05
Moscow
Tatyana Mitkova: Mr President, we would like to discuss today the latest political steps taken, as far as I understand, on your initiative. These proposals considerably change the political system in our country and it is important for us and for our viewers to understand what has caused you to take such tough measures and what consequences you think this will have for our society, for our country as a whole.
President Vladimir Putin: It is just as important for me to explain to our people what has motivated me to propose these initiatives. I would very much like for us to have a real discussion of this subject today and not just a question and answer session.
First of all, I would like to say that these proposals are not in any way about giving the head of state additional powers as far as relations with the regional authorities are concerned. In all my years of work I have never had any problems with any of the regional leaders, not with a single one of them. This is absolutely not a case of, to use the expression in fashion, “tugging the administrative blanket” my way. These proposals are guided by completely different motives and arguments that lie, above all, in the way the system that has developed over the past years functions.
Nikolai Svanidze: Vladimir Vladimirovich, in your address to the nation following the tragedy in Beslan you said that Russia had become the target of international terrorist intervention, in other words, that war had essentially been declared on our country. How does this tally with your policy statement that Russia must become a country in which it is comfortable to live? How can people feel comfortable when they are being told about war every day?
Vladimir Putin: They can’t, of course. But there is no contradiction in what I said. I said that we must make Russia a comfortable place in every respect. Of course, we have not yet attained this objective. In order to reach this goal, this objective we have set, we must first overcome a number of difficulties on the road to our development, and this includes coming out victors in this war we have declared against international terrorism.
Everyone realises, after all, that the forces of international terrorism, these criminals, do not plan to launch tank offensives against Moscow, Leningrad and Stalingrad. They have different methods of waging war against us. Their aims are just as far-reaching in scope. Just take the example of the much-cited caliphate for one. For all of us the consequences could be very tangible, negative and absolutely unacceptable . It would mean for us the loss of huge territories, primarily in the south of the country, and could disorganise the entire state. We have to be ready for this and we have to fight it and put up effective resistance. The awareness of this threat should be an incentive for us to improve the way the state is managed, make our power system more effective and work to resolve the other issues we face, economic issues and social policy issues. Resolving all these tasks together will bring us closer to achieving the objectives that I set out.
Kirill Kleimenov: Why, though, did you decide to change the way regional governors are elected? Why this decision to abandon direct elections? Do you believe the system of regional elections didn’t work?
Vladimir Putin: I already said at the beginning that for me as President, as head of state, the system that emerged over the past years was comfortable enough to work within, and to be honest it was my last desire to change it. Aside from anything else, I understand perfectly well that people were able to go to the polling stations and choose the person they wanted to head their region, and now they are being asked to abandon this system and go over to what amounts to a system based on electors with the President nominating the prospective regional governor and a vote then held in the region’s legislative assembly.
People are naturally asking themselves, can they not be trusted to elect their own regional leaders? But this is not the case, of course. The question lies in how effectively the system functions, and I must say that as soon as I entered the government when I was named Prime Minister, I saw that this system did not always work.
Everyone is talking now about the events in Karachayevo-Cherkessia. What we see taking place there is in effect a government crisis, mixed up, it is true, with criminal events. But these criminal events are to do with a carve-up of assets. I remember what happened in 1999 when I was Prime Minister. It was precisely at that time that Karachayevo-Cherkessia held its presidential election. Unfortunately, in many of our regions, especially in the ethnic minority republics, the ethnicity issue often takes the upper hand in elections with people not being elected on the basis of their personal and professional qualities. So, though we may say that the system functions, it doesn’t really, it doesn’t function effectively. This is because we don’t yet have a developed civil society, unfortunately, and we still don’t have an effectively functioning multiparty system which could mix all these ethnic, economic and religious relations into one big melting pot and stir them all together.
And when we say that elections often take place along ethnic lines I would allow myself to state that this is the case only on the surface. What we are really talking about are economic battles between local and regional clans for spheres of influence and attempts to use the levers of power to sort out particular economic issues and carve up assets. What we are seeing in Karachayevo-Cherkessia is a very good illustration of this.
Back then, in 1999, when the crisis over presidential elections there began, we spent a long time in discussions with both Karachai and Cherkess representatives. I am grateful to both groups for their understanding and their willingness to come to an agreement, and at that time we found a solution to the crisis. But there was one point during those discussions when one of the parties to the negotiations suggested it would be better for them to secede from the republic. That is, to remain within the Russian Federation, of course, but to create their own mono-ethnic republic. But to start trying to achieve ethnic purity in the regions would be going too far: we would push the country into a series of endless conflicts that anyway would not bring us positive results. But these are not the only concerns.
I have been watching with growing concern of late the increasing influence of economic groups and various economic clans, noticing their growing influence on the authorities at regional level. The regional governors and republic presidents feel this themselves and they are also concerned. I can assure you that this influence is in no way tied to the interests of voters and of the people as a whole, no matter what ethnic group they belong to.
Finally, in accordance with Article 77 of the Russian Constitution, the executive branch of power in Russia is a unified whole. Unfortunately, nothing of this type has actually been created here. The system of holding direct elections for regional governors developed gradually and in some ways was a spontaneous process, which in turn set off another process. As soon as regional governors began to be directly elected, the federal authorities began in their minds to see these governors as something separate and started thinking, we can’t influence them, they do not report to us and we cannot appoint or dismiss them. So, in response they began building up a parallel system of federal power in the regions. This began as far back as the beginning of the 1990s and is still going on today. In practice, this erodes the powers of regional governors and republic presidents and leads to the formation of a parallel system of federal power in the regions that also does not function effectively.
In all of these situations it is the people who suffer because the system does not work properly.
Now, one last point that it is no less important and is particularly topical today. Coming back to the question your colleague asked about terrorism, are these proposals connected to measures being taken to fight terrorism? Of course they are because we have to create a system of power and management in the country that would make it impossible to destabilise our society and cause our state structures to collapse. We need to build a power system that responds to regional issues and is tightly bound to our national interests.
 Kirill Kleimenov: In other words, if I have understood you correctly, this reform has been considered for a long time but it is only now that the moment is really right?
Vladimir Putin: The tragic events in Beslan, of course, finally prompted for this course of action.
Nikolai Svanidze: What are you going to do about the law enforcement system?
Vladimir Putin: I must say that I am deeply convinced the law enforcement system has become a lot stronger over recent years. Not so long ago it was in a state of paralysis, something that was particularly noticeable after 1996.
The Armed Forces and the law enforcement agencies have now changed for the better, but they are still not up to the tasks they have before them. The state overall and the law enforcement agencies suffer from corruption, unfortunately, and their work is not sufficiently effective. There are many ways in which we can improve this work. One is for the law enforcement agencies not to get involved in functions that are not in keeping with the nature of their work. There should be less intervention in the economy, right from the lowest level – not doing the rounds of kiosks and filling one’s pockets with a bit of cash and something to drink – and all the way up to the top where the money that changes hands is in the tens or hundreds of thousands, and perhaps even in the millions.
The law enforcement agencies are responsible for keeping law and order, for protecting people from attacks on their lives, protecting their health and ensuring the state’s security. This is the direction in which we will move. At the same time, we will ensure that these agencies are better provided for financially and better equipped technically.
But there is no doubt that we should be thinking not just about what functions the law enforcement agencies fulfil, but also about how to make their work serve the people and not act against them, so that people will not be afraid to go out into the streets. It’s not always clear exactly who people fear more, the criminals or the police? This is a totally unacceptable situation. This work implies, of course, improving the personnel situation in the Interior Ministry and the other law enforcement agencies.
Nikolai Svanidze: Vladimir Vladimirovich, you have just implied considerable corruption within the law enforcement system. But how are you going to teach them to stop trying to fill their own pockets?
Vladimir Putin: It’s a habit you can’t break, so what is needed are systemic measures, measures to clean up the state apparatus in general, including the law enforcement agencies. They are only a part of our society, after all, but they are an integral part of it. This is a complicated and large-scale task and it won’t be accomplished overnight, but we must begin work on it nevertheless because if we don’t resolve this problem we will not be able to build a civilised society.
Tatyana Mitkova: What do you see as the biggest problem for the reforms you have proposed: corruption, lack of understanding on the part of a large part of the public or the shortage of good, strong, local leaders? Or perhaps something else again?
Vladimir Putin: I don’t think there is a problem with lack of understanding on the part of the public. I think there is a problem with insufficient explanation of what proposed reforms are really about and why they are being pursued. I hope that our discussion today will help clarify some of the questions in people’s minds. I certainly want this to be the case and this is one of the aims I set myself for this discussion today. People want the authorities to be more effective in resolving the problems they encounter in their everyday lives. That is what they want above all else. But corruption is definitely one of the biggest hurdles we face in trying to accomplish our aims.
Kirill Kleimenov: I would like to come back to the issue of changing the electoral system. Do you think the new procedures should also apply to local authorities, to mayors, and perhaps also to elected authorities further down the vertical power hierarchy? Is this possible?
Vladimir Putin: Everything is possible, but not everything is expedient because it is impossible to resolve all local problems from Moscow and even from a major regional centre. It is impossible to keep track of all the roofs and roads that need to be repaired and deal with the multitude of tasks that municipal authorities face.
The municipal authorities represent the level of power closest to people. If people see their municipal leaders only on television, playing themselves up to be major political figures of the time, nothing good can be expected. Power at any level should be responsible. Unfortunately, this is not fully the case here.
This municipal level of power still has to fully mature. I remember well the time when we had problems with heating in the Far East, for example. When one of our ministers went there, the deputy governor said, “no, let’s not go out there, or we’ll end up taking a beating.” And the municipal head just vanished. As soon as the problems began, he disappeared. That is not the only such case. And this was someone who had been elected to office, someone who was responsible to his voters. But this system of responsibility does not fully operate here yet.
I think it would be wrong and mistaken to completely deprive the municpal authorities of their powers. But the powers they have should be balanced, of course. In cases where social issues can be better resolved at regional level, the instruments must be in place for this to be possible.
Tatyana Mitkova: It seems to me that there is a potential danger in that the governors, if they are appointed, approved by the regional legislative assemblies, could just forget about the people entirely and look only to the Kremlin.
Vladimir Putin: First of all, I don’t think it is fair to say that the governors would be appointed. I know many legislative assemblies that would hardly be likely to vote for a candidate of whom they did not approve for their region. This is not an easy question.
Is there a danger that governors will end up ignoring regional interests? I don’t think so, precisely because of the proposed procedures for forming the regional power system. For a start, the governor first has to be confirmed in office or elected by the regional legislative assembly. If the executive head in the region does not pay attention to his region’s problems, then it is unlikely the deputies in the legislative assembly will vote for him.
Another thing, unfortunately, just being elected through direct secret ballot is not in itself a guarantee in this country that the regional governor will pay genuine attention to regional interests. I just gave an example before of regional authorities avoiding dealing with problems even though they were elected through direct secret ballot.
So the way the power system is formed does not guarantee that regional leaders will feel themselves bound to their regions’ interests. But as I said, we need to find a way of forming regional power that will ensure a balance between regional interests and the Russian Federation’s national interests.
I think that the proposed system we have come up with for forming regional power will ensure this balance can be achieved.
Tatyana Mitkova: Thank you. Can we now turn to the question of parliamentary elections. We had a mixed system of elections to the State Duma, woth some deputies elected on party lists and some from single-seat electoral districts. Now it is proposed to change this system, or to be more precise, to abandon the mixed system of party lists and single-seat electoral districts in favour of party lists only. But would you not agree that the majority of Russians do not belong to any party, or at least do not consider themselves as having any party allegiance?
Vladimir Putin: Elections to the country’s highest repsentative bodies based on a party list system is not in any way connected to voters’ party allegiances, and in no country is this the case. Even in the Soviet Union, we had some 20 million or so Communist Party members, while the country had a total population of more than 300 million people, and not all of them were members of the Communist Party. I was, but you were probably not.
Tatyana Mitkova: I was.
Vladimir Putin: You were too? Wonderful, then we were members of the same party. But the great majority of our fellow citizens were not party members. In all countries, people vote for the representatives of this or that party not because they themselves also belong to the party in question, but because they share the views espoused by this or that party and its leaders. Voters decide that the policies proposed to develop the country and resolve its problems are the most effective. That is why they vote, not because they belong to the same party. So I think there is no contradiction here.
Why are we proposing this move to elections based on party lists? For several reasons. I already mentioned at the beginning of our discussion that one of the problems we face is that we don’t have a developed civil society and multiparty system. So long as this remains the case elections will always be about choosing between people who are nice, nicer or less nice, rather than about choosing between ideas and political views.
Everyone who wants to be involved in political activity here should be doing it not behind the scenes, not under the cover of religious or ethnic motives, but through legal political organisations, political parties. These parties should be strong, meaningful and influential both at regional and national level. That is why we are proposing that everyone who wants to get involved in politics should get elected through party lists and state that they support and share this or that idea or policy.
Also, the people who are elected from single-seat districts are obviously decent people since the voters vote for them. They are very decent in every way, but they cannot resolve anything on their own. Someone who has been elected to parliament from a single-seat district in order to promote this or that idea has to ally himself with one or other of the political or party groups in parliament because no matter what he promised the voters back home, he cannot accomplish anything on his own. If this is the case, then let him state which group or party he would ally himself with before being elected. This is also one of the motives for taking this decision.
Kirill Kleimenov: As part of all the changes that you have just spoken about in such detail, will there be any changes to the way the upper house of parliament, the Federation Council, is formed? For example, will governors and the heads of regional legislative assemblies be able to return to their seats there?
Vladimir Putin: The parliament should work on a professional basis, both the lower house, the State Duma, and the upper house, the Federation Council. Of course, the Federation Council is above all the chamber representing the regions. I already spoke about how the federal authorities began eroding the powers of the regional leaders after the system of direct elections in the regions developed, first spontaneously, and then as something fixed in federal law. I must say that this is not effective as a system because regional heads should be fully fledged leaders and have sufficient powers to function effectively, deal with the problems the regions face and take the decisions people expect of them.
In this respect, I think that if we implement Article 77 of the Russian Constitution and create genuine unity within the executive branch of power, then I think that it would be justified to bring the regional heads and the heads of the regional legislative assemblies back into the upper house of parliament in order to resolve national tasks, issues such as war and peace, the borders between the regions, the use of Russian troops abroad, the participation of our Armed Forces in peacekeeping operations abroad, budget issues, approving the budget. But the day-to-day work should be done on an ongoing and professional basis.
Nikolai Svanidze: Vladimir Vladimirovich, do you not see a threat that the decisions you have taken could have a negative impact on establishing democracy in our country?
Vladimir Putin: No, I do not think this is the case. Democracy, as we know, means power of the people. Each country looks for the most effective way to organise state power, not for the sake of this power itself, but in order to be most effective at resolving the problems the country and its people face.
I think that in light of everything I said before, we are perfectly able to create a balanced system of power that will not go against the principles of a democratic society. Citizens will continue to be able to influence power at regional level, but the regional authorities will also feel their responsibility for resolving not only regional but also national issues. We should all benefit from this because, as I see it, this system of organising power will make us better able to solve the problems the country faces.
Nikolai Svanidze: If you will allow, continuing on this subject, the decisions and measures you propose are very serious. Will they not lead to having to amend the Constitution, and what are your views in general on amending the Constitution at any time in the near future?
Vladimir Putin: I am against amending the Constitution any time in the near or medium term because the Constitution is the foundation of our statehood and enables us to form our power system in the way we consider best, but at the same time, it sets certain limits and restrictions linked above all to abiding by the principles of democracy, which I think this is very important. The Constitution sets out the basic principles for the modern Russian state’s existence and I think we should value these principles and treat them with care.
Tatyana Mitkova: Overall, Vladimir Vladimirovich, how do you expect the state to look as a result of the measures we have discussed today?
Vladimir Putin: I would like our country to have a more balanced power system, a system that functions effectively and deals effectively with the problems brought up by our citizens, a system that is more sensitive to people’s needs. I hope that we can take a significant step in this direction.
Kirill Kleimenov: I would like to ask you, what do you personally see as being Russian society’s main interest today?
Vladimir Putin: We are used to thinking in global categories, talking about society as a whole. Let’s talk about the interests of the individuals who make up this society. Our citizens want a decent life today and they want to be confident that their children will have a future. I hope that this is above all what society as a whole considers its main interest.
Tatyana Mitkova: Thank you very much for finding the time to answer our questions.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 18, 2004, 17:05
Text version