Events
Meeting with the Former Prime Minister of Canada, Jean Chretien
July 5, 2004
19:46
The Kremlin, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: Welcome Jean,
I am very happy to see you. And it gives me great pleasure to say, as you yourself have said, that although you have decided to retire from active politics, you, nevertheless, maintain an active position and your work today remains connected with Russia.
As far as I know, you are going to visit Kazakhstan and then travel to Ukraine. And all this, one way or another, is linked to bilateral work, in this instance economic activity, and Canada’s work in the multilateral format.
Your successor and I spoke in detail about the development of Russian-Canadian relations in Sea Island. Canada’s new Prime Minister, Mr Paul Martin, is, as far as I am aware, determined to use everything your government achieved in bilateral relations.
And I am very pleased that your work today is, in essence, a continuation of what we agreed upon during your time in politics.
Jean Chretien: Thank you very much, Vladimir. It is wonderful that you have welcomed me as an ordinary citizen of my country. I first visited Russia back in 1971, when I was Minister for Northern Territories, so I have known Russia for a long time. Out of all the European capitals, I perhaps visited Moscow the most frequently during my political life. And, of course, I am the only politician who swam in a competition on the river Lena in 1971.
I remember that I met your predecessor at a G8 meeting in Halifax. This was the first G8 meeting. We then met in Kananaskis. And thanks to these meetings with you and your predecessor, we can discuss political matters and issues of bilateral relations – everything that interests us.
Yes, we have a new government. It remains virtually unchanged and my party has managed to win a fourth election. I think that all the positive experience will be needed and duly used by the new government under the new prime minister.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 5, 2004, 19:46
Text version