Events
Speech at a Meeting of Representatives of the Northern Territories of Russia
April 29, 2004
18:23
Salekhard
President Vladimir Putin:
Good day, dear friends,
We began work on studying and searching for solutions on the North of Russia yesterday. I am very happy to have the chance to meet with representatives of various organisations and associations, with everyone who values the Russia North. But above all, I would like to thank all Northerners for their work, their creativity, and of course for their determination. For the fact that by triumphing over harsh conditions, you work for the country and achieve success.
Yesterday, at the presidium of the State Council, we talked about what modern state policy in the North of Russia should be. A policy that is adequate to the requirements of the day and makes it possible in the new socio-economic conditions to reveal the potential and competitive advantages of the Russian North.
We said that enormous natural riches and an extensive territory mean unique possibilities and a significant resource of long-term, appreciable development not just for Russia’s northern territories, but for the entire country. And of course, for stable development of the northern regions, and an improvement in the living standard of the millions of people who live here.
Of course, life in northern regions was never easy. The North is the North. And due to the specifics of the climate, many of the country’s problems, such as the state of health, education and housing and communal services are more keenly felt here than in other regions in Russia. It is more difficult to solve them.
We also know about the ambiguous, difficult demographic processes, about disproportions on the labour market, the one-sided development of the economy and the crisis of vulnerable ecosystems. We discussed all of these issues yesterday.
It is clear that by redistributing finances alone, we cannot solve the existing issues, although this is also a problem which needs to be studied separately. And our task is to organise our work to find new solutions based on effective market mechanisms, along with the necessary forms of state support. Experience both in Russia and worldwide shows that these solutions are possible. They do exist. And I know that many people are working on them in the regions of the North. The governor and I were just at the data bank, at the centre where all information about the area is kept in electronic form. This is simply an outstanding example for other regions in the country to follow.
I would like to say that federal authorities should above all deal with issues of infrastructure of northern territories, if we are talking about the development of the economy. Of course, this is a long-term task. But already today, together with the regions, we need to find mechanisms that provide access for the population of northern territories to all the benefits of civilisation, which guarantee the opportunity to make use of high-quality social, transport, medical and education services.
People who live and work in the North should not feel cut off from the rest of the country. They should see clear prospects for themselves and their children.
We need systematic work to diversify factories, and master new equipment for making use of natural resources. This policy is directly linked to creating new work places. At the same time, we need to treat the ecological balance of nature in the North with care. We know how vulnerable it is.
I would also like to raise one issue which worries Northerners, about state guarantees and compensations. Today we also talked about this in great detail, and quite emotionally.
The state will continue to fulfil the social obligations it took on in the past. I want to point this out. This involves housing subsidies, “northern” pensions and salaries, state housing certificates, and programmes for resettlement in northern territories.
Today it is important to renew the economic and legal foundation of traditional forms of farming. For the native peoples of the North, this is not just a means of production. It is the foundation of their spirituality, their very way of life, and the preservation of the unique culture of the native peoples of the North. I was happy to see one of the villages where representatives of these native people live, not far from Salekhard. I must say that it was pleasing to see how people live in these villages. I hope that this is not the only village of this kind in the North. We do not have the right to lose the unique national and cultural richness of all these ethnic groups that live here.
Once more, I would like to stress something I have said many times: the greatest wealth of Russia is not even oil and gas, but the diverse culture of the peoples of the Russian Federation.
I think that it is now extremely important to make use of the institution of territorial self-administration of the native peoples of the North. A basis for its development exists in new legislation on local self-administration. Municipal formations will play a significant role in the development of the economy, culture, social and communal sphere. And serious preparation should already begin on this important work in regions.
We are approaching final decisions on these issues. Not everything has been fully developed (here I agree with regional heads), but eventually, we should reach a final decision.
In conclusion, I would like to stress once more: the Russian North is our huge, common wealth. It is our common property, and will also serve our grandchildren and great-grandchildren. And so we must not just make diligent use of it, but also seriously increase it.
And finally, the North has always been a kind of test of courage, comradeship and mutual help. I am pleased to hear representatives of diverse religions here. I am certain that with this invaluable human capital, we will be able to do a great deal. And we will definitely help the Russian North to gain a new dynamic in its development.
Thank you very much for your attention. That is all that I wanted to say at the beginning of our meeting today. I am sure that there will be many interesting speeches.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 29, 2004, 18:23
Text version