Events
Speech to Campaign Supporters
February 12, 2004
19:18
Lomonosov Moscow State University, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon,
First of all, I want to thank everyone who has gathered in this hall and is prepared for joint work. And, of course, I would like to thank everyone today who is prepared to support me at the upcoming Russian presidential elections.
I am often asked whether I will hold an election campaign, and if so, how I will hold it.
I am certain that the current head of state should not advertise himself – this should have been done over the last four years – and should not hold rallies or invent all kinds of fine-sounding stories. Stories that sound good, but are far removed from the reality of our lives.
At the same time, I believe that I am simply obliged to report to my voters and the entire country for what has been done over the last four years, and inform people about what I plan to do over the next four years if the citizens of Russia give me their trust on March 14.
It is this – the work that has been done and my plans for the future – that I would like to talk to you about today.
But before I talk about what has been done, let us recall the state that the country was in at the end of 1999 and beginning of 2000. And let us recall what reasons and factors influenced this state.
The shift to democracy and a market economy at the beginning of the 1990s was supported by the citizens of Russia in the most active and decisive manner, and they made a final and, I would like to stress this once more, irrevocable choice in favour of freedom. This was an enormous and genuine achievement of the Russian people, and I think one of the greatest achievements of our country in the 20th century.
But what was the price we had to pay for this? The destructive processes of the disintegration of statehood with the break-up of the Soviet Union affected – and this could and must have been foreseen – the Russian Federation itself.
Political speculations on people's natural desire for democracy, and serious errors in conducting economic and social reforms had very serious consequences. Almost a third of the country found itself below the poverty line. At the same time, there were mass cases of payment of pensions, benefits and salaries being delayed by many months. People were scared by the default, the sudden loss of all their cash deposits and all their savings, and no longer believed that the state could fulfil even the minimum of its social obligations.
The country was alarmed by strikes by miners, teachers and other public sector workers. Tax rates constantly increased, and fiscal policies were generally directed towards elementary survival.
Most major banks, as we know, went bankrupt, and after the 1998 crisis the credit system was virtually paralysed.
Furthermore, the country fell into a humiliating dependency on international financial organisations and various types of international financial speculators. Just think: Russia's foreign debt was almost 90% of GDP at the end of 1999.
All these circumstances, along with the default that had just been endured, did not make it possible to forget about the real possibility of new economic shocks.
The situation was aggravated by the fact that by that time, Russia had to a significant degree lost its independent position on the foreign stage. And the forces in the world that continued to live by the stereotypes of the ”cold war“, and despite their ”sweet“ speeches, that continued to regard Russia as a political rival, totally supported everything that could maintain this state in our country for as long as possible.
The situation in the sphere of domestic politics developed no less dramatically.
The constitution of the country and federal laws lost their supreme legal power in many regions. Regional parliaments passed laws that contradicted constitutional principles and federal norms. Federal documents were passed selectively, at regional leaders' discretion. And an unavoidable consequence of this ”competition“ was the authorities' abuse of power, from which people only suffered.
The fight for ”special“ financial and economic regimes was a constant item of bargain between regions and the federal centre. This reached the point that individual regions essentially moved outside the common legal and financial and fiscal system of the state, stopped paying taxes to the federal budget, and demanded the creation of their so-called own gold and currency reserves, their own energy and customs systems, and regional currency.
The outcome was economic inequality of the regions, and as a result economic inequality of citizens. And this became the norm. The common market of goods and services that had just come into being collapsed.
Separatist processes that had been brewing in Russia for several years did not get an adequate response from the government, but were actively supported by international extremist organisations, and finally, in the North Caucasus, took the most dangerous form – terrorism. This, of course, primarily concerns Chechnya.
After the signing of the Khasavyurt agreements, as a result of which Chechnya itself and the Chechen people were left to the mercy of fate, some may have thought that the nightmare of civil war was over. But this was not the case.
Sensing our weakness, and understanding the government's instability and the depressed moral state of society, in summer 1999 numerous groups of international terrorists went even further, as should have been expected. They went as far as to launch an open attack on Dagestan. They committed aggression in order to seize additional territories from Russia and take them into the zone of their criminal influence.
I think there is no need to explain how dangerous this was for the Caucasus and for Russia as a whole – especially considering the traditionally compact settlement of peoples in the south of Russia and of certain territories to the south of Russia. It is enough to look at the tragedy of the collapse of Yugoslavia to make all the necessary conclusions.
I would like to note that Russia was always a very complex state formation, and required careful, one could say professional, treatment. But unfortunately, by the end of the 1990s, and this needs to be admitted, it began to lose the main features of a single nation because of all the negative factors I have mentioned.
This is what we had to deal with. These are the conditions in which we had to simultaneously solve the most serious daily problems, and work on establishing new tendencies for long-term growth.
The government had to overcome obstacles almost constantly, to protect the integrity of the country in the war on separatism and international terrorism, and at the same time lay the foundations of our future.
And today I am simply obliged to thank everyone who stood up for the democratic achievements of the people in this difficult situation. Everyone who did not break under hard living conditions and situations, and who helped the country to its feet with their own efforts.
We are also obliged to remember and preserve in our memories all those people who, when the state was virtually unprepared to ensure the security of its citizens and protect the territorial integrity of the country, did their duty to the Motherland to the end.
They did their duty, as unfortunately has happened before in the history of our country, at the cost of their own lives.
Four years have gone by since then. Four years of intensive and difficult work. Of course, we would like to achieve more than the results we have today. But nevertheless a great deal has been done.
Above all, constitutional law and order has been restored in the country, and the vertical of federal executive power has been consolidated, and essentially rebuilt. The Russian Parliament has become a professionally working law-making body. The common legal space of the country has been restored.
Dangerous processes of degradation in state power, weakening of the army, the collapse of law-enforcement bodies and other power structures have been stopped. Fundamental changes are underway in the justice system.
The economic situation has also fundamentally changed. GDP has grown by almost 30%-29.9%, to be precise. The level of inflation has dropped three fold. It is no longer necessary to drastically increase tax rates to cover the minimum requirements of the state. And, as a result, the average Russian company is increasing its growth rates of production for the second year in a row. There are thousands of companies working effectively in the country today. Companies that work more effectively have begun to succeed on the market, and not companies that thrive on economically unjustifiable privileges and preferences.
This means that structural changes really have begun, even if they are difficult and slow. They are shown in the increase of investment in primary capital, and, what is particularly important, in the development of the domestic market and in the growth of domestic consumption.
I consider one of the fundamental achievements of the last few years to be the financial independence we have achieved and the stable rate of our national currency, the rouble.
The problem of paying our foreign debt has virtually been solved. Last year, as in previous years, we fulfilled all our financial obligations. In 2003 alone, we paid back $17 billion, and the country did not even feel this. Over these years, Russia has paid back $50 billion in foreign debt, including interest.
At the same time, the gold and currency reserves of the Central Bank are at their highest in the entire history of the country, including the Soviet period – over $84 billion.
We have greatly increased the investment attractiveness of Russia, and direct confirmation of this is that Russia has been awarded an investment rating.
These so far modest advancements in the economy, which are nevertheless evident and positive, have made it possible to take the first steps towards solving social problems and improving the living standard of Russian citizens.
In certain branches of production, and in some regions, we still encounter delays in payment of salary. But this problem is no longer nationwide, as it was in the past. Chronic non-payment of pensions and benefits are a thing of the past. The minimum wage has increased by four times in three years. Strikes as a mass phenomenon have disappeared in the country.
Since 2000, a positive dynamic has been achieved in all social indicators. I know that the Government is not always able to prevent economically unjustified price increases. But nevertheless, citizens' incomes are growing constantly. And this is confirmed by figures which are well-known, but which I will mention again, figures adjusted for inflation, and I want to stress this, figures that take into account price increase, currency fluctuations, and other factors.
The average pension has increased by almost 90% since 1999 in real terms. The real income of the population has increased over this period by one and a half times. Gradually, from year to year, salaries are increasing – they have almost doubled since 1999. I repeat: this concerns real income. The nominal, i.e. the absolute figures, are of course much higher.
Unemployment has decreased significantly, almost by a third. The number of people on incomes below the level of subsistence is still too high in Russia, but this figure has also decreased by a third.
The most important thing that I would like to highlight today is that uncertainty about the future is disappearing from our lives. Confusion and difficulties in making any long-term plans are also disappearing. It seems that at last the fear in society of the painful consequences of reforms has been overcome.
However, at the same time another thing should not be forgotten: at the same time, people justly make increasing demands for the state to work effectively. Their needs for a level and quality of life are increasing.
I would like to emphasise this: despite the scale of changes, we have only created a platform for a decisive turning point in the economic development of the country. A turning point that leads to a quality of life comparable with developed countries. And through this, to insure that Russia has an authority and influence that is worthy of our thousand-year history, our intellectual resources, and our opportunities for full participation in the international distribution of labour.
Dear colleagues,
I have listed what we have achieved so far. But have we really achieved as much as we could have? No, of course not. And can we feel satisfied with the results of our work? No, we cannot.
The main aim of everything we undertake is to raise peoples' quality of life. But we will see a radical achievement in the situation only once our economy has become so powerful that it no longer critically depends on outside economic factors or on the results of parliamentary and presidential elections. The Russian economy is growing fast today, but not yet fast enough. The government is not effective enough in the way it carries out its functions, or in terms of its officials' qualifications. The economic structure is still unbalanced and social spending is still not targeted specifically at the people who need it.
We are forced to admit that some of our closest neighbours and the East European countries have transformed their economies and societies more rapidly and decisively than we have. Much of what Russian specialists have come up with in the way of programmes for pension, housing and utilities, health, housing construction reform and reform in other sectors has not only been discussed in other countries but already put into practice.
Our economy is still very much dependent on exports of raw materials. Of course, our natural wealth is Russia's natural competitive advantage, and this is not something we should be afraid of saying. But an even greater natural competitive advantage is the great intellectual potential our country possesses. This potential should be turned into a driving force that will take the Russian economy further in high-technology and high-revenue sectors.
Building up a services market is proving a slow and difficult process. But it is precisely the services sector that accounts for the greatest share of GDP growth in developed countries. We, on the contrary, still have a state monopoly on services in the housing and utilities sector and other sectors that are of critical importance to our population. The result is that quality is low, while prices for these services keep growing, and so does the population's dissatisfaction. People end up paying twice, if not three times: first they pay taxes, they pay for the services, and then there are also bribes to pay.
The state's overbearing weight in the economy gives rise to a number of other negative consequences. Above all, state officials continue to carry out various functions – according all manner of permissions and licenses, performing inspection and supervisory functions – that taxpayers do not need and did not request. The result is stifled business initiative, corruption and abuse of power. I cannot help but repeat here that the effectiveness of the government still leaves a lot to be desired. Various reasonable proposals are made only to end up overlooked or bogged down in a bureaucratic morass of formalism and incompetence.
Administrative arbitrariness in the law enforcement system is another question. This creates an environment conducive to the various law enforcement agencies taking so-called ”extra-procedural“ action, that is, action that is not in accordance with the law.
But our citizens are not there to serve as a target for the punitive system's actions. The state, including its law enforcement and security services, is there to work for the people, to defend their rights, interests and property, not to mention their security and their lives.
It would be fitting to point out today that just two or three years ago, the insurgents who terrorised the North Caucasus did not imagine that our armed forces and anti-terrorism services would so rapidly raise their combat ability. They did not expect that our society would consolidate so decisively to defend the fundamental pillars of our statehood. For all their boasting and bravado they failed miserably and suffered a total defeat in open confrontation. Now, they resort to terrorist acts against civilians in an attempt to sow panic and fear and undermine confidence in the authorities. In this way they are seeking to break Russia's will in its struggle to strengthen democracy, freedom and its territorial integrity.
The Federal Security Service and the Ministry of Internal Affairs and other law enforcement and security agencies must continue their systematic work to liquidate terrorist networks. Effective operative work and development of tactics to prevent terrorist acts from taking place must receive particular attention.
Coming back to other current problems, I must note that transformation in the social sector is proceeding at an exceedingly slow pace. The delays in implementing health and education reform are preventing us from being able to fully guarantee the quality of services we offer in this sector. But much of the financial flows in these sectors are not in the open. We still do not have a developed medical insurance system, nor do we have competition on the medical services market.
As for education, this is currently the single greatest expense in the budget. We have a traditionally high quality of education, but standards are falling. We have to admit this fact. There are many reasons for this situation, including the emergence of a large number of higher educational establishments that do not meet quality standards but where it is easy for students to get accepted to study. The vast majority of graduates do not end up working in the areas for which they were trained. This means that the state is not taking a very rational approach to funding education and a lot of budget money is being wasted.
The housing problem requires particular attention. Housing shortages and poor quality housing give rise to a whole range of problems. These include lower ability to work, poor health, a low birth rate and other negative factors.
All these issues require our further work, and we must not delay in finding solutions for them as soon as we can.
The natural question is, where and how do we find new sources of growth? Above all, we can find them in new approaches to developing the country, consolidating society and the state, increasing the confidence the population and the authorities have in each other and encouraging a joint search for solutions to the major national tasks we have before us.
The Russian economy must decisively take its deserved place on the world market. For this we first need to develop our own national market.
We need to move more quickly to modernise production facilities that are fast becoming obsolete and build new facilities that will strengthen our competitiveness.
We need to stop throwing away our natural resources and we must bring order to the way they are used. To do this we need to systematise the legislative base by updating the water resources and forestry legislation and the laws on the use of natural mineral resources.
We need transparent conditions for access to natural resources and a fair system of payment for their use. Instead of the pseudo-tenders that are held now, where the main condition for winning is being close to the authorities, we should introduce a system of auctions. And instead of the current administrative approval system, we should introduce a system of full-fledged civil-law contracts with clear definitions of the rights and responsibilities of both business and the state. We need to complete modernisation in our railways sector, the electricity sector and the housing and utilities sector.
We have to finally complete the tax reforms we have begun. Above all, this means reducing the single social tax rate and simplifying tax administration. We need to bring order to property taxes and to taxation of the super profits made by raw materials exporters benefiting from high world commodities prices.
Once we have reduced the overall tax burden our tax system should finally achieve long-awaited stability. It should then be tied closely to inter-budgetary relations and the ongoing process of redistributing powers among the different levels of state power as rapidly as possible.
We must achieve a fully convertible rouble, all the more so as confidence is growing in the national currency.
We need to develop the country's financial system so as to give companies and individuals the opportunity to make use of all the benefits a developed financial services market can offer.
A policy aimed at encouraging people to save for their pensions is an essential part of developing and strengthening the financial system. People are already starting to realise that the size of their future pension will depend on their own contribution while they work, and that everyone has the opportunity to manage their own pension savings.
The state should not only encourage people to save for their pensions, it should also help them make these savings grow. This means putting in place financial incentives to encourage people to save for their pensions. I want to emphasise that this is a very important issue and that we will work on it very thoroughly and attentively.
As I already said, we absolutely must resolve the housing problem. World practice offers a number of solutions. One of the most promising is mortgage loans, another is long-term rent. We must also not forget the needs of people living in state housing. It is the authorities' duty to maintain this housing in decent condition.
I particularly want to mention mortgage loans. Even in developed countries few people can afford to pay the whole cost of housing all at once. Most people take out mortgages to buy housing and pay the cost off in instalments over 10–20 years. This system has now also begun to develop here, but the cost of borrowing and the conditions for getting the loan are such that mortgages are still inaccessible for most people. We need a comprehensive package of legislation that would really launch the development of an accessible housing market.
We cannot procrastinate over resolving these issues. The government should submit these bills during the spring parliamentary session.
We must also carry through to their conclusion the political transformations we have begun. In this respect, I would like to stress that our actions in this area will be as consistent as everything that we have undertaken over these last years to bring stability to the country.
Above all, we are implementing a programme to reform federal relations. Over the coming years we will complete the key transformations that are now taking place in local government. Every citizen will then have the real opportunity to demand the level and quality of service that each specific level of power is obliged to provide. And, of course, citizens will be able to directly influence the decisions that concern them. This is the aim of the laws that have already been approved and that are currently going through Parliament. For this to go ahead, we have to move quickly to complete work on the legal foundation and set out in law the principles of inter-budgetary relations.
We will act consistently to strengthen our political system both at federal and regional level. I am convinced that we need civilised political competition in order to develop our state. Influential, large political parties that have authority and enjoy the trust of our citizens should be the main stay of this work.
We must continue work to create a genuinely functioning civil society in our country. I especially want to say that creating a civil society is impossible without genuinely free and responsible media. But this freedom and responsibility require a legal and economic foundation to support them, and it is the state's obligation to create this foundation.
I firmly believe that only a developed civil society can truly protect democratic freedoms and guarantee the rights and freedoms of the citizen and the individual. Ultimately, only free people can ensure a growing economy and a prosperous state. In short, this is the alpha and omega of economic success and growth.
I would like to stress once more that the rights and freedoms of our people are the highest value that defines the sense and content of the state's work.
Finally, we will most certainly complete the transformations currently underway in the judicial system and the law enforcement agencies. I think this is a truly important area that is decisive for building up real democracy in the country and ensuring the constitutional rights and guarantees of our citizens.
In conclusion I would like to say the events of the early 1990s gave rise to great hopes and expectations among our people. This thirst for change led to a fundamental and dramatic change in our entire way of life. At times it seemed as though this flood of upheavals would never stop. Now we can see that the time of uncertainty and anxiety is over.
Now a new time has begun, a time of creating the conditions that will enable us to achieve a genuinely improved quality of life. This is not an easy task. It requires political will, an honest dialogue between society and the authorities and our combined, ongoing efforts.
We have to ask ourselves, will we be up to this challenge?
The results of recent years give us every ground to say that, yes, we do have the necessary strength in us.
And we will be up to the challenge, most definitely.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: February 12, 2004, 19:18
Text versionEvents
President Vladimir Putin’s Answers to Questions During a Meeting with His Election Campaign Representatives
February 12, 2004
00:02
Moscow State University
Tamara Karyakina: Tamara Karyakina, Employment Service. Mr Putin, welcome from the Tver Region.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Tamara Karyakina: We are next door to Moscow, in fact, we say that “Tver is the gateway to Moscow.” And our young people have long found their way through that gateway. Meanwhile the population in the region is ageing. Our demographics are such that we are a region of old age pensioners. So we are in a better position to appreciate how important and timely the measures to raise pensions are, and how important every improvement in health care for the aged is. Time is pressing, of course.
And this brings me to my question: how do you personally assess the human potential of the generation that is leaving the scene, the older generation, compared with the potential of the present generation? Don’t you think that the present generation doesn’t have the same “guts”?
Vladimir Putin: First, regarding the preservation of rural communities and small towns. I don’t think we can solve the problem by just raising pensions and benefits. We should develop agricultural production, the social infrastructure in rural areas, which is what we discussed at one of our “away” meetings. We have to raise rural incomes. That is a separate topic, which I think has been getting a fair amount of attention recently. We will keep it under review in the future as well.
As for comparing the generations, I think it is a philosophical question: some think the former generation was better and others think it was worse. In my opinion, change happens very slowly. Man has changed little over a thousand years. Living conditions change. In the new conditions people behave in a different way, the older generations could not behave in that way because they lived under totally different circumstances. But I am absolutely convinced that the main thing that we do have is the national character. I am convinced that in that sense the young generation is no inferior to the older one.
But to prove it we have to do everything to enable the older generation to live comfortably in our country. So we will continue our efforts to improve the pension system and to create conditions that raise the living standards of the people who gave their country the best years of their lives and did everything to put it back on its feet after various periods in its complicated history. I see this as a priority for all the levels of government, including the President.
Lidia Vasilyeva: I am Lidia Vasilyeva from Astrakhan, I head up the sturgeon farm.
We fish farmers are particularly worried about the plight of our industry. The headquarters of the industry has undergone four reorganisations in ten years. The heads of our committee have been replaced ten times. We expected that under your presidency order would be brought to the committee. Yet during this period we have had a succession of four committee chairs. The people appointed to manage the industry are non-professionals, they don’t know the industry and they manage it ineptly. We fish farmers are on the brink of despair.
We are particularly worried about the latest development. The question has been raised about privatising fisheries research centres, about giving into private hands functions that should properly be performed by the state. I think that would finish off the fisheries industry.
I do not hear much in your speeches about the fisheries industry. We would like you to pay attention to this industry, especially at such a difficult time. Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you for your question.
Naturally, the fisheries industry is of concern above all to those who work in it, which accounts for the reaction in the audience. But I would like to draw the attention of all those present to the fact that it is a very serious issue. It has nationwide implications because a lot of money is involved and the results make a difference to the realities of our lives, to the lives of ordinary citizens. If the results are not there, that is very noticeable.
Lidia has put the right question. It is one of the problems that has still to be addressed. It is true that there is too much hiring and firing, and that the Government has failed to regulate the issues in principle, as it should have done from the outset. I hope that the latest decision connected with the distribution of quotas and so on will improve the situation and give the regions a bigger say on these issues. It is a case that cannot be approached in a scholastic manner with dry formulas. We should look at the reality on the ground, at the life of the people whose livelihood depends on the functioning of the industry. As for privatisation of research centres, I must tell you frankly that I have not yet heard about it. I will check up on it.
But I think you know that the so-called research catch quotas have long turned into commercial quotas. And if science consists in the people doing it lining their pockets, then we do not need such government institutions. But if they engage in real research, that is another matter. In any case, the Government must put this department in order. I absolutely agree with you there.
A.Aksenova: Vladimir and Suzdal. You have visited our cities many times.
Vladimir Putin: Hello, I remember.
A.Aksenova: Could you say a few words about your views on the problems of culture. There are many problems.
Vladimir Putin: Culture is like air: it is the basis of our life, it is what the whole edifice of our state rests on. As I have said many times, we are a multi-ethnic and multi-denominational state, we have a unique cultural wealth. I can hardly name another country that has such cultural riches as ours. So, the first thing we must do is to preserve everything we have, to preserve that wealth, the linguistic and cultural legacy, and of course to multiply it. All the processes in this sphere must be handled with great care. There are some profit-making spheres, and there of course market relations should be promoted. But as a rule, the cultural sphere calls for particular attention and support on the part of the state. The government budget will allocate increasing sums to address these tasks.
Colonel Belyayev, Airborne Troops: In your speech you spoke about the disintegration of the Soviet Union. What is your personal attitude to this? And do you think that a similar state can be created? Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: It is my deep conviction that the collapse of the Soviet Union was a national tragedy on a massive scale.
I think the ordinary citizens of the former Soviet Union and the citizens in the post-Soviet space, the CIS countries, have gained nothing from it. On the contrary, people have been faced with a host of problems.
As for cultural originality, the issues of language and history, and this is what your colleague was just asking about, these issues could have been addressed on a new basis within a single state, but things turned out otherwise. Today we have what we have.
Incidentally, at that period, too, opinions varied, including among the leaders of the Union republics. For example, Nursultan Nazarbayev was categorically opposed to the dissolution of the Soviet Union and he said so openly proposing various formulas for preserving the state within the common borders. But, I repeat, all that is in the past. Today we should look at the situation in which we live. One cannot keep looking back and fretting about it: we should look forward.
The state in which we are today also has some benefits. I think such a dissociation benefited mainly the so-called elites and the nationalist-minded people in these republics. But it is something that has happened, it has been accepted by the peoples of these countries, by the international community and by the Russian Federation. These are independent, fully-fledged states and one must treat them with respect. Now, respect means recognising their legitimate interests. And that is where I see some benefits for us. The benefits are that Russia should cease to be a “milking cow” for all and sundry. And while complying with our obligation to treat all our partners equally and considering their interests, we have the right to expect them to reciprocate and to take into account our interests and to build a new relationship on that basis. Can we do this effectively or not? I am simply convinced that we can. We have everything it takes: we have what other regions of the world where integration processes are proceeding apace do not have. In fact, these processes are going on all over the world. We have Europe next door and we see what is happening there, but the same is happening in Latin America, in Asia, everywhere. Unlike the other regions of the world, the post-Soviet countries have obvious advantages: we have a shared language for communication, the Russian language, which everybody speaks. We have similar mentalities, we have a common history and interpenetrating economies, production and personal ties simply at the genetic level; we have a lot of mixed marriages and so on. It is an excellent basis for building a new integration, which would undoubtedly benefit both Russia and our CIS partners. Our partners are aware of the importance of this process. I hope we will implement these plans.
V. Kalashnikov, Tyumen Region: Four years will not be enough for you to accomplish everything you have planned.
Vladimir Putin: We will do it if you help us.
V. Kalashnikov: It is necessary to extend the presidential term to seven years. Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: I have already answered such questions and I would like to reaffirm my position. Of course such suggestions are prompted by a wish to see stability, but such stability can develop into stagnation. You can always find arguments to endlessly extend the tenure of this or that boss. Of course, five years might have been OK, it is a more rounded figure. But seven years is a bit too much.
If today the Russian head of state performs all his duties, he should work at the limit of his capacity, considering the huge amount of problems that have piled up. If one works under such strain for seven years, one can go crazy, you see? And there is another side to this problem. I have thought about it myself, and I understand that this would be seeking stability by undermining the Fundamental Law of the state, the Constitution. As soon as we start amending the Constitution, that already would lead to instability. Once we start doing that, there will be no stopping it. So it is better not to touch the Fundamental Law of the state and work within the framework that the people who developed the law envisaged. Four years is not a long time, but neither is it a short time. If a person puts in two four-year periods, working normally, people will appreciate it. That would add up to eight years. And the task of any leader – especially of such a rank – is to offer society the person he considers to be well-equipped to fill his job. If people agree with that, they will support him. And that would be a continuation of what is being done today. But even if that other person is a worthy and experienced person, he is still a different person, he brings new people, fresh ideas and fresh approaches to the problems that face the country. And that is always a plus.
A. MAGOMETOV, RECTOR OF THE NORTH OSSETIAN STATE UNIVERSITY, HEAD OF THE PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN HEADQUARTERS: You have visited our university and you liked it. God willing, you will visit us again.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
A.Magometov: I have a question that worries many rectors, it’s about the branches of central higher education institutions and other provincial branches.
There are small towns in the North Caucasus which have as many as 25–50 branches of the central higher education institutions. We are not afraid of competition. We have a very high admission score, and a normal competitive situation. But the trouble is that these branches hinder us in our work, they poach our professors, so that a university professor, for example, has no time left for educational work, no time left for research or indeed for a normal family life.
Can something be changed about the laws or can the Ministry be given some discretion on this issue? For example, the board of rectors – and I am chairman of the board of rectors – makes its case to the board that there is no need for such and such a branch, because several other branches offer training in the same speciality. And yet after a while a new shingle is put up: the branch of such and such central higher education institution. Thank you.
Question From The Audience: Did you try to raise the salaries?
Vladimir Putin: As regards raising salaries and competition in this labour market, it is a question that is relevant to the problem in hand. But on the whole, I have spoken about it in my speech: all sorts of education institutions, large and small, are mushrooming: the quality of training is inferior. This is the point you have made. Having branches may be justified in some places, but not in others. And, as I said, the majority of graduates don’t work in the field in which they have specialised, and it is unclear what these people do after graduation.
That sphere calls for special attention on the part of the government, but it should not take the form of a tightening of the screws. However, some sort of order must be restored here. I recently had a meeting with the members of the Presidential Council on Science at an academic institute, and the topic was raised there. Some ideas have been put forward as to how to develop the education system in general. In principle it is a problem of the development of the education system. I agree with you that the Government should pay more attention to it. In general, the geography of job placement, the number of higher education institutions and the number of people being trained in various specialities must be known to the Government. I absolutely agree with you there.
A.Klebeshev, Rector of the Kaliningrad State University: I would like to ask a question that does not have to do with education.
Of all Russia’s citizens, the people of Kaliningrad are perhaps most keenly aware that the solution of internal problems is often closely linked with foreign policy, including, as we see, the positions of the most advanced Western powers. Which brings me to my question. Do you think that our present-day allies or partners – America, Britain and France – are helping us to move along the path you have mentioned or hindering us? I have the impression that many mistrust us and do not want to help us.
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Why should anyone help us? Are we invalids or something?
I have already spoken about this: of course there are forces in the world that still live according to the stereotypes of the Cold War. I must say that I am aware of that and you probably also have the same impression; it is not by chance that you have asked this question, I am aware of it in my practical work. There are indeed powerful forces that simply cannot get out of the “freezer” and still perceive us as geopolitical adversaries. But one has to admit, you know the saying about “seeing a speck in the other’s eye and not seeing a beam in one’s own”. We also have all sorts of people and political forces, some of them extremist forces, and they have been expressing ideas at a high public level, including on international problems. So I wouldn’t tar everyone with the same brush: we are different people and we have different approaches. We must look for allies in civilised countries. We must melt the ice of mistrust that has of course formed over the 80 years in which the Soviet Union confronted the rest of the world. We must have patience. We must proceed carefully without allowing those who want us to quarrel with the rest of the world – and there are people who are trying to do it – without allowing them to provoke us to certain actions. But the healthy forces in the world and in the developed countries, in Europe, North America and the United States, for the most part are our partners. We will seek to work with these political forces in these countries. Our aim is to make Russia a fully-fledged and equal member of the international community.
We have taken many steps in that direction, but of course we should be careful to pursue our own interests in following that road. This is not to say that we should give everything away and turn our pockets inside out. We will proceed consistently and steadfastly, but very carefully. I am sure that such a restrained position will eventually be positive and we will achieve our goals.
Dmitry Kozak: More questions?
K. Achmiz, the President’S Campaign Representative, the Republic of Adygeya: We liked the economic part of your platform very much. Russia is a federative state. Some regions are net donors and some regions are net recipients of state subsidies. What is the outlook for inter-budgetary relations as you see it? Will the subsidised regions continue to be subsidised during your next presidential term?
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: The relations between the budgets of different levels should be targeted to encourage subsidised regions to develop their own economies. The next few years will tell how successful we will be. But our position is that as long as these regions need the support of the federal centre, such support must be forthcoming. And I’ll tell you what: I have raised this topic many times during the past years with our colleagues and the heads of Russian regions. The so-called donor regions keep saying: why do we have to pay and splash out money all the time? There must be a golden mean. Of course taking money away from donors without creating incentives for the development of regions is a poor recipe. But we must also admit that the so-called donor regions have accumulated their wealth or production assets at the expense of the whole country, including the citizens who live in those regions that now need support. So there is only one method of redistributing these resources, and that is through the federal budget.
In recent years we have discovered that the rights and duties of different levels of government – municipal, regional and federal – have not been properly regulated. The municipalities have been saddled with many responsibilities without being provided with the necessary money. A huge package of laws, some of which have been passed by the Duma, and some are still being finalised (other laws need to be passed to confirm the financial powers of different levels of government), is aimed at making the municipalities, regions and the federal centre self-sufficient. That is one of the key issues we must address in the near future.
Dmitry Kozak: More questions, colleagues? Two final questions. Unfortunately, time flies.
Svetlana Khorkina, Two-Times Olympic Gymnastics Champion: Good morning. What do you think the Russian Olympic team should do to win the largest number of medals at the forthcoming Olympic Games in Athens?
Vladimir Putin: You should win as you know how to. I have watched the latest events and I saw your brilliant performances. I would like to congratulate you on these brilliant performances and I hope that our other athletes will display their character and prove their worth. And the Sports Committee and the Government and myself, if necessary, are ready to do everything to ensure the training of our squad. We wish you success.
Question: What is your vision of the national idea, the national mission of Russia in the 21st century?
Vladimir Putin: I have already commented on that. You can gather and discuss the topic endlessly. I am deeply convinced that we face a very serious challenge. Various countries and regions are developing very rapidly. If we keep harping on our thousand-year history and bragging about our wealth of natural resources and about how smart we are and rest on these laurels, we will go to seed. We must be competitive in everything. A person must be competitive, a city, a village, an industry and the whole country. This is our main national idea today.
N.Korolchenko: I am a rural teacher, a school principal in the Moscow Region. You have visited our school and we could all see the main thing: you are very fond of children and you are raising two daughters. When can we create conditions in our country so that our families are not afraid to have three or four children? This is, as I see it, the future of our country.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, of course. The natural shrinking of the population is one of our problems. There are many factors behind it: the echoes of the Second World War still have a negative impact; and then there are the echoes of the early 1990s. Every person, country, region and city has their “planning horizon”. The planning horizon extends as a person feels that the situation is becoming more or less stable. He can plan for a more or less distant future, and make calculations for oneself and one’s family. It is not the only, but a very important factor. Of course we cannot proceed as they do in some other countries. For example, some countries (I will not mention them) have a very high birth rate. This is thought to be due to the absence of a pension system, and having many children is a way to ensure a decent old age for oneself. These countries historically had no pension system. But we cannot revert to such a state. We will never do it. We are a different kind of society and a different kind of country, and we must look for other, more modern ways of boosting the birth rate. But I must tell you that the main one is political and economic stability and sound economic decisions on the part of the state.
It was not by chance that I said that there needs to be a frank dialogue between society and the government, because decisions have to be taken if we are to be effective and competitive. We must understand and tell the people honestly that this or that thing is inefficient and therefore we have to get rid of it; this or that should be replaced because we want to achieve this and that.
We should depart from the stereotypes with which we lived under the planned system. On the face of it, they still sound fine, but in reality they are absolutely ineffective in the modern economy and in the modern world. This needs to be understood and explained to people, the right decision must be taken and we must have the will to carry it through. Then people will feel that uncertainty is behind them, that even if life is still hard, it is clear why and it is clear when and how it will end. If there is a clear-cut forecast and if we have such progressive development as we have enjoyed during the last four years (let us agree that GDP and economic growth have been significant during this time), if that happens – and we need a little more – I am sure that the birth rate trends will be positive.
Let us have some more questions.
S. Zaitsev, Mpo Mashinostroyeniye, Director of the Integrated Spacecraft Directorate: Today the security of Russia greatly depends on its nuclear shield. We all know how much effort, knowledge and skill have gone into creating it. Today the world is in turmoil and regional conflicts are flaring up.
Are you doing enough to make sure that nobody should ever dare to attack us?
Vladimir Putin: The issue of our security is one of the key issues. I must tell you that of course it concerns us, but, odd though it may seem, it also concerns others.
During the times of the Soviet Union the very factor of the Soviet Union – its power, especially its nuclear power – was a serious stabilising element. It was an element of balance of forces in the world. Today the situation has changed dramatically. But there is still a certain balance in the military-strategic sphere, and it is still there because the Russian Federation has a well-developed and powerful nuclear deterrent.
I am absolutely convinced that we should on no account behave in a way that makes others in the world afraid of us. That is why our actions inside the country and in the world arena must be understandable and predictable. As I said answering the previous questions we must become part of the modern world, part of the civilised world which would perceive our military muscle as an element of security on the planet. But it also means that we must support that might and we will do so by all means available.
We have a plan for the development of the armed forces for the coming decade. Every year the decisions taken as part of these ten-year plans are seriously tested when the main parameters of the budget, the current budget and the budget for next year are determined. But these issues have been and will remain at the focus of attention for the country’s political leadership.
Proof of this is the exercises involving the nuclear forces and other armed services of the Russian Federation that are to be held shortly. Such exercises have not been held for a long time due to a lack of finances and lack of preparedness for such large-scale military undertakings. We will hold them soon and we will continue to hold them, thereby developing all the armed services, including the nuclear deterrent.
Dmitry Kozak: Two final questions. There is such a thing as the President’s schedule, it is very tight.
Leonid Roshal: If you still have time, could you stay with us a little longer, because I think it is a very interesting conversation. As I have said many times: I personally enjoy such conversations, when we look each other in the eye.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much. Me too.
Leonid Roshal: I understand that today’s meeting attracts special attention, people have been waiting for it. It is in fact the first such address. It would be wrong for us to say nothing about the Russian health service. I would like to know your vision for the Russian health care system. Everybody knows that it has hit rock bottom: only 30% of our doctors work in rural areas, which is well known; everybody knows that clinics have only 50% of the doctors they need; we are not only terribly short of personnel, but we are short of funding for rural development and for areas of the Russian health service. When we conduct opinion surveys people complain above all about the delivery of health services.
Doctors continue to work, some of them drift into commercial entities, but the backbone of the profession is still there. And I would like to ask you another question. What is your opinion about putting teachers and doctors in the category of civil servants?
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: It is one of the key questions, I have touched upon it, but only in a very general way. I think that the health system created during Soviet times – and I have followed closely the discussions in which you took part and I agree with you there – was one of the best in the world. And we should do everything to preserve certain key elements of that system, meaning that it is accessible to all citizens. It is an accessible system. And if you remember that nearly 30 million people in this country still live below the poverty line, many people won’t be able to afford to pay their medical bills for a long time yet. So the state must do everything to preserve the key elements of the old system.
At the same time, as I said, if we have the market then the system cannot function as it did in the past. For everything to function as it did before, the country would have to be brought back. But that is impossible. So we should adjust the system of health care and the system of education in line with the market, where it does not dovetail with the market, which is pretty much everywhere. Various options are possible: private practice organised in a certain way and so on and so forth. We should develop the system of paid-for services, but do it very carefully. And at this stage of course, we should increase direct budget financing of health care. Having said that, I would like our medical institutions to get funds not simply because they exist in nature, in the cities and rural areas, but because they offer quality services. That I think is an answer to the problem.
As for teachers, we have just passed a decision that came into force on January 1, elevating several issues in this sphere to government level, to the level of the region in terms of salaries and provision of schools. That is the first step. We will see how it works and we will draw conclusions for further decisions.
Dmitry Kozak: One more question, colleagues.
Vladimir Putin: Use the microphone please.
Question: During the last four years a system has been put in place in the country that makes it possible to address issues in the agricultural sector that have not been addressed for decades. In my region agriculture got a thousand combine harvesters under a federal leasing scheme, renewing the fleet by a quarter.
My question is: will financial support of agriculture increase in proportion to the growing wealth of our state? Number one.
Number two. What do you think about developing a package of laws that enable the state to regulate prices and to make interventions if threats arise, for example with bread prices? This whole package of legislation has been scrapped and the state has been put out of the picture. Should this topic be revisited and should such a package of laws be created?
Vladimir Putin: Right off, I think such a package is necessary. The state can use market mechanisms to prevent economically unjustified speculative growth of prices. It can do so by market methods, not necessarily by restrictive measures. It can make market interventions, we should create corresponding commodity exchanges and so on. All this can be done, the Government is aware of it. It is taking a bit too long to make the decision, but I hope it will come through.
Secondly, as regards supporting various sectors of the economy. On the whole it is not right to support one sector at the expense of another. But one has to bear in mind that nearly 40 million people live in rural areas, these people do not only work but live in the countryside. By the way, all the countries in the world pay particular attention to the countryside. Let us look at the development plans in the European Union. They address three main areas: infrastructure, agriculture and science. We are watching closely what is happening in the world. In my opinion they are overdoing it a bit in some areas.
We support our agriculture. This support takes the form of tax benefits, and the development of leasing, which you have mentioned, and that budget item will be preserved and increased. We will try to support the development of domestic production of agricultural machinery. And of course the Government should pursue a more flexible and sensitive policy in terms of allowing farm produce from other countries into the internal market. These instruments should help our producers without allowing prices for staple foods to grow.
Question: All the people of Pskov send you their regards. We remember your visit and we always look forward to seeing you again.
There was a question about medicine. I must say that four years ago, when Mr Putin was in the Pskov Region, he visited our regional children’s hospital and he helped us a great deal. The second stage of the hospital is to be commissioned in early March, and we invite you to attend the opening of the second unit.
But that is not my main point. In your speech you paid attention to small towns, and I represent a small territory, not in terms of area or the number of people, although that too is a problem worth discussing. We are also a small territory in terms of our economic contribution to the overall Russian economy. It so happened that the Pskov Region has no gas, no oil, no coal, no big factories built under the Soviet government – nothing. But we are making a big contribution to the cultural field. The Pskov Region is proud, like some other territories, to have marked its 1,100th anniversary last year.
This brings me to my question. Do you think that Russia and its economy are mature enough to pay special attention to these small territories, not towns, but regions? Early steps have been made in terms of electricity rates. We feel it, and that’s great, but it is not enough. Seven years ago we were in the 96th place in the economic rankings, today we are in the 64th place. But it will be more and more difficult for us to progress further relying only on our resources. Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: What exactly do you mean when you say that “it will be more difficult to move further”?
Question: (off mike) If federal budget assistance to all the regions is at the same level….
Vladimir Putin: I understand you. Let me tell you that even today we don’t have the “one-size-fits-all” approach. Replying to my colleague from Adygeya, I said that the Finance Ministry and the Russian Government have developed a system for partial redistribution of resources from donors to subsidised regions to support their development. That is already being done. The question is not to overdo it because constant injections from the federal budget into subsidised territories deprive them of incentives for development. For such an incentive to be there it is necessary to provide certain framework conditions for the functioning of the economy. The differences between different parts of our country are great. You have mentioned Pskov. A colleague was raising his hand here saying that you have hijacked his question, he comes from “the North” and I am sure he wanted to ask a question about “the North”. Seventy percent of our territories are classified as northern or remote territories, and they too claim special attention. And think of the Far East. Go to the Far East and listen to the people there. Many of them think they should be paid just for living there.
You know, we should build up a consensus that the Far East, Siberia, the remote territories and the centre of the country and the Non-Black-Soil Area – all this is a single country, which must live according to uniform laws, but those laws should allow the economy to develop effectively. Of course we should encourage the local authorities to adjust economic regimes to effective development of their regions. I have spoken about the principles on which economic work should be based, they will be fairly liberal, but at the same time there will be targeted support, which is what you have mentioned. But we should proceed carefully so as not to kill the incentive for internal development.
Thank you very much for your support and for your joint work. I wish you success because it will be our common success. Thank you very much. All the best to you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: February 12, 2004, 00:02
Text versionEvents
Opening Remarks at a Meeting with German Vice Chancellor and Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer
February 12, 2004
13:23
The Kremlin, Moscow
Vladimir Putin:
“The star-filled heavens above us and the world inside us will always fascinate humanity.”
I know that you have just come from Kaliningrad where you took part in events commemorating our common compatriot, Immanuel Kant. You also took part in the opening of the German Federal Republic’s consulate there. I think this is a small but real step towards broadening our opportunities for cooperation.
Our cooperation is developing very positively. Our trade turnover remains very high – 24 billion euros. Germany is the biggest investor in the Russian economy with more than 10 billion euros in accumulated investments. We are also developing our ties in humanitarian and other areas. In general, we are working in the spirit of the agreements that we reached in Yekaterinburg at our last meeting.
Germany is also a very important partner for Russia when it comes to building up relations between our country and the European Union.
You are set to discuss all these different questions while here in Moscow, and I am sure that your talks and consultations will take place in a good, positive atmosphere.
You mentioned the nature of modern international relations and the principles guiding international relations today.
Truly, we can say without any exaggeration that the ideas Kant set out in his works, especially in his essay “Towards Eternal Peace” form the foundation of modern international relations. We really do share a common foundation and we feel particular respect for it. And it is upon this common foundation that we are developing our ties today and, I am sure, will continue to do so in the future.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: February 12, 2004, 13:23
Text version