Events
Opening Remarks at a Meeting with Peruvian President Alejandro Toledo Manrique
November 21, 2004
00:02
Santiago, Chile
President Vladimir Putin: Mr President, I’m very glad to be talking to you in this format, though we have been working together all day. Yes, I know that you have questions regarding bilateral relations. I would be pleased to discuss them.
Alejandro Toledo: Mr President, I would first like to thank you for this opportunity to meet so late at night.
Secondly, I’d like to ask you a multilateral question. I am chairman of the Andean community. We are currently negotiating your association with the Andean community. We have struck a strategic alliance with Brazil and my friend President Lula. We are closely following the situation in Russia. Despite the distance, the technological progress brings the world closer, and in particular, our continent and Russia. But business volume between our countries is too small.
I am not complaining, I talking about our potential, above all, the potential of investment co-operation. It is one of the ways for our peoples to get to know each other better, to know their national identity, with mutual respect for our cultural differences. With this approach of Latin America looking for co-operation with Russia and Asian nations, I want to tell you, Mr President, that my government has decided to recognise Russia’s economy as market economy. I am ready to announce this tonight or tomorrow.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you, Mr President. I think that this will further encourage our ties. We are seriously interested in bilateral relations with many Latin American countries and in unification, including with MERCOSUR nations.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 21, 2004, 00:02
Text versionEvents
Beginning of the Meeting with Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi
November 21, 2004
00:03
Santiago, Chile
President Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister, it is very pleasing for me to have the opportunity to make use of our meeting here in Chile, to hold a bilateral meeting with you. I note with pleasure that despite a series of undecided issues, relations between our countries are developing. At any rate, today we are able to discuss everything, even the most difficult issues, as partners, and even as friends.
Last year, trade between our countries grew by 54%. The investment component is also growing. Japanese companies take an active part in a number of energy projects in the Far East, on Sakhalin. And we will welcome and support the activity of Japanese companies on the Russian market, and in the Russian economy.
There are many events ahead of us next year, which I believe marks 150 years since official diplomatic relations were established with Japan. I would propose to remember these events in a positively and celebrate this date. I am very happy to see you, dear colleagues.
Junichiro Koizumi: I am very happy to meet with you, Mr President, after our meeting on Sea Island.
I would like to take this opportunity to give my sincere thanks for the assistance that Russia gave us in the earthquake in the Ningata prefecture.
I am very happy that at the recent meeting of foreign ministers, an agreement was reached on holding regular meetings between foreign ministers, in order to develop our relations in the future.
During our meeting in Sea Island we agreed that your visit to Japan would be held at a time that is convenient for you, and we will organize for your visit to be held next year. This indeed will mark the anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 21, 2004, 00:03
Text versionEvents
Press Opportunity upon the End of the Official Visit to Chile
November 21, 2004
00:04
Santiago, Chile
Question: It was the first function you attended here. What are your impressions of the official visit and its results?
President Vladimir Putin: Let’s begin with impressions. A very warm welcome and very warm feelings for Russia. The country [Chile] is located far away [from Russia] and the volume of our trade and economic relations is not very large so far. But the country has a good potential. It is a rapidly developing economy and, though located in Latin America, it trades broadly with Europe, China and Asia. Its partners on the American continent account only for one-third of its trade. In other words, it has the experience of working with geographically remote partners; it has the necessary requirements and capabilities. And so we have a good chance, in particular, to use Chile as the bridgehead for developing relations with other Latin American countries. This is first.
Second, we have signed WTO accession agreements with the Chilean side, which is a good step towards attaining this goal, especially because we have not finished accession talks with some other partners, in particular the US, yet.
Question: What is your opinion of your talks with George W.Bush?
Vladimir Putin: I have again, this time personally, congratulated the President on his election victory. Most importantly, we confirmed that the standards of relations between the two countries, which we achieved in the past few years, are the point of departure now. We will not stop; we will use all instruments created in the past years to develop interstate relations. And we will keep on developing and intensifying economic relations; the outlook is positive.
Everyone knows that the US is one of our main trade and economic partners, and the prospects are very good. But this is not all. We also spoke about bilateral aspects of international security. It should be remembered that the US and Russia are the largest nuclear powers. We have common interests in this sphere, in particular, non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. In this connection we discussed North Korean problems and the question of the “Iranian nuclear file.”
I can tell you that we have the same views on many issues and we will try, at least, to solve problems peacefully, at the negotiating table. The more so that we see noticeable improvement on the Iranian track, following the recent decisions made by the Iranian leadership.
We also discussed possible meetings in the future. I invited the US President to come to Russia, to Moscow, during the May 9 celebrations of the 60th anniversary of victory in the Great Patriotic War next year.
Question: What can you say about the results of the APEC summit?
Vladimir Putin: As for the summit results, they are concerned above all with discussions of economic issues, the struggle against corruption, improvement of international trade, and liberalization of the global economy. In this sense, Russia would like to carry on dialog with its partners, meaning as regard accession to the WTO. Like before, we are resolved to become a member of this universal international economic organization. But, as we have said more than once, we want to join it on standard, discrimination-free, conditions.
We are satisfied with the decisions and the discussion of these issues in Chile, because all participants in today’s meeting confirmed the principles underlying the WTO and APEC. I mean the Bogor Goals, the goals of free economy. We need nothing more from our partners. We hope the talks with the countries with which we have not signed relevant protocols so far will proceed positively.
As for terrorism, everyone knows that Russia is, regrettably, an object of attacks — repeated attacks — by international terrorists. And we sincerely want to develop international cooperation in this sphere. We spoke in the same language here, I must say; there was no difference of opinion or misunderstanding between the meeting participants, today or yesterday. We are greatly satisfied with the discussion and the decisions taken on this issue.
Question: What about your meeting with Hu Jintao?
Vladimir Putin: Barely a month has passed since my visit to China, yet we had things to discuss. We spoke about the implementation of the Joint Action Plan, the development of bilateral relations, and international relations in respect of Iraq and especially North Korea, where Russia and China are playing an active part in the six-party mechanism of the North Korean settlement. We spoke about cooperation within the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, including with partners in Central Asia. These issues were discussed in considerable detail and, I am sure, this will benefit bilateral ties.
Question: Since you plan to visit Japan, what is your view of your meeting with Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi today?
Vladimir Putin: I have a positive view. I am satisfied with today’s meeting, as well as the nature of problems discussed there and the atmosphere of the discussion. It was benevolent, I would even say, friendly. We spoke openly about positive changes that have appeared in bilateral relations of late. There are positive changes, you know, and we are happy about this. We also spoke openly about problems that have not been solved, including the Peace Treaty. We regret to say that we have not yet come closer to solving these problems. But Japan and Russia are resolved to keep on moving towards each other and to search for a mutually acceptable solution.
Question: You said here that you have made progress at the WTO accession talks. What did you mean?
Vladimir Putin: First, we signed a relevant protocol with Chile, which amounts to progress. We also came to an agreement on WTO accession conditions with one more country. We had a good conversation with the President of Mexico and I hope it will have positive results. We discussed this issue with him, too.
I believe that today’s discussion of principles underlying the construction of modern democratic economic relations in the world at the APEC summit today will have a positive effect on Russia’s accession to the WTO.
We discussed this in a separate conversation with the US President, who has supported, both publicly and in private, Russia’s desire to join the WTO, and who announced his support at our one-on-one meeting. I hope this will have its effect on accession talks.
Question: Thank you for the detailed information about the results of this trip. But what is your general impression? Do you remember how many bilateral meetings you have had these past few days?
Vladimir Putin: I do… You can say that I have had bilateral talks with every one of the world leaders present here, in the presence of the press or without it. There were 19 of my colleagues here, and I have talked with each of them. It may have been a short conversation, possibly without journalists present, but we did discuss international, multilateral and bilateral relations. I had meetings even with [the leaders of] such small but important members of the international economic community as Singapore and Malaysia; even small APEC countries are important to us. I have talked with all participants in the forum.
You know, it was a useful meeting, useful not only for strengthening personal contacts with state leaders but also for creating a certain atmosphere, in particular, an atmosphere around my country.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 21, 2004, 00:04
Text versionEvents
Opening Remarks at a Meeting with President Hu Jintao of China
November 21, 2004
00:01
Santiago, Chile
Hu Jintao: I am very pleased to see you again a month after our previous meeting, Mr President.
Important progress has been made since your recent visit to China. We have arrived at many agreements over further development of our relations and actively exchanged opinions on crucial issues. I am convinced that these will become a good basis for long-term and stable development of the Chinese-Russian partnership and strategic interaction. I am ready to listen to your opinion first.
President Vladimir Putin: I want to begin with saying how pleased I am to see you again, Mr Chairman. My colleagues and I remember the warm welcome you gave us in Beijing a month ago. I agree that the results of our efforts are impressive, and they form an absolutely new atmosphere for our interaction. The joint plan of action that has been worked out and adopted is a good guide for our joint activities.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 21, 2004, 00:01
Text versionEvents
Interview with Brazilian newspapers Folha de Sao Paulo and O Globo
November 21, 2004
00:00
Question: Mr President, it is clear today that relations between our countries are on the increase. Do you think that this historic visit you will make to Brazil can give a further boost to our relations?
President Vladimir Putin: I would very much like for this to be the case. For a start, this is the first visit at such a high level in the history of our relations. Second, we can see, as you rightly noted, that our relations are indeed developing positively.
Brazil is one of the biggest Latin American countries, the biggest, no doubt, and, more importantly, it is a country with immense development potential. Our trade turnover now stands at around $2 billion and we have good prospects for developing and expanding our cooperation and giving it a better quality. Therefore, we do place great hopes on this visit.
A meeting between business community representatives from both our countries is to take place just before my visit. Our cooperation on the international stage is increasing. All of this shows that there is still much unused potential we can develop.
Question: What specific objectives have you set for your visit? In particular, will you discuss the possibility of Brazil purchasing Russian Sukhoi fighter planes for its air force and the contract for acquiring Brazilian aviation equipment for Aeroflot’s needs? Will you discuss the issue of halting meat imports from Brazil?
Vladimir Putin: Visits at this level, at the highest level, have far more significant objectives than concluding specific deals, even if they are important deals.
Brazil will be one of the non-permanent members of the United Nations Security Council in 2004–2005. We share with Brazil similar views in many respects on international processes and a similar vision of building modern and democratic international relations. In this respect Brazil is an important partner for us.
I hope that President Lula and I will exchange views on developments in the world situation. But perhaps our principal focus will, naturally, be on developing our economic cooperation.
I already mentioned this business community meeting that is to take place. Our delegation will include a considerable number of Russian government representatives.
We have good prospects for diversifying our relations and putting greater emphasis on cooperation in high-technology fields, including in the aerospace and energy sectors, nuclear energy included.
I hope we will also be able to build on our first positive steps in military-technical cooperation.
We are grateful to the Brazilian government for allowing our manufacturers to take part in the tender for new aircraft for the Brazilian air force. I am sure that if Brazilian specialists examine all the possibilities our aviation technology offers, Russia will have every chance of winning this tender.
It is well known that Russia has many interesting and promising developments in the military-technical sphere. We are ready to deliver the needed equipment and ready for joint cooperation in arms production with Brazilian specialists. This is an area that is very closely linked to high technology in general. In this respect, we hope to develop closer cooperation between the scientific communities in our two countries.
I think we will also be able to strengthen our relations in more traditional sectors such as agriculture, for example. The restrictions on meat imports that you mentioned are due to Brazil’s announcement that it had discovered certain diseases in its livestock, diseases that have long since not been found in Europe. We don’t even have vaccinations against these diseases.
These restrictions concern only meat products that have not undergone heat treatment.
Our interview is to be published somewhat later, but as far as I know, our Agriculture Ministry is to take the decision to open one of Brazil’s states, Santa Catarina, to meat product imports to Russia. Specialists from various ministries and agencies, including the Agriculture Ministry, are working on this visit’s preparation. It is possible that the talks being held could result in other Brazilian states also being re-approved for meat imports to Russia.
Question: Mr President, does Russia support Brazil’s bid for a permanent seat on an enlarged United Nations Security Council?
Vladimir Putin: It is clear that the international community has no other universal organisation of the likes of the United Nations.
The UN, of course, must also adapt to modern demands and take into account the reality of the modern world in its work. We are, therefore, in favour of its reform. But these reforms should not undermine the organisation itself, should not go against the main principles of the way the UN works and should not result in the loss of the principal instruments that UN uses in its work.
Reforming the Security Council is not the only possible avenue for change. We also need to look at expanding the United Nations’ humanitarian functions, peacekeeping efforts and so on. We see Brazil as a real candidate for a permanent seat on the Security Council, but this issue should be settled as part of an overall approach that also takes into account the other aspects I mentioned.
Question: Brazil is having some problems in its relations with the International Atomic Energy Agency. How do you see prospects for cooperation between Russia and Brazil in light of the role this organization plays?
Vladimir Putin: We believe that Brazil, like any other country, has the right to develop its peaceful nuclear programmes. We categorically oppose expanding the club of countries that possess nuclear arms. The spread of nuclear weapons around the world would do nothing to improve the security situation in the world, on the contrary, it would only push humankind closer and closer to a dangerous threshold.
We therefore believe it would be right for Brazil to sign the IAEA additional protocols, but I stress that we also believe Brazil does have every right to develop its own peaceful nuclear programme.
Russia is ready to cooperate with Brazil in all areas in this field. We have good experience, good developments and specialists, and so this is an interesting and promising direction for cooperation between our two countries.
Question: Excuse me for coming back to this question again, but will you discuss nuclear cooperation during your visit to Brazil?
Vladimir Putin: Yes, it is entirely possible. We know that a third block is being opened at the nuclear power station in Brazil. I repeat that we have good traditions in machine-building for the energy sector and we have many developments in this area. We could be of interest for each other in this area.
Question: It is known that in the run-up to the military operations in Iraq a number of countries such as Russia, France and Germany, and to a lesser extent China, opposed these plans.
A year-and-a-half has now gone by. How do you view the situation in Iraq today and what prospects do you see for settling the situation there following President George Bush’s re-election for a second term?
Vladimir Putin: The situation is clear. It is a complex situation, despite the fact that various countries had different views on how to settle the situation there. But despite today’s difficulties there, we believe that we must do all possible to restore peace as soon as we can in Iraq so that the country can develop peacefully and become a democratic and friendly country and a partner for Russia.
We always had a good tradition of friendly relations with Iraq and we are willing to do our part to help rebuild the country. It is very important that democratic elections be held there as scheduled. As you know, we were the initiators of the holding an international conference on Iraq and I think that the upcoming meeting of foreign ministers in Sharm-al-Sheikh is a step in the right direction. The sooner the Iraqi people are able to take their country’s destiny in their own hands and establish their own control over it and its national resources, the sooner the process of pushing the forces of international terrorism out of Iraq will be able to begin. And the sooner the process of consolidating Iraqi society itself will also be able to begin. Our vision of Iraq, as I said, is of a democratic country with its full territorial integrity.
Question: Will this be reflected in the position that Russia will take at the international conference on Iraq, in other words, will Russia take a clear position on this issue?
Vladimir Putin: Yes, of course. I just gave a general outline of this position. The basis for our proposal to hold an international conference on Iraq is that we believe we need to get all interested countries, above all Iraq’s neighbours, involved in settling the situation there, and we also need to create a forum for dialogue with the various forces within Iraq itself.
Our proposal is also based on the international community’s experience regarding Afghanistan. Of course, we have no intention of imposing and cannot impose our proposal on Iraq. Our proposal came about as a result of the search for a way to settle the situation.
Question: Continuing the subject of Iraq, and also in light of the recent death of Yasser Arafat, how do you see the situation in the Middle East and Russia’s role in this process?
Vladimir Putin: This is a very global question. I will try to give a general overview of Russia’s position on this issue.
Now that Yasser Arafat has departed from the political stage, the primary task is to consolidate the Palestinian leadership and create conditions for democratic transformation within the Palestinian Autonomy itself. So far, none of the parties to the conflict or any of the intermediaries have come up with anything better than the “Road Map”.
As co-sponsor of this settlement process, we will work with our partners to strive for having the “Road Map” gradually implemented so as to eventually result in the creation of an independent Palestinian state with clear security guarantees for Israel. This is the direction in which Russia and its partners will work.
Question: The European Union has enlarged and taken in many of Russia’s former partners from the socialist bloc. Do you think that the accession of these new members has had an effect on relations between Russia and the EU?
Vladimir Putin: Above all, the European Union is our major trade and economic partner and accounts for around half of all our foreign trade.
Russia itself is a European country, and not just because our major political and economic centres are in Europe, but because Russian culture is primarily European culture.
The European Union’s enlargement is part of the natural process of integration and globalisation that is underway in the world today. We therefore see this as something positive. But at the same time it is only natural that we do not want this process, this European Union enlargement, to create new dividing lines in Europe, something like a virtual Berlin Wall.
The negotiating process was not easy and we were worried, of course, about what impact EU enlargement would have on our traditional trade and economic ties with our partners in Central and Eastern Europe. There are still a few causes for concern today. Overall, however, our dialogue with the European Union has been positive and, as recent practice has shown, we are able to find compromise solutions, both Russia and our European partners.
Question: Allow me to change subject and talk a little about Russian affairs. The anti-terrorist measures that you took following the tragedy in Beslan have changed the way the Duma is elected and led to the end of direct elections for regional governors. To what extent will these measures help fight terrorism?
Vladimir Putin: First of all, I want to say that Russia is probably one of the first countries to have been confronted with this problem of terrorism. It took some time before the international community realised the danger terrorism poses.
International terrorists have proved quite skilled at misleading many people about what is actually happening here in the Caucasus, and they continue to mislead people today. International terrorists who pursue completely mad objectives such as establishing a world caliphate or something of the sort, are quite adept at disguising their real aims as a struggle for independence in Chechnya.
The fight against terrorism is something very real and practical for us. This is a fight to preserve our territorial integrity, and in this sense we need to have the instruments and create an environment in Russia that would make it impossible for the international terrorist organisations to achieve the aims they have set for themselves here. Only a developed society, for example, only a strong democratic system in modern conditions can create a climate in which any manifestation of terrorism is unacceptable and can also make the state itself stronger. In this context, I believe that the change to electing State Duma deputies based on the representative principle will help strengthen the multiparty system here.
As for the formation of the executive bodies of power in the regions, the issue here is not just fighting terrorism, although this is one of the considerations. What we are talking about in this case is not appointing governors from Moscow, but nominating candidates for governor that the regional parliaments will then have the power to approve or reject. You must agree that this is not the same thing as direct appointment. On the one hand, then these will be people who have the support of the local population as represented by the regional parliament, and on the other hand they will also have the trust of the head of state. I believe this could well serve as a preventive step to strengthen the state and to help ensure that the state’s institutions function more effectively. This is a preventive measure aimed at stopping short those who have made it their goal to destabilise the Russian state and create disorder in the country.
Question: Some analysts say that Russia is awash with money thanks to high oil prices. Do you not think that this flood of money into Russia could make your country dependent on oil prices?
Vladimir Putin: It’s not considered polite in Russia to count the money in someone else’s pocket. But, being serious, high oil prices have both positive and negative aspects for us. For a start, prices for oil products are rising on the domestic market too, and this has a negative impact on other economic sectors, on agriculture, for example. This is also a negative growth factor for other sectors.
The Central Bank and the government face the serious challenge of keeping macroeconomic indicators stable and have to make a great effort to sterilise the money supply.
Also, given that this is such a profitable business today, capital is flowing into the oil sector. The government is aware of the dangers this represents and is working to shift some of the tax burden away from the processing sectors of the economy, but this all has to be carried out very carefully, based on the well known medical principle of not causing any harm, in other words, of not ending up creating problems for the energy sector. We are aware of all this and are responding to the situation.
Question: There has long since been talk in the West about different models of democracy, the Western model and the Russian model. Do you think that Western development models are applicable to Russia, or is Russia following its own road?
Vladimir Putin: I think that rather than talking about particular models, of which there could be a huge number, we should talk about basic principles of democracy. After all, even within the West, there is no single standard and single model.
Some countries have a parliamentary republic, some are presidential republics and some are still monarchies, but no one sees them as not being democratic. In some countries regional leaders are appointed from the centre and in others they are elected. In Russia, the president is elected through direct secret ballot, and in the United States, the president is elected through a system of electoral colleges.
But the basic principles of democracy should be observed whatever the country – principles such as civil liberties, a free market, a free press, the priority of the individual over mythical state interests, a state which serves the interests of ordinary people and defends their rights and interests. This is all easy to say but hard to make reality.
How to actually apply this to this or that country, taking into account the degree of development of civil society and its institutions, the traditions and history of this or that people, is a creative process and in this sense we probably can speak of different models. What is clear for us is that the Russian people chose democracy at the beginning of the 1990s and this was their final choice.
Question: Coming back to the subject of oil, what were the reasons for Mikhail Khodorkovsky’s arrest, and was the real reason not that he could have become an influential political figure?
Vladimir Putin: Khodorkovsky was never involved in politics. He was never a State Duma deputy and was never a member of any party or headed any political movement. It is wrong, therefore, to read a political motive into what is a criminal case.
But in Russia, as in other democratic countries, there is presumption of innocence until such time as the court delivers a guilty verdict. This presumption of innocence also applies to Mr Khodorkovsky. As far as I am concerned, he is innocent until the trial takes place and a decision is reached.
Economic crimes are complex in nature, difficult to untangle, and they must be investigated according to the procedures set by the law.
One thing is clear, everyone, no matter what their professional or material status, no matter what their influence on various state structures, must obey the law. Everyone must be equal before the law, abide by it, pay their taxes and bear the punishment should they break the law.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 21, 2004, 00:00
Text version