Events
Speech at a Security Council Session
July 19, 2004
20:23
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, dear colleagues and members of the Security Council,
Today, the Security Council is considering the most important issue of Russia’s policy in the Commonwealth of Independent States. I hope that this discussion will become another step in the development of Russia’s long-term strategy in this key, priority area. I expect it to correspond to the new geopolitical realities based on a clear awareness of our national interests and realistic assessment of Russia’s capabilities.
The past years have proved that the CIS as organization is essential for broad political dialogue, especially when seeking common approaches to regional and international problems. Today, serious economic interest in inter-state cooperation is becoming increasingly obvious. Let’s say honestly: the Commonwealth’s successful work could have been much more noticeable and meaningful for both all its member states and their citizens. This also applies to Russia, whose CIS policy has not always been effective, pragmatic, and, what is particularly importantly, consistent. I believe that we have approached a decisive moment in the development of the Commonwealth. Basically, there is only one choice: either we essentially strengthen the CIS, and create a working, globally influential regional structure, or this geopolitical area will inevitably erode and, as a result, will lose any attractiveness for its member states. The latter scenario may not take place. Russia’s role in increasing the influence and authority of the CIS is today extremely important.
This country has obviously been and remains the driving force behind CIS integration for many objective reasons. Our partners in the leadership of CIS member states also admit this. However, it would be a grave mistake to believe that Russia has a sort of monopoly on work on this territory, which is something I recently talked about at a meeting with the Russian Federation’s ambassadors at the Foreign Ministry. We are facing increasing political and economic competition within the CIS, and to strengthen its standing, Russia has to offer and implement effective and appealing solutions to problems throughout the CIS.
Today, it is very important that the work of Russian representative offices throughout the Commonwealth should not be merely formal. I do not mean this as criticism of the Foreign Ministry, but still let us say again what we have repeatedly said – the work of diplomatic missions in the CIS has many specific features and requires new approaches. So far our CIS operations (this applies not only to the Foreign Ministry, but to all our state bodies) are far from satisfactory. It is poorly coordinated and is not backed up with the necessary information or personnel. Moreover, many organisations view it as a peripheral or additional sphere. We cannot operate by this principle, and we cannot call it a state approach. Russia’s position here is to act more energetically.
We are interested in the stable development and economic progress of all member countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States. This is both the fundamental principle and the starting point for all our activity in the CIS. Experience has already shown on many occasions: progress will take place only if it is possible to find benefits for every partner in the integration process.
We also work from the premise that inter-state co-operation is a serious factor in ensuring the sovereignty and security of most member states. Therefore, Russia’s active and well-structured CIS policy is an important instrument in counteracting international terrorism, illegal migration, drug and arms trafficking.
Here I would like to emphasise the significance of clearly coordinating and observing commitments in military-technical co-operation and other sensitive spheres where we interact. I would also like to underscore the consistent improvement of cooperation between the security services and law enforcement authorities across the former Soviet Union. I would like to remind the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister that we have spoken for many years about the need for these operations to receive due financial support. We must settle these issues as soon as possible.
Finally, pooling our efforts in various spheres can genuinely have a cumulative effect on the development of the very CIS countries. The expanding Russian market, Russia’s energy resources, and the financial flow from the millions of people who find jobs in this country, are a true factor of economic growth for our CIS partners.
The scientific and educational dimension is no less important. I know that the Academies of Sciences intensively cooperate with our CIS partners but contacts between universities definitely need further development, this is absolutely clear. This may not just stay a declaration; this is a vital issue of life prospects for the citizens of our countries, and there is no overestimation in viewing it as the cornerstone of CIS member states’ competitiveness on the global markets. Therefore, developing joint research and technological co-operation, training CIS students in Russian universities, establishing Russian culture and language centres, and constantly exchanging information about one another must become our top priorities here.
As to the training of CIS students in Russian higher education institutions, I am not calling for special preferences, but, at the same time, it should not be treated as just another sphere of international cooperation.
We want to see the priority status of our CIS action translated into reality; in this connection I would like to mention the most intensively working bodies, namely, such regional integration centres as Collective Security Treaty Organisation, Eurasian Economic Community, and the recently established Common Economic Space. These organisations have become most effective due to the political will and effective work of governmental and Foreign Ministry staff. We see that they have really begun contributing to common security and economic integration, while being open for all CIS members. I believe that the positive experience of these associations should be used in renovating the cooperation model within CIS as a whole, while the practical achievements of these bodies should be regarded as another argument in favour of further CIS integration.
I am convinced that joint protection of compatriots’ and national minorities’ rights within the CIS can also become effective. Current large-scale migration processes make this aspect of interaction highly significant for virtually every CIS member state. However, if the rights of our compatriots are violated, we cannot turn a blind eye. We must respond appropriately, choosing the means that will bring about a positive result. It should not be a reaction for reaction’s sake.
Finally, Russian businesses and regional governments have not been sufficiently active in the CIS, while non-governmental and public organisations have all but failed to work. To improve this, a coordination and political support system is necessary.
In conclusion, I would like to underline that I am counting on the Security Council and all the concerned governmental bodies to conduct effective work on all the topics I have mentioned. You know that Viktor Borisovich Khristenko was recently appointed Special Representative for Integration Co-operation. He has long been involved in these issues, and I believe everyone gets the cler understanding why he has received such a status in this work. This is not a formal decision. This decision is intended to confirm the importance of our actions in this direction.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 19, 2004, 20:23
Text version