Events
Extracts from Transcript of Meeting with the Government
June 21, 2004
21:51
Moscow, the Kremlin
Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon dear colleagues.
The law on currency regulation came into force on June 18. I would ask Alexei Leonidovich [Kudrin] to say a few words on it, giving particular attention to the Central Bank’s proposals aiming at ensuring that the whole system set out in this legislation functions reliably.
Alexei Kudrin: The law on currency regulation and control came into force on June 18. It aims at removing barriers and simplifying the movement of capital into and out of the Russian Federation. This is a step towards integrating Russia into the global financial system and making greater use of the possibilities this financial system offers, including for developing the Russian economy. This definitely also represents a serious step towards making the Russian rouble convertible.
At the same time, we must keep in mind that the Russian financial system is also becoming more dependent on the situation on global markets. This means that we must develop the appropriate instruments, boost our immune capacity, I would say, so that negative tendencies on the world market, when they arise, do not negatively affect our own system and do not increase risks for our investors and for our citizens.
This is the aim of our tax and budget policies and this does give some guarantees. Also, the new law gives the Central Bank the power to introduce limited restrictions that are not applied on an authorisation basis and concern all market participants. The law sets out the restrictions that the Central Bank has the power to impose. In this respect the Central Bank will come to its decisions on these matters but as things stand now it already introduced last Friday a series of procedures that enable it to make use of these possibilities it has, although concrete measures taken will depend on the market situation and on the grounds and need to take preventive measures regarding the movement of speculative capital on the market that could create an imbalance in the balance of the payments or influence the exchange rate or inflation rate in the country in just a short period of time.
Vladimir Putin: How long will these restrictive measures last?
Alexei Kudrin: They can only remain in effect over a two-year period. After two years, after a transition period, these measures will be abolished by law and will no longer be able to be imposed. When this happens we will have completely free movement of capital in and out of Russia and investors will see their rights and guarantees increase even further.
Vladimir Putin: Good. As you know, a number of important events took place just recently, first the G-8 summit and then events connected to our work in the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation, the Eurasian Economic Community and the Collective Security Treaty Organisation. All of these events enabled us to resolve a good many important issues. We have a lot of interests in all these areas. First of all, I would like to thank everyone who helped prepare for these events. All your predictions proved correct and we achieved the objectives we set ourselves. We have made a lot of headway in strengthening the partnership relations we have in all these areas. I would particularly like to note our work with Uzbekistan. Together with the Uzbek leadership we have signed a very important document, a strategic partnership agreement. This brings an overall new quality to relations between Russia and Uzbekistan. That is the first point I wanted to note. Second, following a process of negotiations, including talks that took place at the G-8 summit, we have signed agreements that simplify the visa regime between France and Russia and Italy and Russia. These documents have now been signed by the Foreign Minister. Sergei Viktorovich [Lavrov], could you please say a few words on this.
Sergei Lavrov: On June 15 we signed these two agreements that carry through the decisions you reached with President Jacques Chirac and Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi. The agreements come into force from the moment of their signature, though they still need to be ratified. But they are already being applied and they considerably simplify travel for such categories of people as members of the business community and participants in scientific, cultural, educational and sports exchanges. They also make it possible to obtain a multi-entry visa for a period of up to five years, something that was never possible before. One-off trips will also become simpler: visas will be issued much more quickly and invitations need no longer be issued by the country’s interior ministry but can come from the inviting party – a university, cultural centre, or, in the case of sportspeople, for example, an invitation from the sports tournament’s organisers. The agreements also make it possible to issue visas free of charge on a mutual basis.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 21, 2004, 21:51
Text versionEvents
Conversation with the Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors of PepsiCo, Donald Kendall
June 21, 2004
13:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: I am very happy to have the opportunity to welcome you to the Kremlin, and present you with the state award of the Russian Federation – the order of Friendship.
45 years has gone by since a presentation of your product was made at a Moscow exhibition. Since then, PepsiCo has taken a firm position on the Soviet, and now the Russian market.
It is pleasing for me to note that all your activity, all your contacts with our country were always without any political subtext. You have always been and remain not just a reliable commercial partner of Russia, but we also see you as a great friend of our country, a person who has a profound knowledge and love of the history and culture of our country. And with all the business you have done over many years, you have helped the development between the peoples of Russia and the U.S. This is a major contribution to building modern international relations. On behalf of the Russian Federation, I would like to thank you. Allow me to present you with the award I mentioned earlier – the order of Friendship.
I would like to make use of today’s meeting in the Kremlin to hear your assessment of the state of trade and economic ties between our countries. You know it from the inside like no one else. And perhaps I could hear your recommendations about what you think should be improved in our relations in the near future.
Donald Kendall: Thank you very much for giving me the opportunity to talk here. As you know, I have been involved in the development of Russian-American relations for a long time, and first came to the Soviet Union when you, Mr. President, were only seven years old. I have been doing business in Russia for a very long time, and first came here during the Khrushchev era, and also worked under the Nixon administration and helped to organise relations between President Nixon and Brezhnev. As you know, I was the co-chairman of the first trade and economic council that was created between the U.S. and the Soviet Union, and so I tried to help to strengthen our relations in any way I could. I saw a great deal of processes which many people did not know about. For example, President Nixon, when we met and talked about trade issues, told me that we should not put a wall around the Soviet Union, and that it was necessary to develop bilateral relations between various people at various levels. However, I believe that relations between leaders have never been as critical and important as they are between you, Mr. President, and President Bush. I know that you have very good personal contacts.
I would like to mention another issue and ask for your help. You know the conductor Valery Gergiev, who works in the Mariinsky Theatre in St. Petersburg – he came up with the idea of founding a wide commission which would include not just politicians, but representatives of the business community, culture, and also people involved in tourism. We would like for this group to support the development of relations between Russia and the U.S. And I would like for you to assist in ensuring that a representative of the Exxon Company is the chairman of this commission. I have talked about this issue with Ministers Kudrin and Gref, and they evaluated it positively. I would like you to help us create this commission. On my part, I will provide whatever assistance I can. I know that the former chairman of a bank network will also help in this issue. And I am certain that together we will be able to put forward the idea about the creation of this commission.
Vladimir Putin: Firstly, I would like to say that I really was just a child when you started your business in the Soviet Union. This business actively developed in Russia over many years. The fact that relations between Russia and the U.S. have reached a fundamentally new level is in part thanks to you, but not just over the course of past years – I know that today you also make a significant contribution to the development of relations between our nations.
I want to stress that we know your position on the development of relations between our nations, and assess it highly. The U.S. President and I really have established very warm relations. We may have different approaches and different assessments of events in various spheres, but we have the most important thing – a feeling of trust in each other and great respect. And I think that on this base, we can achieve a great deal in the development of bilateral relations. And we can positively affect the development of the situation in the world as a whole. It is particularly pleasing for me to note that you, a representative of major American business, give such attention to the development of cultural ties. Valery Gergiev told me about the ideas that you just mentioned, and of course we will do everything required from our side, from myself personally, to ensure that this idea receives support and develops actively. But I would like for this to be just one element in the development of relations between the U.S. and the Russian Federation.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 21, 2004, 13:00
Text version