Events
Beginning of a Meeting with Council of Europe Commissioner for Human Rights Alvaro Jil-Robles
May 27, 2004
20:32
Novo-Ogaryovo
President Vladimir Putin: Dear commissioner, dear colleagues,
I am very happy to welcome you to Moscow. As far as I understand, your contacts with Russian colleagues are of a stable nature, and I note this with pleasure. I must say that we pay particular attention to the activity of such institutions, which you head in the Council of Europe. This is also important for us – for Russia, for our rather young Russian democracy. It is also important, I believe, for all of Europe. I mean that with the help of such institutions as yours, common principles and norms should be developed. And in this sense, we of course count on serious cooperation with you, and perhaps even assistance in certain areas that are rather sensitive for us.
Alvaro Jil-Robles: Thank you very much, Mr President. For me and for my entire delegation it is a great honour to be received by you today. Since 1999 we have worked with our friends in Russia, and this work is going very well. And, as you said, we often have to work with issues that are quite difficult. But we always try to find the most acceptable and the best decision. And, above all, the work of the Commissioner is addressed to a country that is a country, a member country of an organization where all countries are important. And I believe that the Commissioner’s obligations include providing assistance to the Russian people when the Russian people need it, as they help other peoples when they need it. But this always needs to be done clearly, loyally and from a positive standpoint. Let us look directly at problems as they are, and look for solutions. And I can assure you that I have always found support and cooperation from the Russian authorities to really look at problems as they are, and find the right solutions.
And for me your support of protection of human rights is very important and significant. You said this yesterday at your Address to the Federal Assembly very distinctly and clearly. This is very pleasing. So in this respect our views are exactly the same.
Vladimir Putin: I think the team is very good. They are experienced people. People who have indeed already devoted many years of their life to solving the problems that you just mentioned.
Vladimir Lukin: I don’t know what I should say about this, especially when I am paid compliments. I would like to say that work with Mr. Robles is indeed very constructive – for all our services that are involved with this. It would be far from the truth to say that we always agree completely on everything. We sometimes argue. But it is very important to stress that we see Mr. Robles as a very objective person, who, whether he agrees with us or not, always takes the position that in Russia, a very important, difficult and contradictory process is indeed underway, but that this process is a move towards the creation of democratic institutions, structures and precedents. And here, of course, we very much count on cooperating together.
I must say that we have developed constructive work relations with the President and his administration, although he was appointed to this position independently. We have tried to show in practice that it is an independent position. At the same time we have been able to work in a team.
Ella Panfilova: I would just like to say a few words about the Commission, because you know many human rights activists – members of our President under the President of Russia. They independent, unyielding and serious leaders of human rights organisations, and very often criticize the authorities harshly on many issues. But they have the opportunity to tell the President all their proposals, and their opinions on the most serious problems in the human rights sphere that exist in Russia. And it has so happened that the Commission has naturally become an authorized representative of civil society, because we are guided by a huge number of public organizations in Russia that work in people’s interests, and which are prepared to cooperate on all issues of interest.
Virtually all the proposals that were prepared by the human rights association have been supported by the President – proposals on public control of observance of human rights in prisons, and many others.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 27, 2004, 20:32
Text versionEvents
Transcript of the Meeting with Patriarch of Moscow and All Russia Alexii II and Metropolitan Lavr, First Hierarch of the Russian Orthodox Church Abroad
May 27, 2004
21:15
Novo-Ogaryovo
President Vladimir Putin: Your Holiness, dear guests,
Allow me to wish you a warm welcome here to the Moscow Region. I am very pleased that the different parts of the Russian Orthodox Church are drawing together in such a positive way. I will not say “the two churches” because in the Russian people’s mind the Russian Orthodox Church is one. I am very happy to see that following our meeting in New York, the clergy that stood up for, defended and spread the ideas of Orthodoxy beyond Russia’s borders have finally come to the Russian Federation, seen with their own eyes – or seen once again, for some – the positive process of our people’s spiritual renaissance.
I followed your visit with attention and I can imagine that our guests are satisfied with the very full programme – a very complicated and difficult programme too, it is true – that was drawn up and practically fully realised. I have no doubt that this will benefit the Church and benefit Russia.
I welcome you from all my heart and I give you, Your Holiness, the floor. Please.
Alexii II: I would like to give you my sincere thanks for finding the opportunity to receive our guests and ourselves as delegation from the Russian Orthodox Church abroad comes to the end of its programme here in Russia. You extended the invitation while visiting New York, and now this historic event has taken place.
As I have already said several times, this is the first time a delegation from the Russian Orthodox Church Abroad, headed by the First Hierarch, has visited Russia, the first time such a visit has not been incognito. Previously, such visits were made incognito, while now our guests have had the chance to truly become acquainted with the life of the Russian Orthodox Church today, to attend services, to pray with us together and to see our Orthodox people who are returning to their spiritual traditions.
The programme was a very full one. In just a short time, only a week, the delegation visited Yekaterinburg, Nizhny Novgorod, Sarov, Diveyevo, St. Petersburg and Kursk.
I met with the entire official delegation, with the pilgrims, today at 1 p.m. They were all in a very positive mood and the programme did not exhaust them, rather, it gave them inspiration. That is how it seemed to me.
I think our guests will have their own words to say, but everywhere they went they were struck by the people’s desire to serve God and by the revival of spiritual life. They noted this in their addresses. They said that here they will speak quietly of their impressions, but back home, before their own flocks, their own parishioners, they will speak loud and clear about what they saw, what they witnessed here. I think this truly bears out the words that it is better to see once than to hear many times.
We are grateful to Metropolitan Lavr and his entire delegation because their visit took place in a spirit of openness, goodwill, mutual understanding and the desire to come closer together and find ways to overcome the difficulties that arose as a result of the tragic events of the 1917 revolution and the civil war that forced millions of our compatriots to leave the country. The Russian Orthodox Church Abroad took care of their spiritual needs over this time. We lived through difficulties of our own, as did they. Metropolitan Lavr said to me at the Ascension Cathedral, on Ascension Day, “What churches you have! Ours are small”. But within these churches could always be found love for the Motherland, love for Russia and this Orthodox faith that was handed down from generation to generation. I think that the first generation, the generation that left Russia, would be happy now. But it is now the second and third generations that are making the return journey, coming back to and uniting with the Motherland and the Russian Orthodox Church.
In the documents we emphasised that the Church is one, and you also spoke these words. The Church is one – only circumstances divided us. Let us hope that this is only a temporary situation. Thank you for taking the first step and passing on my invitation for the delegation to visit the Russian Orthodox Church, and thank you for finding the time to receive our guests today.
Vladimir Putin: It is my pleasure to do so because we see the processes now underway within the Russian Orthodox Church as more than just internal church matters. We see them as a symbol of renewal and new unity for the Russian people itself. I would like to ask Metropolitan Lavr to say a few words about his impressions following his travels around the country.
Metropolitan Lavr: On behalf of our delegation I would like to thank you for the meeting that took place in New York and for the invitation to visit Russia and the Russian Church. We said when we met this morning how grateful we were to the Lord God for giving us this opportunity to visit Russia, to visit its holy churches and monasteries and especially to go to such places as Yekaterinburg and Alapayevsk. Many people come and visit these holy places and there is much divine grace there. We were there and we saw that the church was full for the service. As Vladyka Vikenty noted, more and more people are coming from all corners of Russia and even from abroad. This, of course, is very pleasing for all of us. We were also very happy with our visit to Diveyevo, where we had the chance to kiss the relics of Saint Seraphim. The church there is being restored, there are services, monks, 550 people who keeping everything in wonderful order, and a lot of work is going ahead there. Thanks be to God that this renaissance is taking place, and materially, too. But the main thing, of course, is the spiritual wealth that the people there receive from their prayers and from the grace of Saint Seraphim and the grace of the Lord.
I thank you for receiving us and, as I already said, we will make every effort to ensure that this work that the Lord blessed us to begin will be completed.
Vladimir Putin: What were your impressions?
Archbishop Mark: I have great impressions. We followed this road spiritually. It was not by chance, you could say, that this road took us from saints who were venerated before the revolution to the throng of saints venerated here after the collapse of Soviet power and venerated by us even earlier.
It was particularly significant for us that on the first day of our visit here we were able to attend a patriarchal service in Butovo, where so many recent Russian martyrs lie buried, and where we felt precisely this unity between us, this unity that is founded on our saints. These are our common saints, shared by all of us. Our entire journey has been guided by this ideal. It is especially pleasing for us to see that after 80 years of persecution, the state authorities are helping to revive spiritual life and strengthen Russia’s spiritual and sacred places. This gave us inspiration and we saw that there is a big area where there can be no doubt about our common foundation, and that is Russian holiness. I think that this should be the foundation for our continued road together. I think that with God’s help we will be able to overcome the difficulties we still face, overcome them in a spirit of brotherly love, knowing that we come from the same source and that we should therefore return to it and create a single mighty flow. In these times it is especially important that we bear witness to Orthodoxy before the world because we have this opportunity and we must use it.
Thank you very much for contributing to this process and for supporting our visit here. We very much appreciate this and we hope that it will be the guarantee of our continued efforts together to further the Lord’s work.
Vladimir Putin: Your Holiness, dear guests, in this respect I would like to once more emphasise our position: under no circumstances and in no form will the state intervene in internal church affairs. We do not intend to and cannot, in today’s situation, have any influence on the processes taking place within the Russian Orthodox Church. But I want you to know that we will do all within our power to create the conditions for a full revival of the Russian Orthodox Church and for the restoration of its unity.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 27, 2004, 21:15
Text version