Events
Opening Remarks at a Russian-Turkish Business Forum
December 6, 2004
14:38
Ankara, Turkey
President Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen,
Thank you for such a warm welcome. I am very glad to meet representatives of Russian and Turkish business.
During my meetings with my Turkish colleagues and friends, we repeatedly discussed this, and did so even in the car on the way here. That we are having a top-level meeting today, something that has not happened for decades, is not my and my colleagues’ achievement. It is, above all, your achievement. It is an achievement of business people. It is an achievement of citizens of this country who, driven by the facts of life, raised our coordinated efforts to a high level. They also pushed the political leaderships of our countries to forget past stereotypes, and everything that stood in the way of our relations and move forward to the development of interstate relations at the highest level.
By showing initiative, activity and talent you are enriching the scope of Russian-Turkish relations. And you know well that there are both extensive opportunities and serious prospects, and problems in our countries’ economic ties. Today, there is obviously a great common aspiration to make bilateral interaction both long-term and more substantial. I consider this meeting to be a certain watershed along this road. It was the rapid development of trade that laid the groundwork for diplomatic contacts between Russia and Turkey, which date back to the 15th century.
I think you know that in the past our country rendered Turkey extensive technical and economic assistance. Through joint efforts, major projects for Turkish industry were built – textile factories and iron and steel mills, an oil refinery and much more.
At present, the Russian and Turkish economies are developing dynamically. Their attraction for investors and domestic markets are growing. And this circumstance, multiplied by the long history of our joint efforts, is a good basis for promising and productive co-operation. As far as we know, our Turkish partners, who always react promptly and effectively to economic conditions, understand and sense this well.
I consider it important to describe to you today the state of the Russian economy. I am sure you are, of course, familiar with its general outlines. Even so, I cannot help repeating that sustained growth of gross domestic product over the last four and a half years has been our paramount achievement. In the first ten months of this year, industrial production went up by 6.2 per cent. I think we will reach the level of 6.7–6.8 per cent by the end of the year.
You know that over the past four years growth has been hovering around this mark – 7 per cent or so. Investments in fixed assets amounted to 11 per cent. The Central Bank's gold and hard currency reserves are also growing. In the first four months, they climbed ten-fold. They were valued at $12 billion in 1999, but by the end of the year I think we will approach something like $120 billion.
You know that we are maintaining other macroeconomic indicators as well. Inflation is still high, but I think a downward trend is discernible, which is a positive thing. Despite the pressure from petrodollars, the Central Bank and the Russian government are managing to keep within established parameters. At any rate, the trend is developing in the right direction.
These economic development indicators enable us to address and attain major national goals. Goals that are also actively pursued by Russian business.
Today, Russian businessmen have the necessary conditions both for their own growth and for confident planning of their work. The state’s measures to alleviate the tax burden and eliminate administrative barriers all contribute to this. Legislation is becoming precise and predictable. All this taken together creates favourable conditions for operating on the Russian market.
Of course, we also have problems. I may speak boldly and confidently about the stability of legislation and overcoming barriers, but we know that there are still many unsolved problems. Yet, knowing this, we are seeking to improve our work. In particular, the steps we are taking to develop the mortgage system are creating additional opportunities for the construction business, which must no doubt interest Turkish construction companies. And you also know that the work carried out by Turkish building companies on the Russian market is worth as much as $12–14 billion. Incidentally, Russian companies engaged in construction fall short even of a billion.
New possibilities for increased trade between our countries are also being opened up by reforms in the banking and insurance spheres, liberalisation of hard currency legislation, and the adoption of the norms and principles of the World Trade Organisation in our legislation and legal practice.
Today, Russia is Turkey's second biggest foreign trade partner. This is a fairly good indicator. And the volume of our bilateral trade is constantly growing. Since the early 1990s, when this volume was just a billion and a half dollars, it has grown to six-seven billion. I think this year we will be able to approach the ten billion mark. We expect this to happen by the end of the year. And this is without the so-called shuttle trade, whose volume is also very considerable.
I would like to particularly emphasise the investment component. Turkish businessmen are rather active on the Russian market. At the same time, far from all of them dare to make direct investments. Their proportion, in my mind, is still low.
Like in all countries, the logic of the Russian market’s development shows that in the longer term, serious investors, rather than those looking for short-term profit will assume the most confident positions. So I would like to praise those Turkish companies that have boldly invested in our market. And I would like to recommend businessmen who are just putting together their business plans to show more commercial daring, foresight, and determination.
I will be frank: we are worried by the existing misbalance in the structure of trade and economic relations, and their inadequate diversification. Raw materials are the lion’s share of Russian exports, whereas consumer goods and services, including tourist services, dominate Turkey’s exports.
We are interested in Russian companies playing a greater role in the construction of Turkish power facilities, transport infrastructure, and the development of its oil and gas sector. And we already have experience of successful joint co-operation in these areas. We are building hydroelectric power plants together, and our plans envisage bidding in tenders to build hydro- and thermal power plants, power transmission lines, and the modernisation of iron and steel works and the aluminium sector.
We are also prepared to invest in construction, including the construction of our gas distribution infrastructure, which is directly linked to the major Blue Stream project.
An example of successful bilateral co-operation could be the acquisition by a Russian and a Turkish company of a major oil refining company, Tupras. We know how the difficulties involved in such matters in Turkey. We do not want to make waves, and we proceed from the assumption that it is an internal matter for Turkey to determine its economic policy. But we expect that the understandings reached and the tenders held will be honoured.
A while ago the prime minister visited Moscow and told us that a Russian company and its Turkish partners had won a tender. He was the first person to inform me about this. I must tell you I knew nothing about it. This shows that things like that are no longer controlled by the state in our country. The company performed well both inside the country and abroad, and the fact that it had entered the Turkish market only pleased me.
And the first person to inform me was the prime minister. But we were very disappointed to learn that the judicial authorities had annulled the tender results. Yet, I repeat, it is not for us to define your economic policy, we only express the hope that this inspire us all, including our Turkish partners, who share our views on economic development and joint economic efforts.
We also hope that the interests of our companies that operate in the military-technical sphere will likewise be taken into consideration, and the companies will be afforded equal conditions with all members of this process on the Turkish market.
We have already discussed these matters. Our products are absolutely competitive both in terms of price and quality. We made such forward steps, I am referring to the well-known tender on helicopter gunships. Just now we discussed with our colleagues in parliament what partners do not normally contract to do – but we agreed to base part of the production set-up on Turkish territory, agreed to what partners do not usually agree to – the re-export of these products. What is more, even before the incumbent prime minister assumed his post, we called these craft Erdogans.
I am convinced that expanding hi-tech co-operation offers considerable benefits to both countries and, as I have said, in the military-technical area, too. There may be increased deliveries to Turkey of machines and equipment, including for power plants and mining. And there are obvious opportunities to eradicate the misbalance in the construction industry.
Over the past 15 years, Turkish companies have concluded contracts in Russia worth $12–13 billion, as I said, whereas Russian companies in Turkey have only signed contracts worth $300 million. Russia is ready to work here, and so bolster our business co-operation.
As regards the regulation of so-called shuttle trade, it is necessary to create conditions for civilised and mutually advantageous business in this sphere. Certainly, we would not like to infringe on the interests of those doing this business, but it must be ”civilised“.
Ladies and gentlemen, it is obvious that Russia and Turkey are interested in the broadest possible dialogue. And our business communities must play a positive and unifying role here. As I said at the beginning, they are already doing that. I think inter-regional ties, particularly through the Russian-Turkish Business Council, should play a more proactive and bold role in supporting bilateral relations.
The Council already includes companies from 36 of Russia's regions and more than 150 Turkish companies. It is my firm belief that many joint undertakings and projects lie ahead. I would like to express my sincere gratitude for such an unusually warm welcome and wish you all the best.
Thank you very much for your attention.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 6, 2004, 14:38
Text versionEvents
Responses to Questions from Russian Journalists
December 6, 2004
12:32
Ankara, Turkey
Question: Coming back to your visit to India, what do you see as the most important results?
President Vladimir Putin: First, I think it is important that we have reaffirmed the strategic nature of our relations with India. This was particularly important after the change of government there. We had to get an idea of the new Indian leadership’s views on pursuing cooperation with us and to what extent they are ready to keep working together with us. We are very pleased to note that there has been no drop in the level of our relations. Indeed, in the time the new government has been in power, we have made progress and concluded a number of major deals that will enable us not only to maintain but also to increase our level of cooperation. This concerns military-technical, political and economic cooperation.
It is no secret that there was a certain imbalance between our cooperation in the military-technical area and in the civilian economy. The decisions that have been reached will improve and diversify our economic ties. We are beginning now to work more in the machine-building sector, in high technology, transport and energy. This is all the result of this visit. Of course, it is also significant that we reaffirmed our high level of cooperation in the military-technical area, because India, after all, accounts for more than a third of Russia’s military-technical cooperation with foreign countries. Last year, India’s share was 39 percent and this cooperation represents an average $1.5 billion a year. Contracts that have already been signed but have yet to be fulfilled alone come to $5 billion. This is a substantial figure and it signifies not only the continued competitiveness of our defence industry but will also contribute considerably to its development.
Question: I would like to clarify a point regarding military-technical cooperation. It is developing well with India, but how is it progressing with Turkey and with other foreign countries in general?
Vladimir Putin: Overall, we are satisfied. We think that an expanding presence in new markets is a positive element in developing our military-technical cooperation with other countries. We are expanding our presence in Asian markets, including in Southeast Asia, and we are making a return to the Latin American market where we have good prospects. We are continuing our cooperation in this sector with European partners, both selling new products and servicing equipment that we supplied earlier. In general, we are happy with our expanding presence in this sector and with the sales volumes we have. This year we expect to sell at least as much as last year – around $10 billion – and it is quite probable that we will even surpass last year’s figure. Overall then, we can say that the sector shows stable development and is progressing well.
Question: Coming back to your visit to India again, it showed how much importance you and the government place on Russia’s accession to the World Trade Organisation. How is the accession process progressing, in your opinion, and what do you think of the positions taken by our partners?
Vladimir Putin: Accession is a complicated process for any country seeking to join under decent conditions. Correct me if I’m wrong, but I seem to recall that China spent fifteen years in accession negotiations, while we have really been working on it only over the last four years. Before then we spoke about accession but no actual negotiations were taking place. This is why the whole negotiating process is not easy.
If we just conceded every point, it would all be very simple and we would have already been admitted. But we don’t want to join under such conditions. We want to join under decent conditions that are in the interests of our country’s economy and that would make us an even stronger and more reliable partner for all the countries with whom we have trade and economic relations. Russia is one of the only countries with such a large economy that is still not a member of the WTO. We most certainly do want to join this organisation, but I stress that we want to do so under decent conditions, the standard conditions, and we will fight for this. Our partners generally show understanding and we in turn show flexibility. In general, I am happy with the way our negotiators are handling the work. They know how to defend their views, but at the same time, they also know how to make concessions and be flexible when possible. The only thing we would find unacceptable and would not want to encounter is for the negotiating process for Russia’s accession to the WTO to become a political instrument used to gain some advantage in settling issues on the political agenda. I think this would be completely unacceptable and would also be destructive. It would undermine the World Trade Organisation itself, which is based on the idea of being outside politics. That is the most important thing.
As for the pace of the negotiating process, we are generally satisfied. Regarding India, I hope that we were able to settle the problems that had been in the way of signing a memorandum on Russia’s accession to the WTO, and I think that India will soon sign it.
Question: Reading the declaration that you signed today with President Sezer, I saw that the word “terrorism” was used five times in various interpretations. It is known that Russia and Turkey have made mutual reproaches against each other and have had some suspicions regarding terrorism. Has this visit done anything to clear these suspicions? How do you assess the state of Russian-Turkish relations in this area today?
Vladimir Putin: At the press conference I spoke about how cooperation between Russia and Turkey has taken great strides in many areas, but that political cooperation is no longer keeping up with the pace of events. Back in the tsarist era we actively fought each other. For a time after the 1917 revolution we actively cooperated with each other and supported each other. It is like in a family or amongst close neighbours. The most fundamental interests bind us, but at the same time, settling the many issues that arise often creates the potential for dispute. Russia and Turkey are not separated by ideological differences today and there are no obstacles to our building a mature partnership in practically every area. This also concerns the fight against international terrorism. We know that Turkey has itself been a target for terrorists. Turkey knows what terrorism is about and this is why its stand on terrorism is a sincere one. That is the first point I wanted to make.
Second, we are impressed by Turkey’s independent foreign policy. To be honest, I was thinking of how the situation with Iraq developed. Turkey’s independent stand on this issue came as a surprise for me personally, for the entire Russian leadership, and I think for many of my colleagues in the world. Turkey’s stand was dictated above all by its national interests and shares a lot in common with Russia’s own position. As we understand it, the Iraq issue, the situation in the Middle East and a number of the other complex issues today are closely linked to anti-terrorist activities. I hope that the realisation of how close our positions and interests are will have an impact on the way all our special services work. As you can see, the Deputy Director of the Federal Security Service and the Defence Minister are both here and are continuing talks in their respective areas with their Turkish colleagues.
Question: In Delhi, you met with the Indian energy minister. Which precise energy projects is the Indian energy sector interested in? What was Russia’s reaction? And what is the state of Russian-Turkish energy cooperation at the moment?
Vladimir Putin: Like China, India is one of the world’s fast-growing economies and so the Indians are showing interest in all our energy projects. There is no energy project in which they do not show an interest. There are a number of specific projects such as Sakhalin-3, for example. There is also Sakhalin-1, in which they want to continue their participation. There are plans to establish contacts with Gazprom and to carry out a number of projects to liquefy gas and deliver it to India and also to have our gas specialists continue their work on the shelf in the Bay of Bengal. A number of Russian oil company representatives were present in India. There is a wide range of cooperation possibilities open to us and the energy sector is a very promising area for our work together.
Question: What about in Turkey?
Vladimir Putin: We have already completed one major project – Blue Stream. Turkey’s demand for natural gas comes to 16 billion cubic metres a year. Turkey is a very convenient place for developing international energy projects. We are ready to build a gas storage facility for supplies to third countries and to ensure more regular supplies of gas to the Turkish economy and Turkish households. The Turks want to expand their internal gas network and Gazprom and Russia’s construction companies are ready to take an active part in this work. We are aware of the problems with tankers going through the straits and we are discussing with the Turks ways of diversifying our supply routes to third country markets through Turkey by developing routes other than just through the Bosphorus and the Dardanelles.
There is plenty to discuss in this area because Turkey is not just our neighbour but is also our natural partner in settling these issues.
Question: How do you assess the climate for Russian-Turkish relations at the moment and the climate this visit took place in?
Vladimir Putin: Today’s visit took place in a positive atmosphere, an atmosphere that has changed markedly for the better over recent years. I want to say again that our thanks must go above all to the businesspeople, those who are working in the real economy. It is they who have created the conditions we now see today. It is they who reminded us that it is time to break free from old prejudices, and I must say that the Turkish leadership has taken this on board and has done a lost to raise Russian-Turkish relations to their present level. We are very pleased with this and we are grateful to our Turkish partners and are just as committed to expanding our work together.
Question: The agreement that has calmed the situation in Abkhazia is, as I understand it, Russia’s achievement. Do you see this as a victory for Russian foreign policy, and can we talk about Russia playing a part in settling the problems of neighbouring countries?
Vladimir Putin: I would not say that the settlement in Abkhazia is Russia’s achievement. First, the settlement process is still going on and second, it is the people in the territory concerned, in this case, Abkhazia, who have the deciding word.
The agreements reached are above all the achievement of the politicians in Abkhazia itself who have proven able to listen to the people’s voice, put their personal ambitions aside and look for ways to cooperate. I was abroad when all these events took place. I know, of course, that Russian mediators were present, but they were no more than mediators.
We thank them, of course, for their active and fruitful work, but I want to stress that the agreements are nonetheless the achievement of Abkhazia’s political leaders. I hope that they will continue to observe these agreements in the interests of the people of Abkhazia, iron out their differences, look for compromise solutions and work in accordance with them in order not to cause economic and political damage and not to cause problems for the people. They entered politics, after all, to serve the people and not to pursue their own ambitions or selfish objectives. What is happening now pleases me and I hope that it will continue in this way.
As for Russia’s role in settling disputes in the post-Soviet area in general, my position is that Russia is ready to act as mediator in settling any of the complex issues that we have inherited from the empire that was the Soviet Union. We understand the whole complexity of these problems better than anyone else and we have a sincere interest in settling all these conflicts. We want our region to be a region of stability. But there is one point that I want to draw particular attention to, and that is that we do not want and will not take responsibility for completely settling these conflicts. We cannot agree with a situation where one of the parties unloads their own responsibility for settling problem issues onto us.
We don’t want a situation where it would look as though this or that decision was taken under pressure from Russia because this would inevitably lead to the party that feels itself hard done by getting a false impression of Russia’s responsibility for the situation, and we don’t need this, we have absolutely no need for such a situation. We will play a constructive part, but it will be that of mediator.
Question: How do you assess the situation in Ukraine? Does Russia have any plans for further action?
Vladimir Putin: We are not going to undertake anything behind the scenes or do anything destructive. I want to say once again that we accept the will of any of the peoples in the post-Soviet area and will work with any elected leader.
What worries me with regard to the situation in Ukraine is that democracy is one of the absolute values in the modern world but it is also something very complicated. One aspect of democracy is the possibility of passing democratic laws and enforcing them. Without this there can be no democracy. If we constantly allow laws in the post-Soviet area to be altered to fit every changing situation or political force, we will not achieve stability but on the contrary, will risk destabilising this major region of the world. I think this is unacceptable, not constructive, and indeed, counter-productive. I would not like for Europe to be divided as Germany was into east and west, into first and second class people. I don’t want a situation where you would have first class people able to live according to stable and democratic laws, while second class people get told by well-intentioned gentlemen in pith helmets what political course to follow. And if the ungrateful natives object, they will get punished by having bombs dropped on their heads, as in Belgrade. I think this is absolutely unacceptable and it is equally unacceptable to make any kind of threats against people and deprive them of their freedom to make their own choices. The statements made by political leaders about taking power, including by force, no matter what the outcome of elections, is nothing other than an attempt not just to pressure people but to intimidate them. We in Russia cannot support such a turn of events, even if someone wants to call this democracy. I want to stress once more that only the people themselves, in any country, including Ukraine, can decide their future. It is possible to act as mediator, but under no circumstances can there be any intervention and any pressure, and that is the position we base ourselves on.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 6, 2004, 12:32
Text versionEvents
Press Statement Following Russian-Turkish Talks
December 6, 2004
11:30
Ankara, Turkey
President Vladimir Putin: Dear Mr President, ladies and gentlemen,
First of all, I would like to thank the Turkish leadership and the President for the invitation and for organising this visit. I met three times with the President and I am very grateful to him for the initiative he has shown in developing our bilateral relations. It was a very timely initiative.
We have just held talks on the whole range of our bilateral relations. We discussed both regional issues and questions of international relations. As you have seen, many of our ministries and companies prepared agreements for signing. Together with the joint declaration on strengthening the friendship and the multifaceted partnership between Russia and Turkey this makes for a solid package of agreements that will form the foundation for moving forward.
I would like to say a few more words regarding the declaration. Not only does it reinforce the increasing quality of relations between Russia and Turkey and confirms the achievements made thus far, it also sets the direction for promising future cooperation. Overall, the declaration reflects the firm commitment that we share with the Turkish leadership to developing political, economic, cultural and other relations between our countries.
I would like to note that I still have a meeting coming up with Prime Minister Erdogan at which we will discuss the practical aspects of our cooperation, including business cooperation issues.
We are committed to stepping up our trade and economic ties, especially in high technology sectors. As you know, we are to continue discussion on this subject with representatives of the Turkish and Russian business communities.
I would like to note in particular how close our positions are regarding the joint fight against terrorism. We know that Turkey has been a target for terrorist attacks on a number of occasions and we are grateful to the Turkish people and leadership for their moral and political support for Russia in the fight against international terrorism.
It is with satisfaction that I note the close positions we hold regarding current international issues. This concerns the situation in Iraq, Afghanistan, the Trans-Caucasus and the Middle East.
I would like to note that when we in Russia take stock of our cooperation and relations with other countries, we often find ourselves saying of late that the level of economic relations and practical cooperation is lagging behind the level of political cooperation. With Turkey the situation is quite the opposite. Life itself, the millions of ordinary Russians who come to Turkey on holiday and the business communities who are working actively with each other are inciting the political leadership of both countries to raise our cooperation to a much higher level. I am very pleased that together with the Turkish President and Prime Minister we are taking this step forward today.
I would like to thank the media for the understanding they have shown towards this process and the support they give to us in developing the relations between our countries.
Finally, I would like to apologise to the residents of Ankara for the inconveniences we have caused, but I want to share the responsibility for this situation with the local security services.
Thank you very much to everyone.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 6, 2004, 11:30
Text version