Events
Speech at the Plenary Session of the Eurasian Economic Community Interstate Council
June 18, 2004
22:47
Astana
Vladimir Putin:
Dear Nursultan Abishevich [Nazarbayev],
Dear colleagues,
We have just examined in detail, as a small group, the current state of affairs and the work done within the Eurasian Economic Community, also taking into account the new economic possibilities and tasks that our countries have before them.
I think today we clearly do have a whole number of new opportunities we can make use of.
For a start, the Eurasian Economic Community has gained considerably in international authority. It now has observer status at the United Nations and influential international and regional organisations are showing real interest in establishing contacts with it. The community’s very existence is having a positive impact on the post-Soviet area.
Second, there is the economic factor. All of the Eurasian Economic Community member states are currently experiencing an economic upturn. Our national economies are showing sustainable growth and investment activity and foreign trade turnover are on the rise. Social development indicators are also changing for the better.
Third, we already have a clear understanding that one of the real reserves we can draw on to accelerate our development is to use effectively the resources and integration potential that we have. It is important that we not fall behind the times and that we take into account today’s global integration trends and take consistent steps forward.
Last year we approved a basic text, “Priority Development Directions for the Eurasian Economic Community for 2003–2006 and the Following Years”. This text can be seen as a sort of general blueprint for our integration work within the community in the short and medium term. Here too, in Astana, we are taking another significant step towards reaching the objectives we have set.
First of all, I would like to note the decisions that have been prepared in the area of strengthening the community’s legal foundations. Our agenda includes an agreement on cooperation in the securities market and an agreement on the basis of Eurasian Economic Community legislation. This second agreement is of particularly great significance as it creates the necessary conditions that we did not have previously for creating a body of supranational direct legislation within the framework of the community.
Finally, I think that our consultations on joining the World Trade Organisation have been extremely useful. I think that we all have an interest in effectively coordinating our work on this issue. Having this kind of coordinated approach will considerably strengthen our position in the dialogue with the WTO.
I would once more like to thank our Chairman, Nursultan Abishevich, for this warm reception in Astana, for his hospitality and, of course, for the excellent organisation of the Interstate Council’s work.
Thank you for your attention.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 18, 2004, 22:47
Text versionEvents
Response to a Question at the Press Conference following the Meetings of the Eurasian Economic Community Interstate Council and Collective Security Treaty Organisation’s Collective Security Council
June 18, 2004
22:49
Astana
Question: In your opinion, what role can the Eurasian Economic Community play in developing the economies of the CIS countries and in promoting integration in general in the post-Soviet area? And, if you will allow, I would also like to ask another question. Yesterday the news came that, citing a Russian intelligence source, the Russian intelligence services passed on information to their U.S. counterparts in autumn 2002 that Saddam Hussein’s regime was preparing terrorist attacks in the United States and against American targets abroad. Can you comment on this information? Is this true, and if it is, then has Russia changed its position regarding the military operations in Iraq and was the United States in fact rightly acting in necessary self-defence?
Vladimir Putin: We have discussed the role of the Eurasian Economic Community on many occasions, including with the press. I think that the Eurasian Economic Community is in many ways a driving force for integration in the post-Soviet area. As you know, this idea was the initiative of the President of Kazakhstan. We, all the representatives of the community’s member states here today, gave this initiative our active support and we were right in doing so. I think that recent events, including the work being done on creating the Single Economic Space, and you know that the four countries involved are moving forward with this, were sparked to a considerable extent by the processes underway within the Eurasian Economic Community.
We are creating a real tool for integration. The results of today’s meeting, more precisely, the adoption of the documents you know about and our common work on the securities market, will give the community’s economic legislation the status it needs for us to be able to approve supranational, direct legislation. This is very important for achieving genuine integration. The Eurasian Economic Community, therefore, really does have great significance and I hope that its importance will increase further.
As for your second question, which concerns a different matter altogether, I have no reason to avoid it. I can confirm that, following the events of September 11, 2001 and up until the beginning of military operations in Iraq, Russian intelligence did indeed receive on several occasions information that official organisations in Saddam Hussein’s regime were preparing terrorist attacks on U.S. territory and against U.S. military and civilian targets abroad. This information was indeed passed on through our cooperation channels to our U.S. colleagues. Moreover, U.S. President George Bush had the chance, and used it, to personally thank the head of one of the Russian intelligence services for this information that he considered of great importance.
As for whether this constitutes grounds for saying that the United States acted in necessary self-defence, I don’t know, that is another matter.
Has Russia’s position changed regarding the military operations in Iraq? No, it has not changed. This information was received by the Russian intelligence services and passed on to our American partners, but we think that international law sets out certain procedures for using force in international affairs, and in this case these procedures were not complied with.
I would like to add a couple more words on Iraq. It is one thing to have information that Saddam Hussein’s regime was preparing terrorist attacks. We had that information and we passed it on. But we did not have information linking his regime to any actual terrorist attacks and really, this is quite another matter.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 18, 2004, 22:49
Text version