Events
Closing Address at a Ceremony Celebrating Cosmonautics Day
April 12, 2004
14:07
Moscow, Federal Space Agency
President Vladimir Putin:
Dear colleagues,
Allow me once again to congratulate those of you who received awards. In conclusion, I would like to say the following: of course, we aspire and will continue to aspire to ensure that the space sphere ceases to be a field or area for military and political confrontation, which I already talked about when I made my short opening address just now.
But we all understand that this situation still exists, and will continue this way for quite some time. And we, of course, keep this in mind, and should remember it in future. This is the first point.
Secondly: of course, our economy was – and in fact we still can’t say that all problems have been completely solved – in a very difficult situation. Changes took place in the awareness and technology of our economic existence. This could not but affect such important components as space activity. Priorities changed in the awareness of society, and in the awareness of state figures. Many people thought that this was not that necessary or important. I didn’t mention the last public opinion by accident: 81% of Russian citizens now actively support the state’s efforts on developing space activity. And this is very important. Because in a democratic society, we cannot act contrary to public opinion. If we understand how important this is, we simply need to explain to society the essence and meaning of space activity.
But today, I repeat, not everything happens the way we would like, including in the economy, even though there are positive changes. Of course, there is never enough money, even for the most important thinks. But I would like you to know: the leadership of the country understand full well that space activity is one of the most important areas. This understanding does of course exist.
There is never enough money, and sometimes it is difficult to spend money effectively. I call on the leadership of the industry to treat these issues and problems very carefully, very seriously. But I would like to make one thing particularly clear: an understanding that space activity, and the sphere which you work in, is extremely important for the country – and not just because it solves ecological and agricultural problems, but problems that are vital for the country’s very existence – this understanding does exist. And we will work together going from this understanding.
I wish you all the best.
Happy Cosmonautics Day!
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 12, 2004, 14:07
Direct link: en.kremlin.ru/d/22420
Text versionEvents
Opening Address at a Ceremony Celebrating Cosmonautics Day
April 12, 2004
14:01
Moscow, Federal Space Agency
President Vladimir Putin:
Good day, dear friends,
Today we celebrate Cosmonautics Day. 43 years ago, a great event took place in the history of civilization – the first person flew into space.
People had dreamed of travelling closer to the stars for a long time. They wanted to understand and discover the secret of the Universe. And on 12 April 1961, this age essentially began.
This day is remembered by all countries, all continents. It is still a general celebration, because all of mankind rejoiced in this event together. Undoubtedly, it was a planet-wide triumph and a planet-wide rejoicing. And we, of course, were proud, and are still quite rightfully proud, that this celebration, this breakthrough for mankind was made by our country.
We will always be proud that the first person in space was a citizen of our country – Yury Alexeevich Gagarin. Everyone who helped to prepare this flight, without exaggeration, started the space age, as I already said.
Not much time has passed since then, but just think what heights mankind has reached since space exploration began. And most importantly, without this activity, we could not imagine our lives and the development of high technology branches of manufacture.
Today, space remains the horizon which, as we move towards it, brings scientific discoveries, progress, and previously unexplored possibilities.
Today there is no longer any need to argue about the enormous benefit of cosmonautics. It is also pleasing for me to note recent studies of public opinion in Russia: over 80% of citizens think that it is absolutely necessary. It is necessary for the country. I would like to note that several years ago far from everyone believed this. At any rate, in surveys and sociological research, there has never been a result like this.
Today there is no need to argue about the importance of this activity. Life itself has proved that not a single global problem, whether it is ecology or ensuring thorough international security, can be solved without the widest use of space resources.
In many ways, thanks to cosmonautics we joined the society of highly developed countries and gained a firm footing in it. It is this sphere of activity that allowed our country to take a leading position in a range of high technology areas. Furthermore, since the very beginning of the space age we have been aware of our special historic mission. And we have not just explored space in a purely technological way – over many years, we have had a spiritual attachment to space. It has been the object of our national pride.
And, as I address all employees of the space rocket industry today, I would like to thank you for everything that you have done over the past decades, and for preserving the enormous space potential of the country in very difficult conditions of our country’s development. You have preserved the international prestige of Russian cosmonautics. And, importantly, you have been able to maintain the enormous importance of space exploration for the fate of the country.
Today, the very essence of space activity is changing. We all know that for many years, space was an area for military and political rivalry. Today, we are doing, and must do, everything to demilitarize space. And by turning it into an arena of international cooperation, cooperation founded on trust, careful calculation and clear understanding of all national interests, we must do everything to ensure that space exploration is of an exclusively peaceful nature.
Thorough expansion and intensification of work in space is our strategic priority. It is clear that only in these conditions can Russia aspire to a leading international position.
Our country still has a unique space potential, especially in the area of lengthy space flights. And our cooperation in the programme of the International space station is proof that this fact cannot be denied.
As you know, the International space station today works thanks to manned and cargo ships, which provide the station which everything it needs.
Space activity is required today in the most varied spheres, and makes it possible to solve serious tasks in the areas of communication, geology, agriculture, and protection of the environment.
In conclusion, I would like to congratulate you all on this celebration, and wish you creative success and triumphs. I wish you new personal achievements. And, of course, I wish all your families health and prosperity.
Thank you very much. Happy Cosmonautics Day!
Let us move on to the second part, which is much more solemn than my opening address.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 12, 2004, 14:01
Text version