Events
Speech at a Meeting of the State Council Presidium
January 27, 2004
13:41
St. Petersburg
President Vladimir Putin: Dear colleagues,
Today we are to take a thorough and detailed look at all the issues connected to providing for our pensioners.
This is not just an extremely important part of social policy. It is an issue that concerns the quality of life of millions of our citizens – our fathers and mothers, grandfathers and grandmothers. These are people who over their lives have given this country their labour and talent, their souls and their health. And when needed, they also came to the defence of our country.
They are certainly entitled to expect respect and decent treatment from society and from the state.
Russia today counts almost 30 million pensioners. It is already known and has been well calculated that elderly people will grow as a share of the total population. This means that we must think seriously about how to guarantee them a decent life today and in the future in their old age.
This is a key task for any state that claims to provide for the welfare of its citizens.
You know that we have never made empty promises and have always fulfilled what we said we would do. I ask you therefore to approach today’s discussion in an equally serious manner in order to come up with the appropriate instructions for the government, and then ensure that these instructions are carried out. We should work in the same way that we have done up until now, that is to say, we should ensure that economic growth has a direct positive impact on peoples’ lives and brings about an increase in their quality of life.
Using the resources at our disposal we have already made a lot of progress on a number of problems and resolved others. To name a few, we have ended the shameful situation where pensioners waited months to receive their pensions. This has now ended. Not only has this practice ended, but we have paid practically all our debts in this area, which is extremely important. Now we must use this foundation to move further.
Average pensions in absolute terms have more than tripled over the last four years. Of course, absolute terms do not mean much given that inflation is still quite high and prices are rising. I heard a lot about this today when I met with veterans. But nonetheless, pensions have had a real increase of 82 percent over the last four years. This is the real increase that takes into account inflation, and this is a decent figure.
The amount of money the federal budget allocates to financing the law “On veterans” has increased 10-fold since 1999.
Important, though still insufficient, measures have been taken to improve medical care and provision of medicines. The number of social establishments for the elderly has risen considerably. They should, of course, be of better quality. The Pension Fund has carried out a number of projects, but this concerns above all the regions that have been hit by natural disasters.
The situation on the pharmaceuticals market has been improved somewhat. Consumer goods prices rose by 12 percent, but prices for medicines have increased by 7 percent, that is to say, they are almost twice as low.
I would also point out the support programme for pensioners is being actively implemented at federal, regional and municipal level. I imagine that you will have your own experience to share in this area, because the regions are very active here.
As I said, prices for consumer goods rose by 12 percent, while the cost of medicines rose by only 7 percent, but for pensioners this still represents a lot of money as their incomes are low. We cannot yet say that we have lived up to all the population’s expectations.
Pensions are still too low and the quality and variety of social services is still wanting. There is a lot of geographical inequality in terms of developing the social infrastructure, which is particularly lacking in the countryside.
These and other questions were all raised today, questions such as the quality of medical care, the possibility of getting necessary medicines at affordable prices and help with paying housing and utilities bills. Finally, there are also moral and psychological problems. The elderly people did not talk about them today, but they do exist. These are problems such as loneliness and social adaptation to old age. We should not allow the attitude to persist that looks at everything along the lines of ‘what are you old fogeys on about now.’
One thing is clear – we must make our social policy regarding the elderly more effective and increase its impact.
In this respect, we must above all thoroughly analyse and adjust our social legislation. We need to make clear the responsibilities of each level of power and also be clear about the financial resources this will need.
We can no longer accept a situation when the law declares peoples’ social rights but does not make clear the responsibility of specific state and municipal agencies to ensure these rights. I very much hope that the law on division of powers that has been approved will be fully implemented. The government and the State Duma, together with the active involvement of the regional heads, must come up with an optimum approach for resolving this task and ensuring that the responsibilities to be taken over at regional level really are carried out.
It is not enough to just mechanically pump more money into the social sector today. What is needed is a tangible increase in the quality of services provided. This requires forming a real market for social services and being more active in introducing innovative forms of social assistance.
Of course, we also need to modernise the way the social system is financed. Social establishments should receive money not simply because they are part of a budget-funded agency, but for providing specific assistance of the proper content and quality to specific people.
We must also develop the network and the material and technology base of social services. Particular attention should be paid to developing the social services infrastructure in rural areas.
We also must come up with new legal and organisational means of providing social housing for pensioners, including pensioners living alone, and we must develop a system of targeted subsidies to help needy pensioners pay their housing and utilities bills.
In conclusion, I once again want to say that this meeting must become the departure point for large-scale, systemic work to develop social support for pensioners.
As we are in St. Petersburg and our meeting coincides with the 60th anniversary of the lifting of the Leningrad blockade, we should also turn our thoughts to the problems of the people who lived through this blockade. This is a separate issue, but I think that in moral terms it concerns the state in general. I heard a lot from veterans, first at one meeting today and then at a second, right after the commemorative concert. I heard about many things that had escaped the state’s attention. There were people who lived through the blockade as children and people who had been injured or left disabled as a result of the enemy’s shelling the city. These people get no attention from the state and this is absolutely unfair.
There is also the situation in which some people who were awarded the medal “For the defence of Leningrad” receive support from the state, while others, who were awarded the same medal, receive no support. I think this is very unfair. People are right when they say that not so many of those who lived through the blockade are still around today, and it is quite difficult to divide them into different categories. Therefore, following my meeting with the governor of St. Petersburg today, we should also draw up the appropriate instructions for the government in this respect. We need to work on all these issues together, in stages perhaps, but we need to be clear and precise about what we are doing and explain to people what exactly we have planned and what timetable we have set for our work.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: January 27, 2004, 13:41
Text versionEvents
Speech at a Meeting with Veterans of the Great Patriotic War Marking the 60th Anniversary of the Complete Lifting of the Leningrad Blockade
January 27, 2004
12:30
St. Petersburg
President Vladimir Putin: I congratulate you on this great and momentous celebration – the anniversary of the day Leningrad was freed from the blockade. The defence of Leningrad during the blockade was a special page not only in this city’s history but also in that of the whole country and of our all entire people, for it was the people who saved Leningrad, who saved their beloved city.
The enemy broke through towards Leningrad in September 1941, and it seemed then that they had calculated everything: the number of shells, cannons, aircraft. But there was one thing they did not take into account, evidently because they could not, and that was our national character, the unequalled courage of the people of Leningrad, the devotion with which they carried out their duty and their great love for their native city.
Each of the city’s residents made their contribution to Leningrad’s defence. Some fought at the front, some baked bread, some treated the sick and wounded, and they all had their part in the victory over the enemy. But this victory came at an extremely high price – it cost the lives of the hundreds of thousands of Leningraders who now lie in the quiet graves of Piskaryovskoye Cemetery.
Not only did the people of Leningrad turn their city into an impenetrable fortress, they transformed it into a real defence enterprise, gave it a full arsenal of weapons, produced tanks, arms, cartridges, ammunition. I recall one fact with amazement: there was one episode when the enemy attacked the Kirov Plant and part of the workers took up their arms, while the rest continued making tanks.
It sounds incredible, but it is a fact. Even more incredible is that when the battle for Moscow began, Leningrad, under the blockade and surrounded by the enemy, sent arms to Moscow, ammunition, cartridges, mines. It is quite simply incredible and amazing. I think that this is partly because then, as has always been the case, the people of Leningrad thought not just of themselves but thought above all of the whole country.
They realised the full importance of this battle taking place for Moscow and understood what significance it had for the entire Soviet Union. They thought about the country and the state! We should never forget Leningrad’s heroic deed, and our children must also never forget it. I am certain that not only our generation will remember it. It is our duty to do all we can to ensure that our children remember it and instil in their own children that they must never ever forget Leningrad’s great deed.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: January 27, 2004, 12:30
Text versionEvents
Visit to the Nevsky Patch Memorial
January 27, 2004
12:08
Kirovsk, Leningrad Region
President Vladimir Putin: The Great Patriotic War knows very many examples of heroism of the Soviet people and Soviet soldiers and officers, starting from the defence of the Brest fortress. These include the battle for Moscow, for Stalningrad, for the Kursk arc and for many others. But the defence of the besieged and blockaded Leningrad even among this unprecedented heroism is still a special case, because this concerns not just the heroism of our soldiers and officers. It concerns the tragedy and unprecedented victory of the civilian population, of millions of citizens of Leningrad.
It is indeed here, on this patch, that my father fought, so there is also a personal aspect. Although today I do not think we should not talk about this, but about what kind of place it is. It is a small patch of land that is only 3 kilometres wide and 1.5 kilometres long. This place was the ”key“ to besieged Leningrad and place a very important role in the defence of the city and in breaking the blockade.
Here my father really did fight, was seriously injured and then, in hospital in Leningrad, this seemingly tragic circumstance saved the life of my mother, as she was then also in the Leningrad blockade, and as they said, he fed her from his hospital rations. But they could not save their son who fell ill and died in the Leningrad blockade. This was my brother, and I never saw him.
Every family of Leningrad citizens has this relationship to the war. And for me, there is of course a personal dimension.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: January 27, 2004, 12:08
Text versionEvents
Speech at a Meeting with Pensioners
January 27, 2004
12:30
Kirovsk, Leningrad Region
President Vladimir Putin:
“Dear friends,
Our meeting here today is taking place just before the State Council Presidium is due to meet. For the first time in the last several years it will make a thorough and all-round examination of social support for pensioners. This is the first time that all the different issues in this area will be looked at together. After talking with you it will be easier for me to get my bearings in discussions with the big bosses and understand what their thoughts are on how to resolve these problems.”
The veterans present raised many issues including the quality of medical care for veterans, the shortage of teachers in small town and village schools, the lack of equipment and technology in secondary schools and secondary-level vocational colleges and the question of benefits for people labouring on the home front during the War and people who were in the blockade of Leningrad.
On higher education prospects for graduates of village schools:
“The Education Ministry is currently carrying out an experiment –the single state exam. There are various views on its merits and I am not going to say now whether it is a good or a bad idea. But its aim is precisely to give all young people, no matter where they live, the chance to get into even the prestigious universities in the big cities without having to spend money on various tutors first. That is the main objective. So far this is just an experiment. We have yet to see if this aim will be achieved, but this is the point of the experiment.”
On benefits for people who were in the blockade of Leningrad:
“Regarding the question of benefits for categories such as people who were children during the blockade, it is true that only those who hold the medal “For the defence of Leningrad” are entitled to real benefits, and even then not all of them. There are some categories of people who have this medal but do not receive benefits. This includes people who worked on the Road of Life and people who began working in Leningrad but then were evacuated and continued working in other parts of the Soviet Union. There are also other categories. There are people who worked in the region, for example, and who have the medal but do not receive benefits. There are around 16,000 people in this situation. Of course this is an unfair situation. We have people who have the medal “For the defence of Leningrad,” that is to say, their services towards defending the city have been recognised, but we have ended up with two categories and we now have people who wear this medal by right and yet do not receive the same money. This is obviously a great injustice.
As for other categories of people, we will have to come back to this again. This also goes for people who toiled on the home front. This subject has been raised many times before and is well known. But there are different moods among the war veterans. Some of them say, ‘well, we understand, of course, that people worked hard and sometimes even risked their lives and went through the harsh conditions of those days of war, but we, we were at the front, we were facing the bullets.’ They want some kind of difference to be made. I think that there are some questions which are not generally even for the President to decide but are issues for the parliament. The question here is not even about the money. There is a moral aspect involved. Overall, I agree with you that there not so many people in this category still with us today, and so the government will look more closely at this question. There are various possible solutions. We could apply the approach taken overall for pensioners who have reached the age of 85. We could, say, drop the threshold to 75 and extend benefits to everyone, because the categories of people you are talking about would be precisely in this age group. This would be, essentially, a general regulation for everyone. But we could also look for other solutions. The government’s social specialists and the parliamentary deputies whose job it is to deal with these questions should reflect on and react to these opinions and, I think, these lawful desires of those raising this issue.”
The veterans criticised the content of what gets shown on television. Replying to these criticisms, Vladimir Putin said:
“Now turning to television and so on. Veterans regularly raise this issue. You say that your efforts to give young people a good upbringing are completely undermined by certain television programmes. I don’t think this is entirely the case. The veterans certainly do make a lot of effort in this area, and these efforts do bring results. I do agree with you, though, that some TV channels go too far with showing sex and violence. They often go too far. But I think that this is something that the organisations set up by the media outlets themselves should regulate. We cannot simply slap a ban on it all. Of course, we could simply give an order, but then we would no longer be living in the same country and would find ourselves living a completely different sort of life. The media professionals are aware of these issues that you have raised. We are in contact with them and we see that the media’s maturity and understanding of how important this problem is for the country are gradually increasing. You are right that we should draw attention to these problems more often in our contacts with the professional media organisations.”
On the situation in education:
“The level of education given to school pupils, the way teachers are paid and the way schools are equipped materially are very important questions that have been raised constantly over recent times, including in connection with teachers not getting paid their wages on time. This is not the case here, but there are regions where it is the case, and unfortunately quite often. This is often a result of problems in relations between the different levels of authorities, between municipal and federal authorities. In some towns, oblasts and regions this is still the case today. The mayor of a city, say, doesn’t get on with the governor, and the result is that people suffer. For this reason, and for other reasons, we will do what teachers have long since been asking us to do, and that is to make two issues at least, wages for teachers and providing schools with the material resources they need, a matter of state responsibility to be dealt with at regional level. This law has been passed now and came into effect on January 1 this year. Now we will see how it works in practice. This concerns teachers’ pay and also providing for schools materially – a very important question.”
On providing medicines for pensioners:
“The question of providing medicines for pensioners is very important, this issue of stocking what is supposed to be part of benefits provided and ends up not getting used. I think that the only way out is to raise pensions so as to enable them to buy what they want on the market. The government has a number of ideas and proposals in this area. Given the number of journalists here, though, I don’t want to make them public just yet.
No matter how nice it would be to fully bring back the Soviet health care system, it would be very complicated. How could we have a full return to the Soviet medical system with the modern market system we now have? They would not be compatible in their functioning. We would have to turn everything upside down, everything. This does not mean, however, that the basic principles of the Soviet-era health system should be completely done away with. They should definitely be preserved, and we have to do this, given the low incomes of our population. The state should provide support to these sectors – to health and education.”
On the cost of food:
“It was said here that the rising cost of food is a result of government policy that lets agricultural companies make money out of the situation on the grain market. I have already told the government many times to react to what is going on, or else prices will go up. They have not reacted fast enough. I think this is an oversight on the part of the government. They knew what was happening but did not take sufficiently swift action. All they did was limit grain exports. Whether this is good or bad is a separate issue, but we should try to keep prices within what people’s incomes enable them to afford.”
On social development in the countryside:
“The government has plans and ideas in this area and there is a social development programme for the countryside. This programme must be implemented. It is a good programme but it needs to be given real financial resources and extended to cover the whole country. Its aim is precisely to develop education and health and establish a support system for elderly people. This all seems simple enough, but it requires money. The programme exists, however, and we will expand it and give it real financial backing. Much else depends on this, of course, including personnel. As for state support for agriculture, we would have to say, especially to those who live and work in the countryside, that the state should be doing more than it has been. But to be fair, it is providing some support. This includes tax support, and some additional decisions were made recently in this area. The law “On unification of taxation in agricultural production,” was passed, for example, and it reduces the tax burden on agricultural businesses and generally reduces and simplifies taxation. I hope that this will inject some health and vigour into the agricultural sector in general. But this is not all that has been done. You know what we are doing in terms of providing loans for crops, helping organise leasing of agricultural technology and the measures we took last year regarding the import of agricultural goods to Russia. This has already had a positive effect for domestic producers, above all in livestock. We plan to continue this policy, but carefully. Why I say ‘carefully’ is because different economic sectors should be in a more or less equal situation so as to give every sector a chance to develop. We can’t try and pull our tails out of the mud only to fall flat on our faces, and then get our faces clear only to end up with our tails back in the mud. We need to follow a balanced policy that takes into account the interests of all the different economic sectors. Agriculture is of immense importance because it is not just a job. It is the destiny and way of life of millions of our citizens. We will continue to follow this balanced policy.”
On pensions:
“Regarding the question of generally raising pensions and providing better social guarantees for all elderly people and pensioners, I agree that today’s level is insufficient. Of course, we cannot just make one great leap forward overnight so as not to throw our entire economic system out of balance. I would recall only that pensions have tripled since January 1, 2000. The real increase, taking into account price rises and inflation comes to a solid figure of 82 percent. Military pensions have risen the most. Since October 1, 2003, the average military pension has more than doubled compared to what it was in July 2000. The practice of indexing pensions for all categories of pensioners will continue. Pensions will be indexed this year too. Overall, this year’s budget allocates more money for all of this. The funds allocated this year come to almost 76 billion roubles, which is more than 5.4 times higher than in 1999. This is quite a lot of money, but not yet enough for each individual to feel a big change in their own lives.
I have listened to you with attention and noted many points made. I promise that these issues will be raised today in discussions with the governors who are members of the State Council Presidium. Following this meeting, the relevant instructions will be given to the government, which will definitely begin work on them. Everything said here today was necessary and of importance, and I am very grateful to you for this.”
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: January 27, 2004, 12:30
Text version