Events
Press Statement Following Russian-Venezuelan Talks
November 26, 2004
13:55
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Ladies and gentlemen, it gives me genuine pleasure to receive in Moscow once again our respected guest and friend, President of Venezuela Hugo Chavez.
I am sure that his official visit to Russia will be a real milestone in developing our partnership.
I would like to emphasise from the outset that the ties between our two countries have strengthened noticeably of late.
Our political dialogue is developing and our business ties are improving. The talks we have just held confirm our mutual desire to develop our cooperation in all areas. We discussed trade and economic cooperation issues in detail.
I would like to note that we have seen positive trends emerge recently. Last year, for example, trade between our countries more than doubled. I think that Venezuela’s decision to recognise Russia as having a market economy contributed greatly to this. One of the most important tasks we have before us today is to expand and diversify our trade and step up investment, scientific-technical and industrial cooperation. We see good prospects in the oil and gas sector – a sector in which Russia and Venezuela both have major resources and solid experience and are both among the world’s leading exporters.
We will develop our relations in the military-technical sector, in transport infrastructure and in the construction of energy-sector facilities in Venezuela.
The Russian-Venezuelan High-Level Intergovernmental Commission is to play an important part in developing our economic cooperation.
The international agenda was also an important part of our talks today. We noted that Russia and Venezuela share very close positions regarding many of the issues on the international agenda.
Both Russia and Venezuela support the creation of a fair and democratic system of international relations, a system founded on the principles of equality, cooperation and the mutual respect of each others’ interests.
We consider overall strengthening of the United Nations to be a crucial element in our cooperation.
We will continue to join forces to combat global threats. These affirmations, and the other positions we have established, are reflected in the joint declaration that we signed today. I had the chance to spend practically the entire morning discussing the whole range of cooperation issues between our countries with the President in an informal setting. We are confident that our partnership has a successful future and I would like to say how certain I am that our work together will be fruitful and will benefit our peoples.
I would like to thank the President for this frank and detailed discussion.
Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 26, 2004, 13:55
Text versionEvents
Speech at Russian-Venezuelan Talks
November 26, 2004
13:52
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Allow me to wish you a warm welcome to Moscow. The President and I have had the opportunity to spend practically the entire morning together. You could say that our talks began at breakfast, continued at a small meeting in narrow format with our colleagues and have been going on for several hours now quite informally.
I would like now to welcome all of our colleagues to this enlarged meeting.
First of all, I would like to congratulate the President of Venezuela and his colleagues on their victory in the referendum that took place in your country. Your victory was convincing and has defused the internal tensions in Venezuela. We are very happy to see this, Mr President, and we wish you and your supporters a stronger economy and social sphere, a stable domestic political situation and the most positive growth.
Just recently I was in Chile, where I met with a large number of Latin American leaders, and then I also visited Brazil. They all have very warm feelings for your people and asked me to pass on their most sincere congratulations on the victory in the referendum and their best wishes for success.
I hope that Russian-Venezuelan relations will be a significant factor in stabilising relations in Venezuela and developing our two countries.
Russia and Venezuela are both major oil-producing countries and the situation on the international energy market depends to a great extent on the state of our energy sectors. A lot depends on our responsible behaviour. Not only the energy sector, however, but other areas of cooperation are also a great priority for us, and this is precisely the aim of today’s meeting – to discuss these issues and make progress on them.
Allow me once again to wish you a warm welcome to Russia.
President of Venezuela Hugo Chavez: Thank you very much, Mr President. It is a great honour for us to hear these words from you, an honour for all of us. This is our Foreign Minister, Dr Ali Rodriguez, the Minister for Communications and Information, our ambassador, who you already know, this is Samuel Muncado, one of my political advisers, the Defence Minister and the President of Venezuelan company Vayano, which is involved in aluminium, iron, gold and other metals. This is the head of my administration, the Trade and Industry Minister and our interpreter. Thank you.
This is now our third visit to Moscow. We have always encountered great solidarity from you and your colleagues and from everyone we have met here. Despite the snow, we feel at home in Moscow.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 26, 2004, 13:52
Text version