Events
Meeting with German Federal Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder
July 8, 2004
20:22
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Dear Mr Federal Chancellor, dear colleagues,
Allow me once again to wish you a warm welcome to the Kremlin.
It is very pleasing for us that all our agreements are fulfilled. We agreed to hold this meeting as an intermediary one, as a meeting which will assist preparation for widened consultations between our governments in Hamburg in September this year. I think that today’s discussion with representatives of Russia and German business will indeed be a good preparation for this major event in Hamburg.
But today I can already say that firstly, Germany remains our major trade and economic partner, and the biggest investor on our market. I think that it will be good news for business circles that our business people have prepared a statement on expansion of cooperation between the Russian Federation and the Federal Republic of Germany in the energy sphere. This is a very important document, which may be the start of very serious, interesting and many-sided work, and not just Russia and Germany, but all of Europe, are interested in the results.
Gerhard Schroeder: Thank you very much, Mr President, I thank you for your hospitality. I think that it is right that our meeting is held with the aim of preparing the upcoming intergovernmental consultations. I think that it can indeed be said that economic relations between our countries have a special dynamic. In my opinion, there is no other country in the world where this dynamic can be seen both in mutual trade and in capital investments.
And this dynamic is linked to the fact that you are successfully conducting reforms. In part, they have already been carried out, while others remain to be completed. I think that this reform activity has led to a situation when the trust of the German business world in Russia’s economic and political stability is very high. I always stress this, because there are sometimes discussions that state the opposite. But an objective assessment shows that this mutual trust does exist, and the reason for it is in the political and economic stability of your country as a result of the reforms carried out.
Vladimir Putin: As far as I have heard, unemployment has begun to drop in Germany. And the economy has also started to grow.
Gerhard Schroeder: This is indeed the case. Thank heavens, we are expecting economic growth this year, which may reach 2%. So far, we are expecting growth of 1.5% to 2%. That is to say, things are developing favourably. And this has positive consequences for the labour market. But the unemployment level is still quite high, and naturally there is heated discussion about this in Germany. And reducing the unemployment rate is the central goal of our policies.
Vladimir Putin: I think that our meeting today should also give a good signal to the development of the economy.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 8, 2004, 20:22
Text versionEvents
Opening Address at a Meeting with Representatives of Russian and German Businessmen
July 8, 2004
21:00
The President Hotel, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: It gives me great pleasure to welcome the participants in today’s meeting. I believe that the ideas of the federal chancellor, Mr Gerhard Schroeder, to gather German and Russian businessmen are exclusively productive. Those people whose business is developing owing to our countries’ economic partnership. The strengthening of bilateral ties, the creation of favourable conditions for business is the traditional core of all our meetings with the federal chancellor.
The economic dialogue between Russia and Germany is evidently becoming more substantial. In the first quarter of 2004, reciprocal trade increased by 14% in comparison with the same period last year. Germany leads the world in foreign investment in Russia. At present, they account for almost a fifth of all foreign financial investments in the Russian economy.
Moreover, we have solved a number of chronic problems through joint efforts. I mean, above all, the payment of the former Soviet Union’s debts in transfer roubles and the write-off of the debt to the Hermes group. However, even these results cannot, of course, satisfy us. Russia accounts for less than one per cent of Germany’s direct overseas investment. Germany itself is only in fourth place in terms of the direct foreign investment made by Russia’s partners. Obviously, the way to strengthening business ties is through bringing our national economic systems closer together and an ability to compensate each other’s risks.
I would like to point out that the next round of inter-state consultations will be held in Hamburg at the start of September, but tomorrow members of a bilateral group will begin work on drawing up the economic agenda of these consultations in Hamburg. Therefore, our meeting today is even more topical. Its results will become a real contribution to preparations for the September summit.
Moreover, there are plans to organise two major business forums on high technologies and energy.
My respected colleagues, pragmatic and, in the good sense, careful people have gathered here today. So, the macroeconomic situation in Russia today will serve as the most convincing investment signal for such an audience. Therefore, according to preliminary estimates, Russia’s GDP growth rates were 7.3% in the first five months of 2004. The volume of industrial production rose by 7% and investment in main capital increased by 12.4%. This economic activity has been accompanied by an expansion of the internal market, as well as an increase in real household incomes – I would like to stress real incomes – of 9.9%. The tax burden on Russian enterprises and in the economy in general is being eased. The procedure for presenting taxation accounts and calculating tax payments has been simplified.
We attach fundamental significance to a policy of rejecting individual tax breaks and privileges. The course to remove administrative barriers in the economy remains unchanged. Russian enterprises’ internal corporative regulations are becoming more transparent for foreign investors. Russian firms are adopting international accounting standards. I should point out that this has not been done in every European country. All this creates favourable conditions for work on the Russian market, and many foreign businessmen are already making active use of these new opportunities.
I would like to point out, my respected colleagues, that we are intending to continue this policy in the economy next year. And next year we have serious steps to ease the tax burden on the Russian economy. I would like to stress: there are more than twice the number foreign businessmen investing in Russia today than there were two years ago, for example, Moreover, the most conservative of them, insurance companies and private pension funds, it would seem, are coming to the Russian market more frequently.
Germany companies should progress on the market just as positively, because Russia and Germany are old and trusted partners. Our common assets include many large-scale projects implemented by such famous corporations as Wintershall, Ruhrgas, Metro, Knauf, Hochland, Alfred Reiger, DaimlerChrysler and others. These are all real examples of how gains can be made from the natural mutually supplementary nature of our markets.
Major transport and infrastructure projects, as well as the energy sphere, are highly promising. Our old partners Ruhrgas and Wintershall are planning to increase their activity in this sphere. We believe that the joint statement we adopted today on expanding bilateral business ties in the energy sphere will provide this co-operation with an important impulse. I would like to draw your attention, my respected colleagues, to the fact that this is far more than just a political statement. For Russian and German partners, this could mean a new quality in their co-operation.
The strategic dimension of partnership is increasing production co-operation in the high technology and science-intensive sectors. Above all, this means co-operation in aviation and space, machine building for the energy sector, shipbuilding and optical electronics. Tesat-Spacecom is a good example of a company here, as it recently signed an agreement to take part in setting up a joint enterprise to design and produce modern hi-tech space equipment. Russia has a considerable scientific basis and serious technological achievements. And we can and must use these Russian competitive advantages when jointly entering third countries.
In conclusion, I would like to stress once more that the potential of Russo-German economic co-operation is very great. We need to make decisive steps towards one another to receive tangible benefits from the global integration of the Russian and German economies. I hope that out meeting today will help solve precisely this objective.
Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 8, 2004, 21:00
Text versionEvents
Press Statements following a Meeting between Russian and German Businessmen
July 8, 2004
21:31
The President Hotel, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: Ladies and gentlemen,
We are very glad to welcome once again, the federal chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, Mr Gerhard Schroeder, to Moscow. On this occasion, our talks and meetings with representatives of Russian and German business circles were dedicated, of course, primarily to the development of bilateral economic co-operation.
Business partnership between our countries has been developing consistently over the last few years. Bilateral trade in the first quarter of this year increased by 14% in comparison to the same period in 2003. Above all, this means improved production co-operation and joint participation in investment programmes.
We have recently launched projects that need comprehensive and long-term approaches, and, if need be, state support. I mean the development of co-operation in the energy sphere. And the best example of our willingness to work in this sphere is the joint declaration on expanding bilateral business ties in the energy sphere.
We attach great significance to developing ties in the information technology, aviation and space spheres, as well as the banking sector. I would like to point to the intentions of a Russian space instrument-making institute to set up a joint enterprise with its French and German partners to design modern space equipment. The first steps in this area have already been taken. In the near future, we intend to hold an energy summit involving leading companies and forums from the hi-tech sphere.
Moreover, the next inter-state consultations at the highest level are scheduled to take place in Hamburg in the autumn.
At today’s meeting, the federal chancellor and I discussed issues on the agenda of bilateral relations. Russia and Germany believe that contacts in the humanitarian and cultural sphere must be consistently expanded and diversified, while youth exchanges should be energetically promoted.
We shall develop our relations in international affairs, and co-operation in international organisations. If we return to our main subject, I would like to say that, obviously, the content and dynamics of our trade and economic relations largely determine the work of Russian and German businessmen. They know how to work well and we shall do everything possible to help them in their activities.
Thank you very much.
Gerhard Schroeder: I would like to highlight the basis for this dynamic and friendly co-operation between Russia and Germany. The basis for this co-operation is mutual trust, which is founded on joint views and visions with regard to various issues of international politics, and the economic and political stability that Russia has achieved owing to the reforms implemented by President Putin. The strategic partnership between our two countries facilitates the establishment of close relations between Russia and the European Union. This helps both sides. Favourable economic development and the maintenance of peace can only be achieved if close relations are established. This is impossible without close relations between Russia and the EU. And Germany in this context is ready to take responsibility within the framework of this co-operation. There are two aspects that simplify economic co-operation between Russia and Germany. The German economy will remain here not only when the sun shines, like today, but when it is raining. Not only is the German economy interested in close co-operation with Russia, especially in energy supplies from Russia, but the German economy and Germany in general have recognised that greater co-operation in high technologies, modern services, in the banking sphere, pension and trade is in both nations’ interests.
The forthcoming inter-governmental consultations in Hamburg this autumn show that we, with all our interest in developing our economic relations, should not lose sight of two things. Firstly, young people. Youth exchanges should be raised to a worthy level and this is a particular interest of the Russian president. Secondly, this means close co-operation in the cultural sphere, which is clearly illustrated by the Year of Russian Culture in Germany and the Year of German Culture in Russia. This is not merely a supplement to economic and political co-operation: we know that out past co-operation can develop, if co-operation between our countries in the cultural sphere also develops in a worth manner.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 8, 2004, 21:31
Text version