Events
Meeting with Speaker of the Federation Council Sergei Mironov
November 10, 2004
19:45
Novo-Ogaryovo
Sergei Mironov: The Federation Council, carrying out your instructions to theheads of both Chambers, as you know, have ratified the protocol to the agreement onchanging the status of Russian and Ukrainian citizens visiting the territory of the other country – this protocol allows them to visit for 90 days without registration.
President Vladimir Putin: Visit the territory of Russia?
Mr Mironov: Yes. There were 140 votes in favour, and we did it this morning. The decision was approved in the State Duma, and then we specially included the issue in the agenda and examined it at the Federation Council.
Mr Putin: No one objected, right? There was essentially full support?
Mr Mironov: Yes, it was practically unanimous. I think one person abstained. I had the feeling that he probably got the buttons mixed up. 140 is practically a unanimous vote.
The Legislators Council held its second regular meeting. We examined a very important issue on legislative guarantee of the unity of executive power in regions of the Russian Federation. Essentially, we examined your initiative which was already passed in the first reading at the State Duma.By the way, 73 heads of legislative bodies of power from the regions took part in the meeting.
I will talk about the results right now. First, we fundamentally supported your initiative, but also, during discussion, my colleagues – heads of regional legislative assemblies – suggested what I found to be interesting ideas, which could be used as amendments. For example, my colleagues believe that conciliatory procedures need to be added to the mechanism that allows the President to dissolve a legislative body of power if it rejects the candidate proposed twice. These conciliatory procedures last for 30 days. If the two sides do not reach an agreement, then the President has the right to dissolve the body.
And also, I think, there was a very interesting idea that in the procedure for examining the candidate whom the President proposes to the legislative assembly, this candidate should present a programme of socioeconomic development for the region, so that deputies can see the vision that the candidate has for the future of this region. I think that this is a very useful suggestion.
Mr Putin: It is a necessary condition, I absolutely agree.
Mr Mironov: I think that this corresponds to the feelings of the legislative power in the regions.
Mr Putin: I will give instructions to the Executive office and to our legal services, so that they think about this and make a summary. We will also hold consultations with State Duma deputies. And we will take into account everything useful that was proposed by colleagues from regional legislative assemblies.
Mr Mironov: Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 10, 2004, 19:45
Text version