Events
Opening Remarks at Russian-Kazakh Talks
January 9, 2004
14:55
Astana, Kazakhstan
Vladimir Putin: Respected Nursultan Abishevich,
Respected colleagues,
Above all, I would like to thank the President for his invitation. I think that it is no coincidence that my colleagues and I are starting the working year of 2004 with a visit to Kazakhstan. The President and I have just discussed key issues of bilateral collaboration, including military co-operation as part of political interaction, and in international affairs. We also spoke about the development of the Collective Security Treaty, the Eurasian Economic Community, the Shanghai Co-operation Organisation, the common economic space and virtually the entire agenda of inter-state relations.
The Year of Kazakhstan in Russia undoubtedly helped to a certain extent increase the trade turnover and the speed at which the two countries are becoming closer. Nursultan Abishevich has just mentioned this. More than 150 events were held in Russia with our Kazakh friends, and I would like to thank everyone, starting from the President of Kazakhstan, the Government and the Ministry of Culture, for contributing to this. This was great, serious work, which gave a new impulse to inter-state ties in all areas. This had a positive effect for more than just the cultural sphere.
Kazakhstan is one of the Russian Federation’s main trade partners. Indeed, according to estimates, we reached not only just over five, but already about 5.5 billion dollars in 2003. Of course, this is not the limit for what we can do together.
We also discussed how to develop further our interaction in the space and military-technical spheres, and set out measures to expand mutually advantageous co-operation in the fuel and energy sphere.
I believe that it would be important for the next session of the Russo-Kazakh inter-governmental commission on co-operation to analyse in detail how measures are being implemented as part of the bilateral economic co-operation programme for 1998 to 2007 and to reach mutually acceptable decisions on those problems that have to be dealt with.
With regard to other issues of Russo-Kazakh co-operation, I would like to point to the following: one effective instrument to bolster economic relations between our countries could be the establishment of an investment bank. The President of Kazakhstan made this proposal and the implementation of this idea found its reflection at a session of the Council of Heads of State of the Commonwealth in September 2003 in Yalta.
Russia and Kazakhstan could, indeed, play a significant role in forming multilateral financial institutes, and now our experts have come to the conclusion that this could be done on the basis of the CIS Inter-State Bank with the active participation of Russian and Kazakh capital. This would give it a new impulse, a real life. In essence, this proposal is the continuation of the idea put forward by the President of Kazakhstan. The instrument is there, it only has to be filled with real content. In this sense, this means the financial resources of Russia and Kazakhstan, above all. I repeat, specialists, as far as I remember, have agreed on the scale of Russia’s and Kazakhstan’s participation in this bank. The co-chairmen of the Russian-Kazakh inter-governmental commission have agreed that final proposals on this issue will be prepared by the parties for the next session. I think that they should conclude this work in the near future. There are all the conditions for this. At any rate, I would like to tell you, Nursultan Abishevich, that a principled decision has been taken on this in Russia.
We also see border co-operation with Kazakhstan as a priority. The main task is to create the best conditions possible for the development of integration processes between our states. To this end, it is essential that the potential of sub-commissions on border co-operation be used. This is particularly true with regard to drawing up proposals for the establishment of joint plants and the simplification of procedures for interaction between economic subjects. I would suggest that the lack of agreement over the taxation and customs systems in Russia and Kazakhstan remain a serious obstacle here. This largely inhibits the future growth of our reciprocal trade turnover. We shall also focus on the activity of the transport infrastructure and everything that is connected with it. These issues were raised by the President of Kazakhstan during our talks. We shall certainly discuss these problems in isolation. In addition, we shall also discuss the issue you raised that is linked with new Russian legislation in the sphere of migration and Russian citizenship. We have inter-state agreements for this purpose. We shall analyse the entire scope of legislation in this sphere and I am confident that we shall come to acceptable decisions.
I know that you, in my opinion, are planning to visit the People’s Republic of China in the first half of this year. I would like to point to our common interest in developing co-operation as part of the Shanghai Co-operation Organisation. We have outlined our plans for joint action, including in the sphere of the fight against terrorism and have set out timetable for joint work in this area. There is another aspect that is of an economic and environmental nature: the problem of the rational use of the water resources of Irtysh. I think that we could discuss this subject at a later date, but, in my view, this could become a good example of trilateral co-operation between Russia, Kazakhstan and the People’s Republic of China. We are all interested in preserving these water resources and using them rationally.
With regard to transport corridors, I hope that our specialists will reach conclusions on this issue in the near future, as will those experts who are finishing work on the border question. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has set the task to complete this work by the end of 2004, and I hope that this will be done. For our part, we shall be keeping this under control.
Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: January 9, 2004, 14:55
Text versionEvents
Speech at the Inauguration of the Year of Russia in Kazakhstan
January 9, 2004
17:13
Astana, Kazakhstan
President Vladimir Putin: Respected Nursultan Abishevich,
Respected friends and colleagues,
We have gathered here on a pleasant, solemn and significant occasion. The Year of Kazakhstan in Russia is handing over the baton to the Year of Russia in Kazakhstan to continue the relay of friendship, trust and openness, uniting millions of people in Eurasia and meeting the spirit of our time and the two nations' historical aspirations for brotherhood and unity with each other.
We are meeting at the very start of 2004 and are together entering its first days and opening its very first pages. I see a special and good omen in this. An omen that our partnership and our mutual interests will grow and the two peoples' sincere sympathies will strengthen and be passed on to new generations of ordinary people of the two states.
Allow me, above all, to thank all our Kazakh friends and especially the President of Kazakhstan for the fine organisation of the Year of Kazakhstan in Russia, for his informal and personal participation in many events and projects, and also for the high sense of responsibility shown by the leadership of this country during all the Year of Kazakhstan in Russia programmes.
We have together succeeded in implementing the Year's main idea: to open the road to public and business initiative, and to fling the doors wide for direct human contacts, and for extensive information and cultural exchanges. And, what is particularly important, to create in the changed historical conditions effective stimuli for deepening bilateral contacts and bringing our countries and nations closer together.
I think many people will agree: such large-scale and diverse actions would have been impossible without the active support of ordinary people in our states, without the sincere interest shown by the regions, business communities and public and humanitarian organisations.
Such a step towards each other has been pre-determined by history itself and, I would say, by the very genetic memory and closeness of our peoples. But in no small degree it is also due to an understanding of the obvious benefits of co-operation, to the growth of mutual interest in a joint search for answers to global threats to security and to tough conditions of world competition.
It stands to reason that our successes, as well as problems, have much in common. In the far from simple conditions of the past decade, Russia and Kazakhstan have been able to constitute themselves economically and become influential, democratic powers.
We have been able to maintain inter-ethic peace in our countries, and social stability has become a reliable basis for progress, for further advance.
But our tremendous advantage is that we are not beginning this movement and joint search from scratch, because the economies of the two countries are historically inter-connected, and in the new conditions are demonstrating sustained and high rates of development. And our people are logically and naturally building up new business and human ties.
However, states and governments have, of course, an extremely important role to play here. And in order to occupy a place in the world worthy of our countries and nations, a good deal still remains to be done together. And the effect will be better if we do it jointly. We are to make a real civilising surge in all areas of economic, social and state development.
But even here our common philosophy remains a desire for economic progress and prosperity through close co-operation and integration, and via effective coordination of efforts in global and regional processes.
It is well understood both in Russia and in Kazakhstan: independence and national identity in no way prevent, but rather multiply, the returns from a mutually beneficial and equal partnership.
This is why our two states are actively working to strengthen the Eurasian Economic Community, to co-operate closely in the Collective Security Treaty Organisation and the Shanghai Co-operation Organisation, and are consistent and active champions of the common economic area of four states — Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan and Ukraine. And I would like to point once more to the role of the President of Kazakhstan in developing extensive integration and inter-state co-operation. He has always been and remains a consistent and energetic participant of such processes.
We in Russia prize and treasure good neighbourly relations with Kazakhstan. For us, your country is our close partner and, moreover, a close friend. It is a key ally and a dependable business partner. And we know that the same warm feelings are entertained on Kazakh soil for Russia and the Russian people. Thank you.
Lying ahead of us is the joint and great effort of strengthening inter-state ties. It is within our power to achieve new heights in co-operation in the economy, education, culture and science. It is also our duty to history and people.
We have no right to forget that behind us there are several generations of Kazakhs and Russians inalienably linked by centuries of brotherhood, common life, memory and just kinship that produced our shared cultural and intellectual wealth.
It is my belief that our main objective is to serve the good and basic interests of the people of Russia and Kazakhstan. To make a contribution to the common stock of stability and economic progress in Eurasia.
I wish ordinary people of our states peace and prosperity, and the Russian-Kazakh strategic partnership, fresh successes.
Thank you for your attention.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: January 9, 2004, 17:13
Text versionEvents
Press Statement and Answers to Journalists' Questions at a Joint News Conference with President Nursultan Nazarbayev
January 9, 2004
16:05
Astana, Kazakhstan
President Vladimir Putin: My colleagues and I are pleased to have come to Kazakhstan at the beginning of the year. Also, I would like to once again thank President of Kazakhstan for the invitation. We have things to discuss and the President has said that we have reached a record high level of economic collaboration: $5.5 billion last year. This is a very good figure. However, I agree that we have not done everything we could yet and we can easily double, at the very least, bilateral trade and economic ties very quickly.
Today, Russia has taken the baton and our Kazakh friends and we are opening the Year of Russia in Kazakhstan. The Year of Kazakhstan in Russia was highly successful and I would like to again express my gratitude today to all our colleagues who had organised and took a direct part in more than 150 events of the Year of Kazakhstan in Russia.
Our meetings in Astana show once again that Russia and Kazakhstan have been and remain reliable partners. Proof of that is the practical results I have mentioned above.
Our co-operation is developing in many areas. Today we spoke about the development of this co-operation in the fuel and energy sector, trade, investments, technologies and space exploration.
Our accords have been sealed in a large portfolio of agreements. I would like to draw your attention to the agreement on the development of co-operation in the effective use of the Baikonur space centre. It provides for prolonging the lease of the spaceport and practical involvement of Kazakh and Russian specialists in space exploration, one of the most promising hi-tech spheres.
Another major step was the signing of the Treaty of Co-operation and Interaction in Border Issues, designed to strengthen collaboration between our border services and make our joint efforts to cut off smuggling and drug trafficking more effective.
I would like also to mention the agreement signed by our businessmen. I mean the agreements reached by LUKoil and KazMunaigaz, which open up broad vistas for the joint development of Caspian resources.
Ties between out regions have become more intensive and productive; today, they ensure over 60% of bilateral trade. It is no coincidence that our delegation includes the heads of the Russian regions that are directly involved in this collaboration – the governors of the Saratov, Orenburg and Omsk regions.
The President of Kazakhstan has spoken about our collaboration on the international scene. I would like to speak about our joint efforts in the Shanghai Co-operation Organisation, Eurasec, the Collective Security Treaty Organisation and, certainly, the CIS. Kazakhstan is making a substantial contribution and – I want to stress it — it is not only an organisational but also a conceptual and intellectual contribution.
Kazakh specialists are working on these documents very actively and their suggestions in fact comprise the core of what is suggested within the framework of the common economic space.
We highly value the consistent line of the Kazakh leadership for promoting integration.
And lastly, during our meeting we also exchanged opinions on the key international and regional problems as a whole. We spoke about harmonising our stands on the international scene in the broad meaning of the word, including in the UN. The main thing we must do is to retain the mutual attraction of our peoples rooted in history and the long-standing traditions of friendship and brotherhood as a driving force and foundation of our collaboration. This was the ultimate goal of all our efforts in the past year and, in fact, our presence here at the signing of such a solid block of documents is proof that our specialists, departments and business communities worked hard in 2003 and we have reached a new stage of collaboration, which makes me happy.
Today and tomorrow we shall hold more talks with the President of Kazakhstan on a wide range of issues of collaboration. I am convinced that they will be fruitful.
Thank you.
Question: Russia and Kazakhstan are believed to have the closest attitudes to economic and political reforms. How do you as the heads of state plan to use this advantage?
Putin: In my opinion, we should above all remove the barriers that hinder co-operation. We have discussed this in considerable detail. I mean above all infrastructure, transport, communications, border and customs issues. We must do everything so that the natural advantages of our economies can be used in the best possible way to quickly remove bureaucratic barriers. This is what we shall be doing on the bilateral level and within the framework of the common economic space.
Question: The Russo-Kazakh border is one of the longest in the world but it is not fully delimited yet. Why has its delimitation been delayed? Will this issue be settled this year?
Putin: There are no political reasons but there are purely technical problems that call for additional work by specialists. I think that you and your readers understand what I mean. I mean above all the 2–3% of the border, its separate sections. The President of Kazakhstan has spoken about the railway lines here. This is a unique situation: Russian railway lines run for 300 kilometres across Kazakhstan, while Kazakh railway lines run for 100–150 kilometres across Russia. Some parts of the border divide the railway lines in half, which affects the movement of cargoes that are delivered in large amounts from Kazakhstan to Russia and from Russia to Kazakhstan. This calls for specialists’ close attention, so that the compromises, which, I am sure, will be attained, suit both sides. I am convinced that this will be the case. Our experts believe that this work can be finished in 2004.
Question: Documents on the joint development of the Caspian Sea were signed barely a year ago. What progress has been made?
Putin: I want to confirm what the President of Kazakhstan has said here. The demand of the global economy for energy is growing. Russia and Kazakhstan can increase the production of hydrocarbons and we shall do it. We are aware of our responsibility and have a realistic view of our capabilities and advantages.
We shall try to prevent the world energy market from running a fever; instead, the global economy should develop rhythmically and largely on the basis of stable deliveries from our region, meaning Central Asia (in particular Kazakhstan) and Russia. We are considering ways to solve the transport problem; we have certain plans and intend to carry them out, including jointly. We have quite a few joint plans.
The Kazakh President has mentioned the Baltic region. We have not yet discussed the northern routes in Russia, including the possible route to Murmansk, and so on; we will speak about it later today and tomorrow. We have many models of joint work.
As for our co-operation in the Caspian area, we are satisfied with its progress. As you know, today two firms – LUKoil and the state Kazakh firm – have signed one more document on joint operation, thus taking one more step ahead in the development of Caspian co-operation. We are waiting for the decisions that should be made in Kazakhstan, in particular as part of the improvement of the Kazakh product-sharing legislation. We know that efforts are being taken towards this end. On the whole, we are satisfied with the rate of this work and think that 2004 will become a year of the beginning of joint development of certain fields on the basis of principles we have co-ordinated before.
Question: How will Kazakh specialists take part in space exploration programmes after the prolongation of the Baikonur lease?
Putin: We discussed this issue yesterday. We believe that Kazakhstan has not only Baikonur, which it inherited from the former Soviet Union, but also a very good intellectual potential. Co-operation in this sphere should not be limited to the orbiting of say, Kazakh communication satellites by Russian rockets, though this is important, too. We should join efforts in peaceful space exploration in the broadest meaning of the word. Kazakh and Russian specialists have plans for joint work in this area and I do not doubt for a minute that they will be implemented.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: January 9, 2004, 16:05
Text version