September 29, 2004
19:46
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Good Day, dear friends.
At the today’s meeting of the Council, a very urgent issue is on the agenda. This is the involvement of religious organisations in consolidating civil society as applied to solving one of the main tasks that stands before us today, in opposing terrorism and extremism in all its forms.
It is clear that such a serious task requires our joint efforts. We must not forget: the war on terrorism is also a war for people’s minds, perhaps above all a war for people’s minds. In the current conditions, when one of the goals of criminals is to direct the anger of people of one belief and ethnicity against other religions, against representatives of other religions and ethnicities, our main task is to put a moral barrier against this.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for supporting all the actions that we are taking to repulse terrorist aggression against the Russian Federation.
I would like to stress: the main goal of the unprecedented series of terrorist acts organised and carried out in Russia was to break up our society, to sow hostility and distrust among different peoples, to create a divide between Islam and the rest of the world, and ultimately deal a blow to the unity of Russia.
We must be united in our understanding of this threat. There must be no doubt: in its long term plans, international terrorism follows separatist political goals. And I would like to stress particularly: the main distinguishing feature of terrorists is not in the arguments they make for committing their crimes, but in the means they use – in threats, killing, harm, terror and violence towards innocent people.
In Russia, where many peoples and religions have long existed together peacefully, fighting this threat is truly a fight for the unity of the country. For their criminal goals, extremists exploit nationalist, ethnic and religious intolerance. Their speculations are in many ways based on a distortion of the cultural and spiritual traditions of the peoples of Russia, on ignorance of religion. We often meet with many of those present here, in various situations. I know that you share this position. In fact, to a large extent I am repeating what I have heard from you many times in our private conversations and meetings.
Terrorists cynically use religious slogans as excuses for violence and brutality, we also know this. It is clear that to be swayed by these criminals, to vent anger towards terrorists against people of different beliefs and ethnicities is absolutely unacceptable, and in a country with such a diversity of religions and ethnicities it is completely destructive.
I also think that it is extremely important now to further develop cooperation between religious groups and the state, to cooperate in the interests of solving nationwide tasks.
As you know, we have passed a series of decisions that seriously strengthen executive power as a whole and in the Southern Federal District in particular, and we are already dealing with tasks related to ensuring the security and socio-economic development of the North Caucasus. Above all, this is necessary to destroy the very roots of terrorism in this region. This work of course will take more than just a few days. It will require a great deal of time and major concerted efforts. However, it is extremely important both for the North Caucasus region and for the country as a whole.
Furthermore, we must together predict and prevent conflicts where ethno-religious factors exist. You understand well what it means in a country such as Russia to maintain constant dialogue between religions and to strengthen accord between ethnicities. And thus I also think our cooperation is important in opposing extremist organisations in the country.
Finally, I count on the active position of members of the council in the Public Council that is being formed, and that in dialogue between state and society, the voice of representatives of the most diverse religions will be heard.
In conclusion, I would like to repeat once more: only by common efforts can the security of our citizens be ensured, and the integrity of the state maintained. And I am sure that you well understand the weight carried by every word spoken by the clergy. For millions of people in Russia, their words have always meant spiritual instruction and guidance in life.
I count on your joint effective work, on your help and support.
Thank you very much for your attention.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts