Events
Speech at an Awards Ceremony of Letters of Credential
January 22, 2004
18:34
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Gentlemen,
I am glad to welcome you here and wish you success in your responsible diplomatic mission in Russia. I expect that the results of your mission will serve the interests of our peoples, and strengthen bilateral and multilateral cooperation.
A firm basis for this is similar understanding of the character and main tendencies of international development. We respect one another's position, and are in favour of dialogue and coordinating efforts. It is impossible to do without this in today's interdependent world. A world which is not only swiftly developing, but also facing new global problems and threats. They are well-known, these problems and threats: terrorism and regional conflicts, unevenness of economic development, poverty, outbreaks of epidemics and ecological crises. I do not think that anyone doubts that these challenges can only be answered together, and I would like to assure you that Russia is prepared for this collective work.
Today in this hall are gathered high-ranking representatives of nations with which Russia has had close and friendly ties for many years.
Relations between Russia and Croatia have a stable and positive dynamic. Croatia is our partner in solving an entire series of problem in South-east Europe. Intensive political dialogue, and promising perspectives for development of business and humanitarian cooperation allow us to look to the future positively.
Russia values the friendly nature of relations with the Republic of Yemen. Their rich history is over 75 years old. Without doubt, we have good and significant reserves to activate our cooperation in almost all areas, especially in trade and the economy.
We are interested in strengthening friendly ties with Lebanon. The positions of our countries on the majority of international problems are very close, or as diplomats say ”almost coincide“. This also concerns a key problem in the modern world – the Middle East problem. We expect to provide our economic and humanitarian contacts with plenty of new initiatives and projects.
Relations with the People's Republic of China are one of the key priorities in Russia's foreign policy. Our strategic partnership is based on the firm foundation of the Treaty on Good-Neighbourliness, Friendship and Cooperation, and is developing step by step in all directions.
I would note that our relations have never in the past been characterised by such a profound level of mutual trust and understanding. I would especially like to emphasise the clearly expressed will of the leadership and peoples of both nations for cooperation and interaction. There is every foundation to believe that in years to come, Russian-Chinese dialogue will reach new frontiers.
The Republic of Kazakhstan is a reliable friend and a reliable ally of Russia. We intend to continue to build Russian-Kazakh relations on the principles of equality, and to increase joint efforts in the framework of the Commonwealth of Independent States, the Eurasian Economic Community and the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation.
We give great importance to deepening Russian-Kazakhstan ties in all areas. Recent talks in Astana were extremely fruitful. A large series of agreements was signed there, both intergovernmental and between companies.
An important factor in the closer friendship between our countries is a common vision of paths to develop national economies, based on the concept of creating a single economic space.
Among the priorities of bilateral business cooperation are the fuel and energy sector, the development of new technology, and the peaceful mastery of space. Together, we can solve issues of border cooperation and the development of border territories. I am certain that the Year of Russia which began recently in Kazakhstan will become yet another bright page in the history of the centuries-old friendship between our peoples.
Our expanding contacts with the United Arab Emirates are determined by a spirit of friendship and mutual understanding. We see good perspectives for bringing Russian-Emirate ties to an even higher level, and also for strengthening interaction on the international stage.
Traditionally friendly ties that have deep historical roots link Russia with Serbia and Montenegro. We are interested in the swift establishment and strengthening of this new national association and are provide every possible kind of assistance in this process. Russia intends to continue to play the most active part in finding a just solution to the problems of the region, including the Kosovo problem.
On the whole, I expect, we have every opportunity to more fully reveal the potential of bilateral partnership in all spheres – political dialogue, the economy, and humanitarian ties.
In conclusion, allow me, gentlemen, to say that I am certain that your stay and work in Moscow will be fruitful and interesting for both you and your families. I am certain that the years you spend in Moscow will be filled not just with professional success, but that you will also get to know the unique culture and history of the multi-ethnic people of Russia. Here you will find, and I do not doubt this for a second, many new, interesting and reliable friends.
Thank you for your attention.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: January 22, 2004, 18:34
Text version