Events
Meeting with Director General of the International Atomic Energy Agency Muhammed Al-Baradei
June 29, 2004
10:40
Novo-Ogaryovo
President Vladimir Putin: Dear Mr. General Director, allow me to wish you a warm welcome to Moscow. Above all, I want to thank you for agreeing to come to this event connected with the launch of the first atomic energy station. I am certain that your visit to Moscow and St. Petersburg will be beneficial for you. You know, Mr. General Director, that we have always actively supported the activity of your agency, and your activity personally.
The IAEA has become a very prestigious, powerful organization, which fulfills a very important function and has enormous authority.
We in Russia, like with many of our colleagues around the world, note that the activity of the IAEA is professional in the direct sense of this word and lacking any political bias, which in my view is extremely important.
We hope that the IAEA will increase its activity. On its part, Russia will do everything it can to support the development of the IAEA.
Muhammed al-Baradei: Mr. President, I am very grateful to Russia for giving me the opportunity to visit your country and meet once more with you. This morning I had very constructive meetings here in Moscow; in the afternoon I will go to St. Petersburg, and I hope to hold constructive meetings in that city.
Russia’s support has had key importance for us in all aspects, including the peaceful use of atomic energy and the non-proliferation regime.
We expect that there will be a provision for peaceful nuclear energy, as it is very important in providing an energy supply to the countries of the world.
It is also necessary to ensure that the nuclear energy is used safely, and is not used for military purposes. And in all these areas, Russian help has been extremely important. I hope that during my visit to Russia, we will be able to widen our cooperation. I very much hope that the advice and consultations received from you will help us in this matter.
I am grateful to you for the support you showed to our agency, and me personally, in your opening address.
President Putin: We need your advice no less than you need ours.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 29, 2004, 10:40
Text version