Events
Concluding Remarks at the XIV Congress of the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs
November 16, 2004
22:00
Hall of Columns, Moscow
President Putin: It was very interesting for me to hear your speeches. Informative presentations were made with an analysis of the current real situation in the economy, and they were critical, which is particularly important, and also debatable in some areas.
I will allow myself to speak very briefly about what are perhaps the most important aspects, although I noted everything else that I considered necessary. We will discuss this at a meeting of Government, I promise you.
The first thing that I paid attention to was administrative reform. Almost everyone who spoke here talked about such problems as bureaucracy in the economy, corruption and so on. Of course, administrative reform is designed to overcome these problems.
Yes, I agree, not everything is arranged the way the Government would like, and you are right – those who spoke up – your criticism was correct. Several things have remained unchanged and lost, and there have been some errors.
Maybe it is good from the standpoint of the war on corruption, that established ties are disappearing, but from the standpoint of manageability, of course, several things need to be set right.
I must tell you frankly: it was intended – I believe that the vast majority of people here know about this – that ministries would deal with strategy and rule-making. Other units in the management bloc would deal directly with managing state property – agencies, for instance. A third group would deal with control. But practice shows that even the initiators and authors of this reform do not want to let go the real functions of management, and are gradually taking more of this “blanket” for themselves, thus violating the principles that they declared. And this creates certain difficulties in management, in contacts with the Government; I see and understand this perfectly. And naturally, the Prime Minister and I will react to this.
Another important issue is Russia’s eternal question of land. There are many notes about this, and I will quote one of them. It gives a history of the issue: “Two questions arise in connection with this: has your position changed on this issue, i.e. unfairness of secondary repurchase of land already in use by companies?” I can say immediately that my position has not changed. And secondly: “We ask you to help the Government of Russia to finally determine its position on this issue in the context of your speech.” One of our colleagues who spoke here talked about the problems with the regions. And this is indeed what stops the Government from reaching a final decision on this issue. Fiscal interests and national interests for developing the economy are to a certain extent in conflict with each other, but I agree with you that the Government must carry this to its conclusion. Of course, we must not forget the interests of the regions, and we must find some balanced decisions, but these decisions must be fair and justified from the standpoint of developing the Russian economy. I hope that the Government will soon complete this discussion.
Now for a few aspects which I noted and consider to be very important.
Many of you talked about the necessity of diversifying our economy, and this is indeed one of the most important areas of our joint work. Certain changes are being made to legislation, primarily to tax legislation – you know about this – and the burden is being redistributed. Perhaps this is insignificant so far, but there is some progress, and you know this. Of course, the Government must act carefully to make sure that this redistribution does not undermine one of our main industries, the energy industry: oil and gas. But, I repeat, this process will continue in the future.
People here said that the tax burden is now 30% of GDP. It is difficult to calculate how much it really is. I believe that it is more than 30%. I don’t know where these figures come from – some experts think that it is in fact higher. And this, of course, makes us think constantly about how to change this situation for the better. As you know, the Government has declared that it is necessary to further reduce the tax burden and stabilise tax legislation – this was also discussed here today. I think that this must happen in the near future.
A great deal of criticism was heard, but there are still some positive things going on: it was mentioned that over the last six months, collection of tax on profit has already exceeded the collection of value-added tax – this is positive progress. And this is a decision that has been developed together by the business community and the Government of the Russian Federation. Naturally, it must be regretted that in connection with administrative reform, there have been some communication breakdowns in the dialogue between the business community and the Government on these issues. The mechanisms must be restored – and I promise you that they will be restored, above all in the sphere of tax legislation and taxation. This sphere is extremely complex. Even here, in the speeches by our colleagues, the methods and assessments differed greatly. The common social tax has been reduced – this is bad, because a deficit of social funds may arise. Excise duties on alcohol have been raised – this is also bad, because the money disappears, at any rate quite frequently.
Other proposals were also made: to reduce the common social tax even further – to 15%, and to send money from the stabilisation fund and even the Central Bank’s gold reserves to paying off this deficit and developing the economy. But I am not certain that the authors and advocates of these proposals have calculated whether these resources will be enough to cover the deficits of social funds and maintain social stability in the country. Is this money enough to influence the development of the Russian economy as a whole? And what can using accumulated resources in this manner lead to?
The truth is that we can not afford to spend as much money as we earn. And if, as a result of a favourable economic situation in the world, and the possession of natural resources that God has endowed us with, we will put all this money into the economy, then today we will have certain problems: not enough circulating assets, a lack of investment resources, but tomorrow, if we make even the smallest mistake in this area, we may not need this at all, because inflation will crush the Russian economy. These decisions must be balanced and precise. In any case, we must think very seriously about such proposals, and we should not rush.
And finally, the last point, which is a pleasing one. There was discussion here of introducing honorary titles for the business community. This could of course be considered, although I think that success in business, which is inevitably reflected in personal prosperity, in income and success, is already a major event in the life of any person: it is self-actualisation. Undoubtedly, there are people who stand out not just for their success, but also for their services to the state, the people and the country.
Someone here said that there was no one in this hall who would give awards to any entrepreneurs. I can’t speak for the others, but I would like to say that there is at least one such person here – myself: I do this regularly, and I am prepared to think about the proposal for honorary titles, but I have always particularly enjoyed giving state awards of Russia to entrepreneurs who have indeed earned the respect of our people with their activity. And I hope that I will be given the opportunity to take part in such events again.
Thank you very much. I wish you all the best.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 16, 2004, 22:00
Text versionEvents
Introductory Remarks at the XIV Congress of the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs
November 16, 2004
20:45
Hall of Columns, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Good day, dear congress participants,
It gives me great pleasure to greet all of you gathered here today in this hall. Your plans and activities are linked not just to economic development, but to the country’s outlook and prospects as a whole, and so I think it is fitting today to raise some of the principal development issues our country faces.
We have now reached a qualitatively new point in our social and economic development. This is borne out by the results and figures that you know well and that we have repeated often over these last years with satisfaction. It is also borne out by the principally new demands that have emerged in society in general today and within the business community itself. Along with greater possibilities have come greater demands on the authorities, and on the business community too. We now have to ensure consolidated and coordinated work on priority tasks and we are responsible together for finding the most effective means of achieving our objectives.
I would like to add that we have a wide range of possibilities at hand and I want to just name a few of them here.
First, getting private capital involved in working on national objectives and carrying out major national projects is a potentially very productive course to follow. We already have some experience based on coincidence of commercial and public interests. We have positive experience and, unfortunately, we have negative experience as well. A sober and objective assessment of this experience makes us think and draw conclusions for the future.
Cooperation between the state and business should not turn into a means of saddling the private sector with unproductive expenses and taxes. Unfortunately, this situation still occurs, both in the federal centre and in the regions. But when we have a market that has proven itself to be productive, state intervention is not necessary and indeed, can be harmful.
Second, it makes most sense to use budget resources in situations where there is virtually no private sector competition, where long-term, strategic interests of Russian society as a whole are concerned and where there simply cannot be rapid commercial returns to be made on investment. In this context, science-intensive production is an obvious area for cooperation between the state and the business community. Russian business is already ahead of the state, using the most advanced technology in management, marketing, expertise, logistics and communications. At the same time, the state is still the primary holder of rights to scientific developments, new materials and products.
I think our common task is clear – we need to consolidate the achievements that are currently scattered among the diverse sectors of the Russian economy and scientific fields, we need to invest more actively in the knowledge economy and, ultimately, we need to transform our achievements here and there in certain areas into all-round, systematic cooperation.
Another promising direction is that of getting business involved in carrying out state infrastructure projects such as transport and highway projects, projects in the energy sector and in building up the infrastructure in border areas. Private capital is fully capable of effectively and independently developing the social infrastructure based around new roads, ports and settlements, and to develop it with profit both for itself and for the state. These are areas in which market interests and Russia’s geopolitical interests are very closely bound together, and it is no exaggeration to say that the same often goes for the state’s security interests.
I think that we should not delay in creating a legal foundation for cooperation between the state and the business community on priority programmes, and the state must guarantee stable working conditions for private investors, including by providing a framework for concession agreements and civil trade in intellectual property rights.
Overall, the state must guarantee that the results of privatisation deals that have already taken place will not be reviewed, and it must ensure all possible protection of private property as one of the foundations of the market economy. State officials must protect private property just as much as they do state property.
What we in turn expect from you is more active investment in social projects, science, education and developing the human factor in general. Let me go into a little more detail here.
We have spoken before about the importance of systemic understanding of the social responsibility of business. It is clear that the success of particular individuals or corporations only rests on a genuinely solid foundation when it is forward-looking, bound to the real needs of our country’s people and aimed at building up business over the long term in specific sectors or parts of the country.
Our country is becoming increasingly attractive for business initiative, for life in general, and it is attracting capital, people, specialists, from the CIS countries and further abroad. But this capital has to accumulate, build up constantly in Russia, and it has to help raise the living standards of those who create it and of the Russian people in general.
I am convinced that the Russian business community has every interest in having a favourable social environment here for its activities and should be looking to establish itself solidly and for the long term in its own country.
You know around two thirds of the total labour force are now employed in the private sector. This means that it is the private sector that is forming the living standards and employment conditions for most Russians and determines the conditions for their healthcare and pensions, education and professional training.
An instinct of healthy patriotism and feeling of responsibility for our country lie at the heart of the national unity that binds Russian society together, and the Russian business community is a major part of this society, and so the state will support the business community’s interests, just as it supports those of teachers, doctors, students, scientists, hired workers in industry and agriculture, and, of course, it will encourage commercial success.
I would also like to mention two very pressing issues that are not directly related to your professional activities but that are of great significance for the state of affairs in the country in general.
First, the issue of developing the North Caucasus. The low living standards, lack of jobs and general economic depression are the main fertile soil here for extremism, and I ask you to show practical interest in stabilising the socio-economic situation in Russia’s southern regions. There should be no illusions: business has just as much objective interest in this as the state.
The second practical question is the shortage of qualified workers and technical personnel in the country. I am sure that the overwhelming majority of those present today will agree with me. We need to work together to revive the system of secondary-level vocational education, get it up to standard and ensure it meets the demands of the modern market, the market for knowledge and skills.
Furthermore, we also need to move towards further improving the tax system and ensuring that taxation conditions and procedures create as comfortable an environment as possible. Your recommendations will be useful and appropriate in this context. I hope that the practice of joint work between the government and the business community, including your organisation, will continue in this area.
I would like to stress that the state must and will defend the interests of honest business, and major investigations in the business sector, including tax investigations, should not and will not be seen as a signal to look for a threat to state interests in every new business that sees the day.
But business must get into the habit of paying its taxes, abiding by the law and not looking for ways to avoid taxation. Taxes are paid to the treasury in the national interest, and this includes the interests of business itself.
Finally, business representatives could play a more active part in the work of the newly created Public Council along with other groups representing different parts of Russian society and help to strengthen our state. This means working towards a unified economic space, overcoming local rivalries and protectionist mentality and breaking down the barriers to regional markets. There can be no place in the regions for categorising businesses as “ours” and “outsiders”. This ultimately leads not only to commercial losses but is also a threat to the country’s unity.
In conclusion, I would like to say once again that private enterprise is the foundation of the modern Russian economy and is its future, and this means that our experience of working together and your knowledge are very important and much-needed today and should be put to use to help us achieve the key objectives on our national economic agenda. I wish you success in this work from the bottom of my heart.
Thank you for your attention.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 16, 2004, 20:45
Text version