I would like to note that the synchronized ratification of these key documents is above all a sign of the growth in trust between our countries. And it is very pleasing that parliamentarians of both Russia and Ukraine have felt this tendency. Undoubtedly, this is the result of active and fruitful cooperation of legislative bodies. I know that the path to ratification was not easy for Ukraine or Russia. Among the deputies of both countries there were, of course, particular opinions, and there were many serious disputes, but most importantly, this impassioned and fundamental discussion is a normal process, and it is especially pleasing when it ends with a positive result.
Now it is important to begin as soon as possible to implement the measures stipulated by the agreement on a Common economic space of the “group of four” countries. Today, we gave this a lot of attention in our talks with the Ukrainian President. Our goal is to create a common market of goods, services, capital, and labour force, the thin that the Europeans began with. God has ordered us not to waste what we have had, but to move ahead, and on this basis to solve social tasks, to create strong, effective, and above all economic interaction. There is enough work for everyone, this is certain. The parliaments of the two countries have a special role, and not because extensive legislative activity rests on its shoulders – I am certain that deputies can minimize excessive politicization of this process.
I would like to stress that not only official bodies and economic subjects are interested in the development of economic cooperation – above all, business is interested in this, which will work effectively in this space if it feels the consolidated political will of our countries. And both our goals and yours are the same: to become integrate into international economic processes. There are no disagreements here, there are no obstacles which could arise in the course of our joint work. On the contrary, we want to clear the way for movement in this direction.
It is fundamentally important that we want to occupy a place that is worthy of our country in the international division of labour. We do not want for Russia to be restricted to export of gas and oil alone, and I do not think that anyone in Ukraine wants to only trade beets on international markets, especially as no one needs beets there.
We have a very high scientific, intellectual and personnel potential both in Ukraine and in Russia. We should maintain it and increase it, I repeat once more: to occupy a worthy place in the international economy – but we can only do this by joining our efforts.
I suggest that under the close supervision of deputies, there should also be issues determined by the Treaty on the state border. During its implementation, it is important to take into account the interests of citizens of Russia and Ukraine, to remember their numerous ties of family and friends and business contacts, and to understand that they reinforce inter-governmental relations. And in this sense, we need to do a great deal more at the administrative level. Furthermore, we are developing effective border cooperation, and the statutes of the treaty must be used to strengthen these ties.
I note the great significance of the Azov-Kerch regulating process. We were able to take a balance decision, which will allow us to establish the closest cooperation in such spheres as shipping, fishing, protection of the environment and many others. And here we also must not forget about the people who live in these regions and suffer, truly suffer from the fact that these issues have not been regulated. This depends on us together. It is something that we have not worked out, as we have not yet created normal conditions for economy and normal life in this region.
At the meeting you actively discussed, a the speakers of the two parliaments said just now, the formation of the Common economic space, primarily the legal issues which we need to decide before we can move forward. It is important that the integration ideas we have developed find their reflection in the laws that it remains for us to work on, and which need to be passed. I know that at the meeting, Russian deputies also talked about other problems. I will talk about this, but I will conclude this section on economic integration. I would once again emphasise the role of the parliaments, because in this serious discussion between deputies, there is a process of understanding and recognition taking place of the correctness of the choices and decisions we have made. So the more serious the discussions will be, the beter – it is important that they end with a real result.
If we are talking about humanitarian issues, the decision of the National Council on radio and television broadcasting in Ukraine was mentioned. It was as it were specially passed before the voting on key issues of our interaction. I would like to appeal to the deputies who want constructive cooperation between our two countries: there should under no circumstances be any panic, and these important issues should not be taken into the sphere of confrontation, this must not be allowed to happen. These are very important, sensitive and delicate issues of our cooperation.
In Russia, we always take the position that we have created and will continue to create conditions for the study and use of the Ukrainian language, particularly in areas with compact settlement of Ukrainians. I want to assure you that we will do this systematically and consistently. I hope that our Ukrainian colleagues have the same understanding and approach. I count on common sense and friendly relations with people in Ukraine who consider Russian to be their native language, who think in Russian and would like their children to use this language. And I would like to stress once more that this is Ukraine’s internal affair, the internal affair of Ukrainian society. On our part, we in Russia will do everything to support the development of Ukrainian culture and the Ukrainian language in the Russian Federation.
In conclusion, I would like to stress that partnership with Ukraine is the most high priority area of Russian foreign policy. The fact that we signed and ratified the treaty on the border proves this. We want to clear away everything – and not just in the legal sphere – we want to clear away everything in the minds of our citizens, that there are no obstacles for Russia to support the historic choice of the Ukrainian people for independence. There are no obstacles, but in clearing away these old ideas in their minds, in practice and in law, our position is that we are clearing the way for joint effective work. And in this sense, the role and significance of the activity of parliamentarians is enormous. I very much hope that it will continue in the same positive and constructive way, and with the same mood of joint, effective work which the parliaments of the two countries have shown over the last few weeks.Events
Press Statement and Answers to Journalists’ Questions at a Joint Press Conference with Ukrainian President Leonid Kuchma
April 23, 2004
00:01
Yalta
President Vladimir Putin: Dear colleagues and friends! The agreements ratified by the parliaments of our countries will indeed in many ways determine future relations between Russia and Ukraine. They are the treaty on the Russian-Ukrainian border, on cooperation in use of the Azov Sea and the Kerch Strait.
On this matter, I would like to express my gratitude to the parliaments of the two countries of Ukraine and Russia, the specialists and deputies who did extensive, coordinated, necessary and effective work. I am certain that when these documents come into effect, along with the ratification of the agreement on a Single economic space, the foundation of strategic partnership between Russia and Ukraine will be seriously strengthened, and new possibilities for internal political dialogue will be opened, along with equal business and cultural cooperation.
I would also like to note that the specialists, government and parliaments of the two countries have found balanced and mutually beneficial decision on the Azov Sea and the Kerch Strait. These decisions take into account the interests of Ukraine and the Russian Federation, and, which is particularly important, give a powerful stimulus to cooperation in priority areas such as shipping and shipping safety, fishing and protection of the environment.
The people who live in these regions know what I am talking about. They face these problems now and hope that after the signing and ratification of these documents, we will solve all problems effectively to overcome everything that hinders the development of the economy, the development of cooperation in these regions.
The treaty on the state border, of course, has particular significance. And I repeat once more: historically, our people, of course, are the closest neighbours, friends, partners and relatives. Today Russian-Ukrainian borders should of course unite our citizens, should serve the development of business and cultural cooperation, and free interaction between people.
I should tell you that Russia is making this step consciously. By signing and ratifying the Treaty on the border with Ukraine, we are doing everything to overcome what hinders the development of our intergovernmental ties, and remove any obstacles for the development of our relation. But this is not done to divide the nations, but to unite them – to unite them in the sense of creating favourable conditions for the development of intergovernmental ties, for the development of the economy of the two countries, and for the development of relations in the humanitarian sphere.
And in conclusion, I want to thank Leonid Danilovich and all our Ukrainian colleagues for their hospitality, for giving us the opportunity to meet and work today. I want to thank all our specialists who have done this major, difficult, and I want to stress once more, effective work, which is being concluded today. Thank you very much for your attention.
Question: How is the situation developing now in the gas-transport consortium, and has the scheme of managing the enterprise been finally confirmed, and which countries besides Germany are showing interest in this project?
Vladimir Putin: This is a difficult question, but a very important one for the development of energy sectors in both Ukraine and Russia. We were the initiators of this – when I say we, I mean myself and the Ukrainian President.
Work has begun on this project. It is developing positively. To take any final decisions, we must make many technical and technological checks, and this work is currently underway. As for advancing our joint activity in preparing appropriate documents, this work is also going quite intensively. We are holding consultations not just with German partners, but also with Italian and French partners. This concerns the possible participation of the Italian concern ENI and our French colleagues from Gas de France in future work.
I can also add that yesterday I had quite a lengthy and informative discussion with the EU heads – they were in Moscow, and we talked with Mr. Prodi we devoted a lot of time and attention to issues of energy cooperation and the development of pipeline transport.
We all know, or at least specialists know the energy capabilities and capabilities for delivering energy raw materials to the markets of Western Europe. We know the problems that the Western European economy may face if gas supplies run out in several northern countries in Europe, and in Great Britain. We take this very seriously, and this is one of the problems that we discussed yesterday – the development of transport, above all pipeline transport. Russia has quite major plans here. You know about the plans for building a northern gas pipeline, and we are prepare to develop a gas pipeline that goes through the territory of Poland.
But we have already begun to develop the gas pipeline network together with our Ukrainian colleagues, a network which goes through the territory of Ukraine and then through Eastern European countries. We are currently examining the possibility of constructing additional pipelines through Ukrainian territory, and this is major, large-scale work, which of course positions Ukraine as one of the leading players on the European energy market.
Question: What will be the next stage of work on the Single economic space, and when will the countries involved feel the first results of this work?
Vladimir Putin: We have now prepared a conception of an agreement on a Single economic pace. Now we must develop another serious document on this conceptual basis, something like an economic charter of cooperation, which regulates the order of our joint work in the area of transport, tariffs, communications, transport of goods: everything should be put down in writing, something like an economic constitution or a set of individual agreements on these issues, which are key issues for the development of our economies, to create the necessary conditions which would make it possible to make the economies of the two countries more competitive on international goods and services markets.
Of course, we will do all this with the aim of not creating problems for our positive and constructive cooperation with the European Union, but on the contrary to create conditions which would not allow us to interfere with joint work with the EU on solving tasks in the area of the economy and the social sphere.
Question: For some time, we have seen an intensive dialogue between the two Presidents. I would like to know how you assess the role of the parliaments of the two countries in the development of Russian-Ukrainian relations.
Vladimir Putin: In a democratic society, it is impossible to count on solving large-scale problems involving the development of nations without wide social support. We know that in parliament, almost all groups of the population, social parties and movements are represented.
It is very pleasing for me to note that these decisions have been made. We consider it quite normal that they were passed in the course of serious discussions. Furthermore, this, in the end, shows the nature of political forces and the priorities of the population of the country itself.
If such confident work in the parliaments of Russia and Ukraine took place with the clear advantage for these who were supporters of relations between the two countries, this shows that in this decision the will of the peoples of Ukraine and the Russian Federation was expressed.
Question: The international community is currently advocating a strengthening of the UN’s role in Iraq. I would like to know your opinion – to what extent can this stabilize the situation in this country?
Vladimir Putin: We would like for decisions to be formulated on the Iraq problem which above all suit the Iraqi people. The international coalition which controls the situation in Iraq now came there with one goal. That is, there were many goals, but there was one main goal: to bring democracy to the country of Iraq.
This means to give the Iraqi people the chance to determine their destiny themselves, and there can be no other interpretations. But of course, to reach this point, a certain stage must be passed. And it is our firm belief that the best tool to achieve this is by using the capabilities of the United Nations and its authority. Therefore, the more the UN is involved in this process, the better.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 23, 2004, 00:01
Text version