Events
Introductory Remarks at a Meeting of the Commission on Military-Technical Cooperation with Foreign Countries
March 1, 2004
00:03
The Kremlin, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon.
We are here today above all to analyse the results of our military-technical cooperation with foreign countries in 2003.
What we can say is that military-technical cooperation is developing rapidly and we have exceeded our planned targets by 26%. What’s more, our arms and military equipment exports have broken the $5-billion mark for the first time and have reached a total of more than $5.5 billion.
I must add that our trade turnover in general has reached a record mark for the last 15 years. We had a growth rate of 25% and a total amount of $192 billion. We have had a positive foreign trade balance of $78 billion recently, and this is an absolute record for the last 12 years. Our technology imports from abroad rose by around 28%-30%, but Russia’s technology exports also increased by 11%, and military-technical cooperation accounts for almost half of this.
These are good figures, and they show that our efforts in military-technical cooperation are bringing good results and generating substantial foreign currency earnings for the country. These funds are essential for the stable development of our defence industry and for financing promising scientific research and industrial developments.
Today our country is one of the world’s five leading exporters of military goods. Our main task in this sector is to build on what we have achieved so far and move towards new successes.
Competition is increasing considerably on the world arms market today. The United States is still the leader for overall volumes of arms sales. Britain, France and Germany are actively increasing their export potential; and countries such as China, India, Israel, South Africa and Ukraine are making serious efforts to promote their products.
Russian military goods are still very competitive in terms of their price-quality ratio.
Russia strictly observes its non-proliferation commitments, but we are also firmly committed to defending our economic interests.
In this respect, we should focus particularly on expanding the range of military goods that we export and also on ensuring that our products are equipped with the very latest automation and control, reconnaissance and communications systems.
We also plan to increase the number of defence agencies authorised to export their products and services independently. But in this area we should proceed very carefully.
Another 14 companies received this authorisation last year. Their results for the year so far are modest. What is most important is that we do not end up once again in the situation we were in several years ago when we faced unfair competition on markets abroad which ultimately damaged our country’s interests. It is important, of course, that these companies become part of the military-technical cooperation system and gain the necessary experience of working in this sector. We expect these companies’ exports to increase considerably over the course of this year.
In conclusion, I would like to thank everyone working in the military-technical cooperation system for the results they have achieved, and I wish them further success in their work and in strengthening their positions on world markets.
I would also like to note that I have signed a decree on rewarding the developers and manufacturers of export-oriented military goods. This is further confirmation of the great importance the state places on the work of our scientists, designers and engineers, and all those whose talent serves to strengthen Russia’s defence potential and heighten its authority in the world.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: March 1, 2004, 00:03
Text versionEvents
Opening Remarks at a Meeting with the Cabinet Members
March 1, 2004
00:02
The Kremlin, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: I have held consultations with the State Duma majority on a candidate for the post of Prime Minister. This week, today in fact, I will send a letter to the State Duma proposing Mikhail Fradkov, currently our representative with ministerial rank at the European Commission in Brussels, as Prime Minister.
As you know, Mr Fradkov was at one time Minister of Foreign Economic Relations, that is to say, he was part of the Government’s economic team. He was also Deputy Secretary of the Security Council, and so he is familiar with law enforcement and security issues. Before going to Brussels he headed the tax police and has ample experience in the fight against corruption. His work in Brussels has been impressive and he has shown himself to be a good organiser and manager, as well as a decent person. I hope that the Duma will support his nomination.
In this respect, I would like to ask that those among you who were involved in the administrative reform immediately start working with Mr Fradkov when he arrives in Moscow tomorrow so as to complete as quickly as possible the work that has been going on for a long time now, almost one-and-a-half years. I would ask you to complete this work and present your final proposals.
As you also know, I visited the Far East and Siberia last week. I would like to thank all those who were involved in carrying out major projects there, such as building the road between Chita and Khabarovsk. In 1903, Russia built the Trans-Siberian Railway, and now, a century later, we have completed the first motorway linking the west and east of the country. This is a big event in our country’s life, but we must not forget that our work does not stop here and that we still have a lot to do to bring this road up to world standards. I think that the Government’s plans in this respect and other plans for developing the infrastructure in the Far East should be our priority.
This visit to Siberia was very interesting and useful, but I will talk about that a bit later.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: March 1, 2004, 00:02
Text version