Events
Opening Address at a Meeting on Inter-Ethnic and Inter-Religious Relations
February 5, 2004
21:53
Cheboksary
Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon,
It gives me great pleasure to meet you and have this chance to hear your views on what is one of the key issues for our country. We have a country in which many different ethnic groups and religions coexist, and in Russia, more than anywhere else, peace between these different religions and peoples, traditions of peace, form the foundation of our statehood in the most direct sense. This really is one of the supporting pillars of our statehood. And aside from anything else, our diversity of cultures is also most definitely one of our greatest sources of wealth and one of our biggest treasures.
A little more than a decade ago, we went through a very important turning point in our development – the arrival of democracy. I must say that in many countries, as you are aware, including in European countries, this turning point was a very painful period. It was also a time of great trial for relations between the different religions.
I would like to draw your attention to one circumstance that I myself noted only recently. The last census shows that the number of ethnic groups in Russia has increased. What does this signify? It is not about their number really having grown, but rather, it shows that people now feel freer regarding this issue. People have become more open and are no longer reluctant to declare that they belong to a particular ethnic group, religion or culture. I think that this is an important sign — a still latent and little-noticed sign for now — that our society is becoming more democratic.
During the Soviet years it was said that we all formed a common whole – the Soviet people. And there were some grounds for this assertion. I think that today we can say with all justification that the people of Russia form a united nation. There is, I think, something that we all share. Our forebears did a lot to develop these feelings of unity in us. This is our historical reality, and it is also today’s reality. People belonging to very diverse ethnic groups and religions all consider themselves a part of this united nation and put their cultural riches and diversity at the service of the entire state and society. It is our duty to preserve and strengthen this historical national unity that we have.
Present here today are not just the representatives of various public organisations but also representatives of the state authorities. To them I would like to say that the authorities have a duty to maintain an equal dialogue with all the different ethnic groups and religions.
The law strictly stipulates the authorities’ responsibilities in this area. But in as sensitive an area as interethnic and inter-religious relations, it is not only the law that plays a part, for much also depends on the behaviour of those who represent state power. Their experience, qualification, ability to work and talk to people count for a lot. But undoubtedly it is the heads of the public and religious organisations that have a truly decisive word in this area, for people regard what you do and say with particular attention, respect and trust.
Chuvashia, in this respect, is a very good example because it is a region where there is not just a formal legislative foundation for cooperation between the different religions and ethnic groups living here, but where there are also various organisations working with the support of the republic’s President and his administration. Here everything that we want to achieve in other regions of the country is functioning in practice.
As far as I know, every school here teaches the Chuvash language, and Russian and Chuvash are the republic’s official languages. Everything is done to ensure that people can practice their religion and not only feel pride but also develop their national arts. We just saw the national costumes that boys and girls presented in the lobby. I must say that this amazing mixture of influences is one of our riches and we should do all we can to preserve and develop it.
Concluding these introductory remarks, I would like to say that it will give me great pleasure to hear what you have to say regarding what is happening in Russia now and also your own proposals on how the public and religious organisations can work with the state to resolve the problems we face in this sensitive area that is so vital for our country.
Thank you very much.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: February 5, 2004, 21:53
Text versionEvents
Response to Question From Journalists
February 5, 2004
22:00
Cheboksary
Question about extending the President’s term of office.
Vladimir Putin: I have already expressed my views regarding extending the President’s term of office, and you know them. I am against this idea, but I understand why people propose it. It seems to me that they hope that this will bring greater stability to the country’s development and create conditions that will enable people to feel the effects of this stability and stable development in the main areas for which the head of state formulates policies that I think the majority of our people support.
But there is one circumstance that makes it impossible to support this initiative, and that such an attempt to achieve stability would actually destabilise the very foundation of our statehood, namely, the Constitution. It is the Constitution that guarantees our country’s stable development.
I think that we should do everything possible to ensure the inviolability of our Constitution in order to allow our country to develop following the provisions of the Constitution adopted several years ago. These provisions sufficiently formulate our main development policies, and also ensure that the promises the authorities at the highest level make to the voters are fulfilled.
Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: February 5, 2004, 22:00
Text versionEvents
Opening Address at a Meeting on Issues of Stable and Comprehensive Development of Rural Territories
February 5, 2004
18:22
Shemursha village, Chuvashia
Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon,
Nikolai Fyodorov, the President of the Republic of Chuvashia, invited me to Chuvashia a long time ago to see how social programmes are being carried out, what economic development is like, and what has been done in the republic in recent years. And we agreed that the main focus of our attention would be on the social development of the countryside. Here, in Chuvashia, there is something to show, and something for us, my colleagues and myself, to see. In fact, this is the main goal of our visit to the republic – to see how the programmes that are currently being implemented by the Federation are working in practice, how they are being realised together with the efforts of the regional authorities.
We have just visited a young family who recently, literally three months ago, moved into a new house, and we have seen how the regional library works. But to begin with I would like to say that almost a third of the country's population – 27 million people – live in the countryside. Incidentally, 41% of Chuvashia's population is rural, so for Chuvashia these problems are even more relevant.
Recently, of course, we have seen certain improvements in the economy (I say this very carefully – small improvements), but for the sake of fairness it should be said that these changes are happening slowest of all in the countryside. Because here the infrastructure is less developed. Here we face such problems as a lack of work places. Here we face real population problems – insufficient development of health and education.
The Russian Federation has adopted a programme for the social development of the countryside, but at the same time, regretfully, it can be stated that still not enough efforts are being made. This is above all linked to the necessity to concentrate our efforts.
Today all of this is scattered around 13 federal programmes. This departmental approach is still seen. And here, perhaps like in no other area, I repeat, we need to concentrate our efforts, administrative and financial resources, and we need to coordinate actions between the federal centre, the regions and municipalities. And I think that everyone here will agree with me – the main basis for solving problems of this kind is above all the development of the economy.
For this to become evident at the municipal level, and for people to feel positive changes, a great deal needs to be done in inter-budgetary relations. This is the aim of the entire package of laws that was passed by the last State Duma, and now regional governors, along with the Government and representatives of municipalities, should take the next step – to delimit financial and administrative powers.
We need to do everything to create a system for retraining workers in the countryside. We need to do all we can to remove – at least to remove – barriers towards the development of market relations in the countryside. And also to help those who live in the countryside, those who want to live in the countryside, and those who want their children to live in the countryside. To help solve vital problems linked with what I have already talked about – with the development of the social infrastructure: medicine, education, communications and roads.
This is what I wanted to talk to you about today. We have come in quite a representative group. Here is Agriculture Minister Alexei Vasilyevich Gordeyev, Deputy Prime Minister on Social Issues Galina Nikolayevna Karelova, the deputy minister of finance, and other people who deal with these problems at the federal level.
We would like to hear you, and I hope that our meeting today will have real results for organising federal policy in this area.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: February 5, 2004, 18:22
Text version