Events
Talks with President of Armenia Robert Kocharian and President of Azerbaijan Ilkham Aliyev
September 15, 2004
15:51
Astana
President Vladimir Putin: Dear colleagues, first of all I would like to thank you for your willingness to meet once again here in Kazakhstan, a friendly land for each of us. The issue we are dealing with is a very complex one and we are all well aware that a great deal is always expected from your meetings and also that the problem at hand is very serious, serious for the peoples of both your countries and for both of you personally. But it is very heartening to see that despite these difficulties, you remain optimistic, pursue the desire to settle this issue, and, what is very important in my opinion, you strive to maintain dialogue and relations at a personal level. Without these relations it would impossible to settle anything at all.
Our meeting today clearly rejoins the efforts made by the OSCE’s Minsk Group, and I am pleased to note that prior to this meeting now we were in discussion with our colleagues. I would like to thank you for agreeing to meet in this format and I am sure that no matter what we reach agreement on today, no matter what you reach agreement on today, a personal meeting between the leaders of the two countries concerned is always a step forward. If you are not moving forward, then you are moving backward, and we must only move forward. I therefore welcome this meeting and I hope that it will not prove of no use and pass unnoticed, but rather, that it will contribute to settling the complicated issues we face.
President Robert Kocharian: The President of Azerbaijan and I had an interesting conversation that followed on from the discussion we had in Warsaw. The first meeting was introductory in nature and the second was more specific. I think that our ministers began working more objectively between the second and third meetings. Now we can give more details on the nature of the meeting and the questions discussed.
Vladimir Putin: All of our colleagues who are involved in this process give you their sincere encouragement. The last time I spoke with the President of Azerbaijan was when he was on a visit to Germany and we spoke by phone. I would like to thank you for having agreed to meet here in Astana in this format.
President Ilham Aliev: Thank you, Vladimir Vladimirovich, for your involvement in this issue. As our neighbour and as co-chair of the Minsk Group, Russia is playing a very important part in settling the conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan over Nagorny Karabakh. We are very grateful to you for your participation and involvement. We have discussed this issue at all our meetings, have exchanged views, and we have always strived for one objective, and that is to bring peace to our region as quickly as possible. We hope that our future talks will be productive.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: September 15, 2004, 15:51
Text versionEvents
Speech at an Enlarged Meeting of the Council of Heads of Member Countries of the Agreement on Common Economic Space
September 15, 2004
19:47
Astana
President Vladimir Putin: Dear colleagues, today we will ratify the list of 29 international legal documents agreed upon by a high-level group which are of top-priority for examination and signing.
Implementing these documents will significantly liberalise mutual trade and remove the barriers that exist here, and in the long-term will create the conditions for forming a customs union and a common competitive environment.
It is important that the work schedule for the legal documents that was planned in Yalta is strictly adhered to, and as we agreed, experts should propose specific decisions for the top-priority issues by the end of the year.
I want to particularly stress: the necessity of dashing steps and harsh deadlines are dictated by life itself and the strategic interests of the development of our nations.
Last year alone, the growth of mutual trade between CES member countries came to around 30%. The total volume of accumulated investment of “group of four” countries in the Russian economy is now over $130 million. Russia itself has invested around $150 million in CES countries. We must support this positive dynamic, in many ways ensured by the active work of our business communities, at an intergovernmental level.
To achieve this, I propose that we must complete the transfer to levying indirect taxes on the “destination country” principle, and we must do this in full, without waivers, including on natural gas, oil and gas condensate delivered from the Russian Federation.
This issue has already been regulated with Ukraine. Preparation of the appropriate documents with Belarus and Kazakhstan is currently being completed.
At the same time I want to note the following: Russia is a major deliverer of energy resources to Ukraine and Belarus, and at the first stage we will suffer financial losses from the change of tax regimes. We are ready for this. We are ready because in the long term, the economy of all four countries wins strategically from the realisation of this initiative, and this means all our citizens do too.
Simplifying the border crossing procedures of the “group of four” countries is also in the interests of our people. We support this proposal by Leonid Kuchma. The citizens of our countries should make use of all the benefits that the integration processes contain.
At the same time I believe that increasing freedom of movement must be accompanied by coordinated measures to increase control and cooperation between our law-enforcement structures, and in general it should be backed up by simultaneous and parallel actions in the war on international terrorism.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: September 15, 2004, 19:47
Text version