Events
Press Statements and Answers to Questions after the Meeting with French President Jacques Chirac and German Federal Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder
August 31, 2004
19:01
Sochi
President Vladimir Putin: Good Day, ladies and gentlemen. Today, our press conference deals with the results of the latest high level meeting between Russia, France and Germany. These three-way meetings, outside of any bloc, have become regular not just between our countries, but with other combinations of partners. There are many reasons for this, but the most important thing in this case is the similarity of our methods for solving important world problems, and undoubtedly our common aspiration towards a system of international relations which is based on the principles of international law and the determining role of the UN Security Council. And I would like to stress that the “group of three” format is not a closed club, and it is in no way a counterweight in relations with other European nations, or with nations of any region. On the contrary, this format fits in organically with the logic of these contacts, and with the work of international organisations that our countries belong to. These meetings are a continuation of the coordinated policy that we keep to in the framework of these organisations.
The very existence of this three-way summit and the participants in this case is an important prerequisite for fruitful and specific talks, and on issues where interaction between Russia, France and Germany can play a special role.
At the centre of our meeting today and our talks, there were also bilateral relations – Russian-French, Russian-German relations, European problems, prospects of relations between Russia and the European Union, and also the realisation of a strategic policy on forming common spaces, which I am certain must be built on the principles of equal rights, mutually beneficial cooperation and mutually taking interests into account.
In this context, we also discussed the problems of freight transit to Kaliningrad, and problems of a very specific nature which interested the French President, for example. I mean the long-standing problems of relations between our manufacturers and consumers of agricultural production and exporters to Russia, and so on and so forth. The issues were quite specific.
Of course, we also discussed problems of a global nature in the sphere of international security. We talked about the war on international terrorism, a threat which despite the persistent and increasingly systematic efforts of the international community is not diminishing. We are prepared for cooperation in this area with all interested nations on a bilateral and multilateral basis, both in a European and a transatlantic format.
Considerable attention was given to the situation in Iraq, which remains complex. We think that to help improve the situation in this country – and we intend to help improve the situation in any way we can – it is necessary to make additional joint international efforts. At the meeting, we always analysed the state of affairs with the Iranian nuclear programme, and the situation in “trouble spots”, including in the CIS.
Of course, over such a short time we could not discuss all the problems that are of concern to us. We had to postpone some of them to the next meetings, at which we intend to give particular attention, as we did at this meeting, to economic issues, issues of economic cooperation, primarily in the high-technology sphere of the economy. In connection with this, I informed my colleagues that Russian companies have increased, and will continue to increase production of energy resources, and will increase deliveries of these energy resources to world markets.
I can inform you that while Russia produced 380 million tons in 2002, in 2003 it produced 421 million tons. This year we forecast production of 450 million tons. While Russia exported 228 million tons in 2003, this year we will export 255 million tons of Russian oil. All Russian companies without exception are increasing production and will continue to do this in future.
On the whole, I can state that the Russian-French-German meeting held in Sochi allowed us to align our positions on key international issues and outline paths for further cooperation between our countries.
Thank you very much for your attention. I give the word to my French colleague, French President Jacques Chirac.
Jacques Chirac: Firstly I would like to thank President Putin for this warm reception. He talked about the issues that we discussed. Taking into account the existing problems, before I answer questions, allow me to talk about the situation that our compatriots are in, who have been taken hostage in Iraq and are facing death. I have already confirmed the determination of the state authorities. We will do everything to ensure that the hostages are returned unharmed. And I would like to thank President Putin and Chancellor Schroeder for their unconditional support. I would like to call once more for these hostages to be released. President Putin already talked about our shared opinions on the crisis problems in the world, including the war on terrorism. This also concerns a certain number of regional crises, which President Putin also discussed. We are certain that strengthening ties between the European Union and Russia is an appropriate evolution in a democratic, free and peaceful world.
Gerhard Schroeder: President Putin said that our meetings were not directed against anyone, or towards anything. They clearly show that peace and development in Europe are only possible when the expanded EU takes up a truly strategic partnership with Russia. Working on this is our common will. We know that the prosperity of the peoples of Europe, Russia, and other parts of the world depends to a large extent on this. And mutual understanding in issues of international politics is very important.
I am happy that the Russian President has once more clearly stated that oil production in Russia will be increased. There have already been concerns that the world economy may suffer because of the growth in oil prices. This decision is very important. We must talk about the possibility of achieving greater transparency on world markets. Here we have come to a common opinion.
It is correct that there have been a whole series of discussions about international problems. I want to stress once more that the European Union and Russia will work as closely as possible in all areas, and they want to work together, as this is mutually beneficial, and makes a positive contribution to the development of the international situation. The development of these meetings really does help the common policy in Europe and for Europe.
Question from the French newspaper Liberation: I have a question for the French president. In the latest video footage, the hostages appealed to you, asking you to abolish the law ‘on hijabs”. What do you think about this?
Jacques Chirac: French democracy has its laws, its values and its traditions. In the current circumstances, you know that we have concentrated on efforts directed towards freeing all our hostages in Iraq. I do not have any other comments on this issue. I can only express my gratitude for the support that has been given around the world to our efforts to release the hostages.
Question from the German radio station Deutsche Welle: Mr. President, what can you say about what the European Union is doing to help Russia, to solve issues of security and terrorism. I would like to ask the host, President Putin, whether another OSCE mission to the Republic of Chechnya is envisaged in the framework of European security cooperation.
Vladimir Putin: We work with all countries in the world on a bilateral basis and support the expansion of cooperation in the framework of international organisations, including the creation of appropriate structures in the framework of the UN in the war on terrorism.
The latest events in the world, here in Russia and in Iraq – what our French colleagues have now encountered – and in any regions in the world (I won’t list them, you know them yourselves), confirm that this threat, the threat of terrorism, is relevant for almost all countries in the world. And to oppose this threat effectively, we need to combine our efforts. Only this way will we be successful.
As for the Republic of Chechnya, we have always had transparency in this issue. I can tell you that my colleagues, naturally, asked me questions about the problems in Chechnya. I answered their questions in considerable detail. We are prepared for contacts, talks and compromises in all acceptable forms. The only line that we will never cross is maintaining the territorial integrity of the Russian Federation.
The Chechen people has made its choice several times, voting for the Constitution of the Republic of Chechnya, essentially voting for Chechnya to be an integral part of Russia. At the recent Presidential elections in Chechnya, the people confirmed their devotion to this path once more.
We intend to develop the political process in future. We will provide assistance to the population of Chechnya and the appropriate bodies of power and administration of the Republic of Chechnya in organising free and democratic elections to the Chechen parliament. We will consolidate the law-enforcement sphere of Chechnya, and as it grows give it increasing prerogatives, rights and capabilities in the sphere of law-enforcement activity. We will deal with the social sphere and restoring the economy of the Republic of Chechnya. We will always welcome any efforts in this area by our partners on a bilateral level or in the framework of international organisations that are directed towards normalising relations in Chechnya.
Gerhard Schroeder: It is irrelevant where terrorism appears. There are only joint efforts, and so of course security bodies, special services – both German and Russian – cooperate in this fight. I think that this is quite obvious. I would stress what the Russian President said: the Chechen conflict must be solved by political means. I want to stress that the Constitution, the Presidential elections and the upcoming parliamentary elections show that Russia wants to reach a political solution. We support this solution by critical solidarity.
Question from ITAR-TASS: You just talked about the unity within the framework of the “group of three”. Meetings in this format are held regularly. It would be quite surprising to know if there are any issues that you do not agree on. Nevertheless, as we can see, the number of international conflicts in the world is not decreasing. They are only growing. What is your prediction: will they continue to grow, and what needs to be done to stop them?
Vladimir Putin: Who is this question addressed to?
ITAR-TASS correspondent: To all three leaders.
Gerhard Schroeder: We have discussed very many questions. Indeed, there are no disagreements on any issue that would be worth talking about here.
Jacques Chirac: The Chancellor is quite right. Our meetings are not new – they have been held for a long time. We have trusting relations in this format and in other formats: on the level of heads of state or government and on the level of diplomacy, and branch ministries. There is also development in the framework of the UN. And accordingly, as the Chancellor said, we may have different assessments of various issues. But we always reach a common opinion. This ensures the power and dynamics of our consultations. This helps stability throughout the world.
Vladimir Putin: Firstly, I agree with my colleagues’ assessment. Indeed, during consultations we have been able to bring our positions on key issues closer together, even if they differ in some way. I think that this is a very important tool of international politics, which will allow us to solve problems.
As for the large number of crisis situations in the world, this is a fact of life: the world is complex and diverse. But I am sure that if we had not gathered here and solved these problems in this format, in the framework of international organisations, in a wide format, then these problems would be even more extensive, and they would be much more serious. I think that this format of cooperation that we have chosen is effective. This was demonstrated today, in the discussion of quite serious problems of international politics in a number of regions. For example, we talked about the situation in the Middle East, and the situation in Lebanon. And on the whole, despite certain difference in our approaches, we reach a common opinion on a number of problems that have a direct influence on the state of international security. I am very grateful to my colleagues for agreeing to come here for this meeting.
Question from a French journalist: This is a question to the President and Chancellor on the Chechen elections. How acceptable are the conditions that these elections were held in? The second question: Do you think that it was necessary to hold this meeting after the disputed elections results? And how does Russia’s activity in Chechnya not help international terrorism?
Vladimir Putin: I’m not really sure who disputes these results.
Gerhard Schroeder: Allow me to answer: elections were held there, and the President was elected by a vast majority. I think that he will meet with many people who contribute to a political solution to this conflict.
It is very correct that a summit is being held. It is fully on the agenda, because the results speak for themselves. We have coordinated our positions on many international issues. I do not see why the elections in Chechnya should prevent the summit from being held. There is a common position in the international war on terrorism. We have stressed these common positions here. I have no grounds to believe that Russian politics cannot provide help in this area.
Jacques Chirac: I completely agree with the Chancellor. What is important is Russia’s position, and it was expressed quite clearly by President Putin.
As for Chechnya, a political decision is essential. It is what Russia is aiming towards: it is quite open for any discussions on a political decision. Like any other political decision, there are limits here. Everyone may understand these limits differently, but no one can dispute that this is the territorial integrity of the Russian Federation. Thus, I hope that the elections were held in conditions that no one can dispute – we have no grounds for this. I hope that talks will continue with competent authorities, so that a political decision can be reached on ensuring the integrity of the Russian Federation, and special decisions of a local nature can be passed.
Vladimir Putin: First of all, I would like to say that these elections did take place. They were held in strict accordance with Russian and Chechen laws, in strict accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Chechnya. As we understand perfectly well, no one can force people to polling booths, no one is able to do this. It is impossible to drag people out of their homes, by their collar or by their hair: if people do not want to vote, they won’t, and as we know this is called “voting by your feet”. The turnout at the elections in the Republic of Chechnya was very high – about 80%. The vast majority of voters gave their preference to one candidate – Mr. Alkhanov. This is also a fact, first of all.
The numerous observers, including from Muslim and Arabic countries and international organisations did not note any serious violations during the election campaign. I did not hear a single serious person say that he watched the election campaign and saw any serious violations, which could put the results of this election in doubt. This shows that the Chechen people made its choice. This is the second point.
Finally, the third point. The link between destructive elements, between terrorists who are still active on the territory of Chechnya has been confirmed once more, as one international terrorist organisation linked with Al-Qaida has taken responsibility for conducting “terrorist acts”, as they put it. This still has to be proved by our law-enforcement bodies, but it is a fact that explosions took place on two Russian civil airplanes. And if one terrorist organisation took responsibility for being linked with Al-Qaida, then this fact confirms the link between certain forces active in Chechnya with international terrorism. We have fought them, and will continue to fight them. I repeat, we will of course continue to conduct political dialogue with all political forces in Chechnya, and will strengthen the economy of the republic.
As for our meeting today, if you think that it was just about Chechnya, you are mistaken. There were many other issues that we discussed today, and which we have informed you about.
Question from a German journalist: Presidents, Federal Chancellor. The Russian Federation helps the Islamic Republic of Iran to build nuclear energy stations. There is now concern that Iran is also trying to develop nuclear weapons, also with the help of a Russian nuclear research plant. Iran also produces ballistic missiles which can reach Israel and Europe. What is Russia doing to prevent this, and what can Europe do against this? Mr. Chancellor, there are also suspicions that German firms are involved in this.
Gerhard Schroeder: Firstly, one should not suspect those who do not do this. There is cause for concern about the situation in Iran. I would remind you that the foreign ministers of Great Britain, Germany and France reached certain agreements with the leadership of Iran. This agreement should be completed to the last full stop, to the last comma. But there are concerns that the Iranian side does not keep to the letter of this agreement, and we share this concern. There will be joint work between these three European nations together with Russia, so that this is clear to everyone. The international community is not prepared to resign itself to the fact that Iran possesses nuclear weapons. It may have nuclear weapons with a closed fuel cycle. We want to stop this together. There are different opinions about whether nuclear weapons should be used for peaceful purposes. A clear distinction is needed here: Russia’s deliveries for building a nuclear power station have nothing to do with other issues – this needs to be examined separately. And from our talks today, it was also clear that we are working together to ensure that Iran cannot have nuclear weapons, i.e. only to be used for peaceful purposes without a closed fuel cycle. This is the sovereign decision of any nation. We must acknowledge this, regardless of our own position.
Vladimir Putin: Russia indeed works with Iran in many areas, and we will continue to do this. At the same time, like our European colleagues, in France, Germany, Great Britain, and like the U.S.A., we are concerned about questions that arise on the Iran nuclear programme.
We were categorically against widening the club of nuclear nations, including the addition of Iran. I want to stress this: we are categorically opposed to this. We hold talks with our Iranian partners, and we will try to achieve certain guarantees from their side, such as agreements, and we believe that this problem can and must be examined by the international community at this stage in the framework of the MAGATE. We will work with our partners on this issue, transparently, actively and persistently.
At the same time, our position is that these problems should not lead to an additional unjustified competitive fight for the according markets. The market of nuclear technology used for peaceful means is severely limited. Iran is one of these markets. We need to reach agreements according to which we act by common rules. But all of us, I repeat, are unanimous that we must do everything to prevent the widening of the club of nuclear nations, including the addition of Iran.
Question from a journalist from Channel One, Russia: I have a question for all the meeting participants. Could you tell us in more detail whether issues of economic cooperation between your countries were discussed, and exactly which problems of cooperation between Russia and the European Union were discussed at the talks.
Vladimir Putin: I have already mentioned this, but I can repeat. We discussed cooperation on Kaliningrad freight transit, on transit in general. We talked about cooperation in the energy sphere, about the necessity of widening our cooperation in high technology areas. As you know, we have certain plans which are currently at the realisation stage. I mean our cooperation in the space industry and the use of the Kourou space centre. Our European partners have become involved in this work – Germany, Italy and France. We have a lot of other spheres of cooperation which we discussed, such as agriculture. The French President raised several specific issues in this sphere. Our experts are working on this, and receive stimulus to ensure that this work takes place in a positive key.
Thank you very much. All the best.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: August 31, 2004, 19:01
Text version