Events
Beginning of a Meeting with Uzbekistan President Islam Karimov
October 17, 2004
20:44
Dushanbe
Islam Karimov:. I am very happy to see you. I would like to congratulate you on your successful visit to China. It was a necessary and very effective trip.
I asked to meet you before we begin our meeting of heads of member countries of the Central Asian Cooperation organisation, to discuss the most fundamental issues. I think that our meeting before tomorrow’s conference is very important. As you are one of the main initiators of Russia’s participation in this organisation, I would like to consult with you on several issues which will be discussed tomorrow, on issues connected to the activity of this organisation.
You have become a regular presence in our region, and your visit to the region where we live have already ceased to be anything unusual. These visits are planned far ahead in advance. Very important issues are solved during your visits.
I would like to stress that Russia has always had interests in this region, and continues to do this. And it is very good that Russia has begun to take an increasing interest in solving the most urgent issues. We see your latest visit as a sign that Russia maintains its interest in our region.
President Vladimir Putin: Thank you. I would like to see that this is not just a bilateral meeting, and I expect that soon we will be able to make important decisions on the economy, above all on energy. I know that our specialists are preparing serious proposals in this sphere. And if we are able to reach agreements soon, then perhaps I will be able to see you in Moscow before the end of the year. Furthermore, there are also regional problems. And finally, I would like to consult with you on the problem of Afghanistan. We know what is going on there. And you, in Uzbekistan, have a good grasp of this situation. This is very important for us.
Mr. Karimov: I would like to stress that after the collapse of the USSR, Russia did not fully realise its rule here. This happened in the first decade after the collapse of the Soviet Union. And perhaps it did not use the right levers or mechanisms to show its importance in this region. And what you just said now, that energy is one of the key tasks, where this bridge, this firm link between the regions of Central Asia, Kazakhstan and Russia, I think that this is a very well-thought out approach. Because one must move from declarations to concrete, well-considered actions. Our country’s economy can already feel the presence of Russia: Russian investment has already started here, there are major Russian firms and companies – particularly in the field of energy. And this, I believe is the most correct path to achieve a goal that matches Russia’s interests and our interests.
Mr. Putin: It is very pleasing that I have such an ally.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 17, 2004, 20:44
Text versionEvents
Speech at the Russian Military Base in Tajikistan
October 17, 2004
20:38
Gidrozemgorodok, Tajikistan
President Vladimir Putin: Dear Emomali Sharipovich, officers, sergeants and soldiers
Today we are opening a military base – the base of the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation in the Republic of Tajikistan. This is a very important decision that is necessary for both friendly allied nations. It meets the basic interests of our peoples, and will consolidate peace in the world, stability in Central Asia and security in the entire Commonwealth of Independent States.
Together with the aviation base in Kyrgyzstan, in the city of Kant, the military base in Tajikistan will become a reliable link in the common system of collective security in the region, a system which has the primary goal to create conditions to neutralise terrorist and extremist attacks throughout the entire area of the CIS and Russia, and also undoubtedly to provide assistance in the war on drug trafficking and organised crime.
The agreement on the status and conditions of the presence of the Russian military base on the territory of the Republic of Tajikistan has at last been registered legally and come into effect. This makes your presence here lawful, stable and long-term. The Russian military presence has received international legal registration.
There are well-trained units at the military base in Tajikistan. People in Russia know the renowned 201st division, along with many soldiers and officers of your units. It is a truly fighting force, it has been in the front line several times, and has acted as an important military and political tool for ensuring stability and security in the region, as a barrier to drug trafficking and organised crime. Many of its officers, ensigns and soldiers have fought in troubled areas with great merit, and received high state awards.
You have responsible service on the friendly Tajik soil ahead of you. I am sure that the personnel will perform the tasks that lie before you with dignity, and will continue to strengthen military cooperation with the armed forces of the Republic of Tajikistan.
Today we raise the Russian flag here, and Russia believes in you, and expects your devotion to your military duty, your dignity, courage and military professionalism.
Dear comrades! I congratulate you on the opening of the Russian military base in the Republic of Tajikistan!
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 17, 2004, 20:38
Text version