Events
Speech at the Russia Day Celebrations
June 12, 2004
16:58
Red Square, Moscow
Dear friends,
Dear citizens of Russia,
I congratulate you on the state holiday of Russia Day.
Today it is celebrated by everyone who puts their own work, creativity and efforts into the prosperity and power of our country.
Here, on Red Square, people of different generations are gathered. Representatives of all regions of our enormous country have gathered here. Together, we are responsible for the destiny of Russia. And hand in hand, we are building a free and democratic state. We want to see out country as an influential and leading nation of the world.
And in this difficult task, we are to a large extent given strength by the thousand-year unity of the peoples of Russia. We are helped by the experience and achievements of our predecessors.
Today, we already know our abilities well, and make active use of them. In recent years, we have achieved difficult, important milestones: we have united and strengthened the country, increased its economic potential, and strengthened the international position of our nation.
Our policy remains unchanged on developing real federalism, and a strong and influential civil society. And now, these are not just aspirations or ideals. They are increasingly becoming the norm of our new life, of real practice.
We aim to ensure that the talent and abilities of each person in the country are in demand. So that power at all levels serves citizens’ interests fairly, and is not just effective, but responsible to people.
By taking this path, we have chosen the values of patriotism, freedom and democracy. And for us it is clear that the more active people’s initiative is, the richer the country will be. The more reliably citizens’ interests are ensured, the stronger the Russian state system will be.
Dear friends,
Before us there are new and serious tasks in the economy, and in social and political life. And now we already have real opportunities to solve the most urgent, serious and large-scale social problems.
As we tackle them, we remember that Russia has always triumphed and achieved success when our nation, our people and our society were united. When national tasks become the business and concern of every citizen of Russia.
In Russian society, this constructive mood is now prevalent. And today, on Russia Day, I would like to say: I believe that this mood and our civil solidarity will help to achieve the goals set. And the life of every person in the country – both in large cities and in the provinces – will finally become worthy and prosperous.
Happy Russia Day!
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 12, 2004, 16:58
Text version