Events
Beginning of the Meeting with Prime Minister of Luxemburg Jean-Claude Junker
December 14, 2004
19:12
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Dear Mr Prime Minister, dear colleagues,
Allow me to wish you a warm welcome to Moscow, the Russian capital. We are very pleased to see you here, Mr Prime Minister. It has been a long time since you were last here. We have a lot to discuss, both in terms of our bilateral relations and also because your country will be taking over the European Union presidency in the new year.
I will be happy to inform you on any questions of interest to you regarding developments in the domestic political situation in our country.
More than $16 billion in investment has come through the Luxemburg international financial centre to Russia over the first nine months of this year. Luxemburg’s own share in this investment is not great – as far as I know it falls somewhere short of $30 million. I think that we will have the opportunity to discuss this subject too.
Prime Minister of Luxemburg Jean-Claude Junker: Yes, Mr President, first of all, we are very happy to be here in Moscow. My last visit, I think, took place more than a year ago.
We are indeed getting ready now to preside over the European union and we felt it necessary to make this visit to Moscow before assuming our new responsibilities. Relations with Russia are of great importance for us and for the European Union. This is true for all of Europe, for the European Union and for Luxemburg, because things Russian are not foreign or alien to us, for Russia, as we see it, is one of the major players in Europe. We have come here, therefore, in order to talk together and to hear your views.
We want to hold back on these purely European attempts to give advice to the world at large and to Russia in particular. What we very much want is for the Luxemburg presidency of the European Union to help advance relations between Russia and the European Union. We have the choice of either wasting time discussing matters that raise no issues between us and are already in order, or taking a good look at the state of our relations and asking ourselves what we can do to raise their quality. In this respect, I propose that we discuss the issues that we really must settle. For this, we need to make use of the time that we still have before the fifteenth Russia-European Union summit. We have planned this lunch here in Moscow in order to talk things over and come to some decisions. Our bilateral relations are good. They are developing normally and fit into a context of mutual trust and understanding between the leadership in both our countries.
Thank you for congratulating me upon my birthday – I am slowly getting older. No one has noticed yet, but sooner or later everyone will notice.
We really are very pleased to be here, and as always in Moscow, we are being treated like princes.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 14, 2004, 19:12
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Deputy Prime Minister Aleksander Zhukov
December 14, 2004
19:24
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Aleksander Dmitrievich, I know that today you met with State Duma deputies, and discussed the medium-term programme, and that there was also a detailed discussion on the development of the Russian aviation industry. Let us start with that.
Aleksander Zhukov: At the end of December, the Government will examine a medium-term programme for development for 2005–2008.
This programme envisages the development of virtually all areas: education, health, and all the areas of Russian industry, agriculture – in short, it is a thorough programme for the country’s development over the next three years.
The programme envisages the development of the main areas of Russian industry, and the tendency is to move away from a specialised economy towards an innovation economy. It also envisages the serious development of housing construction. We have already made preliminary steps here. Next week the Duma will pass 25 of the 27 housing laws. Of course, this is not the end of the matter, as the programme envisages the fulfilment of these laws and a move to cheap mortgages and cheap construction.
Or, for example, the development of such an important high-technology industry as aircraft construction. Here the Ministry of Industrial Energy submitted a project to the Government to create a powerful aviation corporation on the basis of our factories, which would be competitive on the world market. We want to have a powerful aircraft construction corporation. I think that this is a very important project, because all the other industries will be stimulated by aviation. In the 2005 budget, we have already increased the allotment for aircraft construction by four times. A total of 15 billion rubles has been allocated to develop this industry. And there are many industry strategies of this kind – each one has its own path of development.
Mr Putin: Recently, the Minister for economic development and I discussed the Government’s policy in the near future for high technology, which you just mentioned. What are the Government and the State Duma actually planning to do to develop the innovation sector of the Russian economy?
Mr Zhukov: We have several areas which are quite competitive, above all the space industry, and we will continue to develop it.
Mr Putin: How do you feel about elements of state support of the IT-business, like in India, for example?
Indeed, there is support of information technology in India. Progress in this direction has begun here, and innovation zones are already been created: in Dubna, in Zelenograd and in Arzamas. But it is clear that without state support they will not be able to gain wide distribution, so we have a programme to create technology bases. The most important thing here is to create an infrastructure so that intelligent people remain in Russia. By creating good working conditions, we hope to attract them so that they develop technology in Russia.
Mr Putin: What are these goods conditions: will we pass a law?
Mr Zhukov: We will pass a law, there is a bill on technology bases. I think that we will offer certain tax privileges, which cannot be used for other purposes.
Mr Putin: What do you think, in these tax preferences which the regions can give, how far do you think we can go?
Mr Zhukov: Given our experience of previous years, when the regions abused their abilities to give tax privileges, creating offshore zones – we have now moved away from this practice, and restricted abilities quite seriously. Nevertheless, regions still have the right to reduce profits tax by four percent to attract investors and prolong investment projects.
Mr Putin: This is not a matter of registering oil and other companies involved in raw materials – it is strictly a matter of innovation technology. And I am not sure that four percent is enough. This is the first point. And the second point – which is well-known – is that in innovation activity, in high-technology production, the main expenses go towards paying highly qualified personnel. And here, another tax is critical for them – the common social tax.
Mr Zhukov: We are examining this possibility, but I would like to say that from 1 January next year, we will greatly reduce the common social tax: it will be 10% lower. Nevertheless, we will examine the possibility of lowering it further, in areas where the main product is intellectual work, and the main cost of the product is the salaries paid.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 14, 2004, 19:24
Text versionEvents
Press Statement and Answers to Questions Following Russian-Finnish Talks
December 14, 2004
19:30
St. Petersburg
President Vladimir Putin: Good evening, ladies and gentlemen.
It gives me great pleasure to receive the President of the Republic of Finland, Ms Tarja Halonen, in St. Petersburg once more.
We have not seen each other for some time, and it is now time to exchange opinions on current bilateral issues and problems of mutual relations between Russia and the European Union. As we have long-standing and stable good-neighbourly relations with Finland, we hope that Finland will make a positive contribution to the development of relations between Russia and unified Europe. According to our common assessment, Russian-Finnish relations are developing dynamically, and today we have once more confirmed our mutual desire to strengthen the traditions of good neighbourliness and cooperation between Russia and Finland.
Finland is one of Russia’s major trade and investment partners, and it pleases me that the Russian Federation holds one of the leading positions in the economy of our neighbour Finland. Trade turnover is steadily growing, and this year it may reach the record figure of 9 billion Euros. At one time, I was involved in border trade myself, and so I know how carefully Finland treats this issue. I would like to note that we will continue to give serious attention to these issues at state level, and will support regional ties and border trade.
Tomorrow, a delegation from the European Union will arrive in Moscow to discuss problems of developing relations, including with Russia, in the framework of the so-called northern dimension. We hope that the European Union will maintain its interest in these problems, and will treat the northern dimension with the necessary significance and attention.
Traditionally, a priority area has been cooperation in the energy sphere, but we believe that there are grounds to expect positive progress in other areas, such as telecommunications, metallurgy, timber and construction. Our countries have a serious intellectual and manufacturing potential, and successful experience of interaction in both traditional and new high-technology fields.
All this is cause to be positive and means that we can expect serious progress in the fields mentioned above.
I firmly believe that good-neighbourly and friendly relations between Russia and Finland will continue to work in the interests of the peoples of our countries.
I would like to thank Ms President for her invitation to visit Finland, and I will gladly make use of it.
Question: Mr President Putin, you noted the good state of Russian-Finnish relations. I would like to ask why this autumn, quite critical statements were heard from representatives of Russia, for example from special representative Yastrzhembsky, who talked of Finland as a country that is part of a bloc of countries that feels negatively towards Russia. Is there any reason for this, what is the explanation?
Mr Putin: I would prefer for the employees of my executive office to comment on what I say, and I do not set myself the goal of commenting on what employees of my executive office say. If you are interested in the opinion of a high-ranking Russian official or politician, I would address you directly to them – they are open for dialogue.
And in relations between neighbours, just like relations in a family, problems always arise. The question is how to solve these problems.
For example, I said that our economic ties are developing effectively. But they could develop even better, even more swiftly. I will give one example. The tariffs on electrical energy supplied from the Russian Federation to Finland are set by the appropriate Finnish authorities at a rate that is 13.5 times higher than for Finnish suppliers to the Finnish market. If we operated in a more liberal system, then average consumers in Finland, ordinary citizens of Finland, would pay much less for electrical energy and heating than they pay now, and industrial consumers would receive very noticeable competitive benefits on the European and international markets. This is just one example.
Problems always arise. So far, we have always been able to solve them with our Finnish colleagues on the basis of good-neighbourliness. Today’s meeting with Ms. President convinces me that in this sense nothing has changed, and we can continue to work further with our Finnish friends in this regime.
Question: I would like to ask your opinion on two problems. Firstly, on the possibility of Finland joining the decisions that have already been passed by a number of EU member countries on simplifying the visa regime for Russian citizens. And a second question. It is no secret that in a number of Baltic countries, unfortunately, there are still elements of discrimination against the Russian-speaking population. What in your opinion can be done to overcome this situation, especially in light of the fact that in a year Helsinki will become the chairman of the EU?
Mr Putin: As for visas, I can say that countries with such a large volume of cooperation as Russia and Finland are of course objectively interested in liberalising visa exchange. We would like – and here I agree with my colleague – solve this problem, above all with the entire European Union. We do not aim to circumvent Shengen rules. But in the Shengen framework, together with several of our partners we are finding possibilities to simplify the visa regime for individual categories of our countries’ citizens on a mutual basis. We see this as the first step towards solving the issue with the European Union as a whole. If the Finnish side is interested, then we are prepared for talks with our Finnish friends on this issue.
As for the situation of the Russian population in the Baltic countries, we have heard Mr Gil Robles and the people responsible for human rights in the European parliament, in the UN and the OSCE say that these problems exist, and we agree with this opinion. At the same time, we do not intend to inflame the situation or radicalise it, but we will not pretend that these issues do not arise. We will strive to solve all these problems in dialogue with our partners, problems that to a large extent have come to us from the past, and solve them in a calm, friendly manner, ensuring that commonly accepted norms of international law and humanitarian law adopted in Europe apply to the entire European continent. We hope that we will be able to solve these issues both with a unified Europe and with our partners in the Baltic countries, of course respecting their lawful interests at the same time.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 14, 2004, 19:30
Text version