Events
Speech at the Closing Ceremony of the Third International Conference of Mayors of World Cities
September 17, 2004
20:28
Moscow Mayor's Office, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Good day, ladies and gentlemen. Dear colleagues,
Allow me to wish you a warm welcome to the capital of Russia. I hope that you had the time not just to meet and exchange opinions on your work in the development of world megapolises, but also to feel the beauty of the capital of Russia, to feel the beauty of a city that all the citizens of my country are proud of, to feel the beauty of Moscow.
Your conference is taking place in a difficult time for us. Russia has just endured a series of brutal terrorist acts, including the monstrous tragedy in the Ossetian town of Beslan.
I would like to thank all the residents of capitals and megapolises of the world which you represent, for your support, sympathy and compassion, and thank you for the aid that we are now receiving from abroad. We see this as a show of solidarity in the face of the common threat of terrorism.
The tragic events in Beslan, in Jakarta, Madrid and Moscow, in Istanbul, New York and Washington, and in other cities of the planet confirm the fact that terrorists are united in a wide international network, and terrorism can only be conquered if the efforts of the entire international community are truly combined. I am certain that we must increase anti-terrorist cooperation in all areas and at all levels – both internationally – with the central coordinating role of the Untied Nations – and nationally, including at municipal level.
I think that the mayors of megapolises present here understand what I am talking about, because it is the residents of major cities who are the primary targets for attacks by terrorists. The front line of this war that has been forced upon us may pass through every street and every home. This war has no home front and no neutral zones. And in places where terrorists do not meet with the proper resistance, their bases and coordinating centres appear.
It must be admitted that the measures taken so far have not been adequate to the scale and destructive potential of international terrorism which undermines the very foundations of our civilisation. Today in the war on terrorism, we need to mobilise all the resources of the state, society and citizens, and in every country: none of them are insured against terrorist attacks.
We have long warned of this danger, but our voice has not always been heard, and in fact we have encountered double standards in the assessment of terrorism. Even today, these views that are destructive for peace and common security have not been overcome. There are still attempts to divide terrorists into “ours” and “theirs”, into “moderates” and “radicals”, i.e. there is still loopholes for terror, convenient loopholes in the public mind. There is still an indulgent, justificatory attitude towards murderers, which amounts to aiding terrorism.
I call on you all to remember the lessons of history. Let us remember 1938 and the Munich agreement. Of course, the situations are different; of course, the consequences that came about after the Second World War are different in scale. But the situation is very similar.
We must under no circumstances give in to the idea that by making concessions to criminals, we can gain anything, or hope that they will leave us in peace – this will not happen. Every concession to potential criminals leads to their aggression and a widening of their demands, and increases losses.
In Russia today, we are seriously preparing to act preventatively against terrorists. But we will do this in strict accordance with the law, the norms of the Constitution, and of course in strict accordance with the norms of international law, as ensuring the safety of citizens is not just the obligation of authorities at any level, but is the main criteria by which people today judge the effectiveness of their work.
Dear colleagues and friends,
Your conference is already coming to an end, and as far as I know, it was productive and businesslike. It could not have been otherwise, because the people gathered here are used to working efficiently, without empty talk, and are able to administer huge city economies with creativity and innovation. There is enormous responsibility and specific work on your shoulders. I well understand and feel your responsibility, as I have worked in a large city myself, Petersburg, which has a population of five million. You are the closest to the people, and are responsible for every detail.
I must say that diplomacy of cities is becoming an effective mechanism not just for solving socio-economic problems, but political problems as well. In this sense, the creation of the International organisation of cities and local authorities, the founding conference of which was held in Paris this year, is undoubtedly an important event. We welcome the creation of this forum and intend to assist its work however we can.
I also think the initiative advanced by the mayors of Paris, London, Berlin and Moscow, which the mayor of our capital, Mr. Luzhkov, just told me about was very beneficial and timely . This initiative is directed towards regular joint work in discussing urgent tasks faced by the major cities of Europe.
In conclusion, I would like to thank you for the extensive and beneficial work that you have devoted these days to. I would like to thank you for finding the opportunity to come to the capital of Russia, and choosing this as the place for your meeting.
I wish you success from all my heart.
All the best, and thank you very much for your attention.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: September 17, 2004, 20:28
Text versionEvents
Speech at a Meeting of the Presidential Commission for Military and Technological Cooperation with Foreign Countries
September 17, 2004
19:25
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Good Day, dear colleagues.
Today we will discuss a series of issues, and the effectiveness of our actions in the sphere of military and technical cooperation will to a large degree depend on resolving them. We will thoroughly examine the policy of military and technical cooperation and the activity of the key ministry in this area – the Defence Ministry.
The main requirement in this work is economic effectiveness, while observing our political interests and strictly ensuring security interests. I think that I do not need to explain to anyone, you all understand this, how important it is now to rule out any possibilities for terrorists to access modern weaponry and defence equipment. I suggest that we should examine separately the problem of security in military and technical cooperation, including its anti-terrorist dimension.
Essentially, I would like to say the following:
Firstly, today we are to analyse the activity, as I already said, of the main department in this sphere – the Defence Ministry. It carries out activity in this sphere in all areas, and carries out maintenance throughout the entire production cycle of military equipment – from development to utilisation. Furthermore, it is the Defence Ministry that trains foreign soldiers and specialists; it trains technical personnel in its institutes and at technical enterprises of the Education Ministry.
It should be remembered that the Defence Ministry solves its tasks in the conditions of the new structure of the ministry itself, and in the overhauled model of federal bodies of executive power as a whole. The statutes on the Defence Ministry and on the Federal Service for military and technical cooperation have been confirmed. This means that all the necessary organisational and legal conditions for effective continuation of work have been created. However, in the conditions of administrative overhaul, it is important not to allow errors and slips, or to lose the coordination and necessary level of interaction between all departments involved in this work.
The second item on today’s agenda is regional policy in the sphere of military and technical cooperation. As you know, over 50 of the world’s countries buy weaponry and military equipment from us to ensure their security, and to carry out peace-keeping operations under the aegis of the United Nations.
Work with several of these countries has specific features which dictate the necessity of conducting a balanced and far-sighted regional policy. I would point out: we have accumulated considerable experience, and we are ready to use it in widening the geography of deliveries, and bringing new partners into the orbit of military and technical cooperation. For us this is particularly important: I mean that, as we all know, the bulk of cooperation comes from our traditional partners — 2–3 countries. We need to widen the geography of our cooperation with other partners, of course not ignoring our strategic partners in the sphere of military and technical cooperation. Here we should also match the level of demands of the current day (we will talk about this in more detail later) – this concerns the quality of production, maintenance, repairs, and training of personnel, which I mentioned, and it concerns more flexible schemes of financing this work.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: September 17, 2004, 19:25
Text version