Events
Speech at the First Session of the Council under the President for the Fight against Corruption
January 12, 2004
20:44
The Kremlin, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon respected colleagues,
We are holding the first session of the Council for the Fight against Corruption today. And I would like to describe its tasks in more detail.
Many countries, to some or other extent, have to deal with the problem of corruption. And a certain practice has already been worked out, while great experience in targeted anti-corruption policies has been accumulated. Entire systems to counteract this evil are in place.
The main form of corruption in Russia today is bribery. Meanwhile, corruption as a social manifestation is a far more complicated matter. Its consequences extremely negatively affect the most diverse spheres of state and public life, from the economy to morals.
It is obvious that corruption is closely linked with various forms of abuse of power. Moreover, this occurs at all levels. This comes in the form of all sorts of preferences for so-called close businessmen and the creation of extra-legal advantages when receiving state services and much more.
In essence, this means actions that lead to violations of equality and the very freedom of economic activity. They lead to the state failing to fulfil its obligations to guarantee honest competition.
As a result, citizens’ legal rights are violated, the economy’s normal development is held back and serious barriers emerge in the way of economic growth.
In general, corruption demoralises society, while it damages the authorities and the state apparatus. It is particularly unacceptable in judicial and law enforcement practice, in judicial and law enforcement bodies, for whom the fight against corruption is a primary function.
I believe that the main task of the council, as a consultative body, is to identify the reasons for and the conditions in which corruption spreads. And this is the basis for drawing up a systemic anti-corruption policy. This should be a policy that is reflected in both current legislation and in the organisation of enforcement proceedings.
I would like to stress once again: the roots of corruption lie in the very flaws of the organisation of the state’s economic and administrative life. Poor quality legislation cultivates these roots, while they spread due to the lack of effective control over the activity of officials, and bodies of state and municipal power.
As you know, the authorities in Russia have repeatedly and forcefully declared that corruption needs to be dealt with. Entire programmes have been drawn up, while individual, quite tough measures have been taken. However, I should say directly that they have not, unfortunately, had much effect.
The scale of this problem will only be reduced when the country sees the law, its institutions of democracy and the civilised market strengthened. And when the authorities will not only fight with the consequences of corruption, but also its causes.
Accordingly, I would like to set out the main priorities that, in my view, form the basis of our joint work.
Firstly, constant and systemic anti-corruption expert studies have to be conducted with regard to legislation. This applies to both articles that could lead to abuse and the very possibility of corruption in current laws and bills being prepared. The legal field has to be cleared of empty declarations, dual interpretations and internal contradictions. Laws should only include clear and realistic demands, as well as comprehensible mechanisms for their application.
Secondly, the council will have to become involved in work to analyse the activity of federal, regional and local bodies of power. I would like to emphasise that this does not mean interfering in the work of local authorities. I am speaking about analysing their activity. You know that the relevant commission has already been set up, whose results should not only influence the course of administrative reforms. I should reiterate that we have delayed this process, but also the definition of an anti-corruption component part of the state policy.
The execution of any administrative procedures should be as transparent as possible. Bodies of power have to part once and for all with the traditions of making state and municipal decisions outside the limits of budgetary and taxation legislation. And the budget and extra-budget funds established by the law must become the only way to receive and allocate money for the authorities.
The third area of our activity is the improvement of the state and municipal apparatus, the tough regulation of officials’ rights and obligations. A task connected with this is the creation of a working mechanism to settle conflicts of interests of state and municipal service officials. They need to be put within strict procedural limits, while the results of their work must be open to civil society, to people, in essence, taxpayers, who pay for the services of the state apparatus from their own pockets.
We should not be afraid, in my opinion, of improving the material situation, raising the wages of officials, but their activity should be transparent, open and absolutely understandable for society.
The council will have to form working commissions featuring specialists who know the problem and have great authority in the professional and public sphere.
The council should possess objective information about the scale of corruption and in which areas it has become the most entrenched. It should rely on clear legal criteria and appraisals. We must provide an exact definition of the very notion of “corruption” and understand what facilitates it in today’s conditions.
And, finally, my last point. The more effective and stronger the institutions of civil control are, the fewer chances to abuse power in the interests of personal and collective gain there will be. And, therefore, one of the council’s tasks is to work out effective forms of public control over state and municipal authorities.
We have already raised this subject repeatedly, but effectively working mechanisms of control have so far not been established. I would suggest that the council should put forward its own specific proposals in the form of legislative initiatives of the Government and the President of the Russian Federation.
In conclusion, I shall add that the period of the organisational formation of the council must be completed as soon as possible, including with regard to its expert and working mechanisms. Empty talk, any fuss or form of “campaigning” is totally unnecessary in this sphere and they must be consigned to the past.
On the contrary, precise and realistic measures are needed both to deal with instances of corruption and, most importantly, to prevent them. To fulfil this task and form, as I have already said, working bodies quickly, I propose that we appoint the council’s chairman today. I know that some of my colleagues are of the opinion that the chair should rotate for a period of six months. I agree with them. We shall do this. I propose that the council’s chairman for the first six months be Chairman of the Russian Federation Government Mikhail Kasyanov. If there are no objections, then let’s do this.
Now let’s talks about the formation of the two working commissions and determine who will chair them.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: January 12, 2004, 20:44
Text versionEvents
Opening Remarks at a Meeting with the Cabinet Members
January 12, 2004
18:59
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
As you know, more accurate data about the results of our work last year and for the past few years in general are currently being finalised. One can say with satisfaction it is becoming increasingly obvious that the goals that we set ourselves – one being the doubling of GDP in ten years – are attainable.
I would like to draw your attention to this and say that we cannot allow rates to slow down. In spite of all the difficulties, they still need to be developed. This concerns economic growth rates, other macroeconomic indices and inflation. We are consistently lowering the latter. This year, we are setting ourselves the task of attaining the level of ten percent. This is also asking a lot, but, bearing in mind the positive trends that we have managed to secure with regard to this parameter in the past few years, this is an objective, real index and it has to be achieved.
The same applies to securing labour productivity growth rates. Last year, despite the gap between labour productivity and household income growth rates, for the first time productivity lagged behind. Nevertheless, for the first time, incomes were guaranteed by increased labour productivity. This is a positive sign for our economy, and we need to ensure that it is maintained.
Of course, all this is being done with one aim in mind: to solve the population’s social problems. I know that the Government is considering the medical insurance issue this week. This and other similar matters should constantly stay in the focus of our attention this year.
You know that an official visit to Kazakhstan took place. Many important documents were signed, but it is not important how many documents were signed. What is important is the level and nature of our relations with Kazakhstan that have taken shape over the last few years. And I would like to thank all my colleagues who are taking part in this process. We not only agreed to extend the lease for the Baikonur space centre until 2050, which is extremely important. We also agreed to co-operate in the space exploration sphere in the broadest sense of this term. We reached agreement concerning our interaction on an entire series of other areas in the economy, the social sphere, border issues and the fight against crime.
We agreed to co-operate more closely in the energy sphere. We are expanding our extraction, and our partners, including Kazakhstan, are doing the same. Kazakhstan has serious plans in this area, and I think that you will agree with me: we, bearing in mind the strategic nature of our relations, must think about how to guarantee the lawful interests of our partners, including in the transportation of their energy carriers. We shall speak about this separately at a later date.
This is all I would like to say at the moment. Let’s exchange up-to-date information.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: January 12, 2004, 18:59
Text version