I have already spoken about our nuclear deterrent force, about how we can be sure about it for some decades, and about how we are able to resolve any tasks, including penetratingmissile defence systems, should such systems be created. This has all been discussed on numerous occasions. But at the same time, we have also said repeatedly that as other countries increase the number and quality of their arms and military potential, then Russia will also need to ensure it has new generation weapons and technology.
In this respect, I am pleased to inform you that successfully completed experiments during these exercises enable us to confirm that the Russian Armed Forces, the Strategic Missile Forces, will receive new hypersound-speed, high-precision new weapons systems that can hit targets at inter-continental distance and can adjust their altitude and course as they travel. This is a very significant statement because no country in the world as of now has such arms in their military arsenal.
This gives us grounds to affirm that with the powerful means we have at our disposal for conducting armed warfare, and I refer here to the new arms I just described and to other new technology that we have, Russia can reliably ensure its strategic stability in the long-term perspective.
Russia will reach this objective through its own means, not by relying on new arms and security systems developed in other countries. I particularly want to emphasise that we will ensure our security through using the most effective military means and the optimum economic solutions. What this means is that Russia will continue to be one of the world’s great nuclear powers. Some may like this, others may be not, but either way, this is a fact that will have to be reckoned with.
In conclusion, our country, like any other country, has its own national interests. Of course we intend to stand up for and protect these interests, but we will do so above all through legal, diplomatic and economic means. We will learn to stand up for our national interests with the help of information technology, like many other countries do today. But we will do all we can to ensure Russia’s military invulnerability and be absolutely certain that our country’s armed forces can neutralise any threat.
Thank you for your attention.
Question: Good afternoon. From what you said, we can draw the conclusion that Russia has tested a new type of weapon. How do you think the United States will react to this news?
Vladimir Putin: You will have to ask our foreign partners that question, including our American partners. The United States is actively developing its military potential. You know that they withdrew from the ABM Treaty not long ago. At that time they assured us that the decision was not in any way directed against the Russian Federation, and we took note of that. Indeed, the nature and level of our relations confirm what our American partners said. I can say today that our work to modernise our arms and the new weapons systems we have developed are not in any way directed at the United States.
We really have become partners. We want to emphasise that we will do everything we can to make yesterday’s opponents our partners and to make today’s partners our friends and allies. But we retain the right to modernise our armed forces in the interest of ensuring our national security. We are working constructively with our American partners and are raising the level of trust between us. Both sides are showing a lot of interest in expanding our cooperation. I think that as our cooperation develops, the level of trust between us will continue to grow.
Question: This is not the first time you are in Plesetsk and not the first time you have visited the Northern Fleet. How do you think the situation has changed in the armed forces over the last four years? Can we now say that the crisis is over?
Vladimir Putin: I think that the armed forces have begun to put the crisis behind them. I do indeed visit different units regularly. As for the naval fleets and such important areas as the Strategic Missile Forces and the Space Forces, they constantly receive my attention. I visited the Northern Fleet about three years ago, and I have visited all the naval fleets. During those visits the aim was to establish what state the armed forces were in as well as the state particularly important facilities, including Plesetsk, the very place where we are today. Back then it was a space launch centre in name, but in reality it was suitable only for military launches.
Today we can say that a colossal amount of work has been done over these last three to three-and-a-half years. There is still a lot of work to do but what we have today is a real space launch centre. We have also just held exercises the likes of which we have not seen for almost 20 years. Of course, there were pluses and minuses during the course of these exercises. Everything is being covered absolutely objectively and this will continue to be the case. The minuses will also be public and we will draw the necessary conclusions from them. We only stand to benefit from this. Overall, I am happy with the exercises.
There are definite pluses. For example, the infrastructure that the armed forces overall and different branches in particular need in order to develop has been restored. Then there are breakthroughs such as that, which we are witnessing today. Yesterday we observed how naval air defence systems work, and they are one component of what could form a missile defence system. But the big event is definitely what took place today – the experiment to test the new weapons system. This is a clear sign that Russia has not just come through this crisis but is now breaking new ground. This really is a breakthrough.