Events
Speech at a Meeting with Heads of the Russian Space Industry
April 27, 2004
16:40
The Kremlin, Moscow
 President Vladimir Putin:
Good day, dear colleagues!
The need for today’s meeting was expressed at the celebration of Cosmonautics Day on 12 April. I think that this is meeting is timely and topical. Given the high level of the leaders present, I am sure that it will be productive.
The space industry is one of the key factors in our development. It ensures Russia’s high status as a country of leading scientific technology. And undoubtedly, it plays a very important role in national security, in the development of the economy, and increasing the competitiveness of our country.
The geographical and geopolitical specifics of Russia, its enormous territory, extensive borders and rich resources – all these things require both effective use and development of our space potential.
In January 2001, we discussed state policy on the space industry at a special meeting of the Security Council. We outlined strategic goals and practical steps which should strengthen our country’s leading position in the world.
As you know, the foundations of Russia’s space policy have been passed for the period up to 2010. Several legal, financial and organisational issues have been decided. At the same time, despite a number of certain advancements, we are still a long way from real success. It is clear that our space industry can and should develop swiftly. Furthermore, it is capable of drawing other sectors of the economy along with it, and becoming a tool to solve many important tasks. For example, strengthening the common information space of Russia, and developing telecommunications and navigational systems. Furthermore, this involves ensuring the effective investigation and use of natural resources, and increasing the quality of predicting natural disasters. A dramatic growth in the use of results from activity in the space industry is taking place before our eyes. But another thing is also clear – we are not able to keep up with this demand.
I would like to note that achievements in spaces should work more effectively for Russian regions, and help the growth of their economy and the development of advanced information technology.
The potential of international cooperation in the space industry is also inexhaustible. This involves joint solutions of large-scale tasks in the economy, science, ecology and the humanitarian sphere. There has been certain progress in the area of safety recently. I hope that it will be positive.
I would like to hear your opinions and suggestions on this and other problems of developing the space industry.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 27, 2004, 16:40
Text version