Events
Interview to The Hindu Indian Newspaper
December 3, 2004
09:44
Moscow
Question: Four years ago India and Russia agreed to hold annual summits, and you will pay a new visit to New Delhi in December. To what extend do those summits strengthen the strategic cooperation between our two countries?
Vladimir Putin: Russia and India have established especially friendly and warm relations long ago, and our strategic cooperation is genuinely a historic choice. It is based not only on common international approaches and geopolitical interests, but also on the spiritual affinity of the two great cultures. Moreover, for a long time now, we have managed and continue to manage to find common ground on both the official, and just human level, and we were always interested in each other.
We attach particular significance to a regular high-level dialogue. Our annual summits strengthen mutual understanding between the two countries, including on the key issues of world politics. We have no ”forbidden“ themes between us. We discuss, inter alia, strategic stability, aspects of disarmament, UN activities, establishment of a global system to suppress terrorism and other threats of today's world, and, certainly, the issues of economic, humanitarian, cultural and scientific cooperation. Our technological partnership in such crucially important spheres as information and biological technologies, aircraft industry and outer space exploration, has broad prospects.
I should note that regular contacts are conducive to efficient accomplishment of practical tasks. They make it possible to speed up finding joint solutions to operational, including deadlocked, issues. As a result, in four years, we managed to considerably strengthen and expand our bilateral contract and legal framework of Russian-Indian interaction and to enrich it with new initiatives.
Annual meetings do promote cooperation between India and Russia, providing impetus to it. I would emphasize that an everyday life itself confirms that such a format of the political contacts between our countries is appropriate.
Question: You are going to have the first meeting with Prime Minister Dr.Manmohan Singh, who represents the Indian National Congress (INC) party. Do you believe that this fact will bring anything new to our relations or will it be in keeping with the previous policy?
Vladimir Putin: In fact, I have already met Mr. Manmohan Singh in 2002. He was then a member of the INC Working Committee and participated in our meeting with Mrs.Sonia Gandhi, President of the INC.
I would like to say that Mr. Manmohan Singh is well-known in Russia. He is one of those who could be called ”young guards“ of Jawaharlal Nehru, who is highly respected in our country and who, in many respects, played a decisive role in successful economic reforms in India.
At the same time, I would like to stress that the current level of Russian-Indian partnership cannot and should not depend on internal transformations which are quite natural to democratic States. Our countries are already interacting along a clear-cut line, and all the leading political actors of India, including, certainly, the INC, have made a valuable contribution to its development. We have no doubt that the new Indian leadership will continue to pursue that course.
As we are aware, Mr. M.Singh is strongly committed to the policy of developing friendly relations with Russia. And I am looking forward to a new major progress in Russian-Indian cooperation, after the meeting in New Delhi.
Question: Would it be correct to consider that India and Russia are developing their cooperation in the oil industry and that New Deli invests in the Russian oil producing sector? Could you dwell upon that issue?
Vladimir Putin: Russia and India do expand cooperation in the field of oil industry. In doing so, they expect that investments would go not only to Russia. Implementation of projects in India is also scheduled.
As a successful example of Indian-Russian cooperation, I could quote the joint participation of the Indian Oil Corporation and Rosneft Russian oil corporation in the Sakhalin-1 project. The Indian oil corporation is ready to invest $1.7 bln. into that project, which would be its ever greatest foreign investment. As far as I know, drilling unit has been finalized and drilling works have already begun. Partners plan to start oil production in 2006.
On its part, India is working on an international tender for the exploration and exploitation of oil and gas reserves in the shelf of the Gulf of Bengal. Gazprom joint stock company which is a leading and, no doubt, reliable Russian company could participate in that project.
Russian firms, such as Zarubezhneft, Stroitransgaz, Neftegazexport, Tumenneftegeofizika also have an experience of work in India. They are prepared to render assistance in the field of exploration of its oil and gas deposits. What I would like to stress is that Russian firms will bring to India advanced technologies to increase production capacity of wells, restart ”idle“ oil fields and develop oil deposits difficult to extract. That is what is needed for fulfilling those productive tasks that are of special interest to India.
What is most important is that strengthening partnership between India and Russia in the field of energy is in the mutual interests of both economies. Presently, India imports up to 73% of oil it uses. It is well known that the new government of India aims at achieving 8 per cent annual economic growth. Hence, in the near term, fuel and energy requirements of the country are going to increase. Russia, being a long-term and traditional partner of India, is prepared to contribute to enhancing energy stability of the developing Indian economy, to the development of its fuel and energy sector.
Question: Last September, the whole world was horrified by massacres of schoolchildren in Beslan by Chechen terrorists. What measures have been taken to counteract the domestic terrorist threat in your country?
Vladimir Putin: First of all, I would like to express my gratitude for the support rendered by the Indian people, government of India, in connection with the monstrous crime in Beslan. Those who tortured and shut children in Beslan are killers who are members of the ”terrorist international“. They do not and cannot have any excuses.
India, having experienced the grief of its recent history, has realized the monstrous and disgusting character of terror. Eminent citizens of your country, their recognized leaders, Mrs. Indira Gandhi and Mr. Rashif Gandhi were murdered. Thousands of innocent people became victims of terror. Courage displayed by the Indian people who managed to overcome those tragedies and unite to resist terrorism will be a leading example for all of us.
It is evident: the Beslan experience cannot but produce certain conclusions. International terrorism has declared a war to us. And we are obliged to meet that challenge and to protect adequately sovereignty and integrity of our country, life and peace of our citizens.
This should be a systematic activity. First, we should improve the efficiency of law enforcement bodies and special services. Their work should be commensurate with the tasks faced today by the whole society and special services in particular. Moreover, the interaction mechanisms, ways and means, working methods and modalities of law enforcement bodies should be commensurate with the nature and scope of the threats faced by Russia.
Second, measures to strengthen the unity of national executive bodies have been elaborated and partially implemented. I would like to emphasize that steps have been taken to consolidate democracy, federalism and civil society, as well as to promote the growth of major national political parties. I am convinced that it is only a politically structured and mature society that is able to form a responsible and workable power structure and to effectively counteract such threats as extremism, terrorism and separatism.
We intend to continue to use preventive methods against terrorists. However, our actions will be in strict compliance with the Russian legal and constitutional norms and rules of international law. In general, the whole range of activities to enhance the security of Russian citizens and to guarantee their constitutional rights will certainly be based on full respect of democratic values, consolidation and development of democratic institutions. It is for this specific purpose that the Russian Public Council is being created. It will be entrusted with civil expertise of major governmental decisions.
Question: Russia has been the leading advocate of the new UN Security Council resolution on counter-terrorism, which expanded the possibilities for counteracting terrorism. In your opinion, is the Security Council able to meet the challenges of terrorism faced by both Russia and India?
Vladimir Putin: I see what you mean by that. Indeed, much has been said about insufficient progress by the UN Security Council in organizing fight against terrorism. It should be made clear, however, that the mechanism in question is effective insofar as its members are ready to work jointly and decisively towards the common goal.
I am convinced that the international community should base its fight against terrorism on a clear strategy, effective institutional mechanisms and adequate international legal system. And there is no alternative to the UN in shaping such a global antiterrorist system. I would also note that Russia-sponsored Security Council resolution 1566 strengthens the UN role in the international fight against terrorism. In addition, the Security Council resolution provides a strong impetus to the work of the UN Security Council Counter-Terrorism Committee, the principal UN coordinating body for counter-terrorism activities.
This resolution emphasizes that acts of terrorism are offences under no circumstances justifiable by considerations of a political, ideological or religious nature and that persons guilty of terror should certainly be punished by penalties commensurate with the gravity of their crimes.
The provision, according to which States should bring to justice — on the basis of the principle ”extradite or prosecute“ — terrorists and individuals who support or facilitate their acts, is of paramount importance as well. We have long insisted on the inclusion of the above principle into the binding documents of the UN. It is a major step towards eliminating double standards, along with the clarification of the general understanding of terrorism.
I would note that this document was adopted unanimously. This is an evidence of unconditional support by the world community of approaches taken by Russia and understanding by our partners.
India and Russia share similar political principles of participation in the anti-terrorist coalition. We have already made a number of important joint steps. Thus, India spoke in favor of adopting a comprehensive convention against terrorism, while Russia, on its part, put forward a draft convention for the suppression of acts of nuclear terrorism. Bythe way, the latest resolution of the UN Security Council on terrorism encourages all countries to eliminate the existing obstacles on the way of adopting the Indian and Russian draft conventions.
Question: The problem of terrorism emerged not on September11, 2001, and is not limited to the US and Western Europe. India and Russia, on their part, made statements against the policy of ”double standards“ in the fight against terrorism. What can specifically be done to make the lives of Russians and Indians just as valuable as those of Americans or British?
Vladimir Putin: Of course, the problem of terrorism emerged not on September11 and is in no way limited to Western Europe and the US. Terrorism is a global and destructive phenomenon affecting all states and societies, mortally dangerous to all people in the world.
There can be no ”double standards“ in the fight against terrorism, otherwise this struggle would become ineffective or meaningless. Russia and India both have a common understanding of this fundamental principle.
However, not all of our partners demonstrate understanding of such seemingly apparent facts. Here, may I be permitted to make a stiff comment. As you are aware, one of the leaders of Chechen terrorists — A.Zakaev — continues to travel freely across European countries. The US authorities gave a safe haven to another envoy of terrorists — I.Akhmadov. Providing safe haven and support to terrorists, their accomplices and sponsors actually serves as a justification and, indeed, encouragement of their crimes. In our view, a tolerant attitude towards Zakaev, Maskhadov, Akhmadov and the like is an apparent recurrence of the notorious ”double standards“. Such steps undermine the unity and mutual trust of the participants of the anti-terrorist front.
May I remind you that according to UN decisions the states are obliged to verify, when providing asylum, that the person in question is not related to terrorism. However, somebody influenced by stereotypes or — which is particularly dangerous — hoping to get questionable political dividends, prefer to turn a blind eye on apparent facts.
Question: Do you think that the intrusion into Iraq weakened the campaign against international terrorism as a whole? Failure to arrest Osama bin Laden and his continuing threats mean that the ”Al Qaida“ network remains operative. Please, comment on that.
Vladimir Putin: We are alarmed by a difficult and dramatic situation in Iraq. Terrorist activities there are not diminishing while peaceful Iraqis and citizens of other states become victims of violence.
This is the threat Russia repeatedly warned the US and their allies about before the action taken against the Hussein regime. As predicted, after his fall Iraq and the whole world did not become more safe and secure.
One should understand that terrorist and extremist groups of all stripes, including ”Al Qaida“, are now actively using to their benefit the difficult situation that persists in Iraq for their cynical and criminal interests. As had been the case with Afghanistan, Iraq turned into a major hotbed of a terrorist threat, a firing ground and ”incubator“ for militants. It is here and now that thousands of future terrorists are being recruited by terrorist networks. Those forces, most probably, can be employed in other regions of the world.
There is yet another essential aspect worth speaking about. Differences over Iraq, and they were, I would remind you, rather considerable, and existed between the leading participants of the international anti-terrorist coalition, led to a significant slowdown of the development of international anti-terrorist interaction. Hence, it is of crucial importance that the activities aimed at combating ”the terrorist international“ be reduced to a common denominator. Actions undertaken by world community to counteract terrorism should start from international law, be concerted and united. Only in this case, will those endeavors bring up a necessary outcome required by all human race, i.e. victory over terrorism.
Russia has consistently supported the thesis that the situation in Iraq be settled through establishing a nation-wide dialogue in order to reach national accord and reconciliation. The United Nations already assisting the Iraqis to prepare for the first general elections should play a meaningful role in achieving that objective. We believe that successful elections held within the period specified in UN Security Council resolution1546 would be of fundamental importance.
Iraq and Russia have been good neighbours. And we are prepared to make our contribution to the reconstruction and revival of that country as a unified, stable and prosperous state.
Question: Before the US presidential election you supported the candidature of President George Bush since his defeat would result in the spread of terrorism to other parts of the world. Retrospectively, you showed insight when evaluating the US political situation. Do you believe that during his second term President George Bush will be less ”unilateral“ in his actions? Or are we most likely to witness another Iraq in some other place?
Vladimir Putin: Certainly Russia followed the recent US presidential election with great interest and attention. It is only natural since progress in our bilateral relations and interaction in international affairs depend also on the approach taken by the US leaders.
We have repeatedly stated that we were prepared to work with any Administration that would enjoy confidence of the American people. At the same time, the recent achievements in the US-Russian relations became possible to a large extent thanks to the constructive policy pursued by George Bush — politician and statesman whom we consider to be our reliable partner and ally in the war against terrorism. It is because of that, that I took the greatest pleasure to congratulate him for his well-deserved victory. I am convinced that under the second term of George Bush Administration the Russian-American cooperation will be no less dynamic and fruitful.
This does not mean that there are no differences between the US and Russia; however we resolve them through dialogue taking into account our countries' long-term interests. We build our relations based on developing equal and mutually advantageous ties, jointly dealing with new challenges and threats, first of all those relating to international terrorism, proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, organized crime and drug-trafficking.
Those global challenges and threats of the new millenium can only be met collectively. There is a growing understanding of this evident fact globally. Developments in Iraq have once again proved that unilateral actions are counterproductive. I will be frank: in my talks with many foreign leaders I used to hear the following question: ”If global affairs are to be dealt with according to the ‘Iraqi model’, how can we guarantee our countries' security and sovereignty?“ We have repeatedly called our American partners' attention to this reality. And eventually, they realised the need to reach a political settlement in Iraq using the UN mechanisms. I believe that the new Administration will undoubtedly bear in mind ”Iraqi lessons“ when determining its foreign policy.
Question: They say quite a lot about global multilaterality and multipolarity, but the world appears today even more unipolar than ever before. Is Russia capable of (and interested in) assuming a leading role in restoring a certain balance in world affairs?
Vladimir Putin: I do not think it is possible in principle to create a unipolar system of international relations. Interdependence of states and interdependence of national economies are growing. Most civilization development factors — both negative and positive — are acquiring a global character. No single state, even the most powerful one, can cope alone with terrorism, numerous local conflicts, social diseases and, thus, is not able to provide global stability and progress. All those problems can only be solved through multilateral cooperation under the UN auspices. Russia is ready to make its contribution, moreover, it is already contributing constructively to this common work.
Question: Russia has taken a principled position to support India as the candidate to the UNSC permanent membership. Presently, India together with Brazil, Japan and Germany, have formed a quartet trying to reform the Security Council. However it seems, that the SC reform is far away. Can Russia do anything to accelerate this process?
Vladimir Putin: Our support of India in this regard is in line with our consistent policy and is not subject to volatile fluctuations. It reflects the principled position of Russia. Its essence is that should the UN Security Council expand — due to the inclusion of new permanent and non-permanent members — major states, pursuing an independent foreign policy based on the UN Charter, should be represented in it.
As to the UN reform, any possible transformations in that important, backbone institution should be implemented on the basis of the broadest possible consensus. It is only in this case that any reform can be truly efficient and, what is more important, legitimate in the eyes of the international community. At the same time, we consider it inappropriate to reduce the sophisticated complex of the UN modernization only to the expansion of its Security Council. Other aspects of the reform — institutional, socio-economic, and humanitarian — should not remain hostages of the UNSC membership reform.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 3, 2004, 09:44
Text versionEvents
Opening Address at a Meeting with Indian Oil and Gas Minister Mani Shankar Aiyar
December 3, 2004
12:21
New Delhi, India
President Vladimir Putin: Minister, firstly I am very glad to meet you. I share your assessment of the nature of developments of our relations in the energy sphere. Indeed, recently we have signed a number of serious agreements. Our cooperation in this sphere has been given a second wind in many areas. Of course, you mentioned Sakhalin-1. $1.7 billion are invested in this, and we spoke of further investment of $1.3 billion, I believe.
I am very glad that we agreed on other major projects. We mentioned one very serious problem of a global nature: to use the resources of Eastern Siberia and allow the supply of Russian energy resources to the Pacific Ocean coast. We discussed this problem with many of our partners, including the Chinese. We think that we can find a decision within the framework of the discussion process which would satisfy all the interested parties. We need to solve the issue of transport, I think above all the issue of pipeline transport. And we need to think together about our efforts in additional exploration of supplies in Eastern Siberia. I am certain that these supplies are underestimated.
I agree with your assessment that the supply of Russian hydrocarbons to the Pacific Ocean coast will significantly improve the energy situation in the Asian region and in the world as a whole.
We will be glad to see you in Moscow in January or in February, as you said. I think that the initiative that you proposed is very timely and productive – to hold a meeting of interested partners, consumers and suppliers of energy resources, including our partners in Central Asia.
I hope that we will be able to work with you effectively.
And we will wait for you in Moscow.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 3, 2004, 12:21
Text versionEvents
Speech at a Conference in the Jawaharlal Nehru Memorial Foundation
December 3, 2004
12:33
New Delhi, India
President Vladimir Putin: Mrs Gandhi, Ladies and Gentlemen, friends.
IIt is a great honour for me to speak at the Jawaharlal Nehru Memorial Foundation.
This year marks 115 years since the birth of this outstanding son and citizen of India. The name of Nehru is inseparably linked with the struggle for liberation of India, and for its coming into being as a sovereign nation.
Nehru was a true patriot. This thinker and outstanding humanist tried to achieve national freedom without abandoning the principles of democracy and social progress.
He was undoubtedly ahead of his time, and in his ideas he looked to the future. His life credo was based on imperishable common human values, which remain the guideline for building a safer and fairer world order. A world order that frees mankind from dangerous conflicts of ideology, national and religious intolerance.
He talked about the deep community between all countries and peoples of the world. This is why Nehru’s legacy does not just belong to his own country, but to all of mankind.
Peace for Nehru was not just abstaining from war, but an active and positive approach to international relations. “We may seriously disagree, but we must refrain from wrathful attacks and condemnations,” he said.
And it is no coincidence that Nehru was one of the initiators of Panchsheel – the five principles of peaceful co-existence – into the international community. And the theory of the politics of non-alignment, which he put into practice, is still relevant and has become an important factor of international life. And the potential of non-alignment movement is far from exhausted.
The world has changed a great deal since Nehru’s times. The new century is often called the era of globalisation. It brings, of course, unprecedented potential possibilities for economic and scientific progress, mutual enrichment of world cultures, and for the creation of decent living standards.
At the same time, it is extremely dangerous to attempt to rebuild modern civilisation, which God has created to be diverse and multi-faceted, according to the barracks principles of a unipolar world. And the more insistent the authors and followers of these ideas are, the more frequently humanity will encounter dangerous disproportions in economic and social development. The more will it encounter global threats of international terrorism, organised crime and drug trafficking. Thehigher will become the dangers of proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, along with the danger of these weapons falling into the hands of terrorists.
Numerous regional conflicts will come to the surface. All these threats will increase, because ultimately, political and economic injustice lies at their base, and no dictatorship, especially in international affairs, will solve, or has ever solved, such problems, even if this dictatorship is packaged in a pretty wrapping of pseudo-democratic phraseology. In this case, it will not even be able to solve problems of a systematic nature, and on the contrary it will only worsenthe situation. Only a balanced system of international law and the ability of the international community to ensure that these norms are adhered to by all nations of the world without exception can put us on the path towards solving the difficult tasks that humanity faces.
Naturally, it is not difficult to fight for just norms and principles. It is far more difficult to learn them ourselves, to live by these principles ourselves. Of course, we, both Russia and India, just like our partners in international affairs, shall never forget about this.
Russia and India are proactive and constructive participants in these processes. And we act here as partners with similar views who are making a contribution to the development of a just world order.
Obviously, the central co-ordinating role in drafting a collective response to contemporary threats should belong to the UN. It is a unique organisation embracing the entire world and has experience on acting at the global level. And we expect a great deal from the UN secretary-general’s High-Level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Reforms.
It is difficult to agree with the claim that the UN’s institutions have become irrelevant and cannot effectively react to modern challenges. The validity of the UN mechanism is not at issue. At issue is the willingness of the organisation’s member states to wage a joint, resolute fight for common goals.
Russia is open to sensible models to reform the UN, in particular the expansion of the Security Council. However, any possible reforms of such an important system-forming institution must be conducted on the basis of broad consensus.
I shall repeat here once again: Russia’s principled position is to support the candidacy of India as a future permanent member of the Security Council. I believe that this right is evident in your country’s rapidly developing international influence and economic potential. Its independent foreign policy based on the principles of the UN Charter confirms this.
In our view, regional international structures have an important role to play in developing a safer and more just world order. We welcome the establishment of regional co-ordination and co-operation centres in Europe, Asia and on other continents.
Russia plays a proactive role in implementing integration projects as part of the CIS, Eurasec, and the Shanghai Co-operation Organisation. We closely co-operate with the European Union in the interests of developing a united Europe, without borders or new Berlin walls.
Russia is expanding its dialogue with ASEAN, with which it signed a political declaration on partnership in the cause of peace and development in 2003. We play a proactive role in the ASEAN regional security forum and preparations are being made for an agreement on economic co-operation. Russia is an interested participant in the regional Asia-Pacific economic co-operation forum.
We also believe that non-bloc interaction between Russia, India and China can make a crucial contribution to global stability and progress. Our business co-operation is capable of becoming an important factor in the socio-economic development of each of our countries.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Four years ago, while speaking in the Indian parliament, I, on behalf of Russia, supported an Indian proposal to establish a collective front to combat terrorism.
We highly value our co-operation with India in the fight against terrorism. We see it as our joint contribution to bolstering the global anti-terrorism coalition. Our two countries – which have had serious encounters with terrorists’ crimes and experienced the pain of losses – have a common understanding of the essence and principles of anti-terrorism efforts.
There can be no double standards in relation to terror. Moreover, terrorism cannot and must not be used as an instrument in some “geo-political games” or interests.
In this sense, UN Security Council Resolution 1566, which was adopted on Russia’s initiative, is extremely important. It obliges every state to bring terrorists, their accomplices and sponsors to justice without fail.
We also take a principled view that terrorism cannot be identified with any particular religion or ethnic group.
Such attempts are a dangerous mistake. The terrorists and their backers would gain from unleashing a conflict between civilisations and religions, and setting nations against each other.
We shall care for unity and inter-ethnic accord and, if necessary, defend it. And those people who think that our states and societies, which include many diverse religious and ethnic groups, can be weakened and split by setting off various parts against each other must know this.
Russia and India have a particular role to play in solving the biggest problems facing the Islamic world today because of their huge number of Muslim communities, long involvement in Islamic history and culture, and neighbouring leading Islamic states. The most important issues are the peace processes in Iraq, Afghanistan and the Middle East.
We are extremely concerned about the continually increasing violence in Iraq. And we are convinced that only the development of intra-Iraqi dialogue aimed at achieving nationwide accord can stabilise the situation. Accord with regard to the main parameters of Iraq’s future state set-up. We support the UN’s efforts to normalise the situation in this country, and we supported Resolution 1556 that determines the timeframes for the political process in Iraq. In adopting this resolution, we all worked from the premise that conditions for elections would be created and secured within this timeframe. However, we anxiously watch the continuing military clashes and increasing casualties. All this could put honest and democratic elections in Iraq scheduled for early next year under a serious question mark.
Russia is sincerely interested in the development of Afghanistan as a democratic, united, independent and prosperous state free from terrorism and drugs and with a well-deserved place in the international community.
At the same time, we are aware of the difficult conditions during the elections in Afghanistan. We proceed from the fact that for objective reasons they failed to establish a balanced account of the interests of key political forces. We hope the foundations of broad support for the elected president will be laid during the formation of state power and government bodies.
The 2005 spring parliamentary elections will contribute to the formation of a civil society in Afghanistan.
As regards the situation in South Asia, we believe that the long period of tension between India and Pakistan has hampered the solution of their problems and joint counter-terrorism efforts.
Therefore, today we welcome the development of a comprehensive Indian-Pakistani dialogue. We consider it extremely important to bolster and promote new positive trends in Indian-Pakistani relations, trade and economic, sporting and cultural links and trust between the countries.
The prime minister and I discussed major infrastructure projects in the energy sphere, which can be implemented on a multilateral basis.
Broadening understanding between the two countries and advancing new initiatives to solve old problems, including the Kashmir issue, would correspond to the interests of South Asia, as well as world peace and security.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Nehru’s visit to the Soviet Union almost 50 years ago, in 1955, was a new “discovery of India.” We laid the foundation of our friendship, co-operation and strategic partnership.
Broad public support is a powerful source of strength for the Russian-Indian partnership. I am convinced that Russia and India have a kind of a national consensus to this effect that allows us to strengthen every aspect of our partnership.
We have not remained on the same level that existed in our relations with the former government. On the contrary, in the last few months we have taken some serious steps and created preconditions for a breakthrough in a number of important areas of co-operation.
Evident positive steps have been made in Russo-Indian trade. Certainly, its current indices do not exhaust our potential. Neither Russia, nor India can be satisfied with the fact that bilateral trade accounts for only 1.5% of each partner’s foreign trade turnover. Raw materials dominate bilateral trade on both sides.
However, the situation is starting to change for the better. We have already launched a number of major long-term initiatives, for instance, the Sakhalin-1 oil production project in Russia and the construction of the Kudankulam nuclear power plant in India. I believe that the future of Russo-Indian economic ties lies in the spheres of investment co-operation and the implementation of major strategic projects.
Russian companies are ready to participate in Indian programs to survey, produce and transport oil and gas, as well as to construct and modernise power plants, ensure the security of railways and many more projects.
Russia, India and Iran are implementing the genuinely strategic North-South international transport corridor project. It will have a significant impact on transportation between Europe, South Asia and the Persian Gulf. This route may become a landmark in the economic and integration architecture of the vast Eurasian region.
Russia is ready to participate in other major regional infrastructure projects, such as the construction of pipelines, highways and railways. I am convinced that the implementation of these projects will promote our economic rapprochement, political understanding and co-operation in many other fields.
During the talks with the Indian leadership, we set another joint goal, to expand trade in hi-tech products, to improve forms and methods of co-operation in the investment sphere, and to bolster scientific-technical partnership in such priority areas as space exploration, information technologies and communications. The Russo-Indian agreements signed during this visit are designed to achieve this goal.
High technologies – computers, the Internet, satellite communications and fibre optics – are the driving force of globalisation. The more available they are to mankind, the smaller the gap will be between the developed and developing countries. Accordingly, they will have fewer contradictions.
I am convinced that the multi-polar world of high technologies will help to balance the evolution of human civilisation.
Russia and India both have an enormous potential to develop together advanced technologies, including alternative technologies. I think that the future of our relations is in the development of the full-scale scientific and technical partnership.
Russo-Indian co-operation in the military-technical and military spheres has acquired a new quality during the last ten years. Russia is not simply supplying India with armaments, military equipment and new technologies. We are becoming involved more and more in the joint development of new armaments. In the future, we might consider the co-ordinated entry of Russia and India onto the global weapons market.
The armed forces of both countries are acquiring new experience of joint exercises. Last year’s joint naval exercises in the Indian Ocean are a good example.
I would like to emphasise that Russia’s assistance to the Indian Armed Forces is not aimed against third countries. It is important that this assistance serves the goal of strengthening the security not only of India, but also of other countries.
Strategic shipping lanes from the Persian Gulf to East Asia, China and Japan pass along the shores of India. The protection of energy supply lines in this large region and the countering of the terrorist threat and piracy at sea are all part of the common security strategy adopted by various world powers and Asian countries in particular. All the plans to ensure security on shipping lanes in the Indian Ocean will be limited and ineffective without India’s proactive participation.
Mrs Chairman,
Distinguished friends,
In concluding my speech, I would like to pay tribute to Nehru’s memory once again. Few foreign politicians and statesmen have enjoyed such nationwide fame and sincere respect in our country. My compatriots will always remember him as an open, friendly, brave and wise leader of your great and ancient country.
His ideological legacy is consonant with the sentiments of our contemporaries striving for a more humane, democratic and secure world. His beloved India is achieving high levels of economic, scientific and cultural development and is facing the future with confidence.
I sincerely wish peace, prosperity and new successes to the people of India, which has always been and, I am sure, will be a true friend and reliable partner of Russia.
Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 3, 2004, 12:33
Text versionEvents
Opening Address at a Meeting with Head of the Indian National Congress Party Sonia Gandhi
December 3, 2004
12:17
New Delhi, India
President Vladimir Putin: Ms Gandhi, allow me to greet you once more. It is pleasant for me to resume working contacts with you. Last time, I believe we met here as well. At that time, it was a meeting with the leader of the opposition party. Now you have won the parliamentary elections, and above all I would like to congratulate you on this victory and on the trust shown by the Indian people.
The Gandhi family has done a great deal for the development of India itself and for the development of Russian-Indian relations. We have watched the internal political development of India with interest. We would like to congratulate you on the decision that you made in the interests of the Indian people. And, as it has always been in the political history of your family, you have put your interests below the interests of the people. You have put the interests of the people higher than your own.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 3, 2004, 12:17
Text versionEvents
Press Conference on the Results of Russian-Indian Talks
December 3, 2004
10:00
New Delhi, India
President Vladimir Putin: I would like to note that this visit to New Delhi is a special visit, and we attach particularly importance to it. Contacts and relations with the new government of this country are being established. At the same time, of course, it is pleasing for me to see that the Prime Minister and many of his colleagues have been working actively with the Russian Federation for a long time. And they have not only been working with Russia for a long time, but they have also done a great deal for the development of bilateral ties. And today I note with pleasure that we have made sure that the policy for developing strategic partnership between Russia and India is not subject to the political situation. Without any exaggeration, I can say that we have a full mutual understanding on the entire agenda discussed. Above all, we have common or very close approaches to the development of our cooperation in international organisations, and in the key organisation – the United Nations – in solving such problems as regulation in Iraq and Afghanistan, Middle East problems, and the war on terrorism.
We are grateful to the Indian side for its constructive approach and readiness – as the Prime Minister just said – to assist Russia in joining the World Trade Organisations. We are grateful for the Prime Minister’s statement that the market status of the Russian economy has essentially been recognised. Today a whole series of documents were signed, which I am certain will give a new dynamic to our cooperation. I would like to single out the Russian-Indian political declaration that establishes our coordinated common positions on main contemporary problems. And also the new framework intergovernmental agreements on cooperation in investigating the use of space for peaceful goals. A real mechanism of effective interaction has been created by our countries in space activity, going as far as realisation of large-scale programmes and projects.
I would like to note that work in this sphere is going smoothly every year, and increasing. Together with our Indian partners, we aim to gradually increase the field of business cooperation between our two countries. This concerns the expansion of investment cooperation. Indian companies are working on the project Sakhalin-1 – this is a large-scale energy project. Our companies are taking part in building the atomic energy station Kudankulam. We can expand our cooperation in the economic sphere, in such industries as energy, metallurgy, railway transport, water transport, and other spheres. We give great importance to cooperation between banks, regional cooperation and small business – these are all very promising areas.
Of course, we have not forgotten about science, culture or education. In conclusion, I would like to stress the richness and special level of trust in the talks that were held. The decisions passed today, I am absolutely certain, will be a major contribution in developing and giving dynamics to bilateral ties, and will strengthen our positions and our cooperation on the international stage.
Thank you very much for your attention.
Question: A question for Mr Putin. There have been reports in newspapers that the UN General Secretary has created a High level group on the issue of expanding the UN Security Council. And there are two possibilities for expansion, but they have one thing in common – new Security Council members will lack the power of veto. The Russian Federation has always supported India’s candidacy for permanent membership in this organisation. And of course, India would not like to be a second-category member of the Security Council it would also like to have the right to veto. How does Russia feel about this issue?
Mr Putin: Firstly, we are in favour of the United Nations preserving its universal nature, and being an effective tool for solving all international problems in modern conditions. We support re-organisation, including by expanding the number of permanent members of the Security Council. India is one of the largest nations in the world, India is our strategically privileged partner. And if we are talking of the expansion of the UN Security Council according to regional principle, then of course, in our opinion, India is undoubtedly candidate number one. We are quite flexible in the discussion process. I should tell you that we have full mutual understanding with our Indian partners on this issue. As for the right of veto and other tools, we consider it to be absolutely unacceptable for the most effective tools of activity of the UN Security Council to be weakened. Otherwise, the UN will lose its importance and role, and turn into a club of interests, into a new version of the League of Nations. And of course, there can be no infringement of the rights of permanent members of the Security Council. This, in my opinion, is a destructive path of development for the discussion. And we must, I repeat, show flexibility and take into account the interests of all the participants of this discussion process. I have determined our position.
Question: I have two questions. And the first is for the Indian Prime Minster. You said that you were prepared to accept market status for the Russian economy. But when can this decision be registered officially? Also, what is happening with talks on Russia joining the WTO, when can a protocol be signed, and what positions have been agreed upon?
The second question is for the Russian President and for the Indian Prime Minister. Will Russia and India sign an agreement to protect intellectual property rights?
Mr Singh: Whether Russia is a country with a market economy – this decision is important only in the context of anti-dumping investigations. According to the assurance of our former Prime Minister, Mr Vajpayee, that the Russian Federation will be given the status of a market economy, we will keep to this position and will acknowledge this status for Russia. As for Russia’s entry into the WTO, the process is that each country must individually discuss issues with the country that is joining the WTO. As I have already told Mr Putin, India will fully support Russia’s entry into the WTO. And this means that we will soon reach the completion of our talks on Russia’s entry into the WTO.
As for the issue of protection of intellectual property rights in the sphere of military and technical cooperation: we made the decision that this issue must be decided over four months. And this period begins in January. The common principles on this issue have already been determined, and all intellectual property rights will be protected in all future agreements. As for the documents signed: they will be implemented according to the conditions that existed during their signing. Thank you.
Mr Putin: As for Russia joining the World Trade Organisation, we essentially have just one technical issue remaining. We agreed on it today during talks. It concerns registering the agreement at expert level. Our position is that this is already a technical matter. As for the agreement on protection of intellectual property, both the Indian and the Russian sides are interested in this. I agree with the Prime Minister: we can and must solve this problem in 3–4 months. Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 3, 2004, 10:00
Text version