Events
Ceremony Awarding Former Japanese Prime Minister Yoshiro Mori the Order of Friendship for His Great Contribution to Developing Russian-Japanese Cooperation
April 14, 2004
20:39
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin:
Dear Mr Mori,
Dear colleagues,
Friends,
I have a mission today that brings me honour and pleasure – that of awarding the Order of Friendship to Mr Yoshiro Mori, deputy to the Japanese house of representatives and co-chairman of the Russian-Japanese expert group – the Council of Sages.
We have known Yoshiro Mori for many years now as a sincere supporter of closer relations between Russia and Japan. He has always worked towards expanding business and cultural ties between our countries and has had a lot of success in this work. He has been directly instrumental in helping carry out significant projects and initiatives between our two states and also between regions, business communities and non-governmental organisations in our countries. Mr Mori has also paid a lot of attention to strengthening ties between twin cities.
Through his activities, Mr Mori is continuing a good family tradition. (His father also supported developing dialogue and friendship between our countries and our peoples).
Mr Mori’s father did a great deal to build up confidence between our peoples, move away from past stereotypes and establish direct contacts between our countries.
Dear friends,
Russia and Japan are not just close neighbours – they are partners with good prospects and a lot of interest in each other.
It is precisely such people as Yoshiro Mori who, through their pragmatism, determination and energy, have helped open up the full potential of our bilateral cooperation. We highly value the Japanese Prime Minister’s decision to appoint Mr Mori co-chairman of the Public Council for Developing Relations between Russia and Japan. This forum will serve as a powerful intellectual force for coming up with original political, economic and cultural ideas and initiatives.
I am sure that the expert group’s practical work will enrich our relations and add new dimensions to Russian-Japanese ties. The professional and personal qualities of Mr Mori and all the members of the Council of Sages are the guarantee of its success.
I would like to wish Mr Mori good health, prosperity and success. I hope that you will continue to promote the cause of Russian-Japanese relations with as much energy as you do now. I congratulate you on receiving this Russian state award and I thank you for your cooperation.
Yoshiro Mori: Mr President, it really is very touching for me to have just now been awarded the Order of Friendship by you.
Last year, when I came to Moscow, I was honoured with the title of honorary professor at the Moscow State International Relations Institute. After receiving that title, I made a special visit to Irkutsk where my father is buried. Incidentally, my father also received a very respected award from your country. It seems to me that now that you, Mr President, have awarded me the Order of Friendship, I can be equal with my father. In receiving this high award, I am reminded of my late father’s words when he said that if his ashes are buried in the Russian Federation then his son will be certain to work towards developing our bilateral relations. I feel these words of my late father take ever greater resonance in my heart. It really does mean a lot to me to have received this high order from the hands of a man I greatly respect and consider my most important friend, that is, from you, Vladimir.
I would like to take this opportunity to assure all present here today that I will dedicate the rest of my life to developing friendly relations between Japan and the Russian Federation.
Once more, I thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 14, 2004, 20:39
Text versionEvents
Meeting with the Leaders of the Public Council for Developing Relations between Russia and Japan the Council of Wise Men
April 14, 2004
20:32
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: First of all, I would like to say how very pleased I am to see you.
It makes me very happy that the Japanese Prime Minister has come up with this initiative of creating the Council for Developing Relations between Russia and Japan. I think this is a very good decision and we have been quick to respond to it from our side.
As you know, this council will include Mr Luzhkov, the mayor of Moscow, who is not only the head of one of our country’s most important regions, but is also a politician known and respected at national level.
Also on the council is Mr Mori, who is known here not just as a former Japanese Prime Minister, but also as someone who preserves and supports the family traditions of developing Russian-Japanese relations.
I very much hope that this expert-level work will help bring our countries closer together in all areas, including in the most sensitive areas.
Yoshiro Mori: First of all, I would like to congratulate you on your resounding victory in the recent presidential election.
It is my sincere hope that Russia will develop as a stable and democratic country with a market economy, and also that Russia will develop as an important member of the international community and will fulfil all the hopes the people have placed in you.
As you said, the first part of the Russian-Japanese Council’s first session, which began this morning under the co-chairmanship of Mr Luzhkov, has just ended.
The decision to create this Russian-Japanese Council of Sages is one of the measures set out in the diplomatic action plan approved by the Prime Minister and the President. I recall well your words that I should become the co-chairman of this council from Japan. I was very touched by this proposal.
Incidentally, I want to say that I did not ask the Prime Minister to name me co-chairman of the council, but Mr Koijumi asked me himself to accept this post and it is with pleasure that I take up this appointment. I intend to make maximum effort to work together with Mr Luzhkov to develop our bilateral relations.
I think that over the course of the council’s meetings, we will be able to draw up proposals to present to my friend Vladimir and to my friend Prime Minister Koijumi as recommendations on how to further develop our bilateral relations. I see this work as co-chairman of the council as one of the best jobs I have ever had in my life.
Yury Luzhkov: Esteemed Vladimir Vladimirovich, I thank you for this honour in asking me to be co-chairman of this expert group from Russia. I think we will produce useful work as we deal with all the wide range of issues facing Russian-Japanese relations in different areas. We will not avoid discussing sensitive and complex issues. I think that our work will be based on taking into account the mutual interests we have in developing our relations, the interests of each country. If we succeed in this work, this will represent a great victory and will bring good results. We have now begun our work and we shall continue it and will try to achieve results.
Vladimir Putin: What do I want to say at this point of our meeting… The problems that confront us are complicated, but we do want to resolve them. Not only do we want to resolve them, but it is in our interests to do so. It is in the interests of both Russia and Japan to develop vigorous bilateral cooperation in all areas and to take into account all the challenges that our countries face. Any stumbling blocks in our way need to be removed. We need to find solutions to our problems that would be mutually acceptable to both Russia and Japan. In this respect, it is very important to have an objective view such as the expert group can provide.
I really do sincerely hope that your group will produce effective work.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 14, 2004, 20:32
Text versionEvents
Speech at a Festive Gathering Dedicated to the 70th Anniversary of the Establishment of the Title of Hero of the Soviet Union
April 14, 2004
00:00
Moscow
Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon.
We are currently marking the 70th anniversary of the establishment of the title of Hero of the Soviet Union. All those awarded that decoration are undoubtedly people of the highest probity, like Heroes of Labour and Heroes of Russia. We feel proud of them, follow their example, name streets and squares after them. They enjoy a tremendous and well-earned prestige among our people. Every one of them has performed a feat in their life – military or labour. A feat in the name of their people, for the sake of the freedom and prosperity of their Motherland.
It is a great honour for me to be here with you on this occasion in this audience today.
Our land has given birth to splendid warriors, pioneers and trail-blazers at all times. It has produced and reared worthy sons and daughters of the Motherland. Their heroic deeds and accomplishments are dotted throughout a thousand-year-long history of Russia.
The traditions of devoted service to the Motherland are rooted in the very character of our multi-ethnic Russian people. We built our common home together, strengthened the country’s might and, if necessary, defended it side by side.
That is why we see in the serried ranks of heroes both soldiers of the Great Patriotic War and those who fought in Afghanistan, who saw action in hot spots and who upheld Russia’s integrity and unity, those who are now fighting against international terrorism. And, of course, who selflessly opened up new lands, built towns and cities, cultivated grain and mined coal.
Of course, we understand that the real heroes are being born in our land constantly. And naturally their numbers are far greater than the official statistics given by the state. But real heroes do not perform their exploits for rewards. Patriotism and faithfulness to duty and honour are now as sacred as before. Our contemporaries storm outer space, save people, and boldly cross the path of criminals and bandits. They safeguard and strengthen Russia.
The Motherland honours its heroes and will always keep the memory of those who have been conferred that lofty title. Especially those who received it after their deaths. A feat performed by one individual can and has raised the moral spirits of millions many times in the history of our country.
I am convinced: as long as Russia has such heroes – at war and in peace – the country is assured of its security, has the necessary conditions for development, and has a future.
I was just now told that the veterans’ council, the Moscow government, those who arranged today’s event, have a planned series of measures of this kind, dedicated to the 70th anniversary of the establishment of the title of Hero of the Soviet Union. And all this is taking place ahead of the 60th anniversary of the Soviet people’s victory in the Great Patriotic War.
I want to thank all who care, who remember and who organise things like that. I assure you that the state will never forget those who have performed a feat of valour in the name of the Fatherland.
I congratulate you and wish you the best of all. Thank you very much.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 14, 2004, 00:00
Text version