Events
Press Statement after the Signing of Russian-Chinese Documents
October 14, 2004
13:28
Beijing
Hu Jintao: Good evening, ladies and gentlemen.
It is very pleasing for me to have the opportunity to meet with President Putin, and with representatives of the press.
President Putin and I have just held very good talks, which led to a deepening and further development of strategic relations between our two countries. And we also reached a common opinion on important international and regional issues.
Both parties made a review of the path travelled in our relations over the last 55 years. The two parties agree that continuing good-neighbourly relations between the two countries is our common policy.
Deepening strategic interaction is the strategic choice of our two countries. Handing down friendship from generation to generation is our goal. Both parties agree that they will keep to the spirit and principles laid out in the Chinese-Russian Treaty on good-neighbourliness, friendship and cooperation, make joint efforts and intensify all-round cooperation in political, strategic, trade and economic and humanitarian spheres, and in the security sphere. The parties will make joint efforts to bring Chinese-Russian strategic cooperation to an even higher level, so that our two countries always remain good neighbours, partners and good friends.
We have just signed the Chinese-Russian Joint declaration, confirmed our plan of action in consolidating the Russian-Chinese Treaty on good-neighbourliness, friendship and cooperation, and signed all the agreements on the eastern part of the state border, and a series of other important documents.
The signing of the additional agreement between Russia and China on the eastern part of the state border means a final regulation of border issues between the two countries. From this moment on, the Chinese-Russian border, over an extent of 3,400 km, will be a bond of friendship and cooperation between our people. In my opinion, Vladimir Putin’s visit to China is quite successful. We have reached an important common opinion, and the success and results achieved will serve as an active stimulus to strategic interaction between Russia and China. President Putin has kindly invited me to a ceremony dedicated to the 60th anniversary of victory in the Great Patriotic War, and to make an official visit to Russia. I accepted his invitation with great pleasure.
President Vladimir Putin: Dear Mr Chairman, ladies and gentlemen.
First of all, I would like to stress the main result of the Russian-Chinese meeting today. This meeting can truly be called a summit of breakthrough decisions.
The intensive and trusting nature of our relations is clear. This fully reflects the strategic modern nature of our relations.
The Chairman of the People’s Republic of China and I discussed the full range of bilateral issues. We discussed key issues of interaction on the international scene and in regional politics.
The results of talks are reflected in the Joint declaration. This not only gives an assessment of the state of Russian-Chinese relations, but it also shows prospects for their development.
An important political step has been made: the border issue between our countries has been resolved. We spent 40 years solving this issue. Russia and China showed wisdom and reached a balanced decision that answers to our mutual interests. For the first time in the history of Russian-Chinese relations, the border will be legally registered and marked out in the regions.
I would note that the decision on the border opens wide opportunities for closer cooperation in developing shipping, nature management, protection of the environment and farming. And this will have a beneficial effect on the development of international ties and on the lives of people living in the border regions of these two nations.
During the preparation and work on the summit, we also, without exaggeration, achieved another strategic result in Russia’s entry into the WTO. Our countries will gain new opportunities to increase the scale of bilateral cooperation.
I would note that in the latest period we have been able to seriously increase the volume of mutual trade turnover. In 2003 it came to almost $16 billion. And this year, according to experts’ estimates, it may come to around $20 billion.
We set ourselves realistic tasks. In the nest 5–6 years, we are prepared to reach a trade turnover of $55 billion. In the following years, taking into account the strategic nature and geographical proximity, of course, we may pass the $100 billion mark, considering the growth rates of the economy.
I am convinced that cooperation in high-technology fields, in the fuel and energy complex, in science, atomic energy, in space exploration and creating advanced technology are the most promising areas of our cooperation.
We are also prepared to give the most serious attention to the development of specific projects in the Russian and Chinese economy, considering the growth rates of the northwest regions of China and the border regions of East Siberia and the Far East.
And the main document signed by us on this subject is devoted to solving this task – the Plan of action in the economic sphere for 2005–2008.
One of the most important factors in our cooperation is regional cooperation. We will talk about this in detail tomorrow, at the meeting in Xi’an with the heads of northwest provinces of China and a number of Russian regions.
I would like to mention another important result of the visit. We have opened new frontiers in humanitarian cooperation. Cultural and scientific exchanges, closer contacts between youth of the two countries – all this will help to bring our peoples closer together, to enrich them spiritually, and strengthen strategic partnership between Russia and China. Both sides supported the initiative to make 2006 the Year of Russia in China, and 2007 the Year of China in Russia.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 14, 2004, 13:28
Text versionEvents
Speech at a Meeting with Participants of Russian-Chinese Youth Exchanges
October 14, 2004
14:26
Beijing
Ppresident Vladimir Putin: It was very pleasing for me to see you and have the opportunity to congratulate you on the results of work you have done this year.
Chairman Hu Jintao talked about the roots of our cooperation, about the history of relations between Russia and China. What we have done so far, what we are doing today together with Chairman Hu Jintao – these are important, serious things, but they are the foundation for creating conditions for you for further development of relations. On the basis of what is achieved today, we will advance further. Those who do not advance, go backwards.
We have over 4,000 kilometres of common border. You do not choose your neighbours, just as you do not choose your relatives. We have every reason to believe that we can supplement each other to become more competitive in the increasingly critical and harsh competitive struggle on the international scene. In this sense, China shows a very good example of development, based on its historical roots, on its traditions and on the necessity to modern its society and economy. And the fact that China is able to find the right balance between traditions, the modern world and the future – this is obvious, also judging from the people standing in front of me, because many of the young people of China are dressed in national costume, which is very pleasing for me to note.
We are accustomed to saying that the youth is responsible for the future. And this is not just because of the age of young people. The young are responsible for the future mainly because they lack a negative experience of the past, and they are usually people who strive for the future, people who think progressively, who in all their activity choose the most optimal paths of their own personal development, and thus the optimal paths of development for their own country.
I should say that during my work this year you have given us a good example. I mean the positive results of the youth exchanges and contacts in 2004. Chairman Hu Jintao and I talked about expanding and using our experience, and holding the year of Russia in China, and the year of China in the Russian Federation. So I want to thank you for the positive example, and express the hope for that the young people of China and Russia will take the most active part in building international relations.
Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 14, 2004, 14:26
Text versionEvents
Beginning of Enlarged Russian-Chinese Talks
October 14, 2004
10:59
Beijing
HU jINTAO: Dear Mr President,
In connection with the celebrations of the 55th anniversary of the establishment of good-neighbourly relations between our two countries, your visit will undoubtedly make good-neighbourliness, friendship and cooperation between Russia and China even closer, and bring our relations to an even higher level of strategic partnership.
We have just held a deep and extensive exchange of opinion on important issues, and now I am ready to hear your opinion on issues of our cooperation.
President Vladimir Putin: Mr Chairman,
Allow me first of all to thank you for the invitation to come to China on a state visit. The People’s Republic of China was founded on 1 October 1949, and as soon as 2 October, diplomatic relations were established between the USSR and China. Today we are continuing the best traditions of Russian-Chinese relations, and we have bought our partnership to a strategic level, which is very important for us. We are sure that during work today we will make another step forward. We are closely watching the speed of development of the People’s Republic of China. We congratulate you on this speed and are proud of these results together with you.
I am certain that Russian-Chinese cooperation is an important factor in the development of our nations. I want to confirm the initiation to the Chairman of the People’s Republic of China, Hu Jintao, to take part in the celebrations of the 60th anniversary of victory in the Great Patriotic War in May 2005, and also to invite you to make an official visit to Russia in 2005.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 14, 2004, 10:59
Text version