Events
Meeting with Members of Government
April 5, 2004
21:16
The Kremlin, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: Andrei Alexandrovich (speaking to Andrei Fursenko), a world programming championship was held in Prague, and as far as I understand, the results were very respectable, weren’t they? Please tell us.
Andrei Fursenko: The world championship was held for the 28th time. Initially, over 3,000 teams from 75 countries took part. There were 73 teams from 31 countries in the final. The U.S. had the most finalist teams (20), and Russia had eight. The absolute champion was the team from the St. Petersburg State University of Information Technology, Mechanics and Optics. They gained an absolute result – they solved all seven tasks. Even more importantly, in my opinion, a team from Perm came 4th, and the Udmurt State Technical University came 8th. I think Harvard was 9th.
Vladimir Putin: People who study at Harvard should now move to Perm…
Andrei Fursenko: As soon as possible.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, as soon as possible.
Andrei Fursenko: Vladimir Vladimirovich, last time a Polish team won, and they were received by President Kwasniewski. I don’t know, perhaps…
Vladimir Putin: We won’t send them to Kwasniewski. I will be happy to receive them in the Kremlin.
Sergei Viktorovich (speaking to Sergei Lavrov), you were in Brussels at the Russia-NATO Council. Please tell us a few words about this.
Sergei Lavrov: Firstly, the meeting of the Russia-NATO Council was held in expanded format, as all seven new NATO members took part, and it was very important, as you instructed us, to ensure that our partnership with NATO develops, but develops in such a way that our security interests do not suffer. And one specific result we were able to achieve will help this. The result is that the Conventional Armed Forces in Europe Treaty (CFE), which has not yet come into effect, was ratified by everyone as a cornerstone of European security. And four of the seven new NATO member countries which are not yet members of this treaty pledged to join it as soon as it came into effect, and it will be ratified by all the others. The NATO members, including the General Secretary who will soon come to Moscow, confirmed that the rule of military restraint applies to all newcomers. This is an important political and legal document, and we also made record of it with an exchange of letters.
Vladimir Putin: Here is the political declaration on the new NATO members joining the CFE Treaty. Please comment on this.
Sergei Lavrov. The NATO General Secretary said that countries not part of the CFE Treaty would become members of the treaty after it comes into effect, and ministers of each of these four countries confirmed this at the meeting.
Vladimir Putin: You mean they stated this, they expressed the position of their countries?
Sergei Lavrov: Clearly and without ambiguity.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 5, 2004, 21:16
Text versionEvents
Meeting with United Nations Secretary – General Kofi Annan
April 5, 2004
20:25
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin:
Esteemed Secretary General, dear colleagues,
First of all, allow me to welcome you to Moscow. I am very pleased to meet with you once again, esteemed Secretary General. I would also like to thank you for the message of congratulations you sent me following the presidential election here. International relations have not become any more stable of late. From various quarters we hear talk that the United Nations is not managing to resolve these complex problems. But I would like to see how international relations develop were the United Nations not around. Today, we do not have any other effective instrument for resolving international issues. You know our attitude to the United Nations and our stand on developing this organisation. I think the fact that Russia’s ambassador to the United Nations has become foreign minister is further confirmation, in an administrative form this time, of the importance we place on developing relations with you.
As you know, we support your idea to create a high-level expert group to examine ways to reform the United Nations. We highly value your organisation and your personal efforts to regulate crises.
We are very pleased to receive you here, esteemed Mr Secretary General.
Kofi Annan:
Thank you very much, Mr President. Allow me once again to thank you for your reception and to congratulate you on your re-election to the post of President. I would also like to say how pleased I am to once again have the opportunity to come to Moscow and exchange views with you on the situation in the world today. The Russian Federation has always been a firm backer of the United Nations’ work to effectively regulate the situation in the world, and it has provided our organisation with great support. We would like to express our personal gratitude for your leadership in this matter.
I agree with your view that the tension we faced in the past has somewhat dissipated over the last year, and this is thanks to the fact that countries have united forces to solve problems together.
I hope that this trend will continue, because it is only through our joint efforts that we will be able to resolve the biggest challenges confronting the international community and find positive solutions for the problems we face.
We are pleased that you support our idea to create a high-level group on threats, challenges and change, which is to tackle the problems that we face today.
I am also pleased that former Russian Prime Minister Yevgeny Primakov is a member of this high-level group, which provides great and unique opportunities to review the situation and adapt to it.
I would like once more to express my satisfaction at having the chance to be here and take part in this discussion.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 5, 2004, 20:25
Text version