Events
Speech at a Ceremony Presenting Russian Awards to Ukrainian Citizens
January 23, 2004
12:30
Kiev
President Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, dear friends,
It is a very pleasant and honourable mission that I have today, one that it gives me great pleasure to fulfil – that of presenting Russian Federation state awards to outstanding citizens of Ukraine who have made an exceptional contribution to the development of their own country and to developing the ties between our two fraternal states.
The history of our two peoples counts many glorious and memorable names, and through their work, the people present in this hall today represent the very best traditions that bind the peoples of Ukraine and Russia together.
This ceremony presenting Russian state awards to outstanding Ukrainian citizens coincides with the end of the Year of Russia in Ukraine. I think the fact that it is taking place in this context confirms yet again the significance of the events that were held throughout this last year.
I think that all the events that were held deserve the highest possible evaluation and I make a low bow to all those who took part in this work because together we have taken a very important step towards developing the relations between our two states and our two fraternal peoples. I am sure that the vast majority of people in Russia and Ukraine realise the immense importance that our joint work has for our countries and for all the ordinary people in our countries.
As President Leonid Kuchma and I already noted at our meeting today, and as we will have many more occasions to mention, the trade turnover between our two countries increased by 30 percent over last year alone. Every month, the trade turnover between Russia and Ukraine comes to a considerable sum – more than $1 billion. Every month. We have achieved good results, but to build on this we need to constantly reinforce the foundation of our relations in the areas of culture, education and history.
It is not just chance that today’s ceremony also coincides with the anniversary that we are celebrating together with Ukraine – the 350th anniversary of the event that united our two countries.
I offer you my most sincere congratulations on receiving these awards and wish you happiness and health. Thank you very much.
* * *
I hope that you will not be the last Ukrainian citizens to receive Russian state awards and medals. I am sure that you will not be the last because it is a very powerful force that drives our cooperation. Our task is to ensure that we lose nothing of this force but only multiply it. Looking at what is happening today and looking at the people present here in this hall, I am sure that we will be up to our task. Thank you very much, and I wish you every success.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: January 23, 2004, 12:30
Text versionEvents
Speech at the Ceremony marking the End of the Year of Russia in Ukraine and the 350th Anniversary of the Pereyaslavl Rada
January 23, 2004
12:51
Kiev
President Vladimir Putin: Esteemed Leonid Danilovich [Kuchma],
Dear colleagues and friends,
It gives me sincere pleasure to welcome all of you here to this celebration today. Today’s event really is a celebration as it marks the end of our two years of work. Leonid Danilovich mentioned the closure of the Year of Russia in Ukraine, but in Russia we remember the Year of Ukraine in Russia.
I would like to offer my sincere thanks to all our Ukrainian friends who took part in preparing and holding the events that were part of the Year of Russia in Ukraine. I would particularly like to mention the attentive support given by President of Ukraine Leonid Danilovich Kuchma.
The Year of Russia in Ukraine was a logical continuation to the Year of Ukraine in our country. Today’s ceremony marks another step towards strengthening the ties between our two countries. What we have already achieved provides us with a solid foundation for continuing to move forward.
We in Russia feel sincere pride, and I would like to emphasise this, we feel pride in Ukraine’s successes. We feel pride in your country’s strengthening economic potential and international position. Russia needs a strong Ukraine, and I am sure that Ukraine needs a strong Russia. In this way our countries are sure to be loyal allies and reliable strategic partners for each other.
If we act in this spirit I don’t doubt for a second that together we can overcome any of the difficulties we have inherited from the past and resolve any problems that seem at first glance very complicated and impossible to solve, including the problems mentioned by the Ukrainian President in his speech. I am sure you will agree that productive cooperation would be impossible if our citizens do not make it their will and desire. We need for our peoples to feel a pull towards each other and to be genuinely interested in removing the obstacles for contact and business partnerships between them. This is the spirit that has helped us attain our main objective, that of involving broad groups of our citizens in the process of developing our bilateral ties, and this has enabled us to make our economic, humanitarian and public-political projects genuinely oriented towards our people.
Over the two years of our work we have covered almost the whole spectrum of cooperation and have considerably reinforced our strategic partnership. We have an ongoing dialogue at the highest political level and are actively developing ties between our parliaments. New joint projects in the areas of the economy, science, education and culture are emerging all the time.
Four countries have agreed to create the Single Economic Space, and this opens up many good prospects for developing cooperation. This is definitely one of last year’s most significant events both for relations between our countries and for the process of general European economic integration. It gives me real pleasure to note, as I already had the occasion to do so at the meeting with the President and afterwards while speaking to the press, that work here is progressing on an absolutely equal footing, takes into account the interests of all the parties involved and is completely non-politicised. This is the main thing and is the guarantee of our success in this area.
We have also had considerable success in our trade and economic cooperation. Leonid Danilovich has already spoken of the results achieved. But we do not intend to stop here. Major projects are already planned and new agreements have been reached that will open up new business horizons for us. We also plan to organise investments forums such as those taking place in Odessa, Kharkov and Belgorod in other locations as well.
I am convinced that all these initiatives that emerge should be taken up and continued, and that the positive experience we build up should be applied at the level of the Russian and Ukrainian regions. In this way we will not only strengthen but also multiply the achievements of our recent bilateral cooperation.
The agreements signed in the humanitarian area, including agreements to jointly set up and run branches of our higher education establishments in each of our countries and on youth exchanges will also contribute to boosting our relations, as will the agreements we have signed in the area of health.
* * *
 I must say that Ukraine’s culture, history and language are familiar and dear to the heart of every Russian.
I would like to come back to what the Ukrainian President said regarding Chekhov’s words. Chekhov gave expression to what practically everyone in Russia thinks still today, namely that we have a sincere love for Ukraine’s literature, music and songs. We have a deep respect for the hardworking and wise Ukrainian people and we know that these feelings are mutual.
These days coincide with the celebration of the 350th anniversary of the Pereyaslavl Rada. This was an event that had a huge influence on the relations between our two states and on our countries’ development. I think that this event had a big impact on Russia’s development.
We always talk about how significant this event was for Ukraine. I think it was also very significant for Russia. I think it was significant in terms of joint construction, state-building and exchange of cultural values between our two fraternal peoples. And I am sure and do not doubt for a second that this had an immense, positive impact on Ukraine’s development too.
Had a different choice been made back then it is unlikely that Ukraine would be the powerful European state that it is today.
Today, in a different era, we must remember the lessons of our shared history. The main lesson is that a strategic partnership between Russia and Ukraine always made us both stronger and helped us rise to challenges and reach achievements for all our people.
There is no doubt that we still have a lot to do together. This task is not easy, but it is necessary and noble and meets the sincere hopes of the citizens of both our countries.
Allow me to wish our Ukrainian brothers peace and prosperity, and to wish new achievements for Russian-Ukrainian relations.
Thank you very much.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: January 23, 2004, 12:51
Text versionEvents
Press Statement and Answers to Journalists' Questions at a Joint News Conference with President Leonid Kuchma of Ukraine
January 23, 2004
12:40
Kiev
President Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much, Leonid Danilovich [Kuchma], and above all, thank you for the invitation. You could say that the conversation between the President of Ukraine and myself has not so much already taken place as is only just beginning. We will have more opportunities to discuss the issues we raised during our meeting today, opportunities to go into more detail, today and tomorrow. But we can already say now that we intend to develop and actively build on the potential that our strategic partnership and close cooperation have.
We have made and will continue to make economic cooperation our main focus. Our mutual trade turnover now comes to around $1 billion a month. But both Leonid Danilovich and I firmly believe that Russia and Ukraine can and should raise the level and increase the scale of our economic and trade cooperation.
I would like to emphasise that the signing of the agreement on creating the Single Economic Space has opened up many new opportunities for developing this cooperation.
At the beginning of our discussion today, the President and I looked at some of the specific aspects of our cooperation, and regarding almost every problem, at least in trade and economic matters, what we come up against is what we see as unjustified restrictions imposed either by one side or the other. These restrictions prevent us from actively developing our cooperation as well as we could in a whole number of areas and with regard to various specific goods. I would like to stress that if we manage to fully apply the terms of the agreement on the Single Economic Space, it really will be for the benefit of our countries’ relations and economies.
One of the priority areas for our bilateral relations is the fuel and energy complex, which plays a key part in the economies of both Russia and Ukraine. Indeed, it is of immense importance for all of Europe. This is why we place such significance on the activities of the international consortium for managing and developing Ukraine’s gas transportation system. We want to work on this project in a spirit of cooperation and taking each other’s interests into account.
I would also like to note that the legislative basis for our relations is expanding. Today we extended it further with new agreements – an agreement on developing our cooperation ties, an agreement on regulating supplies of various goods and so on.
Following the signature of the Treaty on Cooperation in the Use of the Sea of Azov and the Kerch Strait a month ago, a much more favourable situation has developed for cooperation between Russia and Ukraine in the use of this marine territory. We discussed this subject today and agreed to intensify our common work in this area.
Of course, one of the main focuses of our talks today was the holding of the Year of Russia in Ukraine and the celebrations of the 350th anniversary of the Pereyaslavl Rada. Leonid Danilovich already mentioned this. These dates have opened up new opportunities for humanitarian cooperation between our countries.
Our two countries have common cultural and historic roots. Developing contacts in education, science and culture and organising youth exchanges will definitely enrich the spectrum of our relations.
* * *
In conclusion, I would once more like to thank our Ukrainian friends for their warm welcome and constructive approach to all the different questions we discussed today. The starting signal has been given and I am sure that we will continue our talks in this same spirit today and tomorrow.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: January 23, 2004, 12:40
Text version