Events
Opening Remarks at Talks with Armenian President Robert Kocharian
May 14, 2004
13:13
Novo-Ogaryovo
President Vladimir Putin: Dear Robert Sedrakovich, allow me once more to wish you a warm welcome to Moscow. Our meetings are of a regular nature: this is our fifth meeting of late. We regularly meet to discuss issues of bilateral cooperation and joint work in the post-Soviet sphere, and coordinating our efforts on the international stage in general. And I should note that this work is not just intensive, it also brings results. Primarily, it is reflected in the growth rates of our economic cooperation. Last year, trade turnover between Russia and Armenia grew by more than 34%. This is a record figure. And, in my opinion, it is the best indication that we are moving in the right direction. We have many opportunities to work even better and more effectively. I do not merely hope, I am convinced that your visit today will also benefit our joint work and help to intensify our cooperation.
I am very glad to see you. Welcome!
Robert Kocharian: Dear Vladimir Vladimirovich, first of all I would like to thank you for the invitation and congratulate you on the beginning of your second four-year term, on the ”opening of the season.“
You know, something very interesting is indeed taking place today in our bilateral economic relations: a major Russian bank, Vneshtorgbank, is coming to Armenia, and there is a very interesting contract on chemistry. Essentially, ”major chemistry“ in Armenia has begun to work with the help of a Russian investor. There are very interesting examples of investment activity by Russian businessmen in construction and in other spheres. I think that the stimulus for all of this was a major deal – ”debt in exchange for property.“
As you know, previously we only talked about the military and technical element of cooperation. We said that the economy was lagging behind. I can now say with full confidence that we have caught up and are now moving in all areas simultaneously. This has been a serious stimulus for very effective cooperation and diversification in the economy. I am very grateful, and hope that this cooperation continues in the future.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 14, 2004, 13:13
Text version