Events
Speech at a Ceremony for Presentation of Credential Letters
March 23, 2004
19:07
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Good day, gentlemen,
I am very happy to welcome you to the Kremlin.
I want to wish you success in your mission in Russia. I am sure that interesting work awaits you, years full of vivid impressions and important business. You are presenting these credential letters right after the Russian Presidential elections. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the leaders of your countries, and all our partners and leaders, the political, public and cultural figures of nations, for their warm congratulations sent to me. For me and my colleagues, it is particularly important that the majority of letters and telegrams express warm feelings and wishes for Russia and its people.
Our priorities in international affairs remain unchanged. The Russian Federation will continue to be an active, responsible participant in international processes. We will continue open, honest policies in dealing with our neighbours and the entire international community.
The recent tragedy in Spain was yet another reminder of the necessity for solidarity and unity. Only together can we overcome international terrorism, and solve other global problems. And so Russia will continue to play an active part in solving all of these problems on the basis of international law, and under the aegis of the United Nations. We will actively work with all our partners. And this fully applies to the nations that you represent, gentlemen.
Strengthening friendship and cooperation with Indonesia is one of our priorities in Asia. We attach particular importance to realizing the results of the visit by the Indonesia President to Russia in 2003. The Declaration signed with Ms. Sukarnoputri on the foundations of friendship and partner relations open new prospects for cooperation in bilateral affairs and on the international stage.
We are linked by long-standing tradition with the Sudan, one of the largest nations in Africa. We sincerely wish this country and its people will soon complete domestic regulation, peace and prosperity. We will continue to do everything we can to strengthen Russian-Sudanese ties in the most diverse areas.
It is with pleasure that we note the dynamic development of relations with the Slovakian Republic. Slovakia is an important partner of Russia in Central Europe. And we are prepared for further development of traditional ties of friendship. We welcome the preservation of the simplified visa regime that exists between our countries. This is a good example.
Russia is interested in close, good-neighbourly relations with Georgia. Our peoples are linked by deep, centuries-old traditions of cooperation, and cultural and spiritual community. The visit by the Georgian President to Moscow in February made it possible to set out encouraging prospects. We attach great importance to realizing agreements in the political sphere, in the war on international terrorism, and ensuring the security of common borders.
Peaceful political regulation of the existing problems undoubtedly corresponds to the interests of progressive development of Russian-Georgian cooperation and stability in the region. Russia, of course, is prepared to continue to provide any assistance it can here.
We are sure that it is in our interests, and we will do everything to ensure favourable development in relations between Russia and Switzerland. Russia and Switzerland are important partners in political dialogue. Cooperation is developing successfully in economic, scientific and cultural areas.
We value the friendship that links the people of Russia and Cambodia. Considerable potential for cooperation has been accumulated in our relations. This allows us to set concrete tasks in further broadening our cooperation. We intend to increase mutual relations with Cambodia in international affairs in order to ensure security and stability in the Asia and Pacific region.
In conclusion, I would like once again to wish you interesting and fruitful work in Moscow. I am sure that your Russian colleagues will do everything to make sure that the goals you set yourselves, as you begin your work in the Russian capital, will be reached.
I wish you and your families all the best.
Thank you very much for your attention.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: March 23, 2004, 19:07
Text version