Events
Opening Remarks at the Russian-Japanese Economic Cooperation Forum
November 21, 2005
14:52
Tokyo
President Vladimir Putin: Dear Mr Chairman,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
I am pleased to have this opportunity to address such a representative forum. First of all, I would like to thank the organisers – the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and the Japanese Federation of Economic Organisations.
Not only is this meeting interesting and useful, but the dialogue that we will engage in will unquestionably increase the openness and confidence between the business communities in our two countries and will enable us to exchange views and information on business cooperation between Russia and Japan.
Our bilateral cooperation has been developing positively and at a good pace over recent years. I would say that this period has been the most positive in the history of relations between our countries. Business cooperation is particularly significant in this respect.
We are not just talking here about direct commercial benefits. I am sure that by developing stable, pragmatic and long-term economic ties we reinforce the politicians’ efforts to build a constructive partnership.
Business cooperation between Russia and Japan represents an important resource for the successful development of the Asia-Pacific region, which is increasing its economic power with every passing year and is becoming the most dynamic region in the world.
I think it is in the interests of all the Asia-Pacific region countries to maintain this leading position and do everything possible to ensure that the region continues to grow in a climate of stability and security. This was precisely the strategic goal affirmed by the APEC summit that just took place in Busan.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
There has been much positive change in Russia, including in the economy, since my last visit to Tokyo in September 2000.
Our country has seen a high rate of sustained economic growth for the last seven years now – a growth rate of around 7 percent a year on average. Inflation is coming down all the time. We still have high inflation, but if you look at what we began with, a clear downward trend is being maintained. We have been paying off our foreign debt ahead of schedule, settling our debt with the Paris Club, and we have fully reimbursed our debt to the IMF.
We are making improvements to our tax system. The overall tax burden on the economy is coming down. The consolidated social tax was reduced this year from 35.6 percent to 26 percent and, as you probably know, the personal income tax rate is just 13 percent – the lowest personal income tax in the world.
These factors all help to create a positive investment climate. We are constantly working on improving the investment climate in Russia and we have already had some notable achievements. It is enough to say that the three leading international ratings agencies have all given Russia an investment-grade rating.
The implementation of new currency and customs regulation laws are also giving our economy a boost. I want to emphasise that these laws are completely in conformity with international standards and with the norms established by the World Trade Organisation.
We have made access to Russian companies and mineral resources more transparent, including for foreign investors. Work is intensifying on implementing the targeted programmes for developing the Far East, a region that has traditionally drawn the attention of our Japanese partners. A group of Russian government ministers visited the Far East on my instructions just recently and, based on the results of their visit, we are drawing up additional measures to support this region and accelerate its development.
Russia is becoming ever more closely integrated into the world economy. At the same time, the flow of direct foreign investment into the Russian economy is increasing. Direct foreign investment rose by a third in 2004 and came to $10 billion. We hope that this year’s result will be considerably higher again.
Our financial and banking systems are growing stronger and capitalisation of the corporate securities market is increasing and indeed reached a record level this year. I stress that international experts view the Russian stock market as one of the most promising and fast-developing markets in the world.
We place great importance on developing cooperation through working together in the multilateral economic organisations. In this respect, I would like to note the successful conclusion of Russian-Japanese talks on our country’s accession to the World Trade Organisation. I am absolutely convinced that Russia’s accession to this influential organisation will also help to strengthen our business ties with Japan, making them more stable and predictable.
Your country is one of Russia’s major trading partners. It is pleasing to see that our two countries have made serious progress in developing business cooperation over recent years. The Russian-Japanese Joint Action Plan, adopted in 2003, has played an important part in making this progress possible.
Above all, I want to note the considerable increase in our bilateral trade. In 2004, for the first time in the last decade, our trade reached a figure of just over $7.5 billion, and I think that this year we should reach a figure of more than $10 billion. This is still not a big figure for countries like Russia and Japan, but it shows a positive growth trend.
The start of construction of the Toyota assembly plant near St Petersburg marks a big step forward in industrial cooperation. Major decisions are also under preparation in the banking sector. I am referring here to the plans for agreements between Vneshtorgbank and Tokyo-Mitsubishi Bank, and between the Japanese Bank for International Cooperation with Vnesheconombank, Roseximbank, and also with Sberbank.
At the same time, however, raw materials and low value-added goods continue to dominate in Russia’s exports to Japan. Investment cooperation is also not progressing as well as we would like. Japanese direct investment in the Russian economy has increased over recent years, but as a share of total accumulated investment it barely exceeds 1 percent. This situation clearly does not reflect the considerable economic potential of both Japan and the Russian Federation.
Compared to our other foreign partners, Japanese industrialists have taken only quite timid steps so far to establish production facilities, especially high-tech production, in Russia.
In this regard I want to note that a law on special economic zones will take effect in January 2006. The purpose of these special economic zones is to give priority to developing precisely the high-technology sectors, and we hope that they will be further reason for Japanese electronics and information technology producers to examine the new opportunities for working on the Russian market.
Russia is ready to expand our partnership in the priority area that is the fuel and energy sector. We are interested in having Japanese entrepreneurs become more actively involved in programmes to develop the natural resources of Siberia and the Far East.
The construction of the Eastern Siberia-Pacific Ocean oil pipeline will open up great new opportunities. We plan to build this pipeline to the Pacific coast in order to enable energy resources to then be transported to the Asia-Pacific region countries, including Japan of course. I am sure that the implementation of this project will contribute greatly to the development of the energy infrastructure in this region and will give the national economies of the region’s countries new competitive advantages.
There are also other very promising energy sector projects. Among them are the investment projects to develop the Elginskoye and Denisovskoye coal deposits in Yakutia. We also hope for new initiatives in the oil and gas sector, in the electricity sector, in energy saving technology and in developing renewable energy sources.
Russia is also ready to expand cooperation in implementing the Kyoto Protocol. Work on putting in place the necessary legal framework for this in Russia is now coming to a close. We hope that businesspeople in both Russia and Japan will find many areas in this respect in which to apply their efforts and energy.
Another important issue on the agenda is that of improving the transport network in the Far East and actively integrating it into international transport routes. Essentially, what we are talking about is forming an integrated transport system in the Asia-Pacific region, developing combined transport routes and simplifying border crossing formalities. Particularly significant in this respect is the potential offered by the Trans-Siberian Railway – one of the shortest routes from Asia to Europe.
We have plenty of reserves to draw on in other areas, too, including telecommunications, space exploration, nuclear energy, urban infrastructure modernisation, construction and, of course, tourism. I want to stress that all promising projects will receive the necessary support at government level.
We are also seeing positive developments in cooperation between the regions. As well as developing its ties with the Russian Far East, Japan is also building up its relations with regions in the Urals and Volga Federal Districts, the Republic of Yakutia, Moscow and St Petersburg.
A number of Russian regions, including Omsk and Tomsk Regions, organised presentations at the World Expo-2005 in Nagoya this year. Expanding economic ties with the regions will undoubtedly contribute to strengthening the cooperation between our countries.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
During this forum you will discuss the general trends and specific areas for cooperation, and perhaps you will also outline new joint projects.
It is important today to make more effective use of the resources we have already built up in the area of business contacts, and also to look for new and promising forms of cooperation. I very much hope that our constructive proposals, both by Russia and by Japan, will help us to achieve these strategic objectives.
I wish you pleasant and fruitful discussions and thank you for your attention.
Thank you very much.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 21, 2005, 14:52
Text versionEvents
Beginning of Meeting with Heads of the Japanese parliamentary Deputies’ Association For Friendship with Russia Yoshiro Mori, Masahi Komura, Yasuo Fukuda and Yoshio Hatiro
November 21, 2005
18:26
Tokyo
President Vladimir Putin: Dear Mr Mori,
Dear colleagues,
I am very happy to have this opportunity to meet with you.
I know that the association you head is involved in supporting diverse contacts, including inter-parliamentary contacts with Russia, and that it has its own history and works very hard and actively.
You personally also make a considerable contribution to the work of the [Russian-Japanese] Council of Wise Men in finding mutually acceptable solutions to existing issues and in looking for new areas and directions for cooperation between our two countries. Your work in both these areas is very much needed and we will support it in every way we can.
Yoshiro Mori: This year we are celebrating 150 years since the establishment of diplomatic relations between our countries, and it is in this anniversary year that you have finally come to visit us. We are very happy on this occasion.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 21, 2005, 18:26
Text versionEvents
Beginning of Meeting with President of the Democratic Party of Japan Seiji Maehara
November 21, 2005
18:23
Tokyo
Seiji Maehara: Japan held parliamentary elections in September this year which saw the Democratic Party lose some seats in the Japanese parliament. But if we exclude from the votes in support of the Liberal Democratic Party (LDP), currently in power, the votes for another party, Komeito, which supported the LDP, then the balance between the LDP and the Democratic Party remains unchanged. Looking at the results in this way, the LDP really increased its vote by only 1.3 times. In Japan, it is the voting in the single-seat districts that is a decisive factor in the outcome of elections, and the situation can change. It is my great hope, therefore, that you personally will cooperate actively and maintain contact with the representatives of Japan’s largest opposition party.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Maehara, it is a pleasure to meet with you and make your acquaintance. We in Russia want to build constructive relations with all the different political forces. Our position is that the future of Russian-Japanese relations is so important for both the Russian and Japanese peoples that it should be based on the broad support of all political forces, both in your country and in mine.
I am very happy to have this opportunity to meet with you and to exchange views on the current state of our bilateral relations and the prospects for their development.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 21, 2005, 18:23
Text versionEvents
Closing Remarks at the Russian-Japanese Economic Cooperation Forum
November 21, 2005
16:45
Tokyo
President Vladimir Putin: I would once again like to thank the organisers of today’s meeting.
Looking around the room, I do not know all the Japanese representatives, of course, but I can see that this is a large and representative forum. I see also that the Russian side is well represented here. Indeed, the Russian and Japanese business communities have not ever gathered in such a format before. I hope that the meeting’s participants will have the chance to hold informal discussions once the part of the forum that I have participated in is over.
Our colleagues did not raise a lot of questions in their speeches, but the summary of the Japanese business community’s general positions that has been passed on to me sets out a whole series of questions that, clearly, are of interest and concern to our Japanese colleagues. These questions are divided into several parts and have been given the heading: “What we would like to see from the government of the Russian Federation”. At the top of the list are issues regarding legislation and the tax system, along with other systems and procedures.
I think it was Mr Anzai who mentioned in his speech that our Japanese partners consider it necessary to continue improving the tax legislation in our country. I think this is in part a fair comment. Any legislation should undergo continual improvement, be it Russian, Japanese or any other country’s legislation, because life develops faster than any legislation and often legislation is indeed a step behind. But I think that in the Russian context, what the country most needs at the moment is not so much to keep changing the legislation as to ensure its stability. We are always confronting government specialists with the need to end the frequent changes to the laws. I think that, ultimately, a stable legal environment is a lot more important for business, although there are of course areas that do require our particular attention and do need examination. This is a public process and our decisions in this area are transparent. The government keeps the public constantly updated on its plans aimed at reducing the tax burden. The overall tax burden on the economy in western Europe comes to around 38–40 percent, while we have made considerable efforts to reduce the tax burden over the last five years and have brought it down to around 34–35 percent. We plan to continue reducing it further.
We intend making improvements to the tax legislation regarding natural resource extraction and plan to introduce a differentiated tax rate for the mineral extraction tax. We also have other ideas and plans in this area and I want to assure you that they are all transparent. Information on all these plans is available on the Russian Federation government’s website and they are actively discussed with the business community, including with the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, headed by Mr Shokhin, who was just recently elected to this post and is here today, and with representatives of the Russian Chamber of Commerce and Industry.
Regarding the question of simplifying and raising the effectiveness of various administrative procedures such as visas, official approvals and customs procedures, I fully agree. Concerning visas, these are procedures settled exclusively on a reciprocal bilateral basis. Whatever visa possibilities Japan offers us, Russia will offer its Japanese partners the same. This is the general principle the Russian Federation follows in its relations with all its partners. I hope very much that our two countries will come to the optimum decisions for settling this issue. We support full liberalisation in the area of visa procedures – on a reciprocal basis, of course.
Next, ensuring transparency and coordination of all administrative procedures, including the issue of approvals, licenses and so on – here I also agree. I think that we do indeed need to take the necessary steps to ensure that these issues are settled with as little red tape and as rapidly as possible. We are working on the corresponding decisions, including in the area of legislation, that will bring these issues to a considerable extent under the jurisdiction of civil law rather than administrative law. In any case, this question is under examination and we are aware that there is a problem in this area. The same goes for accounting and financial reporting regulations. Incidentally, compared to some countries with a so called developed economy, I think that we will manage a more rapid transition to international accounting and financial reporting standards.
Concerning infrastructure improvement and industrial development measures, I can say the same here as I said for improving the taxation system. We have a whole range of measures in this area and they are all transparent and known to the public. One point in this area is economic development of the regions. In my address earlier I mentioned that the Russian government has regional development plans for Siberia and the Far East. This is probably the only regional programme drawn up at federal level with the aim of supporting and developing the regions of the Far East. We will create all the conditions necessary for economic development, make sure the region offers particularly attractive conditions, and we will try to locate some of the special economic zones that I have already spoken about today in this region.
I would like to draw your attention to one other circumstance regarding infrastructure, and that is that railway transport tariffs have been calculated in such a way as to shift part of the burden of transport from the Far East and Siberia to the central regions and spread it across the tariff system in general. In other words, tariffs for long-distance transport from Siberia and the Far East are cheaper than for shorter routes in the European part of the country. In this respect, regions such as the Far East benefit from preferential treatment and this will continue in the future.
Regarding measures to attract foreign capital, as you know very well, this or that concrete measure is not enough; what is needed is to create an overall favourable climate, above all a positive macroeconomic climate. Political and social stability are equally essential. I would like to note that aside from the annual GDP growth of 7 percent that I mentioned, we have a double surplus in Russia today – a primary budget surplus and a foreign trade surplus. In order to maintain this macroeconomic stability, we are making use of the large flow of petrodollars into our economy and have created a fund for future generations that we have called the Stabilisation Fund. We have created this fund in order to limit the inflow of unjustifiably large amounts of money supply into our economy, fight inflation and maintain high growth rates. This, coupled with other measures taken by the government, including in the social sphere – here we have developed a whole series of national programmes in the areas of healthcare, housing and education – enables us to ensure both macroeconomic and social stability. I hope that our country’s citizens will feel the benefits of these plans as the government pursues their implementation.
People’s incomes are showing stable growth – real incomes are rising by 10–11 percent a year on average. This and other results give us reason to expect that the situation in Russia will remain stable over the medium and long term. It is this that creates a favourable investment climate for Russian and foreign capital.
Regarding the issue of increasing and broadening the amount of information we provide, I agree that we do not do enough in this area and we have not yet built up the relevant experience. As our economic ties develop, we will work to settle this issue.
Thank you very much for your attention. I would like to thank my colleague, Mr Okuda, for Toyota’s decision to begin a joint venture in St Petersburg. This is definitely the right decision and I can assure you that we understand the importance of this decision for your company and will provide all the support we can to help you carry out your plans and projects in Russia as successfully as possible.
Thank you very much for your attention.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 21, 2005, 16:45
Text versionEvents
Press Statements and Answers to Questions Following Russian-Japanese High-Level Talks
November 21, 2005
23:05
Sori Kontei, Tokyo
Prime Minister of Japan Junichiro Koizumi: Today, as we receive President of the Russian Federation, Vladimir Putin, we are celebrating the 150th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between our countries. I welcome Vladimir Putin from the bottom of my heart. After signing the Russian-Japanese Action Plan in 2003, Russian-Japanese relations are developing successfully. With a view to expanding and further developing our cooperation we signed twelve Russian-Japanese bilateral documents. Next year the G8 summit meeting will take place in St Petersburg and I will participate in that meeting. We are also expecting the Prime Minister of the Russian Federation, Mikhail Fradkov, to visit Japan. Along with this we are going to organize other events to further encourage our relations at the intergovernmental level.
The international situation requires that we intensify our cooperation in all possible strategic areas. Our ministries of foreign affairs, heads of law enforcement agencies and special services are working on this, have begun a dialogue, and are also taking practical steps to further cooperation.
Concluding a peace treaty will be a decisive moment and we must work towards this in the most serious way so as to sign one in the near future. We confirmed this today. Until today President Putin and I have based ourselves on official documents and agreements and have confirmed our political will to find a mutually acceptable solution to this problem.
Regarding trade and economic relations between our countries, both of us welcome their development. We welcome the conclusion of talks between our countries concerning Russia's accession to the WTO, and we consider it important to further develop trade and economic relations between our countries.
The pipeline to the Pacific Ocean and cooperation in the energy sector is really mutually advantageous and important for our countries. In the near future it is necessary that we come to an agreement to quickly implement this project. We share the same opinion on this front.
Exchanges and ties are developing but in the next three years we intend to increase visits between citizens of our countries three times over, to reach four hundred thousand people. We also agreed to expand youth exchanges and next year we are planning a festival of Russian culture in Japan. We welcome this event and hope that it will be successful.
Already sixty years have passed since the end of the Second World War. In this respect, we asked Vladimir Putin to understand the feelings of very elderly people who, after the war, were interned for some time on Russian territory. Together with President Putin we arrived at the understanding that the Russian party will make efforts in this area.
I consider that our talks took place in a frank atmosphere and were fruitful.
Next year Russia will host the G8 summit. Reforms continue to be carried out and today we share common values. Regarding the northern territories, we really do have differences of opinion concerning how to best approach this problem. Nevertheless, we must overcome these difficulties. It will not be simple, but we must solve this thorny issue, and our opinions do coincide on this point.
Today, relations between Japan and Russia are on their highest level ever, and in the future we will strengthen them even further, so as to resolve outstanding disagreements.
This evening I invited President Putin to supper in the Japanese room of my residence and we will continue our conversation over Japanese dishes.
I would once again like to thank President Putin, as well as the ministers of the government of the Russian Federation and other high-ranking members of the Russian delegation for coming to Japan.
The floor is yours, Mr President.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Dear Mr Prime Minister!
Dear ladies and gentlemen!
As Mr Prime Minister already pointed out, today's visit to Tokyo takes place during an anniversary that is especially significant for our countries, since 150 years ago Russia and Japan established diplomatic relations. And it is natural that this symbolic event set the tone for this visit.
I would like to emphasize that the talks that took place were comprehensive and constructive. And their result is a substantial number of agreements whose signing you witnessed.
We discussed a wide range of bilateral questions based on the Russian-Japanese Action Plan Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi and I adopted in 2003.
It is obvious that we paid a great deal of attention to the problem of the peace treaty. I would like to say at once that both Russia and Japan feel that it is necessary to find the solution to this issue based on partnership, mutual respect and trust.
At the same time we realize that settling such a delicate issue will not be easy. It requires good will from both sides, foresight and state thinking.
I consider it important that we explained the logic of our approaches to one another. And both sides expressed their readiness to continue dialogue on this sensitive issue.
The continued development of the whole range of our bilateral ties is in the national interests of our countries.
First of all I am referring to deepening political dialogue. I am inviting Mr Prime Minister to visit Moscow on an official visit. According to the invitation I received today from Mr Prime Minister, the Prime Minister of the Russian Federation will visit Japan next year.
In turn we are ready to receive the heads of the Japanese defence and the management of sea security departments. And also to renew the practice by which the chairmen of our countries' chambers of legislature exchange visits.
Besides this, there are certain fundamental directions towards deepening contacts in the economic, scientific, technical, cultural and educational spheres.
We designated developing our trading and investment partnership as one of our major tasks. Recently, this has become considerably more active. In 2004 the volume of Russian-Japanese trade attained seven and a half billion USD and this year it can attain ten billion USD.
I shall especially point out the revival of Japanese business activity in the Russian market. As you know, in 2005 in the Leningrad Region Toyota began constructing a major assembly plant. And we shall provide further support to Japanese business, including Toyota, so that they can successfully implement their plans in the Russian market. Besides this, we are working on questions linked to the participation of Japanese capital in new fuel and energy projects together with those already being implemented in the Sakhalin Region. And today our ministers signed an energy agreement which is the first important step towards expanding the energy dialogue and cooperating in other areas in the energy sector.
We also discussed a number of international problems. We agreed to mobilize joint efforts in the struggle against terrorism and Mr Prime Minister and I signed the corresponding document.
Undoubtedly, strengthening strategic stability, preventing and settling regional conflicts and supporting integration in the Asia-Pacific region is the important direction for Russian-Japanese cooperation.
The Japanese party expressed its intention to help the Russian G8 presidency that will take place in the coming year be successful. I am convinced that Japan's participation will be extremely constructive.
In conclusion I would like to thank the Japanese Prime Minister for his interest in deepening Russian-Japanese cooperation. And also for the concrete proposals he made regarding various areas in which we cooperate.
I would especially like to note that our conversation took place in a well-intentioned and very trusting atmosphere. This allowed us to discuss everything frankly, even the most difficult and sensitive questions.
The talks have shown the most important thing; as neighbours Russia and Japan both fully realize the practical benefits and the strategic importance of their relations. And they intend to continue building their long-term partnership relations.
Thank you for your attention.
Question (Nihon Keizai Newspaper): First a question to Mr Koizumi. Judging from what you said, one got the impression that there is a certain common ground in the discussion concerning the northern territories. Was there any progress regarding this issue, and did the Russian party make any offers concerning the joint economic development of these territories?
Junichiro Koizumi: Frankly speaking, right now we have different visions of the issue at hand. However, presently Japanese-Russian relations are now at a better level than they have ever been before and are developing in different areas. This augers well for concluding a peace treaty in the future. However for this we must continue to cooperate. In connection with this I would like to point that our talks were very frank and serious. Right now I will not say how all of this will develop and which steps can be undertaken in the future. However, we will continue bilateral negotiations and consultations, both between our ministries of foreign affairs and at all other levels, so as to make our approaches more compatible.
Question (Argumenty i Fakty): Mr Prime Minister, it isZ nice that you did not only talk about the problem of the islands. In connection with this, could you please explain in a little more detail and comment on how cooperation will develop regarding the delivery of Russian energy resources to Japan. Besides this, how much cooperation will there be in other spheres, and which projects do you consider most promising? Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: During this visit we really spoke a lot about the development of our relations in the economic sphere. And as you know, the Russian-Japanese Economic Cooperation Forum was devoted to this theme. Energy sources from different regions are already being delivered to the Japanese market and as I have just been told, both from the Black Sea and through the Mediterranean Sea. Of course, this is a very long route and economically very cumbersome. Deliveries from Sakhalin, within the framework of the projects Sakhalin-1 and Sakhalin-2, have already begun. Of course we see the prospects for developing and increasing such deliveries. In particular, within the framework of the Sakhalin-2 project as much as one third of all extracted liquefied gas will be delivered to the Japanese market. All these volumes have already been contracted for.
But of course this is not all. Japanese partners are studying the opportunities for them to participate in Russia's coal industry, including—and this was already mentioned during the meeting with business circles—one of the largest deposits in Yakutia.
Our work should not end with deliveries and extraction of crude energy. The electric power industry, nuclear energy and other areas not linked to energy are within our sphere of interests and are promising. This includes the high-tech sphere, and first and foremost the sphere of communications. Today one of the documents we signed was to create a necessary base for developing relations in this area. In the sphere of joint space exploration we already have an existing programme, and the task consists in prolonging the agreements that have been achieved in the near and intermediate future.
All of this constitutes our assets for possible cooperation in the near future. I repeat that in practice this mechanism has already started and it is only necessary to support these areas in which we are active to arrive at qualitatively new levels. All of this is possible and I think that we shall achieve these results.
Junichiro Koizumi: We discussed economic cooperation and certainly, we discussed the question of building a pipeline to the Pacific Coast. Regarding the Sakhalin project, this project is one successful example, but we are not stopping at this and are thinking of other bilateral projects. We understand that this is very important. And from this point of view the construction of the Pacific pipeline is not only in Japan's interests but also in Russia's. Presently experts from both sides are studying the possibilities to further work in this direction.
Question (Dzidzi Tsusin): On September 27 at a press conference you said that the islands are sovereign territory, that this is the result of the Second World War and fixed in international law, and that you are not preparing to negotiate with anybody. You said something along those lines. Did your position on this question change today during the meeting with Mr Koizumi? And a question regarding the Tokyo Declaration of 1993. Is it still in force?
Vladimir Putin: At our meeting in Pusan several days ago, it seems to me that Mr Prime Minister very precisely and correctly formulated the development trend of relations between all countries and, with reference to Japan, those of the Asia-Pacific region in particular. Mr Prime Minister better knows what he has said than I do, and I shall reiterate only the general traits. He said that yes, there are problems that remain from the past but we do not consider them insurmountable. More than this, we consider that our neighbourly relations as a whole are normal, and that time is needed for some of them to loose the acrimony they have today. I completely agree with such a characterization of the question and would just add that I hope such an attitude will also expand to relations between Russia and Japan.
As to my answer to a question from one of the viewers during the live television dialogue, I wish to thank you for how attentively you follow this question and try to understand it and inform your readers, listeners or viewers. I wish to thank you for that. But I regret that you were careless and did not mention the second part of my answer, and I completely reject the possibility that you could have done so on purpose. And so had you been more attentive, you would not have read only the first part but the second as well, and I have my answer here. True, in the first part I talked about the results of the Second World War and the fact that this question is fixed in international law. And is this not the case? It is enough to take these documents and read them to see that it is so. But if you had read what I said in conclusion, you would have read—I shall simply quote it once again: 'I hope and am really convinced that if we show good will, and Russia does have this good will, we will always be able to find a solution [to the problem] that suits both parties, a solution that will benefit the people living on these islands and benefit the peoples of Russia and Japan. If we show that we are willing to accommodate each other we can find a solution'. And it seemed to me that during today's meeting, Mr Prime Minister and I were convinced that both Russian and Japan share such a desire.
Question (TV Channel Rossiya): I have a question for both heads of state. You already talked a great deal about my Japanese colleagues' initiative regarding territorial questions, but do you not consider that the absence of a peace treaty prevents normal economic cooperation between our countries? By the way, Mr Koizumi, just recently while answering a question from one of the Russian newspapers, you said that you are interested in animating economic cooperation between our countries. And I am interested on what your position is based on. Thank you.
Junichiro Koizumi: True, between Japan and Russia there is a difference of opinions on this issue. However, we must seriously discuss what we can do in the future to make these different opinions coincide and to conclude the peace treaty which is really necessary for us. We already spoke about this today during the meeting. And economic relations in various spheres are developing very successfully—on an unprecedented scale and at an unprecedented level.
Regarding economic assistance and cooperation, we are going to deepen them even further so as to increase mutual trust and so that we can conclude a peace treaty in the future. Actually, recently many Japanese companies have become much more active in Japanese-Russian economic cooperation. Regarding the volume of trade between our countries, probably this year we will pass the ten million USD mark.
There was the Soviet Union and now there is Russia. We share common values and will develop cooperation in the most varied fields.
Regarding the differences in opinion that exist, nevertheless on our way to concluding a future peace treaty we shall create all the necessary conditions and atmosphere to enable this.
Vladimir Putin: Does the absence of the peace treaty hinder the development of trade and economic ties? In my opinion, it does. At any rate, it is not helping. It may constrain some business representatives. But I agree with my colleague, we will do all we can to solve this problem. I came here for this very reason. For this reason we invited the Prime Minister to visit the Russian Federation. I am grateful that he accepts this invitation. We are full of determination to work in this direction and solve all the problems that stand before us, and I think that it is absolutely possible to do so.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 21, 2005, 23:05
Text version