Events
Closing Address at the Meeting on the Bank Sector's Role in the Regions' Social and Economic Development
December 14, 2005
23:12
Novosibirsk
Vladimir Putin: Dear colleagues,
In conclusion I would like to say that in my opinion today's meeting was both interesting, substantial and useful. I promise that we will look at the issue of mutual understanding between the banking system, the banking community and the regional authorities in the State Council. We will do so in an extended format together with our colleagues, the heads of the Russian regions. This is the first thing.
The second. A list of orders containing the basic issues we discussed today has been prepared. Some of the issues are improving the Russian Federation's legislation in the banking sector, increasing the efficiency and competitiveness of the Russian banking system, improving state control of banks, increasing the appeal for investors, and the transparency of the banking system, the banking business and everything that is connected to this issue.
I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the head of the Central Bank agreed with some of your, or shall I say our, proposals and I expect that they will not be put on the back burner but implemented quickly so that the banking community can feel and take advantage of the benefits that should result from these decisions.
With respect to branches of foreign banks I wish to inform you or rather, since you already know this, to confirm that the Government of the Russian Federation agrees with our banking community that today the activities of branches of foreign banks in Russia should be restricted and, as a matter of fact, forbidden. This is linked not only to competition but also to the impossibility of tracing financial and capital flows in today's world. This is also connected to the struggle against terrorism. We must not forget about that struggle. And it is also connected with the struggle against money laundering done through criminal channels.
And finally something that is, in my opinion, an extremely important factor. Of course the banking sector is one sector among others in the Russian economy. But I do not know of a more important one. It is the heart of the whole economy. Therefore I consider that our colleagues' attention is justified. Naturally, it is in their interest and first of all the sector's interest, but it is also in the Russian economy's interest. It is in its interest that the banking system develop effectively and maybe even at advanced rates. For this reason I looked at what additional things can be done for the sector. I shall not anticipate any decisions that the Ministry of Finance should make together with the Central Bank but we must think about such decisions and their possible variants. And the project of presidential orders should be completed together with the Association of Russian Banks.
Thank you very much and all the best.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 14, 2005, 23:12
Text versionEvents
Opening Address at the Meeting on the Bank Sector's Role in the Regions' Social and Economic Development
December 14, 2005
22:35
Novosibirsk
Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon dear colleagues!
At one of our last meetings with Russian business representatives, representatives of the banking community once again raised the issue of meeting in such a format to discuss current and medium-term problems of Russia's banking sector. It is not by chance that our meeting is taking place here, in Novosibirsk. Siberia's economic development is one of the defining and long-term factors of all of Russia's social and economic development. And having a stable system of financial credit is an extremely important factor in this regard. Let me add that such a system is the base condition for the development of all the regions of the Russian Federation without exception.
At the beginning, I shall say a few words about the general state of the national financial and credit sphere. One of its most important indicators is the country's relatively stable macroeconomic situation. As you know, the 2006 budget was planned with a surplus. And at the same time expenditures have increased. Significant financial means will be allocated to priority national projects in education, health care, housing and agriculture.
As of 1 December 2005, Russia's gold and currency reserves amount to 168 billion dollars. They have increased by 44 billion dollars over the course of this year. The trade surplus exceeds last year's indicator by almost one and a half times.
Internal investment demand continues to grow. The country's debt is consistently decreasing, in part thanks to debt repayments ahead of schedule.
The banking sector's assets and profitability ratios have grown. In addition, credit organizations have been able to increase their capital.
Along with this I wish to draw your attention to the fact that Russia's economy is faced with absolutely new tasks. In particular, the social and economic development of Siberian regions is in many ways connected with creating innovative production facilities, the economic development of promising territories and financing large infrastructure projects.
I consider that Russia's banking system must address these new problems and meet citizens' present-day needs both by its scale and by the quality of the services it offers.
However, banking services are still inaccessible for the inhabitants of remote Russian regions and also for its rural areas. The population of the Siberian Federal District is the one that suffers the most from the lack of services. Here, there is only one full-fledged banking office per ten thousand people.
In addition, the lack of banking infrastructure and the banks' low level of participation in the economic and social spheres slows down the development of Russian regions and hinders the exploitation of Siberia's natural riches.
It is obvious that, in practice, strictly market incentives for developing the banking sector are still particularly insufficient. The practice of granting advantages and privileges to certain credit organizations by state and municipal bodies is still going on.
At the same time the share of banks with state participation in their activities has recently increased. A significant number of banks founded by the state remain weak and incapable of providing financial and credit resources for large-scale projects.
I consider that of course the state can participate in credit organizations' activities, but on the condition that these banks go about solving really strategic problems.
The National Banking Council should consider the question of modernizing the system of state-owned banks. We need precise criteria with respect to the desirability and efficiency of state participation in credit organizations' activities. And in those cases where state participation is deemed necessary, the role of government representatives that control banks' activities should certainly be reinforced.
I consider that the national banking system can give Russian citizens and, in particular, Russian entrepreneurs a much greater range and variety of services. These are services which should be more accessible to clients.
And certainly, banks should participate more actively in the implementation of the priority national projects I have already mentioned. As you know, measures to create financial incentives for the development of agricultural production and growth in rural areas exist. In 2006–2007 we must already create a full-fledged system of land-based mortgage credits.
I do not think that the Russian Agricultural Bank should be the only to participate in this task. Especially since national projects are designed to assist a systematic modernization of certain sectors. In the end, they must help solve basic social and economic problems. Here I am referring to the fact that small businesses find it hard to gain access to the banking system. Businesses that are especially vulnerable and weak precisely in rural areas. It would be desirable that banks develop their own initiatives in the areas I have mentioned.
A separate set of questions concerns developing mortgages. I am ready to discuss in detail your proposals with respect to creating an effective market for mortgage notes and increasing investor trust in these instruments.
I draw your attention to tasks related to how Russian banks can better serve major Russian borrowers.
National companies have recently begun to borrow more from abroad. And the growth rates of business credits in the real sector of the economy have slowed down.
In sum, the major tasks that stand before Russian banks concern increasing their competitiveness. And today I suggest that we discuss the measures which will help us accomplish this strategic task.
Thank you for your attention.
Let us now discuss the themes we talked about.
  Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 14, 2005, 22:35
Text versionEvents
Speech at the East Asia Summit
December 14, 2005
16:29
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
President Vladimir Putin: Dear Mr President, dear summit participants,
I am grateful for this opportunity to speak at the inaugural East Asia Summit. Above all, I would like to wish your organisation a successful start and fruitful work.
There is every reason to believe that this meeting marks the birth of a new and influential organisation. This is only to be expected. After all, its members are countries whose political and economic importance is recognised not just in Asia but throughout the entire world. Indeed, the East Asia Summit has a significance that reaches beyond the Asia-Pacific region right from the start.
The Asia-Pacific region is deservedly recognised as the leader in global development. Powerful integration processes are underway in this part of the world, processes that are transforming the mutual complementarity of national economies into competitive advantages. And the ability to reach agreements is forming the foundation for solid relations built on a genuine partnership.
Our country, as an integral part of the Asia-Pacific region, supports peace, security and constructive cooperation throughout the entire region. We do not seek unilateral benefits. Our credo in Asia is an equal partnership and mutual benefits.
Russia has always had and always will have long-term political, economic and, in the broader sense, civilisation interests in this region. Becoming involved in the integration processes taking place in the region will contribute to creating favourable external conditions for our country’s overall socio-economic development, above all in Siberia and the Russian Far East.
It is very pleasing to see the many positive trends that are developing in the Asia-Pacific region. One of these trends is the increasing activeness of multilateral forums. Participation in these forums has already given our countries good opportunities to work together to find solutions to the global and regional problems we face today.
The processes underway on the Asian continent have their own specific features, of course, their differences with the European situation. It is not by chance that organisations have emerged here that, while different in form, all share the idea of constructive cooperation. They include APEC, the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation and ASEAN. The priority task today is to unite and coordinate their efforts.
This was also the objective of the Russian initiative on developing partnerships between the multilateral organisations that was proposed at the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation’s summit in Tashkent in 2004. We have already taken the first steps towards realising this initiative by signing the Memorandum of Understanding between the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation and ASEAN secretariats.
I want to stress that we see the East Asia Summit as another significant factor in developing positive trends in the region. This is a new organisation being formed as an open regional community and its main aims are to strengthen security and develop an equal dialogue.
The EAS’ founding members have yet to define the parameters for their activities and decide on the optimum organisational form. We hope that the decisions reached on these matters will satisfy all the organisation’s members and hope that they will also create incentives for new partners to join.
In submitting its application to take part in the organisation’s activities, Russia is ready to make a real contribution to resolving the issues currently affecting the region’s life. The cooperation between Russia and ASEAN already serves as an example of the effectiveness of our work together.
Overall, our partnership has already stood the test of time. We have achieved a new quality of relations over recent years. Above all, we have reinforced the foundation of agreements and accords that our relations are built on. Russia acceded to the Treaty on Amity and Cooperation in Southeast Asia in 2004, and just a few days ago we signed another important document – the Agreement on Economic and Development Cooperation.
Cooperation between Russia and ASEAN is becoming a more significant factor in forming a system of security and partnership in the Asia-Pacific region with every passing year. This cooperation also helps us to coordinate our work within the United Nations and other multilateral organisations.
We also intend to work more closely with ASEAN on counter-terrorist activities. In this respect we believe it necessary to give our special services and law enforcement agencies the relevant powers.
A key priority is to improve the quality and amount of Russian cooperation with our partners in Asia. I would like to note that, on the initiative of our entrepreneurs and financiers, the second Russia-ASEAN Business Forum is currently taking place in Kuala Lumpur, as is a Russian advanced technology exhibition. These large-scale events, together with the agreements signed yesterday, confirm that our relations are becoming more and more dynamic and substantial.
Russia is ready to contribute to the work of the East Asia Summit in all its key areas of activity.
To take just one topical subject – energy supply security in the Asia-Pacific countries – we could look at, for example, long-term and stable raw materials supplies, modern prospecting and exploration projects and gas and oil pipeline construction. Russia’s experience in hydro and nuclear energy could be very useful, as could the possibility of carrying out pilot projects for studying non-traditional energy sources and using energy-saving technology. Our country is also open to cooperation, including within the East Asia Summit, in as important an area as disaster relief.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
The twenty-first century is rightly called the era of new opportunities. Russia does have something to offer its partners and we hope, of course, to meet with a positive response from the members of the EAS. This new organisation will without question make an important contribution to achieving these noble and truly strategic goals in the name of peace, security and prosperity.
I would like in conclusion to thank everyone here today for the attention shown to our country. I would like to thank you, Mr Prime Minister, and the entire leadership of the EAS for inviting me and for the friendly and positive atmosphere at this summit.
I wish you all success in your work.
Topics
Russia–ASEAN
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 14, 2005, 16:29
Text version