Events
Oppening Address at the Russian-Dutch Talks in Extended Format
November 2, 2005
10:30
Binnenhof, the Hague
Vladimir Putin: Dear Mr Prime Minister, dear colleagues!
First of all, I would like to sincerely thank you for the opportunity to visit the Netherlands, to meet with you and with Dutch business representatives and to talk about all our different relations. I completely agree with your appraisal of our mutual relations. It is necessary to point out that over the past few years our economic relations have developed in an unprecedented way. After the Federal Republic of Germany, the Netherlands are solidly our second western European trading and economic partner. While last year our trade was valued at 16,5 billion dollars, this year we will go over the 25 billion dollar mark. This is simply a record. Over the past five years, the volume of Dutch investments, 80 percent of which are direct investments, has grown not by 10, 20 or 40 percent, but by 20 times. The volume of our cooperation is such that it is necessary for us to have not only high-level contacts, such as those today, but also to encourage contacts between business representatives, experts, ministers and civil society representatives, since they can best create an atmosphere that favours cooperation between our states and peoples.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 2, 2005, 10:30
Text versionEvents
Press Statement and Answers to Questions on the Results of Russian-Dutch Talks
November 2, 2005
11:00
Binnenhof, the Hague
Jan Peter Balkenende: Mr President!
I am very grateful to you and your delegation for visiting the Netherlands. This visit highlights the special relations that exist between the Russian Federation and the Netherlands.
We can also say that until now your visit has been very successful. Your visit with her Majesty the Queen, your dialogue with the members of parliament, your discussion with Dutch business representatives and the talks with the Kingdom's government have once again proved it. We highly value these contacts.
President Putin will not take offence that at the beginning of our press conference I will recollect the cowardly murder of Theo van Gogh which took place one year ago. Following the murder, friends, family and all of Dutch society was in mourning; it was a great shock for us. In addition, we have already spoken about this during our private talks and the talks with our delegations. For this reason today is doubly emotional, since on the one hand we are full of grief and sorrow, and on the other we are very pleased that the President of the Russian Federation is in the Netherlands.
In this way, today, November 2nd, is characterised by these two important moments.
Ladies and gentlemen!
The President of Russia's visit is very important for several reasons. The first is the active economic contacts that exist between our countries. All know that the Netherlands are one of the largest investors in the Russian Federation's economy. The opportunities for technological cooperation are immeasurable. Regarding the energy sector, we cannot overestimate the importance of good cooperation between our countries. In particular we spoke about gas pipelines. In addition, we spoke about the Kyoto protocol, and on possibilities of cooperating in ecology. We also spoke about outer space.
Yesterday an important conversation with Dutch business representatives took place. During today's talks we emphasized the necessity of further strengthening economic contacts.
The second reason is that today, as we remember the murder of Theo van Gogh, strengthening and deepening political dialogue is especially important. We understand the importance of the media's role, freedom of speech, supporting human rights, and developing democracy and a lawful state. With the President we have come to the conclusion that dialogue in these areas is possible. I am grateful to you for that.
We spoke about the growth of extremism, fundamentalism and radicalism. These problems are worrying for everyone. In such cases dialogue is necessary.
It is necessary to talk about human rights. Certainly, we spoke about the situation in Chechnya. I told President Putin that the Netherlands are concerned with the human rights situation in the Chechen Republic. We came to the conclusion that an open and honest dialogue on this problem is what is most important.
The third reason is the mutual aspiration to intensify our cultural contacts. After celebrating the year of Peter the Great in 1997 we have achieved significant progress in this sphere. We can learn much from one another and will do everything we can so that cultural ties will be strengthened.
We discussed our ties in economic, political and cultural spheres and we wish to strengthen these ties. We spoke in a friendly way, very concretely and openly. The exchange of opinions was very useful, and I am very happy about this. Relations between the Russian Federation and the Kingdom of the Netherlands have attained a new level, and for this, I am very grateful to you Mr President.
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much, Mr Prime Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen!
First of all, I wish to thank Her Majesty the Queen for the invitation and for giving my delegation and myself the opportunity to have a state visit to the Netherlands.
I wish to express my gratitude to Mr Prime Minister and his colleagues for the detailed discussion that took place today and also for the substantial, thoughtful organization of our visit.
Both yesterday and today we spoke about the strong traditions of friendship and mutual enrichment which have linked our countries' people over centuries. Certainly, we spoke about prospects for the 21 st century.
The meetings with the heads of both chambers of the Estates-General were very useful and fruitful. We highly value the results of the talks that just took place with the Prime Minister.
Our relations are developing dynamically and becoming more substantial. Our shared task is to keep the rhythm up.
Special attention was given to trade and economic ties. The Netherlands are one of Russia's leading European partners. In 2004 trade was more than 16,6 billion dollars and this year we can realistically reach the 25 billion dollar mark.
I am convinced that combining the natural competitive advantages of Russia and the Netherlands, first of all in technology and resources, is a way to increase the potential of our national economies. In which sectors do we cooperate? They are of course energy, the agricultural industry, the food industry and the high-tech sector, including in space exploration.
Today a number of agreements that create a good, additional legal base for expanding our cooperation were signed. Cooperation between regions is also increasingly substantial. We have reached a good dynamic for mutual contacts in the fields of science and education. Undoubtedly, cooperation in the cultural sphere has a special meaning for our peoples who have rich creative potential. I am pleased in the Dutch public's interest in the new building Hermitage on the Amstel, which opened in Amsterdam in 2004. We are going to provide government support for similar such projects.
Regarding international issues, first of all we touched on cooperation between Russia and the European Union. I noted with pleasure that in the parliament of the Netherlands, as well as during talks with the government and with Mr Prime Minister, we met people who believe, understand and support the process of integrating Russia and EU partners.
It is in our shared interests, that the stability and security of the whole European continent be strengthened, as will be our ability to effectively combat new threats, including of course international terrorism. We are ready for the widest possible cooperation in antiterrorism, both on a bilateral and a multilateral level.
In conclusion I would like to say that Russia highly appreciates the desire of the leadership of the Netherlands to develop friendly relations with our country.
I would also like to thank Amsterdam's inhabitants for the warm welcome, which could not be overlooked. Many thanks to you.
Question: Mr Prime Minister Balkenende, what is your personal attitude towards the construction of the Northern European Pipeline under the Baltic sea? Do you intend for your country to take part in its construction?
And a question for President Putin. In which capacity is Russia interested in the Netherlands' participation? And one more question, Vladimir Vladimirovich: the Prime Minister mentioned the anniversary of the murder of Theo van Gogh. What can you say in relation to this?
Jan Peter Balkenende: You are right to mention the Northern European Pipeline. It is a very important theme. The Netherlands are very interested in what happens because the Netherlands are directly affected by future energy deliveries. The Russian Federation is an extraordinarily important country and the Netherlands are interested in participating in such projects. We discussed this issue with President Putin. We know what is happening with the pipeline and we know about Great Britian's participation in the discussion. We will continue this dialogue.
Vladimir Putin: For my part I can note that we are interested in more of our partners participating in the construction of the system of pipelines. But this also depends on other countries already participating in the implementation of this project as well as on us. But in any case, I would like to tell you that this project will be much more grandiose than simply a pipeline under the Baltic Sea. There is also the construction of different gas containers in various European countries including the Netherlands. It also includes the construction of additional services under the Baltic Sea, possibly from the Netherlands to other countries, including Great Britain. The Russian party received an offer from our Dutch partners, and it will be closely studied.
I will say for myself that on the political level we shall only welcome our partners' activities, partners who are working in a major sector of the European economy, the energy sector. Regarding the tragic murder of Theo van Gogh, this was an awful thing. I think that first of all today we should think of Theo van Gogh's loved ones and have sympathy for them.
Certainly this is part of a wider problem of international terrorism. Russia has been fighting this evil for quite a long time, including in Chechnya. We are dealing with very cruel people, with animals in human clothing who do not understand and do not want to understand the time and world in which they live. Thus our actions should correspond to the threat they pose for modern civilization. We have great, and often irreplaceable losses. But if we show weakness for just one minute, our losses will increase many times over. And to work effectively we must join our forces; we talked about this today with Mr Prime Minister.
Question: A question for Mr President and Mr Prime Minister regarding the human rights situation. Mr Balkenende, you spoke about human rights and about Chechnya. Therefore the discussion was described as an open dialogue. The President of Russia's statement did not contain the words “Chechnya” and “human rights”. Is this the result of Mr Putin, yesterday at the formal reception Queen Beatrix praised Russia and spoke about its stability, but noted that democratic institutions and press freedom can be further developed. It is true that a lot has been done regarding stability, but as for democracy and human rights, it must still be worked on.
Jan Peter Balkenende: All of us know that the problem of the Chechen Republic is a very difficult one. The Netherlands government and other western European countries always require that human rights be respected. At the same time we know that Russia points out that terrorism in this region is very dangerous. We can say that concern for human rights and for human rights activists exists. We spoke about this during the visit. And I also noticed that the President listened very carefully to our concerns. However, he also expressed his anxiety. For this reason I am very glad that we discussed such subjects during our dialogue and that we did not avoid them during a state visit. We were able to 
Vladimir Putin: As a matter of fact, I already answered your question when speaking with your Russian colleagues. But I shall add to it.
I said that our actions in the struggle against terrorism must correspond to the threat terrorists represent for our societies. But of course we should act in a civilized way. We cannot allow them to use principles and democratic ideals to fight with democratic institutions. I consider that in the Caucasus and in Chechnya we are protecting both our interests and your interests. If we allow terrorists to raise their heads in one region, than they will appear in yet another one.
Regarding human rights, this is a pressing problem. It is present everywhere where is violence. But we are ready to cooperate and we are open. We have completed some major political events in Chechnya: we took a referendum on accepting a constitution, presidential elections have taken place. We always invited our colleagues from European organizations to take part, at least as observers. Nobody came. Representatives of international Muslim organizations participated in these events – both from the Islamic Conference Organization and the League of Arab States.
I sometimes have the following question: would some Europeans like to be more Muslim than the Prophet Muhammad? We have the expression 'being more Catholic than the Pope'. I sometimes have the impression that certain European politicians want to be more Muslim than the Prophet Muhammad.
But we will consider the offers of European colleagues with a great deal of attention, and recently in Brussels we formulated a joint action plan, including in the Chechen Republic. We accept this with gratitude and shall work together.
Question: How you can explain such a high volume of trade and economic relations between our countries? In general, there are many countries with developed economies such as the Netherlands in Europe, but they do not have such indicators. And in connection with this how do you evaluate the creation of a Russian-Dutch business council?
Vladimir Putin: You know, it is difficult even for me to answer that question. First of all the Dutch government creates favourable conditions for the development of mutual trade and for encouraging Dutch investments in the Russian economy. Secondly, probably the Dutch business community itself keenly feels the prospects for cooperation and the development of the Russian market. And the third is what we have mentioned frequently over the past two days – our relations have a long tradition. These are not just empty words.
Question: Mr Putin, do you not think that since your country enjoys growing stability it is necessary to support democratic establishments and independent mass media?
Vladimir Putin: We have spoken about this many time during this visit, such as during the discussion with the parliament of the Netherlands, where I presented the internal political situation in Russia and talked about the motives and the essence of the decisions regarding the new system of having elections by regional parliaments determine the Russian regional authorities. I talked about our plans to strengthen the country's multiparty system by changing the way the parliament is formed through party lists. I talked about our plans to decentralize power in connection with the laws on the development of the municipal level of government and giving this level a significant share of power and financial resources. I talked about our plans to support, first and foremost economically, mass media. Let me remind you that in Russia today more than three thousand radio and broadcasting corporations, along with more than 47 thousand printing houses are functioning. Internet is developing very quickly and absolutely freely, something which causes certain problems and raises certain issues, and I think not only in our country, but also in western European countries. But despite these questions, Russia is not undertaking any steps to restrict the freedom of the Internet. This is the general situation.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 2, 2005, 11:00
Text versionEvents
Session of the UN International Court of Justice
November 2, 2005
12:00
Peace Palace, the Hague
H. E. Judge Shi, President of the International Court of Justice: Mr. President, Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen,
It is a great honour for me, Mr. President, to greet you today on behalf of the International Court of Justice. May I extend to you a most cordial welcome on this august occasion.
As a law graduate from Leningrad State University, before you embarked upon your distinguished political career culminating in your election as President of the Russian Federation in 2000 and reelection in 2004, you have, Mr. President, claimed as your heritage the rich and varied Russian legal tradition. It is perhaps fitting for me to begin by recalling the fundamental contribution that Russia has made to the development of various crucial currents of thought in international law, and say a few words about some of the eminent Russian scholars and judges that have helped make the Court what it is today.
In the nineteenth century, international law developed into a discipline in its own right within Russian academia. Chairs of international law at various reputed universities were established and in 1880 the Russian “International Law Society” was created at St. Petersburg. The emergence in Russia of scholars of world class is evidence of the rapid progress of the Russian science of international law at that period. Professor Fedor Martens stands out in particular as a luminary of the epoch, as he was to play such a prominent role in the international peace movement; his dream of a temple of peace indeed inspired the creation of this Peace Palace. Convinced of the power of international law, Martens believed that brute force could never triumph over law or “stifle our feelings of right and justice”. In commemoration of his prominent role as an international lawyer, a bronze bust of Martens was presented to the Peace Palace in 1999 by the Russian Government.
Having cited the name of Martens, I cannot fail to elaborate on the significance of the contribution which Russia made to international humanitarian law in convening the First and Second Hague Peace Conferences. At the close of the nineteenth century, Czar Nicholas II invited nations to attend an international conference to discuss problems of world peace and disarmament. With the agreement of the young Queen of the Netherlands, Wilhelmina, The Hague was chosen as the seat of the Conference. At that first Hague Peace Conference, Baron de Staal, the head of the Russian delegation, was elected chairman of the Conference. At the Second Conference, the Russian Ambassador to Paris, Alexandr Nelidov, was elected Chairman. Professor Fedor Martens, as a prominent delegate of Russia, took an especially active part in the work of both Conferences, preparing a number of draft treaties and individual articles. In particular, he proposed what is now famously referred to as the “Martens clause”, a provision which has entered international humanitarian law as one of its basic principles. The “Martens clause” provides that, in all circumstances, whether there are specific rules in place or not, “civilians and combatants remain under the protection and authority of the principles of international law derived from established custom, from the principles of humanity and from the dictates of public conscience”. The Court made specific mention of the clause in its 1996 Advisory Opinion on the Legality of the Threat or Use of Nuclear Weapons, referring to it as one of “the cardinal principles contained in the texts constituting the fabric of humanitarian law” (para. 78) and pointing to its “continuing existence and applicability . . . as an affirmation that the principles and rules of humanitarian law apply to nuclear weapons” (para. 87).
Among other instruments, the Hague Conferences led to the signing of the Convention on the laws and customs of land warfare and the Convention for the pacific settlement of international disputes. Another feat of the Conferences was the unanimous agreement for the establishment of a Permanent Court of Arbitration. It was as a direct result of an initiative of Martens that the wealthy philanthropist Andrew Carnegie endowed a fund for the building of adequate headquarters for a “Temple of Peace” ѕ the genesis of the Peace Palace, which is now home to the International Court of Justice, the International Bureau of the Permanent Court of Arbitration, the Hague Academy of International Law and the Carnegie Foundation.
Mr. President, Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen,
The twentieth century also witnessed Russia’s direct participation in the establishment of the United Nations and the International Court of Justice as its principal judicial organ. The United Nations Charter was signed by the prominent Russian jurist, Sergei Krylov, who was subsequently elected a Member of the Court. Many of the eminent Russian judges that have served with distinction at the Court came to office with direct experience of the United Nations. Russia’s support for the aims and objectives of the United Nations has continued unabated into the twentyfirst century. Just recently, on the occasion of the international conference on the “60th Anniversary of Victory, Establishment of the United Nations and International Law”, held in Moscow in June 2005, the Russian Minister of Foreign Affairs, Sergey Lavrov, declared that:
“Russia will continue to pursue a line on enhancing the United Nations role in the contemporary world. We are convinced that, as 60 years ago, it is only through joint efforts that mankind will be able to counter the threats and challenges before it successfully if it acts with reliance on the United Nations. Despite all the changes of recent years, this fundamental role of the United Nations remains unchanged.”
Mr. President, time does not allow me to speak of the many Russian scholars and diplomats who have continued to promote international law in the spirit of their predecessors ѕ from Professor Grigory Tunkin, who played a major role in formulating Soviet foreign policy and shaped the Soviet doctrine of international law of peaceful coexistence, to the present generation of Russian legal scholars. Suffice it to say that the Russian science of international law has produced a wealth of ideas, accompanied by a deep humanity and great scholarly prescience. Nowhere has this breadth of wisdom and learning been more apparent than in the contribution by judges from the Soviet Union, and now the Russian Federation, to the formation and development of the Court’s jurisprudence.
Judge Krylov, sitting on the Bench of this Court from 1946 to 1952, was a highly respected representative of the Russian tradition of international law. It is worth recalling that Krylov, in collaboration with Durdenevsky, wrote the first manual of international law in the Soviet Union. Judge Krylov’s successor, Judge Golunsky, was to assume office in 1952, but for health reasons never actually sat on the Bench. It is however noteworthy that as a member of the Advisory Committee of Jurists, he took an active part in the decision-making process at a crucial moment in the constitutional history of the Court, working in particular on its draft Statute. Judge Kojevnikov, who sat on the Bench between 1953 and 1961, published extensively on international law. He was followed by Judge Koretsky, who sat on the Bench between 1961 and 1970, and was VicePresident of the Court between 1967 and 1970. Judge Koretsky had previously served as Legal Adviser to the Soviet Delegation to the United Nations, and attended the 1946 Paris Peace Conference. Judge Morozov, who served the Court from 1970 to 1985, and his successor, Judge Tarrasov, who sat on the Bench from 1988 to 1994, represented the Soviet Union in various capacities on numerous United Nations bodies.
This brings me to the present day, and nothing gives me greater pleasure than to mention your compatriot, Judge Vladlen Vereshchetin, who joined the Court in 1995, and who has made such a significant contribution to the collegial decision-making process of the Bench. Judge Vereshchetin’s mental agility and natural intellectual curiosity have always enlivened the Court’s judicial debates and his insights into the Russian tradition of international law have been illuminating to his colleagues. As many of his predecessors, before being elected to the Court, Judge Vereshchetin had enjoyed a prestigious academic career, specializing in space law and had taken part in the work of various United Nations bodies, in particular, the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space, and the International Law Commission, both as Member and Chairman of the latter.
In conclusion, Mr. President, at the heart of all of our endeavors to ensure the primacy of international law, lies the ideal of peace. We remain conscious, however, that peace does not derive from law alone and that judges are not its only arbiter. However, the International Court of Justice, the principal judicial organ of the United Nations, remains indispensable as a forum for the promotion of peace; through its contentious and advisory procedure, it plays a prominent part in settling disputes and preventing conflicts that threaten the international community. The Court continues to flourish with particular vigour, with 12 cases currently on its docket. The list of cases in recent years has continued to reflect the Court’s universality, with States from all continents of the world appearing before the Court. The subjectmatter of the proceedings before the Court remains extremely varied. There are currently a number of cases concerning territorial disputes between neighbouring States seeking a determination of their land and maritime boundaries, or a decision as to which of them has sovereignty over particular areas, for example, between Nicaragua and Honduras, Nicaragua and Colombia, Malaysia and Singapore, and between Romania and Ukraine. The Court is also dealing with issues of diplomatic protection of citizens in the case concerning Ahmadou Sadio Diallo between the Republic of Guinea and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. At present, deliberations are being held in the case concerning Armed Activities on the Territory of the Congo between the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Uganda, in which important issues relating to the use of force and human rights violations have been raised.
Your presence here today, Mr. President, bears witness to your country’s longstanding attachment to the cause of law and international justice. As your Minister for Foreign Affairs recently noted, the decisions of the Court “enjoy high authority” and serve “as an important instrument of peaceful settlement of disputes”. We welcome this encouragement in the fulfilment of our task; and we thank you, Mr. President, most warmly for being with us today.
Vladimir Putin: Your Honour, Mr Chairman of the International Court of Justice, dear judges, dear ladies and gentlemen!
Please allow me to thank you for the warm welcome you gave me here, in the historical Peace Palace, and for the warm words with which you addressed Russia and her citizens, For me, a student of the Russian school of law, it is a great honour to speak in the main judicial body of the United Nations. This meeting is very important. It has great value, both for our country and I hope, will contribute to the prestige of the International Court of Justice.
Mr Chairman, you described Russia's contribution to the activities of the International Court of Justice in detail, and our compatriots you listed are the pride and glory of Russian jurisprudence.
Mr Chairman, it is with special feeling that I would like to point out the selfless role of Feodor Feodorovich Martens, whom you mentioned. In many respects, it is due to his perseverance and brilliant mind that Russia's initiative for the first Peace Conference in 1899 was successfully carried out. It took place in the Hague, and defined this city as the capital of international justice forever more.
Together with this I would like to emphasize that Martens' ideas did not come from nowhere. All was based on the highest achievements of European philosophical and legal ideas. As a matter of fact, Martens developed the ideas of the outstanding European thinker Immanuel Kant, along with those of other philosophers and lawyers. This does not diminish the value of the Russian legal school's contribution, but shows that the Russian school of law is a natural part of world and European civilization and part of the European system of law. Drawing on the finest traditions of European law, the Russian legal system has many outstanding achievements and advances to its name, has helped to develop The Conference took place during troubled times. The fog of the First World War hung over all mankind. And one of the Conference's major results was the Convention for the Peaceful Adjustment of International Differences.
The establishment of the Permanent Court of Arbitration also had huge value. It was the first, permanent, universal mechanism for the peaceful resolution of international disputes.
However, the recognition of international justice was no less important. This innovative idea was born in our country and was selflessly defended by representatives of the progressive Russian legal school.
The views of Martens and many of his associates were set much further than the realities of that time. They rightly believed that international relations could be most fully implemented through a system of international governance, a system based on states' common goals and interests, and which should be maintained by international law.
However, to accept and implement these ideas for keeping the peace, mankind had to pass through the horror of two world wars. Only then did states unite and create the United Nations, whose Charter reflects universal approaches developed by outstanding lawyers.
They showed a great deal of responsibility for the world's destiny; we are obliged to continue their noble undertaking and to develop the means to keep the peace. History constantly reminds us of this and it is extremely important not to forget its lessons.
It is obvious that the international community needs to make additional efforts to use the United Nation's full potential to act as a unique means to resolve pressing international problems.
You well know that Russia's participation in the Summit 2005 once again confirmed its adherence to the principle of supremacy of international law. In Russia, this principle is one of the fundamental bases of the constitution. According to Article 15 of the Constitution of the Russian Federation, the commonly recognized principles and norms of the Moreover, if an international treaty of the Russian Federation stipulates other rules than those stipulated by the law, the rules of the international treaty apply. Adhering to international law is the fundamental concept of our foreign policy and national security.
I shall especially emphasize that the International Court of Justice's decisions and advisory opinions play a major role in strengthening and developing international legal principles and norms, and in making the rights and duties of states explicit. This has a positive influence on the universality of international law.
Once again I shall point out that very existence of the International Court of Justice is a most important condition for the UN’s stability and legitimacy, including with regard to developing and implementing a complex strategy to counteract the new threats and challenges that humanity faces today.
The International Court of Justice makes a huge contribution to preventing international conflicts and to the peaceful resolution of existing disputes. Finally, your activities promote international justice. This is possible due to the Court's independence, its special status and the unique composition of its judges.
Russia supports strengthening the role of the International Court of Justice and actively supported including the obligation of member states to resolve their disputes by peaceful And Mr Chairman, you have now told us about the very serious, major questions of international relations in which the Court is presently engaged.
Mr Chairman, we give great value to being represented in the International Court of Justice and consider the Russian legal school's contribution to the Court's activities a very important one.
In connection with this I am grateful to you for the kind words you addressed to the Russian judge, Mr Vereshchetin, and his predecessors. We hope that our tradition of participation in the Court will continue.
In conclusion, allow me to express once again my deep respect for the activities of the International Court of Justice and to thank you both for the invitation and for allowing me the opportunity to speak here.
I wish you success, and thank you very much for your attention.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 2, 2005, 12:00
Text version