Events
Meeting with Patriarch of Moscow and all Russia Alexii II
January 6, 2005
18:45
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: First of all, Your Holiness, I would like to wish you and all Orthodox citizens of Russia a Merry Christmas, and wish you all the best and good spirits.
Alexii II: I would like to hope that the New Year will be more propitious.
In connection with the events in Southeast Asia, I made an appeal for all Christians, all Orthodox believers to respond. We have opened an account, and everyone, even if they donate a small sum, should contribute – the most important thing is not the amount, but that everyone feels that their duty is to share the sorrow and suffering, restoring that which was destroyed by the elements.
Mr Putin: I would like to wish you a Merry Christmas, to wish happiness and health to you and all Orthodox Christians – all the people who will celebrate this blessed holiday. I want to wish you success at Christmas and in the following months and days.
Thank you very much, Your Holiness, that you and the Russian Orthodox Church reacted so efficiently to the catastrophe in Asia, which happened quite recently and took very many lives. Here, of course, everything is important – the extent of aid, but the efficiency and effectiveness of this aid is no less important. It is important that it reaches those who need support, that it is effective.
As you know, since the very first hours of the catastrophe – literally on the next day – planes and specialists from our Ministry for Emergencies were at the scene of the catastrophe.
Alexii II: Russia was the first.
Mr Putin: Yes, it was. And it helped people, really helped them, and rescued people. Our specialists are still working in the disaster zone. We passed a resolution to allocate additional resources to help the affected countries and the people who are in need of support. Aid will also be provided through international organisations by allocating additional funds and food. We passed a resolution, for example, to provide at least 20,000 tons of grain. Parties will be sent very soon to the regions that are in need of aid and support. The Ministry for Emergency Situations and the Defence Ministry are already preparing water-purification units and hospitals, which will be sent to these regions very soon.
I talked yesterday with the leaders of these countries, and on behalf of all the people of Russia, I expressed our solidarity and support. We will work with the governments of these countries on overcoming the consequences of the disaster, and help people who need aid.
Alexii II: I am grateful that on Christmas Eve I have the opportunity to wish you a Merry Christmas and thank you for your message to all Orthodox Christians who are celebrating the birth of Christ today.
I would like to wish you a Merry Christmas, to wish you and your family – and it is a family holiday – a blessed, joyful peaceful and happy Christmas. And we will pray that the New Year is peaceful for our country, that it is a time of creation and prosperity.
Mr Putin: Thank you. You just mentioned that Christmas is a good family holiday. This year is the first time that we have had such long winter holidays.
In accordance with the resolution of the State Duma, the holidays will last for 10 days, and this is of course also a good occasion to spend time with family, and children, and to occupy ourselves with sport, physical activities and healthy life.
In general, I think that the greatest wealth is leisure time, and every person must spend it usefully. And how we relax shows the culture of each person, and his internal purposes. I am sure that this time will be spent usefully. At any rate, everyone has this opportunity.
Alexii II: This year, not everyone is used to it yet, but with each passing year everyone will become increasingly accustomed to having holidays which should be used for leisure. And just as schoolchildren have holidays, adults should also have holidays that can be used for relaxation, so that they work more effectively.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: January 6, 2005, 18:45
Text version