Events
The Beginning of Russian-Brazilian Talks in an Extended Format
October 18, 2005
20:10
The Kremlin, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: Dear Mr President, dear colleagues, dear friends!
Allow me to warmly welcome you to Moscow once again.
I wish to point out that recently relations between our countries are developing very intensively. The volume of trade is growing. We are finding new fields in which to cooperate, including in high-tech. We are managing to coordinate our activities in the international arena and acting together to counteract today's threats in the most effective way.
We see Brazil as our most promising partner in Latin America and as a country with huge potential. We are very glad to welcome the President of Brazil and such a representative group of friends to the Russian Federation's capital.
Luiz Inacio Lula Da Silva (translated from Russian): President Putin, ministers of Russia and Brazil!
I wish to say that this visit to Russia is a very pleasant event for me. I consider that there are excellent opportunities for further developing Russian-Brazilian relations. First, because we are not divided by historical disputes. Indeed, there are no disputes between us at the present. And because I believe that, due to our developing economies, we can achieve a lot through joint efforts. I have asked my ministers to construct an effective policy regarding international trade relations as if they were a two-way street. Brazil wishes to sell, but it must buy as well. Brazil wants foreign enterprises to invest there. In turn, we must convince our entrepreneurs that they must invest in other countries' economies.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 18, 2005, 20:10
Text versionI must point out that the affinity between our foreign policy approaches gives rise to new opportunities for Russian-Brazilian cooperation in international and regional affairs. We also count on Brazil's support regarding Russia's participation in Latin American international organizations.
Today of all the states of Latin America, Brazil is Russia's largest trading partner. The volume of trade has already reached two billion dollars and is developing at a very good rate. Almost all of the plans to which we agreed in November 2004 are being successfully implemented.
We also have good prospects, including in areas which we consider still insufficiently developed. Of course, first and foremost this refers to cooperation in the high-tech field – namely in energy, aviation technology and the space sector. It is precisely in these sectors that we intend to create a kind of technological alliance. And an important step in this direction was concluding the contract providing for a Brazilian astronaut to be sent to the International Space Station in 2006.
We consider that successfully concluding negotiations regarding Russia's entry into the World Trade Organization will act as an additional stimulus for Russian-Brazilian economic relations.
We will promote direct contacts between Russian and Brazilian regions and develop cultural cooperation.
We will yet further improve our cooperation in the international arena.
I am confident that all of this will take place not only for the good of Russian and Brazilian peoples, but that it will promote greater international stability and general security.
Thank you.
Luiz Inacio Lula Da Silva: Your Excellency President Putin!
Brazilian and Russian ministers, members of the delegations from both countries, Brazilian and Russian journalists, my friends!
Being in the Kremlin today during my first visit to Russia is a source of huge satisfaction. My first words will be words of gratitude for the hospitable welcome you have given me and the members of my delegation.
Russia and Brazil share many similar traits. Our countries are both the size of continents; they have extensive natural riches and many industrial complexes. Our countries both began to industrialize late and therefore face similar challenges. It is necessary for us to modernize and to become more competitive. But first and foremost we must better satisfy our people's needs. The people of Russia and Brazil both have a deep-rooted national consciousness and the desire to create a place for themselves in today's world.
My dear President Putin, I recollect your visit to Brazil in November 2004 with gratitude. We meet at a moment when our countries' relations are very promising. We have never had so many common ties and projects. Our trade volume is beating records. Our cooperation in science and technology is developing. Cooperation in the energy sector, especially in the field of natural gas and using nuclear energy for peaceful purposes is also developing. During your visit to Brazil we signed a memorandum on mutual understanding in the space sector. Lately our space agencies have managed to cooperate more closely in this strategically important sector. Next year the first Brazilian astronaut will be sent to the Russian segment of the International Space Station. This event is especially significant for our mutual relations and will give rise to even greater possibilities for Russian-Brazilian cooperation.
We pointed out considerable progress in our countries' cultural relations. Russian music, art, literature and dance are important factors in our countries' rapprochement. The Bolshoi Theatre's ballet school in the State of Santa Katarina is a unique educational institution outside of Russia, and is forming a new generation of youth who will forever be connected with your country. We are holding talks to open a musical school in the city of Fortaleza with the support of the Moscow Tchaikovsky Conservatory.
Mr President, it is important for us to enhance our political dialogue. There is a wide consensus on fundamental questions of international affairs. We have developed a fruitful exchange on fundamental questions on today's international agenda. We aspire to a safer, fairer, more prosperous world. We condemn terrorism, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and firmly believe in the necessity of giving new momentum to the struggle against famine and poverty on a global scale. We wish to count on Russia's participation in our efforts to elaborate and implement innovative mechanisms to finance the struggle against famine and poverty throughout the world. We share Russia's conviction that it is necessary to reform the United Nations, including its Security Council, to make this organization more legitimate, representative and effective.
Dear President!
Brazil's foreign policy sees Russia as a strategic partner. I am convinced that the struggle against terrorism, strengthening international democratic institutions, and making trade relations more balanced requires joint political efforts both from Russia and from Brazil. The results of discussions which take place in the UN, the WTO and other forums for multilateral cooperation confirm that only through joint efforts countries with developing economies can create a new political, trading and economic geography.
There are no historical disputes between Brazil and Russia. For this reason the task of constructing a promising world lies before us. If we join Russian and Brazilian knowledge of science and technology, industry, their peoples' desire to create a fairer world, and their peoples' working capacities then we will undoubtedly construct a new world – one without wars, terrorism or evil.Events
Opening Remarks at the Meeting with the President of Brazil, Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva
October 18, 2005
20:07
The Kremlin, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: Dear Mr President!
This time, allow me to warmly greet you to Moscow.
My colleagues and I well remember the warm welcome you gave us in Brazil last year. I should say that since that time our relations in almost all fields are developing very intensely. The volume of trade is growing at a significant rate. Depending on the calculations, it is already at two or slightly more than two billion dollars. This is both creating jobs and increasing the living standards for a significant number of Russian and Brazilian citizens.
We welcome your independent foreign policy and I will point out the high level of our contacts in the arena of international cooperation. Most importantly, we are diversifying our relations including in the field of high-tech, namely in biotechnology and space exploration.
In general, the volume of our cooperation is increasing and I think that your visit will act as yet another good impulse for our relations' development.
Welcome Mr President!
Luiz Inacio Lula Da Silva (translated from Russian): Mr President, it is a great pleasure for me to be in Russia after your visit to our country.
Secondly, I firmly believe that regarding cooperation in the international arena, Brazilian foreign policy takes into account the strategic partnership that we are developing with your country. I think that we have not yet reached our full potential for cooperation in areas such as industrial production, trade and economic relations. Our foreign policy is constructed first and foremost in the interests of all developing countries, so that they can lower their dependence on the foreign policies of the United States and the European Union. We have done what we thought would be impossible; we have constructed a South American community of nations.
We have also strengthened our relations with African countries. A summit that took place between Middle Eastern and South American countries was a great success.
Now we are preparing for a summit in Nigeria between the heads of African countries and those of South America. That said, we are not embarking in any contradictions with either the United States or the European Union.
The volume of trade of South American countries has grown by 83 percent over the last few years. Certainly, your country fits in the system of mutual relations which we are building with our South American neighbours.
We are doing everything so that our ministers and entrepreneurs could benefit from the opportunities that we can best use through joint efforts.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 18, 2005, 20:07
Text version