Events
Beginning of a Meeting with Members of Government
March 28, 2005
16:08
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, dear colleagues,
I would like to return today to our joint meeting with representatives of Russian business which was held several days ago.
Many of those present here were at that meeting. You know the issues we discussed. I would ask the Government to work on the tax component of our discussion – you know what I am talking about – and work on the list of measures directed to supporting the development of the economy.
Everything that we talked about should be realised. I would ask for this is to be realised in a short period. This concerns tax administration, the measures which the Government proposes to improve work in this area. Let us agree that we will do this, and do it quickly. I would also ask you to start preparing a draft law on periods of limitations for privatisation deals.
The Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Civil Defense, Emergencies and Disaster Relief will need to work on issues connected with possible aid for Kyrgyzstan. Political processes are happening rapidly there. The processes there are far from coming to conclusive outcomes. We will refrain now from making comments on what is taking place there. At the same time, given our special relations with the Kyrgyz people, with Kyrgyzstan, and going from humanitarian considerations, if this aid is needed, then it should be provided. The people who now control the situation in Kyrgyzstan made an appeal for this aid. This also concerns aid in carrying out impending agricultural work and restoring objects of infrastructure in Bishkek.
The next issue is the planned Collective Security Treaty Organisation training exercises in Tajikistan. Regardless of whether Kyrgyzstan takes part in these exercises or not – this is Kyrgyzstan’s business, as far as I know they intend to take part – it needs to be held. We will not postpone or delay anything.
Sergei Ivanov: Please allow me to report. In accordance with the plan for collective forces of swift deployment in the framework of the CSTO, we indeed planned to conduct military training exercises as part of the war on terrorism on the territory of Tajikistan. The active phase of these exercises is planned for 5–6 April this year. Troops from all participants – and besides Tajikistan, they are Russia, Kazakhstan and Tajikistan – are already in Tajikistan or in the process of being transported there.
I talked yesterday with the acting defence minister of Kyrgyzstan Isakson. He confirmed that divisions of the Kyrgyz armed forces will take part in these exercises, and that some one from the leadership of the defence ministry will be present along with participants from other nations.
I also talked with the defence minister of Tajikistan. Staff planning of these exercises is already underway there. I do not see any obstacles. The exercises need to be held, and we will hold them.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: March 28, 2005, 16:08
Text version