Events
Statement Concerning the Power Supply Problem in Moscow
May 25, 2005
13:00
Vyoshenskaya station, Rostov Region
Question: Vladimir Vladimirovich, we heard that you have paid a lot of attention to the power supply problem in Moscow. Could you tell us about this in more detail?
Vladimir Putin: Last night there was an accident at an EES substation near Moscow. The measures taken by EES specialists did not make it possible to avoid cascade power cuts to consumers. This happened partially in Moscow, partially in the Tula Oblast, partially in Kaluga. Urgent measures are currently being taken to restore the power supply in full.
I must say that those who were charged with taking measures in accordance with existing plans to transfer consumers to alternative power supplies worked efficiently. There were no operation faults in administration and functioning of state bodies and troops . The main institutions of the public health service, at any rate the federal ones, are functioning. Some of them have also been transferred to reserve power supplies. The problem is being solved by city, municipal, and federal authorities, , including the Defence Ministry.
According to the preliminary estimate of EES, approximately another four hours will be required to switch the most important objects to a regular power supply. On the whole, according to their estimates, 6–8 hours will be required to liquidate the accident.
As for the reasons for the accident, according to preliminary information, they are of a technological nature. I think we can say that there is insufficient attention by EES to the company’s on-going operations. Not only problems involving global policies in energy and reforming the company need attention, but day-to-day operational work does as well.
I think that the problem is not of just worn-out equipment – although this is also a factor, as at the substation where the accident took place, the main equipment dates back from 1962 – but of the low competence of those who should have maintained and repaired everything that required repairs.
I would like to thank all Moscow city services which reacted efficiently to the events, and in contact with federal power bodies focused their efforts on the people who found themselves in a difficult situation when electricity was cut off.
I hope that in the near future, in the time frame that I have set, the problem will be solved.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 25, 2005, 13:00
Text versionEvents
Excerpts of Meeting with Cossack Leaders (on the ethnic) Russian population of the Caucasus
May 25, 2005
22:47
Vyoshenskaya station, Rostov Region
Now for the exodus of Russians from the North Caucasus. You know that this is a problem for the North Caucasus, and not only for the Russians who live there; though it is a problem for them, too, but primarily, because this disrupts the way of life there. Russians have lived in these territories for centuries, and I can assure you that the leadership of the North Caucasian republics knows that this is a problem for the other nations and ethnic groups who remain in their territories.
The exodus of Russians means the loss of skilled labor, of whole industries and the production culture, and worse still, it means the breach of the culture of multiethnic coexistence in these territories, which has been a major achievement of the North Caucasus for centuries.
It was an achievement because that coexistence became a factor that made the North Caucasus a viable territory of the Russian Federation, which scored high results and achievements in all areas of life in a given republic. The leaders of the North Caucasian republics are aware of this. Many of them, as you noticed in the case of Ingushetia, are not only concerned with this problem, but are taking making attempts to encourage all refugees irrespective of their ethnicity, including Russians, to return to the republic.
I agree that something should be done at the federal level to encourage people, irrespective of their ethnicity, to return to their homes. The violations that you say were taking place in the process of repayments to refugees on the ethnicity grounds are inadmissible. We will certainly discuss this problem with the leadership of the North Caucasian republics, primarily the leaders of Chechnya and Ingushetia. I firmly believe that these violations are not the policy of the republican leaders. You know, the Chechens themselves do not always get the remuneration due to them without fail or in full. These violations are connected with the criminal redistribution of funds allocated by the state.
Now about the possible involvement of Cossacks in the solution of problems created by separatism, crime and terrorism. Cossack units can be used, to a degree, but restoration of order and the struggle against terrorism in Chechnya is the above all the task for the Chechens.
According to the Interior Ministry, the regiment made up of Chechens is acting increasingly effectively, as graphically proved by the latest results. They have taken prisoner five men who had been preparing terrorist attacks in Chechnya and outside it. They know whom to search for and where. They are acting effectively, sometimes daringly but productively.
I think we must not make the mistake of confronting the efforts of those Chechens, Circassians, Kabardinians and other people of the North Caucasus who really want to fight crime and terrorism with the actions by the Cossacks who have the same goal. Instead, we should rally their efforts.
I was pleased to hear you say that the revival of Cossack traditions includes recruiting not only Russians but also representatives of other ethnic groups of the North Caucasus into Cossack units. You mentioned Circassians, Kabardinians and other nationalities, which is very important. This can make the struggle against crime and terrorism effective. Yet this is above all the task of state agencies, while auxiliary units should have auxiliary functions. Our efforts will not be effective without this assistance from the local people. This is apparent. I think that we should act towards this end.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 25, 2005, 22:47
Text version