Events
Beginning of Meeting with U.S. President George W.Bush
November 18, 2005
10:11
Busan
President Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, Mr President.
Allow me to offer my warmest greetings to you and your colleagues.
I have the impression of not even having parted from some of your colleagues and it is very pleasing that we have this kind of ongoing contact in practically all areas of our bilateral relations and in international issues.
I am especially pleased to have this opportunity to meet with you at the start of our work here, in Korea, because you have already been in the region a while and will be able to update me on what is happening here.
Thank you.
U.S. PRESIDENT GEORGE W.BUSH: Thank you, Vladimir, for us being able to hold this meeting. I always like to have a good discussion with you. Yes, you are right; we do have very good relations. We value your advice and the sincerity of our relations. Once again, thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 18, 2005, 10:11
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Prime Minister of Thailand Thaksin Shinawatra
November 18, 2005
20:56
Busan, South Korea
President Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister, I am very pleased to have the opportunity to continue the dialogue that we began not long ago in Moscow. I have just refreshed my memory on some of the figures concerning our cooperation and was interested to see that trade between our two countries increased by 92 percent over the last seven months. Although it is not such a huge figure, our bilateral trade looks nonetheless like reaching a total of approximately $2 billion this year. We are working on a number of proposals by our experts and are also working on your proposals, Mr Prime Minister, including on the agreement to abolish visas for Russians travelling to Thailand and for Thai citizens travelling to Russia. We are also working on the cooperation programme for our countries over the upcoming period. I am very happy to have the chance to discuss with you today these and other areas of our joint work.
Prime Minister of Thailand Thaksin Shinawat: Thank you, Mr President. I have warm memories of the hospitality with which you received me during my brief visit to Russia. Every occasion that I have come to Russia and have had the chance of meeting with you, Mr President, has always given me great happiness and let me see how fast Russia is developing under your leadership.
I am pleased to note, as you rightly pointed out, that our bilateral trade has reached the normal level that we had previously before the economic crisis and also during the Soviet period. I am sure that our cooperation is only set to expand over the coming 2–3 years, especially given the projects in various areas that you and I discussed, including in transport and in modernising Thailand’s armed forces. There are also the projects we have for cooperation in the oil sector and in various scientific areas. I hope that next year, when the APEC summit takes place in Vietnam, you will find the time either on your way to or on your way home from Vietnam, to make a visit to Thailand. I hope that you will then have the opportunity to see the fruit of our cooperation and the results of the investment being made in Thailand.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 18, 2005, 20:56
Text versionEvents
Message of Greetings to the People of the Republic of Korea
Published in South Korean newspapers Chunan Ilbo and Korea Herald and disseminated by news agency Yonhap
November 18, 2005
13:57
Dear friends!
I am happy to once again have the opportunity of visiting your wonderful country, a country that is following the road of progress and creation with confident strides and has achieved truly impressive results. I know very well that these achievements are the result above all of the initiative, hard work and perseverance of the people of the Republic of Korea.
It is symbolic that this visit is taking place 15 years after the establishment of diplomatic relations between our countries. Over this short time we have successfully established a constructive dialogue, expanded our political, trade, economic and cultural ties, and enriched the direct contacts between our countries’ business, scientific and cultural communities. I particularly want to note our fruitful cooperation in strengthening peace and security on the Korean Peninsula and developing multilateral cooperation in Northeast Asia and the Asia-Pacific region in general.
We value greatly the level of bilateral partnership we have reached and we are committed to continued active work together. I hope that my visit will serve the noble cause of strengthening the friendship, trust and mutual understanding between our peoples.
I sincerely wish all the citizens of South Korea continued success, prosperity and peace.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 18, 2005, 13:57
Text version