Events
Beginning of a Meeting with Kazakhstan President Nursultan Nazarbayev
June 2, 2005
23:21
Baikonur, Kazakhstan
President Vladimir Putin: Dear Nursultan Abishevich,
I would like to thank you for the joint organisation of our work today on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of Baikonur. I am very pleased to be in Kazakhstan, especially on such an occasion as the anniversary of a space centre which the best forces of Russia and Kazakhstan have been involved in creating and where they continue to work today.
Undoubtedly, cooperation between our countries in the high-technology sphere, where Russia does not just have major experience, but also achievements recognised by the entire world, cooperation in this sphere between Kazakhstan and Russia will open up new possibilities for both countries.
I am very pleased to note our previous agreements – I mean the major projects to create a new launch complex in Baikonur, which we saw today and ascertained that work is proceeding properly, and cooperation in the space communications sphere – I mean the launch of the communications satellite in the second half of this year in the interests of Kazakhstan, and with Kazakhstan’s participation.
However, it is no less important that we are able to reach newer and newer stages of cooperation, to look for new projects in which Kazakhstan and Russia are interested. We think identically in this area, and our colleagues support these plans. I think that this is quite natural, because Kazakhstan is naturally a space power not only because Baikonur is located here. If we look at the national flag of Kazakhstan, a steppe eagle embracing the sun, we will see in this profound symbolism the aspirations of Kazakhstan in the areas of high technology and space.
I am certain – and I am very pleased to note that you share this point of view – that cooperation between Russia and Kazakhstan in this sphere which is important for both countries can be highly effective and organised for many decades to come.
Once more I want to thank you for this cooperation, for your understanding of the importance of the problems that we deal with. I am sure that it will give noticeable results not just in the sphere of developing high technology, that it will be felt not just by our contemporaries, but by the future generations of our citizens.
Nursultan Nazarbayev: Thank you, Vladimir Vladimirovich. I am happy that we have met today. We recently agreed on this meeting in Chelyabinsk. Today is an important day not just for the employees of this space centre and city, but for both our countries.
There were many opinions about what would happen to the space centre after the collapse of the Soviet Union. The space centre suffered complete ruin, as everyone left it. The fate of the multi-billion complex created by the entire Soviet Union could have been lamentable.
I believe that thanks to the agreement, thanks to Russian science and Russian cosmonautics, the space centre is alive and is gaining a second wind. That is the first point.
Kazakhstan is becoming involved [in the space industry] – thank you that for saying a “space power” (and we need to become one). But I think that Kazakhstan and Kazakhstan citizens also need to be grateful to the Russian side: we agreed to build the Kazakhstan space complex Baiterek, this year we will try to launch the Kazakhstan satellite Kazsat, and now we are training two Kazakhstan cosmonauts in Russia. We agreed today that Kazakhstan students would be accepted, and trained on military and space subjects. Kazakhstan and Kazakhstan citizens should be grateful to you for such great trust.
And thirdly, we agreed to participate more extensively in joint projects of a world level. Today Kazakhstan is ready for this, because I think that investing money in the space industry is an investment in the future. This is the most profitable investment in new equipment and technology, which the whole world is striving towards. We have this unique opportunity.
And today, as we celebrate the 50th anniversary of Baikonur, I would like to say that the space centre is an important object of trust and friendship between Kazakhstan and Russia, between our nations. By extending the lease agreement to 2050, we made it possible for both the Russian and Kazakhstan sides to work on long-term perspective periods.
I would like once more to congratulate all our cosmonauts, scientists, and all space employees, all Russians and Kazakhstan citizens on this important date.
I welcome you, Vladimir Vladimirovch, to the Kazakhstan land. I wish you all the best in your work for the good of the people of Russia.
Vladimir Putin: I completely agree with you, especially when you talked of the enormous resources that were spent on creating this enormous complex of Baikonur here, on the land of Kazakhstan, by the Soviet Union.
But if Russia today actively works with all leading space powers of the world, if today we have virtually reached an agreement with our European partners on joint rocket launches in the Atlantic Ocean, in Latin America (at the French space centre), it would be extremely stupid not to make use of what was created by former generations of cosmonauts, engineers, scientists, workers, who created one of the most powerful complexes in the world. And what has been done in recent years to restore Baikonur, in creating prospects for development in the future, is extremely important for both Kazakhstan and for Russia.
Nursultan Abishevich and I agreed on the necessity to found a joint bank. I just talked about this on the flight here with members of Government. I think that it will be right to give two to three months for this work to be completed, so that we can create a good investment bank to carry out joint projects between Russia and Kazakhstan, and perhaps also for other CIS countries which wish to take part in this work. The bank, according to your proposal, will have decent nominal capital — $1.5 billion, $1 billion of which will be contributed by Russia, and half a billion by Kazakhstan. As we discussed, we agree with your proposal to have the head office of this bank in Almaty, on the understanding that…
Nursultan Nazarbayev: …that the president [of the bank] will be Russian – according to the contribution.
We will also meet at the beginning of July in Astana for a SCO meeting. I think that we will also agree on important matters there – on cooperation within the SCO and bilateral cooperation. Our government is currently preparing an agreement. The simplified border crossing procedure that we agreed on in Chelyabinsk is currently being implemented. I think that everyone involved in this is happy. The governments have passed decisions, and I think what we did before the 25th of May was very important, when we could have caused complications in our relations.
Until we meet again in Astana.
Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 2, 2005, 23:21
Text versionEvents
Speech at the Meeting Celebrating the 50th Anniversary of the Baikonur Space Launch Centre
June 2, 2005
23:58
Baikonur, Kazakhstan
President Vladimir Putin: Dear Nursultan Abishevich [President of Kazakhstan Nazarbayev],
Dear veterans and personnel of the space launch centre,
Dear Russian and Kazakh friends!
I congratulate you from the depths of my heart on this wonderful occasion – the 50th anniversary of the legendary Baikonur Space Launch Centre.
Some of the greatest milestones in world history are forever connected to Baikonur, the world’s first space launch centre. They include the launch of the first man-made satellite, Yury Gagarin’s historic flight, the first man to walk in space and the first space station.
These successes, this triumph, were made possible by the tremendous work carried out by hundreds of thousands of people from all the republics of the former Soviet Union.
It would be no exaggeration to call the construction of Baikonur, and indeed the entire space programme, a genuine national achievement and a true patriotic feat. This was the achievement of a people who had lived through a terrible war and suffered tremendous losses, but not only did they rebuild the country anew from amidst the ruins and destruction, they also opened up the road to outer space for humanity. Just think, in 1945 the war had just ended, and only ten years later the construction of Baikonur began!
The Baikonur Cosmodrome opened a new page in the history of civilisation and world scientific and technological progress, and it is deeply symbolic that we are celebrating this 50th anniversary of Baikonur in the same year as we celebrate the 60th anniversary of victory in the Great Patriotic War.
Today, we pay sincere tribute to those who built this unique site, and we honour those who worked here, pursuing ambitious plans to explore outer space and study distant planets. Scientists and engineers, testers and workers, civilians and military personnel – all of them helped write the glorious chronicle of Baikonur through their work and their courage.
Dear friends!
Baikonur is deservedly considered one of the world’s leading space launch centres today. It is pleasing to see that its unique potential is being actively used and is developing all the time. Baikonur plays a key part in ensuring the International Space Station’s work and in carrying out the space programmes of the CIS countries and other nations.
I would like to stress that this new and successful chapter in Baikonur’s history is yet another tangible result of the strategic partnership between Russia and Kazakhstan. It was our close cooperation that enabled Baikonur to keep its major place in world space exploration and to undergo a welcome revival after the immensely difficult period it went through in the 1990s.
Russia and Kazakhstan have signed around 30 treaties and agreements over the last decade, regulating all areas of the cosmodrome’s and town’s activity. The Agreement on Developing Cooperation for the Effective Use of Baikonur is of paramount importance and provides for extending the lease of the site until 2050.
Here, in the presence of colleagues and friends, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the President of Kazakhstan, Nursultan Abishevich Nazarbayev, for his principled and far-sighted policy. Thank you very much.
Here, at Baikonur, we see how cooperation and integration benefit the interests of both our countries and what an effective contribution they make to raising Russia’s and Kazakhstan’s international prestige and strengthening our positions on high-technology markets.
We intend to continue developing our interaction and cooperation in the peaceful exploration of outer space. One promising project is the development at Baikonur of the Baiterek new generation launch complex. You who are here celebrating this anniversary today will be the ones to make these ambitious plans reality.
The President of Kazakhstan and I also discussed other possible plans today. I hope they will be just as promising and just as significant for our countries.
In conclusion, I would like to wish all the cosmodrome’s personnel, all the residents of Baikonur – Russians and Kazakhs – great success and new victories together.
Once again, happy holiday, dear friends, happy anniversary!
Allow me now, on behalf of the Russian state, to carry out the honorary mission of presenting state decorations to citizens of Russia and Kazakhstan who have made a great contribution to the work of Baikonur.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 2, 2005, 23:58
Text version