Events
Speech at the Awarding Ceremony of Veterans who Took Part in the Liberation of Poland
January 27, 2005
23:00
Krakow, Poland
Vladimir Putin: I have been given the great honour today of awarding you the medal “60 years of Victory in the Great Patriotic War”. This is a symbolic award which is designed once more to stress your personal contribution, the contribution of your generation to the battle and victory over fascism.
We are here together in a land which best of all knows the tragedy that mankind faced during the Second World War. But our people, the people of the multi-ethnic Soviet Union, the people of Russia, also knows this at first hand. And you were the people who broke the back of fascism and ensured victory.
We are in a city which has preserved its grandeur and beauty. Even a swift glance from out of the car window shows that this is a magnificent European city. And in fact, it was preserved thanks to the courage and blood of Soviet soldiers, because Soviet troops stormed it without the support of heavy artillery or aviation – in order to save the city.
Not only did you save this city – you saved thousands of lives of people in Europe, and here in Auschwitz. One of our veterans awarded today told me how it happened, how difficult it was to reach Auschwitz, while some people today may have the impression that Soviet troops got here quite easily, opened the gates and said hello. It was not like this at all. Life was completely different. At every kilometre, at every metre our troops faced fierce resistance from the enemy, and lost their comrades – they lost them to save the lives of other people. And thousands of Russians and Ukrainians, thousands of Jews who were saved by you, I am simply certain, will never forget this! Just as we, the generations that came after you, will not forget.
I take a deep bow to you, and thank you very much.
I congratulate you!
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: January 27, 2005, 23:00
Text versionEvents
Speech at the Memorial Ceremony Dedicated to the 60th Anniversary of the Liberation of the Nazi Concentration Camp of Auschwitz-Birkenau
January 27, 2005
23:22
Krakow, Poland
Vladimir Putin: Dear friends,
They say that time heals. And it does. But now, standing in one of the most horrific concentration camps, 60 years after its liberation, you feel horror and anger, and shudder at everything that took place here. It is impossible, inconceivable to think that people are capable of such barbarity, that they could be subject to what is truly total insanity. And it is impossible to resign oneself to what really happened here.
But before our eyes, there are rails on which entire trains of victims arrived, and gas chambers with carefully designed crematoriums. All these terrible objects that we can see give us no reason to doubt that a finely-tuned factory of death worked constantly here. And we will never stop asking: how could this happen?
Auschwitz does not just appeal to our memory, it appeals to our reason. Here, on this earth, soaked in blood and the ashes of victims of Nazism, we can truly see the future that fascism was preparing for Europe, a continent that developed on humanitarian values and democratic traditions, and passed through the inquisition to the reformation and enlightenment. And here, on this tortured earth, we must say clearly and simply: any attempts to rewrite history, to put victims and executioners, liberators and occupiers on the same level, are immoral and incompatible with the thinking of people who consider themselves Europeans.
Today we pay tribute to the memory of everyone who was brutally murdered in cold blood by the fascists here in Auschwitz. We bow our heads before the tens of millions of citizens of various countries of the world, citizens who passed through the hell of concentration camps, were shot and tortured, or died from starvation and disease. We bow our heads before the victims of the Holocaust, before all the victims of the inhuman war that was unleashed by Nazism.
We mourn them and remember the immortal victory of the army of the anti-Hitler coalition, which broke the back of fascism. We remember all our allies. We pay tribute to the courage of Soviet soldiers, 600,000 of whom gave their lives for the liberation of Poland. And we will never forget that the Soviet Union paid the most terrible, impossibly high price for this victory – 27 million lives!
But today we must not just remember the past, but recognise all the threats of the modern world, one of which is terrorism. It is no less insidious or dangerous than nazism, and just as ruthless. Thousands of innocent people have already become its victims. Just as there could not be good or bad Nazis, so there cannot be good or bad terrorists. Double standards are not only unacceptable here – they are deadly dangerous for civilisation.
Dear friends,
Today’s ceremony is essentially the opening of the 60th anniversary of the end of the Second World War. The culmination of this will be the May celebrations in Moscow, where many of those present here will gather.
Let us do everything we can so that we, moderm people, politicians and state leaders, are not ashamed for our words and for our deeds, so that we can be honest and sincere before everyone who helped to bring this victory closer at the price of their suffering, blood, tears and lives, before everyone who has remained here forever, in Auschwitz. And we are responsible for making sure that what happened here never repeats – never, nowhere and with no one.
Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: January 27, 2005, 23:22
Text versionEvents
Speech at the Forum 'Let My People Live!' Commemorating the Memory of the Victims of Auschwitz
January 27, 2005
22:06
Krakow, Poland
President Vladimir Putin:
Hello, dear friends and colleagues. Thank you very much for the honour you have given us in inviting us to this event today.
Today, on the 60th anniversary of the liberation of the Nazi concentration camp of Auschwitz-Birkenau, we have gathered here in Krakow, Poland’s ancient capital. It was here that, during the Second World War, the Nazis committed the terrible atrocities that today we know by the name of the Holocaust – the greatest crime against humanity.
The Nazis chose Poland as the site of planned mass extermination of people, above all, of Jews. Polish soil became the epicentre of the Holocaust and was turned into the bloody embodiment of Fascist racial theories that proclaimed other peoples to be “subhuman”.
Today, six decades later, we see the Holocaust not only as a national tragedy for the Jewish people but as a catastrophe for all of humanity.
Soviet soldiers liberating this land were the first to set eyes on the cold-blooded atrocities committed by the Nazis in Poland. They extinguished forever the furnaces of Auschwitz and Birkenau, Maidanek and Treblinka and saved Krakow from annihilation. Six hundred thousand Soviet soldiers laid down their lives and this was the price they paid to save the Jewish people, and many other peoples, from total extermination.
The world shuddered when it found out about Auschwitz. Here in the centre of Europe, which had given the world some of its greatest humanists, was a huge factory designed to exterminate people on an industrial scale. As documents from the Nuremburg trials show, almost three million people – 2.8 million people – were forced to tread this sorrow-filled and terrifying road, and 90 percent of them were Jewish.
The tragedy of Auschwitz is a bitter warning for humanity for all time to come. The Holocaust showed how easy it is for a civilisation to cross the boundary into brutality, which inevitably leads to the destruction of humanity. This is no exaggeration because, following the Nazis’ ideas and the logic of their behaviour, other peoples, and the Slavic peoples among the foremost, were to have met with the same fate as the Jews.
This is beyond all imagination. Who can accept that people would kill their fellow human beings in a planned action born out of base instincts, bloody prejudices and racial hatred? It was enough to declare another people inferior for the readiness to exterminate that people to emerge. This is one of the most terrifying and unfathomable lessons of the past.
This is why it is our duty to remember the Holocaust, understand what caused it, think about why it was possible and do all we can to ensure that this horror never happens again. It is our duty to declare with one voice to present and future generations that no one has the right to remain indifferent to anti-Semitism, nationalism, xenophobia and racial or religious intolerance.
The German Chancellor said just recently that he is ashamed about the past. But that is the past. There are many of us who should feel ashamed of the present. Even in our country that did most of all to fight Nazism, to vanquish Nazism, to save the Jewish people – even in Russia did we see, unfortunately, manifestations that are cause for shame.
But I have to say that Russia will always not only condemn any such manifestations but will also fight them with the force of the law and through public opinion. As the President of Russia I say this loud and clear here at this forum.
Today we must also realise that modern civilisation faces a new and no less terrible threat. Terrorists have taken over from the executioners in their black uniforms. The similarities between Nazism and terrorism are obvious: the same contempt for human life, the same hatred for different views and, most terrible of all, the same commitment to their fanatical goals. Today’s terrorists would not hesitate to exterminate all who do not share their aims or who do not meet the criteria they have set.
It is my firm belief that we can preserve our civilisation only if we set aside our minor differences and close ranks against the common enemy as we did during the Second World War.
The politicians and statesmen of the twenty-first century must work in the interests of a great goal, that of preserving human lives as the greatest value, preserving our dignity and preserving humanity as a community of civilised people able to respect themselves and others and value this world in which we live.
Thank you very much for your attention.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: January 27, 2005, 22:06
Text version