Events
Beginning of a Meeting with President of the People’s Republic of China Hu Jintao
June 30, 2005
22:40
Novo-Ogaryovo
President Vladimir Putin: Dear Mr President, let me welcome you to Moscow once more.
We are happy to receive the head of the friendly nation of China in the Russian capital, and continue our joint constructive work on building relations of strategic partnership between our nations and peoples.
We have achieved significant progress in improving and developing our political relations, economic ties and cooperation in the humanitarian sphere. Military and technical cooperation and interaction in the military sphere are increasing. This year, for the first time since long ago we have planned to hold joint military exercises.
I am certain, dear Mr President, that your visit to the Russian Federation will provide a new, excellent stimulus for the development of our relations.
I am very happy that you accepted our proposal to spend time together this evening and discuss all these problems in a completely informal atmosphere.
Hu Jintao (translated from Russian): I am very pleased that I have the honour and opportunity to come to Russia again. First of all, I would like to thank President Putin for his kind invitation and hearty reception.
In recent years, thanks to the joint efforts of both sides, there has been a positive development in Russian-Chinese relations, and satisfying results have been achieved.
Russia and China have signed a treaty on good-neighbourly relations, friendship and cooperation, have definitively regulated border issues, and created a mechanism for intergovernmental consultations on security issues. Exchange and co-operation are taking place in the spheres of the economy, investment, culture, education, science and technology, the military and other spheres. The two countries support each other on major issues effecting state sovereignty and territorial integrity, and coordinate actions in international affairs.
I am happy about the success that has been achieved in our relations.
During my visit, Mr Putin and I will exchange opinions on bilateral relations and other major international issues that are of mutual interest.
I hope that this visit will help us to strengthen mutual trust in the political sphere, expand trade and economic cooperation and exchanges in the humanitarian sphere, and also to strengthen our strategic cooperation in international and regional affairs. I am sure that both sides will direct their joint efforts to bring Russian-Chinese relations to a new level. I hope that this visit will provide a new stimulus to developing our relations and cooperation in all areas.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 30, 2005, 22:40
Text version