Events
Excerpts from the Transcript of the State Council Session “On Immediate Measures for the Implementation of Priority National Projects” (speech by First Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev)
December 27, 2005
22:10
The Kremlin, Moscow
Dmitry Medvedev: Dear Vladimir Vladimirovich!
Dear members of the State Council!
Today's State Council session definitively opens a whole new stage in the realization of national priorities – a new and long-term stage. The Russian regions are settling down to practical work in the next few years. And now a great deal will depend on the efficiency of local authorities and the coordination of the work of our federal and regional agencies.
I would like to note at once that now that projects are in specific locations, what lies ahead of us is solving together our strategic problems.
First: we must redesign in both administrative and psychological terms the ineffective forms and methods of work that everyone is used to. This money allocated for projects — please excuse the comparison — is sacred. It must get to every worthy recipient. People should see the competent, timely work of the state machinery, where the authorities are obliged to provide a level of work that strengthens trust in the state. This, I repeat, is an extremely crucial and very sensitive test of the working capacity of the authorities on location.
The second and no less important task is simultaneously to implement project measures for modernizing the industries. Otherwise we shall inevitably be stuck in the mechanisms of departmental inertia.
Now a brief word about our preparedness for a new, regional stage of work. As you know, our Council [for the Implementation of Priority National Projects] has already held its first session. Furthermore, its presidium has begun working at full capacity. Also, deputies of the State Duma have actively joined in the work on national projects. Their active participation has increased the volume of financing for all four projects. I want to emphasize that in practice the President has given the basic responsibility for implementing these projects to the federal Government. And the Government has already involved itself in the daily monitoring of work in progress. Personal assignments have already been given to practically all federal ministers participating in the process.
Right away I should say that of course work in the regions is not starting from zero. The groundwork for the financial, legal, and administrative aspects of this work has been laid, but a great deal more lies ahead, and a huge commitment is required from the regions. It is there where ordinary people live and work, where local authorities interact most closely with them, and it is necessary to maximize the benefits of what has been planned for the people.
At the same time I wish to say frankly that at this point even in the centre all is not yet going smoothly. At the last session of the presidium we discussed the situation that has developed concerning the preparation of normative and legal documents to be passed on a whole range of issues in the field of public health services, education and housing. What are we to make of the fact that a number of the laws devoted to housing matters were accepted more than a year ago, but the relevant bylaws still do not exist?
And turning to federal departments, I would like to remind you that already by the end of this year it is necessary to eliminate legal lacunae and keep the tempo of project activities according to the earlier set schedule. Actually, in this dense compressed schedule, we must achieve that high efficiency of authority which was discussed by the President in his addresses of recent years and towards which we have been moving consistently and in various ways, including updating the legislation on local self-government, on regional reform, and on strengthening the political powers of local authorities.
Dear members of the State Council!
To achieve maximum productivity in the regions it is necessary to discuss and accept a number of basic decisions. A month ago at a session of the Council [for the Implementation of Priority National Projects] we set ourselves the task of generating a transparent system for managing national projects. And for this purpose it is necessary to define the precise parameters of the projects' requirements, to allocate personal responsibility to both regional and local authorities, and thus to establish exact time periods and amounts for financing specific measures. And, as has already been said, it is extremely important finally to create a normative basis for beginning work. As a result the subjects of the Federation must accept their network schedules and target parameters, as well as the management schemes introduced by projects similar to those already imposed at the level of the central departments. We need more than simply concerted actions; we need synchronized ones by each of the participants in the process. Only by unifying the organization of work will we be able to achieve the planned result.
In addition to this, it is important to define another issue, that is financing project measures. It is erroneous to believe that identical levels of construction and governmental purchases will begin at once and everywhere in the same way. There should be no egalitarianism in work on the projects. First and foremost additional means will be allocated where social establishments have created the necessary conditions, where preparatory work has been undertaken, where innovations are proceeding in a creative way and efforts to modernize the branches of industry are being supported. Thus, through mortgage credits and construction in rural areas, projects have been thought through so that both the centre and regions will be able to increase the amount of housing they can offer the population. And without this not one federal grant will be received. In addition to this regional authorities should radically liberalize access to construction sites. This is what the President spoke about during the Council on National Projects.
It is necessary to interest business in lowering housing prices and this should take place along with developing local construction industries and improving the production of building materials. This is just one example concerning a separate project but it clearly shows that in practice we are talking about creating a full-value and almost new housing market in which housing is available and as economical as possible.
I think that by doing so we will accomplish one of the main tasks that have been incorporated into the idea of national projects since the beginning, that is the problem of changing the situation in the housing market and construction sector. Actually, regional aspects are incorporated into each national priority including the sensitive issues of monthly payments to local doctors, general practitioners, nurses that work with them, and teachers. The centre will unconditionally perform its share of the work. No one should have any doubts in this regard. However, recipients will actually receive federal financial resources at the local level. As governors you well know what is going on in each city and each population centre and can take under your personal control the extent and timeliness with which financial means are distributed.
As the projects are launched, it is necessary that they receive daily monitoring both in the regions and in the centre. The President of Russia has already drawn attention to this in his speech. As a result it is necessary to create a full-value and complex monitoring system to implement priority tasks.
I shall add that at the regional and local level working groups led by state federal inspectors will coordinate monitoring activities, and led the presidential plenipotentiary envoys’ coordination councils will do this within the federal districts. Both the law enforcement agencies and the Office of General Prosecutor will accomplish their tasks at the regional level. Here each power body and agency will have autonomity, the responsibility and the necessary resources to work with. Public control should also be involved in this, and the President just spoke of this. This is especially important since publicity and openness are two of the major principles for the realization of the projects.
We are starting to be fully engaged in forming uniform methods of monitoring so that already from the first steps we can monitor in a rational and effective way. Otherwise, there will be more controllers than other participants in the projects.
I understand that resolving these issues is very much connected with performance discipline as a whole. And more than 100 billion roubles will be allocated towards state purchases under the auspices of the projects in 2006–2007. We are simply obliged to see that each rouble spent is commercially effective.
We can achieve this level of efficiency, if we make efforts to organize work from the beginning. And this means that the purchasing activities beginning in January must fully correspond to the norms of updated federal legislation on governmental purchases and orders. It is already the regional authorities' business to provide transparent tenders and competitive procedures as well as access to available information.
As a whole, from the beginning our work should start from the general and, as a matter of fact, united financial, administrative and legal principles and approaches. This exactly constitutes a consolidation of our efforts.
Thank you for your attention.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 27, 2005, 22:10
Text versionEvents
Opening Address at the State Council Session “On Immediate Measures for the Implementation of Priority National Projects”
December 27, 2005
22:08
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, dear colleagues!
Our session is taking place literally several days before the beginning of 2006. And one of the most significant political events of this year was undoubtedly beginning to work on the highest priority questions and issues the country is confronted with, something we refer to as national projects.
As you know, this work will enter a completely new phase next year—the phase of the pragmatic realization of the most pressing issues.
In this connection, I considered it particularly important that here with you, my dear colleagues at the State Council, we discuss these basic questions, establish the means of collaboration between the agencies of federal and regional power, and thereby define precisely the forms of this cooperation. I consider this to be extremely important.
I think that you too understand that we are obliged to consolidate as much as possible our efforts so that the most essential, vital problems for people have been solved in the most effective way. These tasks, as we recall, are in the fields of education, public health services, housing, and agriculture.
A great deal of the preparatory work has already been done and important legal acts have been passed. From the first months of the coming year they will facilitate the transition to effecting various measures concerning the projects.
You know that next year we shall be spending more than 160 billion roubles on these projects. I want to point out that this impressive amount imposes on all of us a great responsibility, and requires us to work harmoniously and efficiently together.
All of us used to complain that there was never enough, never enough money. Now we have as much as we can cope with. I say again: it is necessary to spend it competently and efficiently.
We should achieve substantial results. But it is also necessary to understand — and you too are aware of this — that, for example, in order to increase the availability of housing, a significant modernization of the sector of housing construction is required. It is not enough to just allocate the money to this program; it is necessary to undertake decisive steps to improve the way the economy works as a whole and in this sector in particular.
For us it is obvious: in order for a housing program to start up in earnest, it is necessary to sort out issues related to the question of land ownership, the politics of town planning, municipal services, and access to medical care and education. We must achieve a higher level of work in these establishments and in the various branches as a whole.
From this it follows that the so-called expanded government, that is the Federal government and the governors, which are represented in this hall, should work more efficiently and more effectively — as a single corporation. And it is precisely now that this stage is beginning, when subjects of the Russian Federation should turn in earnest to practical work. It is obvious that a higher level of readiness on location will directly influence the results of efforts of all government power to accomplish the tasks under discussion today.
It is the regions together with municipalitieswho will be organizing timely financial payments. It will be necessary to coordinate closely both purchases, installing the equipment, and constructing new installations, in order to determine the recipients of additional and expensive medical services.
Certainly, the broad spectrum of such crucial problems demands a well-defined administrative system to oversee the projects and the creation of a thorough control system, a system that guarantees coordination and coherence at all stages of our work, where every link in the chain — from federal departments to establishments on location – must operate according to general principles and procedures.
I also insist that you attend assiduously to the expenditure of financial resources. The government's task is to find the most economic way to transfer these public funds to their ultimate recipients within the allotted time frame and at a minimal cost. And the state cannot begin to pay inflated prices to implement the measures related to these projects. It should not pay for the negligence of specific officials, or for their slow actions.
As far as prices are concerned, that is a special case and a special subject. Everything should be organized in the most efficient and, I repeat, the most up-to-date way, so that not a single penny is spent illicitly.
Therefore simultaneously and in parallel with the realization of the projects it is necessary to begin monitoring immediate measures already taken. Here again the major question is control over the purpose of utilization, over – let me say it straight out – the commercial effectiveness of every rouble spent. And to realize this sort of control in practice it is necessary for public control to really function—I have already spoken about this.
Dear members of the State Council!
In conclusion I shall note again that the governors directly influence the financial and economic policy of the regions. And you all know all about the ideology behind financing national projects. It does not presuppose the passive distribution of money or substituting regional and local programmes at the expense of the federal government in the fields of public health services, education, housing policy, or agriculture.
Almost two thirds of all funds allocated towards meeting the social needs of the citizens of the country are channelled through the budgets of the territories, and we are helping to resolve a lot of additional issues by virtue of financing these projects. I want to emphasize that these are additional issues. Therefore it would be wrong if substantial work in priority areas was replaced by simply profiting from subventions from the federal budget.
I hope that the Russian regions will invest their own resources in the projects and invest not only through financial means but also by efficiently organizing administrative work.
I draw your attention to the fact that the extent to which national projects are implemented effectively should become the criterion, in any event one of the major criteria, for evaluating local authorities.
I thank you for your attention and I turn the floor over to Dmitry Anatolevich Medvedev. Please go ahead.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 27, 2005, 22:08
Text versionEvents
Closing Address at the State Council Session “On Immediate Measures for the Implementation of Priority National Projects”
December 27, 2005
22:52
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Dear colleagues!
We have already worked for more than two hours. I suggest we wrap up today's meeting and this is what I would like to say in conclusion.
Over the last few years we have already spoken a great deal and very often about the various positive tendencies in the country's development and we have cited the most various figures such as GDP growth—about seven percent over the last few years, the budgetary surplus, the positive trade balance, the growth of the Central Bank's gold and foreign currency reserves, the growth of the population's real income, reducing the level of unemployment, and the number of people living below the poverty line. As a whole this bears witness to the fact that the economic policies we have chosen and followed over the last few years are justified and lead to positive outcomes.
At the same time, and here I think you agree with me, very little has been accomplished. And we can and should do a great deal more. Unfortunately, up to now too many of our citizens live with difficulty and we must honestly say that they do not directly feel the positive results of the domestic economy's development. We should never, not for a single minute, forget about this.
Any authority either at the federal level, that of the region, or that of the municipality should benefit from the people's trust. We can only receive this by showing the concrete results of our work. And so that people can feel these results and really perceive them they must not be in abstract figures, on TV, or in the newspapers; they should feel it in their pocket, in the quality of medical services they receive, in the field of education, in their apartments and in their houses.
You know that according to a number of economic and political reasons, in certain cases we are repaying the state's external debts ahead of schedule. National projects are in a sense repaying the debts owed to citizens ahead of time.
Development in the social sphere planned within the national projects is stipulated to provide means for these goals ahead of times. Certainly, these plans are imperfect and demand special attention both from the Government and the heads of regions. Moreover, these plans imply certain dangers concerning keeping to main principles of economic development, macroeconomic indicators and inflation, and I therefore ask that a great deal of attention be devoted to this issue. But along with this the signal given by our policies' priorities is absolutely clear. The basis of these policies is the citizen of the Russian Federation, a person with real needs and demands, and a living standard; it is thus necessary to pay the utmost attention to attending to his vital needs with the plan we are developing today. This is our fundamental priority. And this is the purpose of economic growth that we are striving for together.
I very much ask that both the federal Government and the heads of the regions to respond to this in the most serious way and I count on your effective teamwork.
Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 27, 2005, 22:52
Text version