Events
Beginning of Meeting with Prime Minister of Thailand Thaksin Shinawatra
December 13, 2005
22:54
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
President Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister,
I would like to begin by saying how happy I am with the way relations between our two countries are developing.
First, we are preparing to sign a five-year cooperation plan and we have quite ambitious plans for expanding our trade and economic cooperation.
Second, today’s signing of the agreement on visa-free travel for our citizens creates good conditions for contacts between people and for developing tourism. Last year, 100,000 Russian tourists visited Thailand.
I already expressed our condolences over the victims of the tsunami. Now I would like to congratulate you on the speed with which your government has overcome the consequences of this disaster.
I am sure that tourism will bring Thailand considerable revenue, including from tourists from the Russian Federation.
Prime Minister of Thailand Thaksin Shinawatra (translated from Russian): Thank you very much, Mr President.
I am very grateful to you for finding the time to meet with me at such a late hour – I know, after all, that you are very busy.
I think that our meeting and in particular the signing of the agreement [on visa-free travel] are a historic event and will remain in our memories for a long time to come.
First, because they are taking place at such a late hour and second, because we have managed to accomplish this in such a short time. After all, we first raised this issue only a about a-month-and-a-half ago.
This is yet more evidence of how effective the Russian government has become under your presidency.
We welcome tourism in both directions. I think that the new conditions now in place will see more entrepreneurs and businesspeople from Thailand heading to Russia.
I remember my first official visit to Russia in 2003. At that time, bilateral trade between our countries came to $800 million. I know that during the Soviet years we had a trade figure of around $1.7 billion.
At that time I set myself the goal of bringing our trade up to that level within five years. Now we are witnesses to the fact that in just two years we have already exceeded this figure.
Now we have set ourselves the goal of increasing our bilateral trade figure to $5 billion over the next five years. I think we will succeed in reaching this goal earlier.
Vladimir Putin: This will be only to the benefit of our economies and our peoples.
I also remember my visit to your country and the warm hospitality you showed us there. I ask you to pass on my very best wishes to His Majesty the King. I think we will have the pleasure of receiving you and His Majesty again in Russia.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 13, 2005, 22:54
Text versionEvents
Beginning of Meeting with Prime Minister of Singapore Lee Hsien Loong
December 13, 2005
21:51
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
President Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister,
I am happy to have this chance to meet you once again. By way of self-criticism I must say that, although we have not taken serious and significant steps to develop our relations as we should have, they are developing nevertheless. At any rate, our business communities are working together and our relations are growing all the time in the economic and financial sectors.
I wanted to thank you, Mr Prime Minister, for your interest in our plans to develop free economic zones. I know, as everyone knows well, that Singapore has a lot of experience in developing free economic zones. Our colleagues are meeting quite regularly to discuss this area and I hope that our cooperation in this area will not just be consultative but will result in practical projects being realised, taking into account your business community’s interests in developing relations with the Russian Federation.
Prime Minister of Singapore Lee Hsien Loong (translated from Russian): Mr President,
I am very pleased to meet with you and I thank you for being able to meet me, even though I know that you arrived here only a short time ago and have a very busy schedule.
As you rightly noted, our bilateral relations indeed are developing, even though you and I have not the opportunity to meet personally until today.
But our business community representatives are meeting and are developing relations among themselves for the common good. I can also note the contacts that have taken place between your minister, Mr Gref, and my minister and deputy for economic and education affairs, Lee Ban Yew.
In particular, there were many meetings with business representatives during the visit. We hope that these contacts and meetings will continue and that our discussions will help us to better understand your priorities and your vision of the possibilities for developing our relations and our mutual prospects.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 13, 2005, 21:51
Text version