Events
Speech at Meeting Marking the 250th Anniversary of M.V. Lomonosov Moscow State University
January 25, 2005
10:51
M.V. Lomonosov Moscow State University Fundamental Library, Vorobyovy Gory, Moscow
President Putin: Above all, I address myself to you, students, graduate students and teachers of the university and, of course, I congratulate you on this occasion, the 250th anniversary of Moscow State University. This is a great event not only in the higher education world but in the country’s life in general. It was not just coincidence that the university was founded in the eighteenth century: Russia at that time was on the rise and needed new people and new knowledge to aid the country’s development.
We are going through a similar development period today. Today, just as when the university was founded, we need new knowledge and new people, we have great need of them for our development and for Russia’s future.
I would be revealing no great secret by saying that the rector of St. Petersburg University came to see me yesterday. In Petersburg they have their own ideas and there is a debate going on there as to who is first and who is second. I discussed this historical problem with the rector, but the fact is that from the moment of its founding Moscow University has been one of the most outstanding symbols of Russia. And it is above all the people who have studied, taught and carried out creative and scientific work here who have made it such a symbol.
It was very good to see what development plans are in store for the university. And to have built this magnificent building in just a year! I agree with the rector and I think it is fair to say that this is one of the best libraries in the world, both for its outward appearance and for its contents: 55,000 square metres, 5 million volumes, excellent equipment and working conditions. But even more important is that the university has a bright future before it and excellent development plans. We have just seen what is planned for coming years and it really is very impressive, and this is a very good thing.
Now I would like to come back to what I said before about the need for knowledge and the people who are bearers of this knowledge. You will no doubt have questions. There are, of course, many problems, but the fact that knowledge can be formed and become a factor in developing production is very clear. Despite all the debates, and if there are any economists present they will know what I am talking about, we have come to the conclusion that the state should provide direct support for the development of high technology and education – direct state support. We will pursue this policy with firm commitment. Of course, this can only be done by working with scientific and educational centres such as Moscow State University. I know that you have already had a technology park up and running effectively for several years now. This is a very good example for other universities in the country. As far as I know, this project has already had a turnover of several tens of millions of dollars. This is an excellent example.
I wish you every success.
Once again, I congratulate on this holiday.
All the best!
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: January 25, 2005, 10:51
Direct link: en.kremlin.ru/d/22796
Text versionEvents
Press Statement after the Conclusion of Russian-Syrian Talks
January 25, 2005
17:28
Moscow, Kremlin
President Putin: Ladies and Gentlemen,
First of all I would like once more to welcome our dear friend, Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. This is the first visit by our guest to Russia, and I am sure that the talks will be a milestone in bilateral relations, and will open a new page in these relations.
Our peoples are linked by many years of true sympathy towards each other, and this is an important, reliable foundation for partnership built on the principles of equal rights, mutual respect and trust in each other.
Today, President al-Assad and I held talks that were rich in contents, and in my view they were also rich in results. Their main result was the signing of the declaration on further deepening of relations of friendship and cooperation. I am certain that this declaration will open new possibilities for business ties and cultural exchanges, for the development of direct contact between our citizens.
During the meeting, we discussed a wide range of issues of bilateral cooperation. Above all, this concerned the development of trade and economic ties between our countries. Syria and Russia have a rich experience of cooperation in successful realisation of major projects, but the current level of trade and economic turnover cannot of course satisfy us: it is, in our opinion, at an extremely low level.
We have positive tendencies in the economic sphere – the task is to strengthen these positive tendencies. Above all, this concerns traditional areas of cooperation for our countries such as hydroenergy, oil and gas production and transport construction. I expect that the Russian-Syrian business council founded last year will further enrich bilateral cooperation with new projects and the establishment of direct contacts.
During our talks we solved the issue of Syria’s debt obligations to the Russian Federation, on a compromise basis that is acceptable for both countries, which creates good conditions for trade and economic relations in the future.
During our talks we discussed a wide range of issues of the international agenda. I would like to stress that our countries are in favour of forming a stable, democratic world order, a world order that is based on the principles of international law, excluding pressure or interference in the internal affairs of sovereign nations.
One of the central topics of the meeting was the situation in the Middle East. We welcome Syria’s readiness for political dialogue with Israel, is readiness to renew talks without preliminary conditions. We are both of the opinion that peace in the Middle East can be durable only if it is of a universal nature. This regulation should be guided by a commonly accepted international legal form, on the according resolutions of the UN Security Council and the Madrid principles.
Serious attention was given to the Palestinian issue. Like our Syrian partners, we support the aims of the new leadership of the autonomy, headed by Mahmud Abbas, to find political regulation with Israel. This goal will also be achieved by the “road map” developed by the group of four and ratified by the UN Security Council. I am sure that observing its statues by all sides is a real path to renewing the peace process.
Looking at the situation in Iraq, we noted that the international community must activate its efforts in establishing peaceful life in this country. Among the most important priorities are restoring the economy and the social infrastructure of Iraq. In this area, both Russia and Syria could contribute to realising joint projects.
During our talks we also talked about uniting our efforts in fighting terrorism. We believe it is expedient to widen the interaction of special services and departments, and also defence ministries.
We thank Syria for its position in realising the resolution of the Organisation of the Islamic Conference in giving Russia the status of observer.
In conclusion, I would like to thank President al-Assad for this constructive and trusting talk. I am certain that relations between Russia and Syria will continue to work in the interests of our people, and serve to strengthen peace and stability in the Middle East as a whole.
Thank you for your attention.
Bashar al-Assad: Mr. President, this visit is taking place within the historic relations between our countries, which will work to strengthen these relations in all areas, and which have come through the dramatic events of the last two years, which gave even greater stimulus to these relations.
Our talks took place in a very good, friendly atmosphere, and all the issues were discussed that were of mutual interest: regional, international and bilateral.
As for our bilateral relations, they should be built on the principles of mutual respect and interest. And an agreement was reached that these relations will be built on mutual benefit. We also reached a solution to a long-standing issue – Syria’s debt to Russia, which will give a stimulus to our economic ties.
A number of agreements were also signed, particularly in the energy sphere. The issue of creating a free economic zone was discussed, and an agreement was reached to continue discussion of this issue in future. This issue will be discussed with experts from both sides. A statement was signed which will organise all these issues in future.
There was wide discussion of peaceful regulation in the Middle East, and paths to achieving peace in our region. We stressed that the hindrances that hold up the peace process in the Middle East will ultimately affect all the countries of this region. And this will further raise the level of violence and undermine the foundations of stability in the region. We stressed the necessity to cooperation in solving the Middle East issue on the basis of the Madrid Convention and UN Security Council resolutions № 242 and 138, and other international resolutions. Plus the principle “peace in exchange for land”, plus the Arab peace initiative that was advanced in Beirut in 2002. We stressed the necessity to continue talks without any conditions, which could lead to a universal fair solution, the withdrawal of Israeli troops from all Arab lands occupied since 1967, and the creation of a Palestinian state with the capital of Al-Kuds (Jerusalem). We stressed the necessity for the Middle East to be fully cleared of weapons of mass destruction.
As for Iraq, we stressed the necessity to maintain the integrity of Iraq and its national identity, and agreed to support the political process that is currently going on there, including elections – stressing the necessity for all sections of the Iraqi people to take part.
As for the international situation, we agreed that peace should be more active, and that other countries should work more actively in this field, and support the role of the UN for maintaining peace all over the world. At the same time, we believe that the UN requires reform to all its structures.
We discussed terrorism and are prepared to fight it. We have the same opinion about where the root of this disease lies, and how to treat it.
In conclusion, we express our support of Mr. Putin’s policies, which support the active presence of Russia on the world stage. We also thank Russia for supporting our just rights.
Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: January 25, 2005, 17:28
Text versionEvents
Beginning of Enlarged Russian-Syrian Talks
January 25, 2005
17:25
Moscow, Kremlin
President Putin: Dear Mr President,
Dear colleagues,
I am very glad to welcome the Syrian delegation to Moscow, headed by President Bashar al-Assad, who is worthily continuing the glorious traditions of his father, President Hafez al-Assad. Hafez al-Assad was a great friend of our people and our country, he was a political figure of international scale. And I would like to stress that at the one-to-one talk with the President of Syria, Mr. Bashar al-Assad once more showed that the warm relations of friendship between our peoples and countries, which have a long tradition, have been maintained and have good prospects.
On our part, we are firmly resolved to continue on the path of developing fruitful and mutually beneficial cooperation both on the bilateral level, and in continuing our efforts together with the international community, with our partners, on regulating the situation in the region as a whole. We also expect fruitful joint work with our Syrian partners.
Welcome!
Bashar al-Asad: Thank you very much, Mr President. You talked of the historical side of our relations: we are still feeling this historical unity, because there are tens of thousands of graduates from your country in Syria who occupy key positions both in the economy and administration. We also have major fundamental projects which Russia has taken part in, and of course is currently taking part in, with your assistance.
The goal of this visit is to solve certain tasks of developing our relaitons.
Your country is very influential on the international stage. We highly value your position, and we have common, coordinated interests. We look to the future of economic and trade relations, and hope that they reach the political level that exists between us.
Naturally, there are several issues that we could discuss, but first of all I would like to stress the importance of the agreements that we signed today.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: January 25, 2005, 17:25
Text version