Events
Transcript Excerpts from the Enlarged Session of the International State Council of the Eurasian Economic Community
June 22, 2005
23:20
Great Kremlin Palace, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: In previous years we discussed at length and in considerable detail the possibility of making the work of the EurAsEC financial structure more dynamic, but recently there has not been serious progress on this issue, unfortunately.
At the proposal of the Kazakhstan President, Russia and Kazakhstan agreed to create a Russian-Kazakhstan investment bank with a nominal capital of $1.5 billion. And this work has reached its final stage. Several days ago, at the Finance Ministry of the Russian Federation, there was a meeting at high expert level, and almost all documents, including the charter of this financial organisation, were agreed upon.
We agreed that the Russian-Kazakhstan investment bank would have its headquarters in Almaty. The head of this organisation will be a Russian citizen, and a branch will also be opened in Petersburg. This is not a closed organisation. It will be open to shareholders from other countries, above all members of the EurAsEC. It is proposed that it will work throughout all the post-Soviet area, but primarily it will provide for economic activity in the EurAsEC. We proceed from the assumption that by the end of the year, at the latest in December this year, this bank will be able to begin work.
I am informing you of this and offer you to familiarise yourself with the documents prepared by our experts, to determine in what time frame and in what volume you could join the work of this organisation.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 22, 2005, 23:20
Text versionEvents
Beginning of a Meeting with Tajikistan President Emomali Rakhmonov
June 22, 2005
21:49
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Dear Emomali Sharipovich,
Let me wish you a warm welcome once more; I am very happy to see you.
I must say that practically all the plans, all the tasks which we have set ourselves are being carried out.
Last year trade turnover between us grew by 30%. As far as I know, work is also underway on realising major investment projects. I consider our cooperation in the military and military equipment spheres to be no less important. We agreed to create a Russian military base, and as far as I am aware, work is also proceeding in the right direction.
There are also probably some problematic issues.
I am very glad to see you, and I hope that we will also use this time for work in the framework of our integration associations and discuss bilateral relations, the ones that I already indicated and all others which you consider necessary for discussion today and tomorrow.
Emomali Rakhmonov: Thank you very much, Vladimir Vladimirovich.
For Tajikistan, Russia is a natural strategic partner and ally.
We are generally satisfied with the level of cooperation, since, as you already noted, after your official visit the agreements that were signed in Dushanbe in the area of developing hydro-electric engineering, non-ferrous metallurgy and other areas are developing successfully.
Official construction of Sanktuda-1 has begun, and design of the Rogun hydroelectric station is underway. In October this year an official consortium will be announced, and despite this, 25 million will be already invested this year in the construction of the Rogun hydroelectric station.
As for cooperation in the military equipment sphere, full mutual understanding exists between our defence ministries. Our law-enforcement bodies are working actively in this area – in fighting extremism, especially in fighting drug trafficking.
There are almost no serious issues concerning creation of a Russian military base in Tajikistan. On 24 June there will be a meeting of the CIS Council of Defence Ministers, and Sergei Borisovich [Ivanov] will be present, and we will have another meeting.
We are pleased that there are virtually no unresolved issues remaining between our countries. Of course, as is usual for every ministry and department, there are some nuances, but this can be resolved.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 22, 2005, 21:49
Text version