Events
Concluding Remarks at the Enlarged Board of the Russian General Prosecutor’s Office
January 21, 2005
00:00
Moscow
President Putin: First of all I would like to make a small remark on what Vladimir Petrovich [Lukin] said. He said that we should only look after people who live honestly, and there is no point in looking after the rest.
I hope that this does not at least apply to the head of state, because both law-abiding citizens and those who unfortunately sometimes break norms of morality or the law do not have any other President. I expect that the duties of the human rights representatives also include observing the interests of those who have broken the law, but who nevertheless need attention from public organisations and the state.
As for the speech by the General Prosecutor, I would like to thank Vladimir Vasil’evich [Ustinov] for his thorough report. In his speech, he quoted one of our literary classics, who asked who is more important in Russia: a university professor, minister or policeman? As we heard, the preference was given to the last of the three.
You know, if this was the case in Russia in the past, now I would like to say: in modern society, in the modern state –at any rate, in one that expects to have a future and wants to have a future, the main priority and the main figure is the citizen – a person who is absolutely liberated and free regardless of where he lives and what he does, a person who feels capable of realising his best qualities, a person who is free, but at the same time is certain of the solidity of state institutions.
Judging from the analyses that we heard today, we are still a long way from solving this task, but I am certain that we are capable of solving it. And in achieving this goal, the most important role is played by you, the people in this hall today, all the employees of the prosecutor’s office of the Russian Federation.
I would like to wish you a Happy New Year, and wish you success.
Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: January 21, 2005, 00:00
Text versionEvents
Speech at the Enlarged Board of the Russian General Prosecutor’s Office
January 21, 2005
00:00
Moscow
President Putin: Good afternoon, dear colleagues,
In January 2004, at the concluding meeting of the General Prosecutor’s board we talked about the priorities for 2004. As you remember, we discussed tasks of primary importance, and also paths to modernise the prosecutor’s office in order to increase the effectiveness of work in the conditions of the new procedural status. An important issue was overcoming narrowly specialised departmental approaches in the work of the law-enforcement bodies, and increasing the coordinating role and functions of the prosecutor’s office.
I think that today we also need to analyse what has been fulfilled, and to make the necessary conclusions for the future. I expect that an open discussion like last year will also be held by us today.
As the previous period showed, the main task of prosecutors remains ensuring supremacy of the law and constantly observing it. And above all in the sphere of protecting citizens’ rights, their security and the legitimate interests of the state and society.
Just as they were a year ago, important areas of work remain opposing terrorism and extremism, fighting organised crime and the drug threat, and protecting the business environment from criminal and corruption pressure.
It is clear that the General Prosecutor’s office, as the coordinating centre, has the authority and the necessary resources to ensure efficient interaction of all elements of the law-enforcement system. I must stress right away that society’s trust in your work and the law-enforcement bodies as a whole depends a great deal on the success of solving this system task.
As you know, an entire series of terrorist acts organised and carried out last year by international criminal groups showed the necessity for serious reorganisation of state activity in the security sphere. And citizens of our country, citizens of Russia, expect specific actions from the authorities, both in detecting and punishing criminals, and in organising effective protection of their rights to a safe life.
Today it is not only strategically necessary to effectively oppose acts of terror themselves, but also to establish a system of prediction and analysis work, and act in advance. It is necessary to detect areas where potential conflict situations arise which are used by the ideologists of terrorism and extremism to inflame national and religious discord.
We must be especially thorough in criminal prosecution of individuals, including those abroad, who are involved in terrorist acts and in organising them. We must do this strictly observing the norms of criminal and procedural legislation, correctly using international law.
The war on drugs is one of the priorities today. We must admit that number of crimes connected with the circulation and use of drugs continues to grow.
At the same time, the rate of finding drug dealers and bringing them to justice still remains extremely low. I know that there are positive improvements in this area, especially after the formation of a special body to fight drugs, but there are still more problems than there are solutions.
I must say that not everywhere have prosecutors in the regions been able to carry out prosecutor supervision and investigation in tasks of preventing and fighting this dangerous crime.
We need to make higher demands on the actual quality of investigative and supervisory actions of the prosecutor’s office on drug crimes. This fully applies to investigative work on latent crimes connected with the laundering of shadow capital, bribe-taking and abuse of official positions.
Dear colleagues,
A key area in the action of the prosecutor’s bodies – from the General Prosecutor’s office to regional prosecutor’s offices – remains protecting the rights and freedoms of citizens of the Russian Federation.
Many complaints continue to be filed against employers not observing labour legislation. These violations account for around 60% of the total number of violations in the social sphere.
It is your direct obligation to react to them immediately. And if necessary, to press both administrative and criminal charges against those responsible.
It is also necessary to increase supervision of the implementation of legislation in the Russian Armed Forces. Constant control is needed in realisation of social guarantees for soldiers, and preservation of military property and funds allocated to defence.
Particular attention should be given to realisation of the mortgage system legislation for providing soldiers with housing.
On the whole, work must be continued on developing the legislative base, both at a federal and regional level. The prosecutor’s office must state its own position on all projects linked with opposing crime, ensuring national security and protecting the interests of citizens.
A clear positive example in this sense in monitoring the application of the Criminal and procedural code passed in 2001. As a result of joint work by several ministries, three federal laws were prepared and passed, removing the gaps, internal contradictions and ambiguous interpretations of individual statutes of the Codex.
In conclusion, I would like to stress that today almost half of the prosecutor’s office body are young people, aged up to 30. And it is extremely important to create conditions for their secure position and professional growth.
Young prosecutors have a good example to emulate. At all times, the best prosecutors stood out for their impartiality, objectivity, and honest service to Law and Duty. And I am certain that these principles remain correct guidelines for current and future generations of your colleagues.
The prosecutor’s office embodies the power and justice of the state. It is one of the most mightyl and influential sections of our law-enforcement system. You have been entrusted with supervising the observation of the Constitution, and execution of the law throughout the entire territory of our country.
I am sure that you well understand that the approaches and practice of the work of the prosecutor’s office must fully match the nature of modern challenges and threats, and be adequate to all national tasks faced by Russia, and which are solved by our people.
Thank you very much for your attention.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: January 21, 2005, 00:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with the Defence and Foreign Affairs Ministers of Russia and France
January 21, 2005
12:23
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Dear colleagues, allow me to wish you a warm welcome to Moscow. It makes me very happy that the council [on cooperation on security matters] set up on the French President’s initiative is working actively. I spoke with the President on the telephone just two days ago and we discussed in some detail our bilateral relations and our work together on the international stage.
I know that over the course of today’s work and during day-to-day activities many questions arise that are no doubt more effectively resolved together.
So once again, welcome. It gives me great pleasure to see you and have the chance to talk to you today, to hear your views on the results of today’s meetings and discuss our future cooperation.
French Defence Minister Michele Alliot-Marie: Mr President, please allow Mr Michel Barnier and myself to greet you and to say that it is a great honour for us to be here, and for my part, I am very happy to meet with you once again.
Regarding the message sent by our President, I think you have already the chance to see it – I spoke to him about this. As for my meeting with [Russian Defence Minister] Sergei Ivanov, we know each other very well, we work very well together and I think we have established very warm and trusting relations. I am very happy that our work with Mr Ivanov began in the wonderful city of St. Petersburg. I know you are very attached to this city and our meeting there gave us the opportunity to discuss all different aspects of our military cooperation.
We can see that our work is making progress. We held 24 joint operations in 2004. It is very important that our cooperation continue to develop, and this goes for naval cooperation and for cooperation between our air and land forces.
Regarding arms, our advanced level of industry enables us to develop our cooperation and I can name one area in which we could work together – that of unmanned aircraft. We have, therefore, a wide range of possibilities for working together.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much, Madam Minister. I wanted precisely to ask you your opinion on our work together in the aviation sector, and in particular regarding the unmanned aircraft project. We have a number of promising projects, including one to build a heavy helicopter based on a helicopter already being produced here in Russia – the Mi-26, I think. Now we should probably ask your colleague, the Foreign Minister, to say a few words on the outcome of today’s meeting.
French Foreign Minister Michel Barnier: Mr President, I will say a few words, of course, but I first wanted to thank you for sparing us some of your time. I also want to say that the “two plus two” format you proposed for our meeting – I think it was a format proposed both by our President and by yourself – is unique.
I am very happy to see you again. Last time we met I was not yet foreign minister but was still a European Union commissioner and represented Mr Prodi in St. Petersburg at the session of the Baltic Sea Council. I think that today’s meeting has taken place at a very important time for relations between Russia, France and the European Union and we hope that by the time the summit comes, that is, by May, when the European Union-Russia summit is to take place, the question of the four common spaces will be settled.
You yourself mentioned that we have many reasons for working together. I am thinking here of the various conflicts and crises and so on, but also, of course, of the main threat and struggle, that of the fight against terrorism. Furthermore, I have been working a great deal with [Russian Foreign Minister] Sergei Lavrov. I think we have been working in harmony in order to hold what are very delicate and complex negotiations with Iran so as to persuade that country to renounce nuclear proliferation. I also think that the very close relations that exist between Russia and France and between Russia and the European Union will give us the chance to focus also on another conflict, the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, that I think is at the centre of our attention, and here, of course, the United States also has its part to play. I think we are all concerned about this question and should make every effort within the quartet of Russia, the European Union, the united States and the United Nations. I very much hope that 2005 will become a year of peace. It is our common responsibility to make it so.
I think that aside from this question the issue of Iran will also be on the agenda. I think this is a very important issue that you will have the opportunity to discuss when you meet as a foursome with German Chancellor Schroeder, French President Chirac and Spanish Prime Minister Zapatero.
Defence Minister Sergei Ivanov: We have indeed held very fruitful talks in St. Petersburg yesterday with Michel Barnier and today as a foursome. Regarding military-technical cooperation, I would just like to add one thing, and that is that we have good prospects for cooperation in the area of space research and exploration in the broadest sense of the term.
As for our talks today, we concentrated on discussing prospects for developing our cooperation in the area of the European Union’s and Russia’s external security, a basket of issues that will be examined at the summit in May. I gave our partners a detailed report on the situation in the North Caucasus regarding security and anti-terrorist measures. As well as the political, social and economic measures we are currently taking in the North Caucasus, we also discussed the situation in the hot spots, in Afghanistan, Iraq and the Iranian nuclear problem. Regarding Afghanistan, we also looked at the situation following the attempted terrorist act committed yesterday against one of the Uzbek leaders there.
Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov: We did indeed hold a very fruitful council session and the bilateral meetings between our countries’ foreign and defence ministers were also very useful. Aside from the subjects my colleagues have already mentioned, we also agreed on specific joint mechanisms for working on such important issues as reform of the United Nations and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, and the need to work out how we can improve the quality and level of cooperation within the Russia-NATO Council to better achieve the objectives set out by the Rome Declaration. So, we have begun joint, applied, analytical studies and we will inform President Chirac and yourself on our proposals.
Vladimir Putin: Dear colleagues, I would like to note that Russia places great importance on developing relations with France. France is not just a priority partner for us but is a partner with whom we are building very trusting relations and with whom we want to develop these relations both in the economy and in the area of international security. Our views on developments in the world coincide in many respects and in this context I think that the work carried out by our defence and foreign minister and the coordination of efforts to find solutions to these common problems is of great importance.
We can talk about all of this in more detail.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: January 21, 2005, 12:23
Text version