Events
Introductory Remarks at Meeting on Economic Issues
October 26, 2005
19:18
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, dear colleagues.
At this meeting on economic issues today I would like to come back to the subject I raised at the meeting with the Government Cabinet on Monday, namely the need to draw up a package of anti-inflation measures aimed at maintaining our economic policy on the course that has already enabled us to obtain some very good economic results over the last five years.
I think you will agree with me that terms such as strengthening the rouble’s real exchange rate and other macroeconomic indicators are perfectly clear and familiar to any specialist, but they are a lot less clear for the general public. But that inflation is eating into people’s real incomes and that rising prices are undermining the economic foundations of Russian families are things that everyone understands perfectly well.
I would like to note that over recent years we have managed to consistently slow down the pace of inflation, and not only slow it down but also lower the inflation rate. We began this work practically as the same team five years ago, and at that time, after [the financial crisis of] 1998, inflation jumped up to 40 percent in 1999. Today we are holding it in check at around 10–11 percent. If it were not for the Central Bank and the government taking energetic measures to keep inflation in check in a situation where we have a large flow of petrodollars into our economy, the result would be worse.
I would also like to note that the government and the Central Bank clearly saw and anticipated the developments on world markets and forecast the Russian economy’s development. Nevertheless, an inflation target of 8.5 percent was set for this year and it is already clear now that we will not manage to meet this target. Overall, however, I do want to say that I view positively the efforts made by the Central Bank and the government to rein in inflation, but I think these measures are not enough.
This is why I said at the meeting with the Cabinet on Monday that the measures that have been taken so far are insufficient. We need to reflect on what we can do as a complex series of measures, making use of the administrative possibilities of the government, the Central Bank and the parliament in order to resolve this task. We need work out what we can do together to ensure stable development for our economy in the near future and the medium term and be able to give Russian citizens confidence.
So, let us now discuss this subject, and of course we will also discuss all the other related issues that can ensure we resolve this task.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 26, 2005, 19:18
Text versionEvents
Introductory Remarks at Meeting with the Participants in the Council of Heads of Government of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation Member States
October 26, 2005
19:01
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, dear friends and colleagues.
Allow me to wish you a warm welcome. I am very glad that you have decided to choose the Russian capital for your meeting to discuss political and economic cooperation between the members of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation.
We will be celebrating the fifth anniversary of the organisation’s founding in 2006. I would like to note that over this time all of us, all the members of this organisation, have worked very hard to fulfil the objectives set at the moment of the organisation’s creation. Having fulfilled its initial tasks and reached the original goals that were set, the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation has begun expanding its activities far beyond the scope of its initially declared missions.
I would like to welcome not only the heads of government of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation member states but also the heads of delegations representing countries that have expressed a desire to work with the organisation and that have observer status at this point in time, namely Iran, Pakistan, India and Mongolia.
The total population of the member countries and the observer states comes to more than three billion people. This means that, meeting in this format, the leaders of these states, the heads of government of our countries, make decisions that have an impact on the social and economic wellbeing of the vast majority of people on our planet. This in itself is a significant factor in international politics.
The process of developing mechanisms for working together and resolving practical tasks has taken the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation to a completely new level of cooperation. I would draw your attention to the objectives set out at the organisation’s summit in Astana and also to the fact that economic cooperation is becoming an increasingly important part of our organisation’s work.
At the same time, we remain committed to our focus on the very important part of our cooperation that is ensuring the security of our citizens. In this respect I must say a few words about the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation’s efforts aimed at combating terrorism. The organisation has set up special structures to work on these most complex and important tasks facing practically all civilised nations today. We have established a regional anti-terrorist organisation based in Tashkent. A number of events, including in Shanghai Cooperation Organisation member states – I am referring to the events in Uzbekistan and the recent events in Nalchik in the Russian Federation – show that these tasks and this issue is very relevant indeed and call for our attention.
I think that you will agree with me that if we want to find effective solutions to the problems we face, we also need to pay due attention to humanitarian cooperation, that is, cooperation in the areas of culture and education.
Regarding the economic component of our cooperation, I would like to draw your particular attention to the question of developing relations in the financial sector. The Russian Federation welcomes the plans that the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation has formulated in this area. I am referring to the plans for boosting cooperation between financial and banking institutions and the planned Eurasian Economic Forum.
Once again I would like to say how pleased we are that you are meeting here in Moscow. I would like to welcome the organisation’s executive secretary and our old friend, Mr Zhang Deguan, who worked for a long time as ambassador of the People’s Republic of China to Russia. I think we should all help the executive secretary to ensure that the organisation functions effectively and increases the intensiveness and results of its work. We should all help him also to ensure that the international community and the citizens of our countries receive prompt and full information on the work the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation is doing to stabilise the situation in our countries, in our region and in the world.
We are working for this stability in order to ensure international security, in order to make the necessary contribution to economic development in the world and in order to resolve social issues and improve the quality of life of our peoples.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 26, 2005, 19:01
Text versionEvents
Beginning of Meeting with Premier of the State Council of the People’s Republic of China Wen Jiabao
October 26, 2005
17:33
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Dear Mr Premier, dear colleagues, allow me to wish you a warm welcome.
I am very glad that we have the opportunity to meet again, this time in the Russian capital. There is a very good reason for your visit to our country: the meeting of the Council of Heads of Government of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation member states. This organisation is developing rapidly and gaining ever greater political weight in the world. I am sure that you will also make use of this opportunity to discuss bilateral Russian-Chinese relations.
Our trade and economic ties are growing and are expanding all the time. We are very pleased to see this and we sure that we have not yet reached the limit. President Hu Jintao and I have spoken about this on many occasions.
Premier Wen Jiabao (translated from Russian): This year we expect a very good result for bilateral trade.
Vladimir Putin: Yes.
Wen Jiabao: We hope that our bilateral trade will exceed the $28-billion mark this year.
Vladimir Putin: I share this same hope, all the more so as all the right conditions are in place now through the work that has been done over recent years to develop relations between our two countries.
We are very happy to see you here in Moscow.
Wen Jiabao: First of all, I would like to thank you, Mr President, for finding the time for a separate meeting with myself and my colleagues. On behalf of President Hu Jintao, I would like to pass on to you his warmest greetings.
I am also ready to make use of this opportunity and to make our bilateral relations the main subject of attention during our meeting today. This is a matter both strategic and practical in character. I also share the view that our economic ties are an important foundation for bilateral relations between China and Russia.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 26, 2005, 17:33
Text version