Events
Working Meeting with President of Interros Company Vladimir Potanin
December 15, 2005
16:56
Bocharov Ruchei, Sochi
President Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, Vladimir Olegovich. I’m ready to listen to what you have to say.
Vladimir Potanin: Good afternoon, Vladimir Vladimirovich. I would like to share a few thoughts with you on the country’s economic development as seen through the companies that are part of our group. This could perhaps be a good illustration of the situation, given that we change as circumstances change. We now have new opportunities for making investments and one of the main features of the last few years is that the companies we created at the beginning of 2000 are gradually growing stronger and developing. The most successful among them are now going public. In particular, our company Open Investments, which works in the real estate sector, became a public company last year. Two more companies in our group will become public companies this year and next year. One works in the gold-mining sector and the other is Rosbank, which is also a part of our group. We hope that this will enable us to improve conditions for attracting investment to our companies. Talking about Rosbank in particular, I think this subject is close to you, as you met yesterday with bankers…
Vladimir Putin: Yes, the director of Rosbank was at the meeting yesterday.
Vladimir Potanin: I hope he didn’t let our group down.
Vladimir Putin: He had some good ideas and made concrete proposals.
Vladimir Potanin: Rosbank is actively developing its retail banking network at the moment so as to make banking services more accessible. We are also working actively on consumer loans. Consumer loans accorded now come to more than $1 billion, and around two million people have already taken out loans at Rosbank. Other banks are seeing this same trend. Our bank is one of the fastest in developing mortgage loans programmes for the population, although we have made loans for only $50 million so far. This is due to various legislative and other problems that we have set out for you in detail. I am not saying anything new here, but I simply wanted to tell you that we are interested in and committed to developing this sector and putting additional resources into it. I think therefore that if we manage to settle all the technical problems that come up, this will benefit our entire banking system by opening it up more so that the population can make use of the services it provides.
Vladimir Putin: At the meeting yesterday the banking community representatives were active in discussing and defending their position regarding different options for opening up our market to foreign banking capital. What is your view on this issue?
Vladimir Potanin: I think that strong companies, strong banks, are born through competition, and so we should not be afraid of opening our market. I think that the decision you supported yesterday, namely that we invite foreign banks to enter our market not through opening branches but through creating their subsidiaries here, is a very fair decision. Creating subsidiary banks would mean that the foreign banks establish a subsidiary company in Russia, give it the capital it needs and hire staff, and this will create new jobs and bring in new tax revenue. This is a normal situation and we will work with these new banks on the full scale.
Vladimir Putin: In other words, these subsidiaries will be Russian legal entities and will be subject to Russian legislation.
Vladimir Potanin: I think this is very important. To take the example of our group, I can say that our foreign partners have great respect for the rules that are being set here and are ready to follow them. Furthermore, the information they will have to provide must be stable and transparent.
Vladimir Putin: We already have a fair number of banks here with 100-percent foreign capital, and they feel quite at home here and are creating a normal competitive environment in the Russian market.
Vladimir Potanin: I think it is in our interests to develop a normal competitive environment. The decisions taken are entirely justified and have been understood correctly by our foreign partners.
Vladimir Putin: We will continue to support not only our own businesses working in the banking services sector, but also Western capital, foreign capital, that has been entering our market and working very successfully here for many years now. I hope that this will create precisely the competitive environment we need in order to develop this sector in general.
How is your business abroad progressing? I remember that you had some good projects.
Vladimir Potanin: Yes, the platinum metals production project with which we began our international activity in the United States is developing well and the company has approximately doubled its results since then. Our U.S. partners and the U.S. authorities have unexpectedly discovered that Russian investors can work quite well on the U.S. market and that we have all the tools required for normal work on this market. Our next objective is to develop our business in neighbouring countries, in particular in Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan. I would like to ask for your support on this issue because, although this is a completely commercial project, we feel more comfortable entering new markets, more assured somehow, when we know we have the state’s backing.
Vladimir Putin: In that case, set out the concrete details of your plans and what kind of support it is you need. I will, of course, speak with my colleagues, with the Presidents of Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan, and I am sure that they will react accordingly. In earlier conversations they both said they would be happy to see Russian business entering their economies.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 15, 2005, 16:56
Text versionEvents
Beginning of the Meeting with President of the Republic Belarus Aleksander Lukashenko
December 15, 2005
21:44
Bocharov Ruchei, Sochi
Vladimir Putin: Dear Aleksander Grigoryevich! Allow me to greet you warmly. I would like to point that Russian-Belarussian relations are developing successfully in all areas. This regards trade and economic cooperation, our legal relations, and military and technical cooperation. I note with satisfaction the contract on cooperation with the Kaliningrad Region that was just signed recently—I think in October. Colleagues from different Belarussian departments and ministries took part in this. It is a good document, a promising document. The Kaliningrad Region is very close to you. And therefore I think it represents an area of mutual interest. In the high-tech field we shall develop and carry out together a project on remote sensing of the earth from space. We shall work in other areas as well.
Along with this, with respect to the transition to a new system of taxation in the destination country, the VAT, it is unfortunate but first and foremost this system is tantamount to a failure. I am confident that this is only temporary but nevertheless, it affects the total amount of trade. Moreover, as far as I understand both Russian and Belarussian partners are now sometimes forced to work through the markets of other countries, including through the Ukraine. Of course, as a whole it is not bad to exploit all possible opportunities, but it is obvious that for our bilateral relations we should improve this mechanism. And we absolutely shall improve it.
I would like to confirm our agreements regarding mutual relations between our financial departments. You remember that we spoke about how it is necessary to support our Belarussian partners to arrive at an equitable decision regarding energy deliveries. The Russian Government has prepared the necessary documents and I hope that they will be adopted by the end of this year. In general we are dealing with lots of issues. I am glad to see you and to talk about the wide range of questions relating to our cooperation.
Aleksander Lukashenko: Vladimir Vladimirovich thank you very much. I would very much like to discuss some questions related to our cooperation with you. There are some questions on which I would like to consult you. I told you about this on the phone. I absolutely confirm that our mutual relations are not bad at all, even our trading relations. Even though we have had certain setbacks, they did not affect the financial situation at all. It is true that the setbacks are temporary. We shall resolve all the technical issues related to the VAT; experts are already finding the appropriate solutions and in the next half year we can easily attain and surpass the level of trade that we had. This is possible because we have things to trade and there is a demand for those goods in both Russian and Belarussian markets. Therefore I do not see a big problem here.
Vladimir Putin: But the volume is big. Over nine months some twelve billion dollars.
Aleksander Lukashenko: Last year it was eighteen. We shall probably reach this level. For this reason I do not see a big problem.
On the other hand, Vladimir Vladimirovich, I would like to thank you for the fact that the Government and the energy companies executed your order. We have practically formulated the contract for energy deliveries to Belarus according to our agreement. So thank you very much. And here problems are not arising and have not arisen. We have learned to save and to save properly. This year we shall probably need just a little bit less gas, and oil too, because we have enough for our economy. So here we do not have big problems either, but there are certain issues I would like to discuss with you in private. You know that we are on the eve of presidential election in Belarus and you know what is happening around our country. And therefore I would also like to inform you about this issue, and you have promised to tell me something as well.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 15, 2005, 21:44
Text version