Events
Opening Remarks at the Meeting with Patriarch of Moscow and All Russia Alexii II
June 10, 2005
19:37
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: I congratulate you with all my heart and wish you all the very best, good health, and success.
Allow me, on behalf of myself and my colleagues, to present you with this painting. I think it is very kind and, most importantly, beautiful.
Allow me to express my most sincere respect and gratitude for everything that you and the Russian Orthodox Church are doing for inter-faith harmony and for our country’s spiritual revival.
I know that the Church has its problems, and that the Church faced particularly hard times in the first years of the revival when it emerged from the ruins. It was not easy for Orthodox believers either.
I shall never forget our conversations about this, when you repeatedly returned to the situation of ordinary citizens of our country, parishioners of the Russian Orthodox Church, and other believers. The Church, like no other organisation, feels this, as it is probably closer to people, works with people and gives them hope. This emphasis on moral support is very important for Russian citizens.
I would like to thank you once again for everything that you are doing inside the country and at the international arena. This is very important for us. This consolidates and makes the efforts of our country, our nation at the international arena, more effective and increases its authority.
I congratulate you and wish you all the very best.
Alexii II: I would like to thank you sincerely for the warm words you said about the Russian Orthodox Church. Indeed, the 15 years that have passed have not been easy, because it is difficult to revive something that has been destroyed.
But we found common goals with the state and society. You were quite right to say that the Church is separated from the state, but not the people. It is not separated from the people, whose heartbeat we feel not only in our country but also overseas. Many Russians, Ukrainians and Belarussians living in different countries today ask us for assistance in opening parishes. People living overseas in new environment feel their connection with the homeland in parishes of the Russian Orthodox Church. This is why the number of our parishes is increasing. We are opening them on demand inside the country and also overseas.
Naturally, national inter-ethnic and inter-confessional peace, solutions to social problems and the preservation of the monuments that remain and which we have to hand down to future generations are our common tasks. And I thank you for the state’s cooperation and support. I thank you for the great deal you have done to crystallise the relations between religious organisations – I am not talking about the Russian Orthodox Church – but in general between religious organisations and the state. We are partners who should cooperate, helping and supporting each other, in accomplishing common objectives.
We have common objectives that we shall accomplish. This was the case and will be.
Vladimir Putin: Thanks you very much for these words, and I would like to say that the number of parishes have indeed increased significantly. More and more churches are being built, and Russian Orthodox, Jewish, and Muslim houses of worship are undergoing a revival. Work is well under way and becoming increasingly fundamental. But, naturally, we understand that the state still owes a debt to religious organisations, associations and churches. I would like to assure you that we shall act further in this area, assisting and supporting our religious organisations in their work with people.
Alexii II: Thank you for your assistance, support and understanding of those tasks that stand before us. These are common tasks because the good of the state means the good of our people.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 10, 2005, 19:37
Text versionEvents
Beginning of Meeting with Secretary-General of the Collective Security Treaty Organisation Nikolai Bordyuzha
June 10, 2005
23:28
The Kremlin, Moscow
Nikolai Bordyuzha: The Collective Security Council will hold a meeting on June 23, 2005, and just before that, we plan to hold a meeting of the charter organs of the Council of Defence Ministers, Foreign Ministers and committees of the secretaries of the Security Councils. I would like to report on two areas: first, the steps we have taken over the course of the year to give our activities practical content, and second, problems and certain aspects of the situation that require a suitable response.
Overall, looking at the organisation’s work, we have focused principally on our main priority, which is to develop measures to counter the collective threats and challenges we face. We have planned our work around this task. Second, we have tried to move away from drafting various concepts, programmes and plans and concentrate our attention on practical activities. Of course, the main focus of our attention was on implementing practical measures to counter drug trafficking and terrorism.
I would particularly like to draw your attention to the “Channel” operation to eliminate drugs trafficking from Afghanistan. This operation was carried out in several stages and involved practically all the law enforcement agencies of six countries, principally under the direction of the Russian Drugs Control Agency.
The last stage involved the participation of Uzbekistan, Iran and Azerbaijan, which is particularly interesting. We really tried to model and put in place measures to create an anti-drugs trafficking security belt along Afghanistan’s northern borders. Our efforts were successful, in principle, and the results we have achieved show that this kind of collective action really is quite effective.
We also worked on improving the counter-terrorism potential of the Collective Security Treaty Organisation (CSTO) member states, focusing above all on specialist training.
As you know, work on preparing a training agreement within the CSTO had been going on for a long time. This work is now complete – the charter organs have approved it – and it will now be submitted for examination by the presidents of the CSTO member states.
Under this agreement, we will provide free training for military personnel from all the CSTO member states. In addition, in order to raise counter-terrorist potential, we have an agreement with the Russian Federation General Staff on organising training on security issues for representatives of member states’ executive authorities at the General Staff Academy. On the same line, together with the Russian Interior Ministry, we have organised training at the Interior Ministry Training Centre for specialists in peacekeeping, counter-terrorism and the fight against drug trafficking.
We also worked on military-technical cooperation. I can inform you now that aside from the Russian Federation, mechanisms for implementing the agreement on preferential conditions for military-technical cooperation have been put in place in Belarus. Other countries are also taking similar steps. The relevant instructions have been given and we can say that today, this work is genuinely moving ahead within the CSTO system.
President Vladimir Putin: So, you are saying that the recent decisions aimed at facilitating military-technical cooperation between the CSTO member states are being implemented?
Nikolai Bordyuzha: Yes, their implementation has begun. Russia and Belarus have already prepared all to necessary documents, all the legal regulations. The other countries have regulated or are working on some of the issues, such as price formation. In other words, this agreement is really working today.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 10, 2005, 23:28
Text version