Events
Speech at the ceremonial reception for the Day of National Unity
November 4, 2005
20:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon dear ladies and gentlemen!
Dear friends!
Today we celebrate the Day of National Unity for the first time. While this is a new state holiday, its meaning and value have deep spiritual and historical roots.
Almost four centuries ago, at the beginning of November 1612, Kuzma Minin and Prince Pozharskii led their home guard army to liberate Moscow from foreign invaders. This marked the end of the Time of Troubles in Russia, and of civil strife and conflicts connected with that period.
This was a victory of patriotic forces, a victory for the project to strengthen the state by uniting, centralizing and joining forces. These heroic events mark the beginning of the spiritual revival of the Fatherland and the creation of a great and sovereign power.
Undoubtedly, it was the people themselves that defended Russian statehood. They showed true civic consciousness and the greatest degree of responsibility. They acted not because they were compelled to by a higher authority, but because they followed their hearts. Thus people of different ethnic origins and creeds united to determine their destiny and that of their Fatherland.
The call “all for one and one for all” by a citizen of Nizhny Novgorod, Kuzma Minin, reflects the best traits and qualities of Russian national character. Our people were always able to rally together in times of peace and of war, observed a tradition of mutual aid, sharply felt and responded to each other's wants and needs.
I am convinced that it is far from accidental that Russia became famous for its outstanding philanthropists and extraordinary examples of voluntary, disinterested service for society and people.
Today there are many representatives of religious confessions, organizations of civil society and philanthropic organizations in this hall. It is pleasant that you are reviving the well-known Russian tradition of philanthropy through concrete deeds and actions, rather than simply through words.
In 1856 the historian Mikhail Pogodin wrote about Russian patrons of the arts “if one were to add up all of their donations in this century, one would arrive at a figure before which all of Europe should kneel”. We all know Eliseev, Shchukin and Bakhrushin, and the Morozov, Tretyakov and Mamontov dynasties. These people founded theatres, schools, hospitals and museums. They did a great many kind deeds and consciously helped the development of national culture and education. Their contemporaries saw them as examples which to imitate and their descendants recollect their selfless deeds with gratitude.
Already in Russia's recent history there are many examples of philanthropic projects. They are aimed at strengthening the nation's physical and spiritual health and preserving our culture's invaluable treasures. Today, I would especially like to point out the work of the Russian National Military Fund which supports servicemen, veterans of the Armed Forces and of special services, and that of the organizers of the Lifeline, which helps sick children. Undoubtedly, the fact that Russian business is actively and eagerly participating in these programmes is an indication of its increased civil and social responsibility and the revival of the best principles and traditions of business ethics.
And certainly, one must speak about the charitable and educational activities of all Russian faiths without exception. We know how sincerely you conduct your selfless work, provide people with spiritual support and give them force and hope.
Dear friends!
More than anything else, it is doing good that unites a nation. I expect that the media will pay more attention to people who manage philanthropic organizations and donate their time and the fruits of their work for the good of society. I am convinced that from this day forth, in 2006 and the coming years, this wide partnership — a dialogue between the state and philanthropic organizations — will receive a new impulse.
Once again I congratulate you on the national holiday, the Day of National Unity, and I propose a toast :
To the revival and strengthening of the best traditions of civil solidarity, mutual aid and charitable activities!
To peace and prosperity on Russian soil!
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 4, 2005, 20:00
Text versionEvents
Conversation with Students from Moscow Universities and Cadets After Laying Flowers on the Minin and Pozharskii Monument
November 4, 2005
15:56
The Red Square, Moscow
Question: Today is such a beautiful warm sunny day, and quite extraordinary for November. Our country is celebrating a wonderful Day of National Unity today for the first time. What is your personal opinion of our country's new tradition?
President Vladimir Putin: I can tell you that any person, you and myself included, generally enjoys holidays. Whomever you ask would reply that they enjoy holidays; everyone likes to celebrate.
It seems to me that the holiday's very name tunes to a certain mood. Indeed, it sounds inspiring – unification, national unity. And the occasion is remarkable. We know that in 1611–1612 very serious events took place here. We always refer to the Kremlin as the political and spiritual centre of Russia. When there were enemies here, the existence of the entire Russian state was threatened. The liberation was the result of people from all different faiths and ethnicities uniting together. You know, as a matter of fact the movement began in the Volga Region, from Nizhny Novgorod and Kazan, and this is especially symbolic and important for our multinational country.
While we feel such unity inside ourselves, Russia will be invincible. QUESTION: Today's holiday, the Day of National Unity, also celebrates charitable activities organized today by representatives from different organizations and movements. And I believe that these charitable activities should rally and encourage people to do them not only on November 4, but as often as possible. What do you think?
Vladimir Putin: I agree with you and will try to formulate your idea and proposal today at the reception where, in addition to being with those people present here, we will be together with people from completely different layers of society who are invited to the Kremlin.
You will see that these people are famous, interesting and have done much for their country. With their lives they do a great deal for our people and our state. The overwhelming majority of them work not because they are paid for it, but because of their feeling of duty towards their country and their people.
What you said about philanthropy, about a feeling of comradeship, is one of our people's traditions, and I mean people in the broad sense since many peoples live in Russia. If one speaks in general about the Russian nation, charity is characteristic of each people of the Russian Federation, and of course this must be supported. I think that for its part, the state should pay more attention to these sorts of activities. So should our colleagues from the media who are here today.
Question: Which idea do you think is capable of uniting our people even more, so that they can show even more civil initiative, like they did 400 years ago when people were united and when this helped end the Time of Troubles?
Vladimir Putin: The feeling of participating in state affairs.
Question: Do you consider the question of further unifying the different peoples, faiths and political forces of Russia a pressing one, and how do you foresee going about this?
Vladimir Putin: Absolutely. Moreover, I would very much like for today's event and the tradition we create with this holiday, to help accomplish the task you just mentioned.
Our country has enormous cultural riches that are not present in any other state. Dozens of ethnicities live on the territory of our country. Together all these original languages and original cultures have a huge value, a value which exists in no other country in the world. We should treasure, develop and support this which, without a doubt, is our strength. For this reason I would like to repeat once again that the traditions begun by this holiday must work towards these goals.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 4, 2005, 15:56
Text version