There are representatives from almost all continents here today. We are convinced that the real development of bilateral cooperation on multiple levels promotes stability in the world.
Russia has a tradition of being open to frank dialogue and constructive cooperation with all countries. Today, I consider that mutual understanding and solidarity are the most called for components of international relations. Mutual cooperation is important so that we can act together against global threats such as terrorism, diseases, drug trafficking and organized crime.
In Russia we are satisfied that the international community increasingly understands that only together can we create a durable barrier against all of these challenges and threats. The results of the UN General Assembly's session in September and Summit 2005 also reflect these positive tendencies. It is crucially important that despite the variety of approaches that exist, all countries confirm the necessity of consolidating the coordinating role of the United Nations and its Security Council – a unique universal mechanism to maintain peace and stability.
Dear gentlemen!
Russia supports further increasing cooperation on all levels with the Republic of South Africa, one of our major partners on the international scene and in Africa.
We expect that the positive trends in trade, economic, scientific and technical ties will take on a new dynamic.
Friendly ties between Russia and Gabon have a long history. We are satisfied by cooperation with Gabon in international affairs. We believe that it is important to use the opportunities for cooperation in trade and economic spheres more productively.
Over the last few years, cooperation between Russia and Germany has really taken on a strategic character. Russia and Germany closely cooperate in the international arena and unite their efforts to counteract those threats that I mentioned previously.
The strong basis for our cooperation is increasing trade and economic cooperation. Cooperation in the spheres of culture and education has been very dynamic. For us the policy of good neighbour relations and partnership, a policy supported by the ordinary citizens of our countries, is exceptionally important.
We value the friendly relations between the Russian Federation and Kenya. We support the all-round mutually advantageous development of bilateral political, trade, economic and cultural contacts. We are sure that the Kenyan leadership fully shares our aspirations.
We consistently support developing and strengthening good neighbour relations with Georgia. Our countries' peoples have been connected by a common history over centuries. Today our sincere aspirations to cooperate with Georgia can also be seen in our consistent efforts to assist in achieving a political settlement for regional conflicts. We are ready to continue joint work in the interests of maintaining peace and safety in the region.
Relations between Russia and Paraguay are developing. This year the diplomatic representation of Paraguay in Moscow reopened. We are getting ready to open a Russian embassy in Asuncion. We expect that cooperation between our countries will only become stronger.
Our ties with the Hungarian Republic have a centuries-old history and are based on rich traditions. Today, owing to the political will shown by both parties it was possible to create serious foundations in almost all areas in which we cooperate. The growing volume of trade, which practically doubled over the past four years, reflects this. Cultural seasons, those of Russia in Hungary and of Hungary in Russia, are ending in a few days and have been great successes. Dear Mr Ambassador, we intend to further develop cooperation with your country.
We consider our relations with the United States of America one of the main priorities of Russian foreign policy. Owing to consecutive joint efforts Russian-American cooperation has emerged on a new level. We note with satisfaction that our cooperation is becoming increasingly steady and filled with concrete acts.
The basis for our cooperation is our shared interest in consolidating strategic stability while counteracting new global threats and challenges.
Today it is important to give a new stimulus to cooperation in trade, economics and investment, and to improve ties between businesses, members of parliament and civil society.
Russia and Mongolia are connected by an old friendship. Based on rich experience, trust and traditions we intend to strengthen our neighbourly partner relations. We have all the opportunities to do this, including regional ties.
Russian-Dutch relations have deep historical roots and recently took on a more dynamic character. We are satisfied with the perceptible results of the recent visit to the Netherlands. The visit showed that favourable tendencies can clearly be seen in our relations and that the possibilities for increasing cooperation are constantly expanding.
Our official relations with Denmark are more than 500 years old. In 1493 in Copenhagen the Russian-Danish allied Treaty of Love and Brotherhood was signed. I am convinced that through joint efforts our countries' relations can attain a new level of partnership.