Events
Beginning of Meeting with Acting President of Kyrgyzstan Kurmanbek Bakiev
July 5, 2005
20:22
Astana
President Vladimir Putin: I am very happy to be able to meet with you again and talk, especially with elections just around the corner.
Acting President of Kyrgyzstan Kurmanbek Bakiev: Yes, there are only four days to go.
Vladimir Putin: I very much hope that the election results will lead to complete normalisation of the situation in Kyrgyzstan, which is something we very much want. We want to see a situation that would make it possible to start tackling social and economic development tasks. As before, we are ready to maintain friendly, special relations with the Kyrgyz people. As you know, we are trying to help in every way we can in the humanitarian area. Our economic relations are developing quite well with trade between our countries increasing by 35 percent over the last year. We have some good results and we also have some things to work on in all different areas.
Kurmanbek Bakiev: Yes, that we do indeed.
Vladimir Putin: I think we will have another opportunity to have a brief exchange of views on all these different issues.
Kurmanbek Bakiev: Thank you very much, Vladimir Vladimirovich. Indeed, we have only four days to go before the elections. The preparations are going quite well. I think that the elections will take place in strict accordance with the electoral code and that everything will be all right.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for your support at what is not an easy time for us. Above all, I want to thank you for the understanding you have shown of the situation we have found ourselves in right from the first days.
Today I can say with confidence that the situation is returning to normal and everything will be fine.
Of course, I would like to see economic ties develop at a faster pace. Our trade turnover is growing. We would like the presence of Russian business in our country to produce even greater results and we are doing everything we can to ensure that this will be the case. At least, we are trying to reform our government so that it will produce less words and more action in order to make all these projects a reality. The conditions are already in place for this to happen. A number of major investors are showing interest in the Kombarat Hydroelectric Power Station, in Kombarat-2. The construction of an aluminium smelter is also generating a lot of interest. Then, in the south, we do not have a single cement plant. There is one in the north not far from Bishkek, but, as you can imagine, the transport distance involved is a problem. It would be good, therefore, to have a big cement plant in the south. The raw materials are already there, in Botkinskaya Oblast. In other words, there are a lot of areas where we could work together.
Of course, the most important thing is to ensure stability, then work will certainly go ahead. The conditions are already in place and people want it to happen.
Vladimir Putin: You mentioned a genuinely important area of cooperation – the energy sector. This includes the construction of major facilities and there is nothing to stop us from carrying out such projects.
Kurmanbek Bakiev: In 2001, when I was prime minister, we began building Kombarat-2 using our own resources and we had the project almost 40 percent complete. We will complete Kombarat-2, Kombarat-1… There is huge potential for exporting electricity to the neighbouring countries, to Iran…
Vladimir Putin: And to Russia. You already supply us with electricity.
Kurmanbek Bakiev: Yes, but we have the possibility of exporting even more.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 5, 2005, 20:22
Text versionEvents
Press Statement Following the Meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation Council of Heads of State
July 5, 2005
20:20
Astana
President Vladimir Putin: Russia is entirely satisfied with the results of the meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation Council of Heads of State that has taken place today.
The decisions we have adopted aim at expanding our cooperation in all areas and in our common interests in accordance with the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation [SCO] Charter.
Though it is still a young organisation, the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation has already proven itself a lasting and viable body that is gaining authority as an important regional international organisation. I think we could say that this is the main political result of the work carried out within the organisation over the last year.
The Declaration we adopted following our meeting is of great international significance. It sets out our coordinated policy and views with regard to the situation in the world. These policies and views are based on a common vision of what we should respect and protect. The Declaration reflects our understanding of the diversity of civilisation and development models and makes a call not to impose models and standards through force or the threat to use force.
In my view, the guidelines the Declaration maps out for our organisation are correct and reflect the demands of today’s situation. Among these demands, the question of ensuring stability and security in Central Asia and throughout the region covered by the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation remains a priority given the rapidly changing situation in this part of the world.
We have confirmed once again that the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation works on a comprehensive basis, uniting the efforts of each of its member states. It was this approach that formed the foundation for the work on drafting the Conception for Cooperation among the SCO Member States in the Fight Against Terrorism, Separatism and Extremism, which we have now approved. Implementation of this concept will enable us to establish the conditions for more precise and targeted work by the Regional Anti-Terrorist Structure.
At the same time, I want to emphasise that this reinforced cooperation between the SCO member states does not mean that the organisation is becoming more closed off. On the contrary, the decision to accept India, Pakistan and Iran as observers is convincing proof of the SCO’s openness. Russia welcomes these countries joining the work of our organisation as observers.
We rate positively the economic cooperation between the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation’s members, both overall and in separate areas. Our aim is for the Council of Heads of Government to become a real headquarters for economic and humanitarian cooperation.
We are pleased to see that non-governmental, business and financial circles have also begun to pay more attention to economic and humanitarian cooperation. The Business Council and the Development Fund should become a good additional resource for our economic cooperation and the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation Forum that is in the process of formation should be of valuable help in providing scientific and analytical support for our activities.
The results of our meeting show that our organisation has great potential and opportunities that will, without any doubt, bring real and visible benefits for our countries and our peoples in the very near future.
Thank you very much.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 5, 2005, 20:20
Text versionEvents
Introductory Remarks at the Enlarged Format Meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation Council of Heads of State
July 5, 2005
20:16
Astana
President Vladimir Putin:
Esteemed Mr Chairman and President of Kazakhstan,
Distinguished heads of delegations,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
In the year since the last Shanghai Cooperation Organisation summit in Tashkent, our organisation has shown its sustainability and its potential to develop in line with the objectives set out in the organisation’s Charter. It is becoming an increasingly authoritative factor in international life and this is without question the main political achievement of our work together.
It is pleasing to see that the geopolitical framework for our organisation’s activities is expanding. This is confirmed by our organisation being granted observer status in the United Nations General Assembly. Cooperation agreements have also been signed with ASEAN and the CIS.
The Shanghai Cooperation Organisation is, in its turn, becoming a centre of attraction. We very much welcome the decision by India, Iran and Pakistan to join our organisation as observers and I would like to welcome our colleagues present here today.
I would like to stress that we are unanimous in our desire to convert the SCO’s great potential into tangible and positive results for all its members and for the entire region. This approach is entirely reflected in the meeting’s final document – the declaration – that sets out guidelines for our work in keeping with the demands of life itself.
Today, we are to discuss how to ensure stability and security in Central Asia and throughout the entire region covered by the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation. There is a great deal of opportunity in this respect for cooperation between our foreign policy, economic and law enforcement agencies, our special services and defence agencies.
Our countries’ secretaries of Security Councils and foreign ministers met just recently in Astana and drew up practical proposals that have been included in the draft declaration. In this way we have reflected a consensus on a broad programme of action for ensuring stability and security.
The Concept for Cooperation between the SCO Member States in the Fight Against Terrorism, Separatism and Extremism, which is on the agenda for approval today, aims at bringing greater clarity to the Regional Anti-Terrorist Structure’s work.
In my view, the adoption of this Concept is a very useful and timely step. As a rule, the new threats we face have a cross-border nature. But their concrete manifestations are not faceless – there are always those who give the orders and those who carry them out. Our job is not just to find and neutralise these people but, most importantly, to be one step ahead of them.
For this reason we should intensify cooperation within the SCO on the fight against terrorism and work together to consolidate the efforts of the international community in key areas.
We can make the SCO countries less vulnerable to and better protected against terrorist forces only if we carry out a firm combat against terrorism in parallel with cooperation to eradicate the socio-economic roots of terrorism and extremism. This requires us to work more closely together in ensuring economic growth, creating new jobs and improving the quality of people’s lives, including the cultural and humanitarian dimension.
We have made good progress in economic cooperation. We have set ourselves long-term objectives, have approved plans and are putting in place the mechanisms for their implementation.
But we should also not lose sight of the fact that we are still only at the beginning of the road and we must take care not to stall at this point and to keep moving forward.
As you know, the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation Business Council has been set up since the last summit in Tashkent and the main guidelines for establishing the Development Fund have also been formulated. In particular, it is proposed to actively involve the banking community in these two projects that will serve as good additional mechanisms aimed at building up the economic component of our cooperation.
These are non-governmental structures, but we must nonetheless find suitable forms of state support for them, especially during the initial stage. At the same time, these new instruments for cooperation should be rapidly integrated into the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation’s system of bodies and mechanisms.
There are good prospects for activating our work in this area because trade between our countries is growing very rapidly and we are satisfied overall with our economic cooperation.
I think the time has come for us to step up our work together in the areas of culture and education. Some ideas are already being discussed. The specialists should take rapid steps to identify how we can unite our possibilities and what forms this cooperation could take. I think that modern mass communications could help us to find some original and economical proposals in this area.
I would like to draw your attention to the need to develop another dimension of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation’s work, and that is the creation of an information system designed to counter new threats and challenges and develop cooperation between our countries. We need to begin working on this immediately and the draft declaration contains a provision to this effect. Practical implementation of this project will enable us to take systemic and effective action in this area.
In conclusion I would like to express my sincere thanks to Nursultan Nazarbayev, the President of Kazakhstan, for the great and important work done over the last year and for the warm and hospitable reception we always receive on Kazakh soil.
Thank you very much.
  Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 5, 2005, 20:16
Text versionEvents
Beginning of a Meeting with Kazakhstan President Nursultan Nazarbayev
July 5, 2005
23:00
Astana
Nursultan Nazarbayev: Tomorrow documents will be signed in our presence…
Viktor Khristenko: We are preparing four documents. Two documents concern Kurman-Gazy, and there is an agreement on joint activity between Rosneft and KazMunaiGaz, and an agreement between the government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, KazMunaiGaz and Rosneft on division of production.
President Vladimir Putin: Excellent.
Mr Khristenko: There are some finishing touches required. I think we will complete this tonight. And additionally we are preparing to sign another two documents on the electricity and energy complex, on developing issues that were set in Chelyabinsk, and on the common market of electrical energy.
Mr Nazarbayev: Vladimir Vladimirovich, I heartily congratulate you on the fact that we have successfully completed today’s meeting, and I welcome you here once more, to Astana. Your presence and the presence of Russia is the main factor of success for this organisation [SCO] and we are very grateful for this.
We have already met several times this year, and together discussed all problems. Now I would like to concentrate on several problems. One is reform of the CIS, which we will discuss in Kazan’. In general, all CIS members support the reform which we proposed. The second issue is a final decision of the border problem and intergovernmental procedures. And we have prepared several agreements on Baikonur (so as not to give rise to any questions – all social problems have been resolved, and our parties are settling other issues).
Other issues also compel us to meet. With your help and support we will build a monument in Moscow to our great philosopher and poet Abai. And perhaps I will lead this delegation, with your permission. In Astrakhan, a memorial museum of our great composer Kurman-Gazy is about to be completed. You and I will be invited to the opening. These are the issues which I would like to coordinate; all other problems are being solved.
Tomorrow in our presence, major agreements will be signed between Kazakhstan and Russia on the energy industry, which will raise trade turnover and bring us even closer together in economic integration.
Mr Putin: I fully share your assessment of the development of our relations. Indeed, this is a major step forward – signing the agreements which you mentioned just now. And this is the result of our joint work. I am absolutely certain that this is an excellent base for building relations in the future, to plan and make additional steps in the development of our countries. There are some issues which still remain to be discussed; I mean the transit of energy resources and several others. But they are all in the process of discussion. No problems arise there.
You talked about the humanitarian sphere, in which I include the erection of a monument and other memorials both in Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation. We certainly support all of this and will support it in the future, so everything that is needed from the Russian side to realise these projects will be done in the best possible way. I know that Kazakhstan does the same for Russia, including in issues of studying the Russian language, in supporting the high status of our cooperation in all areas. So I know that we have several more meetings ahead of us this year. We will continue working together.
Mr Nazarbayev: Our cultural ministries have proposed to declare next year the Year of Pushkin in Kazakhstan and the Year of Abai in Russia, so that cultural ties, ties of the intelligentsia, continue.
Mr Putin: Excellent.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 5, 2005, 23:00
Text versionEvents
Beginning of Meeting with President of Mongolia Nambaryn Enkhbayar
July 5, 2005
22:19
Astana
President Vladimir Putin: Mr President, allow me to congratulate you, in person this time, on your election. I remember our previous meetings when you were Prime Minister, and I think we worked together quite well and resolved a number of very important questions for Mongolia. We found a solution to the debt problem, quite a liberal solution, and one that contradicted neither the interests of Russia nor Mongolia but on the contrary, created a foundation for developing our relations.
At the same time, I would like to note that during the early and mid-1990s, Russia’s share in Mongolia’s trade turnover fell from 72 percent to 20 percent. Of course, we still have a great deal to do in order to return to our former share in your country’s trade, or at least come close to it. But the trend is positive – trade between our countries increased by 15.5 percent over the last year and this upward trend is still holding strong. We likewise remain firmly committed to continued development of our relations, our political and humanitarian ties and regional cooperation between our countries.
Overall, we are very pleased that Mongolia’s leadership is in the hands of someone who knows Russia and speaks excellent Russian. As far as I know, you graduated in Moscow in 1980?
President of Mongolia Nambaryn Enkhbayar: Yes.
Vladimir Putin: I hope our contacts will continue. For my part, I would like to invite you to visit the Russian Federation on an official visit, on a working visit, and at any time that is convenient for you.
Nambaryn Enkhbayar: Thank you very much, Mr President. I am very pleased to have this new opportunity to meet with you. I have warm recollections of our meetings in Moscow when I was Prime Minister. People react very positively, I think, to the fact that we, the Russian and Mongolian leadership, have worked together and settled many of the important issues in our bilateral cooperation that have built up over the years, and that we have achieved some very good results. I built my election campaign platform on the fact that we have excellent relations with Russia and that they should stay this way in the future. The Mongolian people elected me in large part because I have very good relations with the Russian leadership, with President Putin and with the Russian people. I think this is also a very positive signal.
I also must work actively to invite even more Russian businesspeople to invest in the Mongolian economy and actively develop our bilateral cooperation. I received your congratulations with much gratitude and I was very happy to welcome my old friend Sergei Mironov as your representative and envoy at my inauguration ceremony. I was very pleased that he came and that he had such kind words to say. We also discussed some aspects of our bilateral cooperation.
Concerning our bilateral cooperation as it stands today, I must say that your visit in 2000 created a very good opportunity to activate it on both sides and laid the foundation that enabled us to settle the debt issue and successfully find solutions to other major problems.
As President of Mongolia, I would like to thank you personally and the Russian leadership for your understanding, will and support in settling these major issues. Now these problems have been dealt with and this has opened up new opportunities for major investment in the Mongolian economy, and more precisely, in our joint ventures and in the Ulan Bator railway.
Trade between Russia and China has increased greatly and there is an agreement on transit shipments of petroleum products. Increasing the capacity of the Ulan Bator railway would benefit Russia, China and Mongolia.
Vladimir Putin: This is a good project.
Nambaryn Enkhbayar: It is a very good project and it is developing very successfully. We would like to see more Russian companies taking part in creating a parallel railway in order to increase throughput capacity of goods going from Russia to China and vice versa. China also has an interest in this project. Perhaps in this sense it would make sense for us to work together, all three countries, so as to increase the capacity of the Ulan Bator railway.
Then there is Erdenet, the leader of our economy – we are currently working on technological upgrading there in order to increase production in relation to the current level. There are a lot of coking coal and other interesting deposits there and we would like investment to flow in that direction too. Chinese and Japanese companies have also shown an interest in participating in this project. We would like Russia to also take part. I think that Russia’s presence would help stabilise the economic situation in Mongolia. In this respect, it will be very important to exchange views and coordinate our work.
Vladimir Putin: Will you come to Moscow?
Nambaryn Enkhbayar: Thank you for the invitation. I definitely will come. We can decide on a date through our foreign ministries. I studied at the Literature Institute in Moscow from 1975 to 1980. Of course, Moscow has changed a lot since that time. Every time I come there are new streets and some streets have changed their names. You have to learn everything all over again. Moscow is like my home city, a city where I received my education and studied Russian and European literature. Thank you very much for the invitation.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 5, 2005, 22:19
Text version