Events
Beginning of Meeting with Vladimir Chamov, the Russian Ambassador in Iraq
March 3, 2005
14:10
Novo-Ogaryovo
President Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon. You will be working at a very important position in Iraq, and I don’t think there is any need to talk at great length about how important this is for us now. First, of course, because today this is one of the major trouble spots in the world. Our policies are directed towards restoration in Iraq, to improving the situation there and normalising it in all relations and in all senses.
Furthermore, we have very long-standing relations with Iraq. Relations with the country developed before Saddam Hussein came to power, and they developed well. We intend to further build relations with Iraq in the most positive way. We have a good experience of cooperation with this country. And we do not just have good experience, most importantly we have very good relations with the people of Iraq. This is the base on which it is possible to continue to build intergovernmental ties.
We have many mutual interests: energy, and not just oil and gas, but also electrical energy; and the humanitarian sphere. We have always given Iraq appreciable, significant, serious aid in training personnel. And we intend to continue this work. So, naturally, one of your tasks there will be not just to restore or support intergovernmental relations at the level needed today, but to create conditions for Russian business to return to Iraq.
Vladimir Chamov: Of course, we have very long-standing relations with Iraq. Last year we marked the 60th anniversary of official diplomatic relations between our countries. But in fact they are much deeper and long-standing, you could safely say that they go back centuries. In Iraq, for example, there is a theory that Islam in our country came from there; it was ‘brought in’ to the Volga region through the North Caucasus.
Naturally, any country changes. Iraq has been changing very dynamically recently. Even the regimes change. But the basis that you mentioned – the basis of friendship and genuine respect – always existed between our two peoples. Iraqis are well aware of the contribution that Russian specialists made in the past. In many ways, the energy industry there was practically created through our efforts. A great deal was also done in the sphere of education. We trained thousands of specialists. Many people there speak Russian, and exhibit interest in Russian literature and the situation in Russia; this is a genuine interest. Last year, there was one important event:by your instructions, we were able to deliver books to wartime Iraq, 3,000 Russian books.
Mr Putin: For the university.
Mr Chamov: Yes, for the Baghdad University. They were mainly classic literature. I saw these books, and the selection was very good, very useful.
So we support these ties. Naturally, we will continue to support them in future.
Another area which is very important is culture. There are many things that link us in this area, and there is something to work on. Especially since there has been a war on the territory of Iraq twice in the last 15 years. And this is a country where immense cultural and archaeological treasures are concentrated.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: March 3, 2005, 14:10
Direct link: en.kremlin.ru/d/22849
Text versionEvents
Beginning of Meeting with Chief Rabbi of Russia Berl Lazar
March 3, 2005
20:08
Novo-Ogaryovo
President Vladimir Putin: I would like to begin our meeting by coming back to an event that we together took part in and to thank you for taking such an active role in helping to organize the events marking the 60th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz by the Soviet Army. I think the events in Krakow were of a very high level indeed and were most definitely very needed and fitting as we approach the celebrations of the 60th anniversary of the end of World War II and as a reminder of the difficult times and the horrors that our peoples lived through during the war. I hope that what we are doing now in working together also through the religious communities and associations will bring benefits. Again, I would like in this respect too to thank you for your active participation in this work.
Chief Rabbi of Russia Berl Lazar: In connection with this I would also like to thank you for what you said about anti-Semitism in our country during your visit to Poland. We realise that it is not an acute problem, but that letter signed by Duma deputies was a worrying signal for us. We realise that, unfortunately, what we are dealing with is not just anti-Semitism but extremism in general, xenophobia and fascist groups that, unfortunately, are raising their heads today. We think they always adopt the same approach – they carry out an act of provocation and then wait to see what the reaction will be. If there is no reaction, then they go a step further.
So, we really are grateful for your words. At the same time, we would like to ask you to ensure that real measures are taken against anti-Semitism and interethnic hatred that, unfortunately, is spreading today throughout the world, including in Russia. We will try to do what we can, but without the state’s help I don’t think it is possible to resolve this problem.
As it happens, we just recently signed an agreement with the U.S. Jewish Congress. This is important for us because they have their problems and we also have our difficulties and I think that through our combined efforts we can help to strengthen interethnic and inter-religious understanding between peoples.
I think that today we will consult with each other on what steps to take next. On the one hand, we see an improvement in the situation of Jewish people here today. They are living better and conditions have improved. Indeed, many Jewish people – and this is something that has been written about a lot lately – are coming back to Russia. I think this is the biggest sign that life really is good for us today. But the manifestations we are discussing now are a cause of concern.
Vladimir Putin: I met just yesterday with the governor of the Jewish Autonomous Region and he gave me some interesting information, saying that 51 people left the oblast last year and 104 returned. I won’t comment on that information, but it is a fact that does merit our attention.
As for our work together, we both know that Russian statehood has its roots right from the beginning in the coexistence of different confessions. This harmony that we have between our many ethnic groups and religions is more than just a longstanding tradition in Russia. It is more than just harmony – it is a symbiosis of the various nationalities, ethnic groups and religions that together make up what we call Russia, and this is our strength. This is why the authorities, the President and the government, will pay close and constant attention to the fight against anti-Semitism, against manifestations of any other extremist tendencies and any form of extremism and xenophobia, including chauvinism and anti-Russian sentiment. Of course, this will be effective only if we work together, trust each other and coordinate all our action.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: March 3, 2005, 20:08
Text versionEvents
Beginning of Meeting with Former Federal Chancellor of Germany Helmut Kohl
March 3, 2005
16:24
Novo-Ogaryovo
President Vladimir Putin: Let me wish you a warm welcome. We have not seen each other for a long time and each time we meet is a special event for me because it really is a genuine pleasure to talk with you.
I remember our meetings in Hamburg at the beginning of the 1990s, and I must mention that this year we are to celebrate a big event – the 50th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between our countries. I recall that it was your predecessor, [Konrad] Adenauer who took that step and came to Moscow to establish diplomatic relations between the Soviet Union and Berlin.
This year we are also celebrating the 60th anniversary of the end of World War II. The fact that the German chancellor is to take part in these events underscores the special nature of the relations that exist today between Russia and Germany. We want to develop our relations with all the different political forces in Germany and that is why we are very happy to welcome you here as someone who has done a great deal for your party and for Germany’s development overall. As far as I know, you are to speak on a very interesting subject today and so I am expecting that we shall have a very substantial discussion.
Former Federal Chancellor of Germany Helmut Kohl (translated from Russian): Thank you very much, Mr President, for your warm reception. I thank you for finding the time to talk with me even though my stay here is only brief. I too recall our first meetings and our many conversations, and also the conversations I have had with your predecessor, whom I have just visited.
It makes me very happy that one of my biggest dreams has come true and that relations between our two countries have taken such a positive turn. This is of great benefit to Germany, Russia and the entire world. Many of our neighbours did not understand this. For me, to see our relations developing in this way is a dream come true.
I still remember my first visit here as federal chancellor. I was received then by Mr Andropov and we had conversation in connection with the opening of a former German soldiers cemetery here in Moscow. It was a big Russian cemetery and next to there was a cemetery where former German soldiers were buried. I visited it on a Sunday and there were many Muscovites that day at the Russian cemetery, especially many women, of course. They had found out about the German cemetery being opened and when we arrived there hundreds of these women embraced my wife. This was an incredible event for me. I always say that we need monuments to honour the memory of the departed, but that we should never create new cemeteries. You know that my brother died at the age of 19 and how many people lost their lives here. I think that what we saw that day at that cemetery was truly amazing.
I have great respect for what you are doing and I know that it is not an easy undertaking. I was federal chancellor for 16 years and I know that many people think they could have done things better, and those who do the least are those who think they know best of all. And so I wish you much happiness and success on your road forward.
Vladimir Putin: You know, I recall how after our first meeting in Hamburg you invited us to Bonn and we had a discussion there that perhaps diddn’t touch upon specific issues, but you spoke then precisely about the future of Europe, the significance of Russia and Germany and the importance of our cooperation in this future world. That was almost 12 years ago but the main points that you formulated then are now becoming reality. I found it very interesting to hear what you had to say at that time and it is especially interesting today to see it actually taking place.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: March 3, 2005, 16:24
Text version