We intend to cooperate with Iraq, work with the new Iraqi leadership and help rebuild the country. We have longstanding and strong ties with Iraq and we intend developing them further.
Question: I propose now turning to the economic situation in Russia.
As we all know, under your leadership, Russia has shown strong economic growth over the last two years. What, in your view, explains this growth?
Vladimir Putin: Russia has had strong growth for the last five years. Over the last five years our GDP has grown at an annual rate of 6.5–7 percent. I see this as being due to several factors. First and most important is that we have a stable political situation within the country and the population supports the reforms undertaken by the President and the government. This makes it possible to follow a balanced, justified and carefully planned economic policy. Of course, the external economic situation is also a positive factor that has been supporting the Russian leadership’s efforts. There are other factors that I could also cite. To name one of them, I think it is important that we have been following a targeted and quite balanced social policy aimed at gradually but constantly increasing people’s incomes. Of course, it would be good to be able to move faster and give people more, but raising incomes should not outstrip increases in labour productivity and economic growth in general, or else the people themselves will ultimately end up losing out.
Over these last years we have had a double surplus, a budget surplus and a foreign trade surplus. The Central Bank’s gold and currency reserves have been increasing and now exceed the former Soviet Union’s gold and currency reserves. This in turn creates problems of its own such as the need to sterilise the money supply and maintain macroeconomic parameters. Overall, we are managing to do this, though we would, of course, like to achieve better results in reducing inflation and keeping it in check.
We have not let ourselves become dizzy with success. We still have a lot of problems to solve and we will continue to work hard, calmly and consistently.
Question: What are the biggest challenges and difficulties you have faced since 2000?
Vladimir Putin: The biggest problem was the degradation of state institutions and economic problems that in turn caused quite serious social tension. We have managed to do a lot of what needed to be done, but not as fast as we would have liked, and some things could have perhaps been done better. But, as we say here, “only he who does nothing makes no mistakes”. Overall, we have been moving in the right direction and the results are visible.
Question: Another interesting question, from our point of view: many Arab and Muslim leaders firmly condemned the brutal terrorist attack in Beslan. At the same time, Chechnya remains a stumbling block between Russia and public opinion in the Arab and Muslim world.
What do you think can be done to change this situation?
Vladimir Putin: We can change the situation if our friends in the Arab and Muslim world become closer acquainted with what is really happening today in Chechnya and in Russia in general. Not many people know that dozens of mosques have opened here over recent years, and this would not have been possible without real and direct support from the Russian leadership. Not many people realise that we let everyone who seeks good, happiness and prosperity for the Chechen people, regardless of their political views, take part in rebuilding the republic, or that we have granted numerous amnesties and are involving representatives of all political forces in the republic’s life, except, of course, those who seek to achieve their aims through the use of arms or through such atrocities as that which you mentioned – the terrible terrorist act in Beslan.
We are engaged in a direct dialogue with the people, with the republic’s population. We helped to organise the referendum there on a constitution for Chechnya. The overwhelming majority, really the absolute majority of people in Chechnya, supported this constitution. One of the constitution’s main provisions is recognition of Chechnya as part of the Russian Federation. We think that the Chechen people have made their view clear on this issue.
We helped to organise presidential elections there. We are ready to sign an agreement with Chechnya on division of powers between the federal and the local authorities and on providing the republic with a large degree of autonomy. I think that we could very well see parliamentary elections held this year in Chechnya with all the different political forces taking part. And we see that our efforts meet with the understanding of the Muslim and Arab world. Both during the referendum on the constitution and during the presidential elections we invited representatives of the League of Arab States and the Organisation of the Islamic Conference to take part as international observers. The representatives of both organisations worked as observers practically everywhere throughout Chechnya. Neither organisation had any serious criticism of the referendum and the election. On the contrary, they said that both the election and the referendum were well organised, were democratic, and that the rights and interests of the people living in Chechnya were respected.
Question: What is your reaction to calls for greater democracy in Russia?
Vladimir Putin: The first point I want to make is that Russia has no future without democracy. This is my firm conviction. But democracy is not a product that can be brought in from outside through the help of whatever kind of revolution. Democracy is a product of a society’s internal development. All countries have problems with democracy, including those who like to talk about it more than anyone else. We will continue to develop democracy in Russia and we will react positively to critical but friendly analysis from outside. But we will most certainly always oppose attempts by anyone to use the slogans of democracy to pursue their foreign policy aims with regard to our country, or to use it as an instrument for intervening in our domestic affairs. In any case, we will take our decisions based on our history, our specificities, and we will take our decisions independently.