Events
Visit to the Russian Spiritual Mission
April 28, 2005
10:30
Jerusalem
President Vladimir Putin: This is a special place. There is a particular feeling inside when visiting Jerusalem, especially at the Lord’s Tomb. It is a very emotional event.
I would like to thank all of you who serve the interests of the Russian Orthodox Church, the interests of Russia, looking after and preserving these places for our Church and our people. It is especially pleasing to see this happening in these days preceding Easter, and it is also the time of Passover here in Israel.
I think this will help make this a successful visit to Israel. This is the first visit by a Russian head of state to this country. We must make an effort to help bring about reconciliation. It is not by chance that the words “Ask for peace for Jerusalem” are written above the Tsar’s Gates here in your church. Let us indeed ask the Lord to give peace to Jerusalem.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 28, 2005, 10:30
Text versionEvents
Press Statement and Answers to Questions Following Talks with President of Israel Moshe Katsav
April 28, 2005
14:06
Jerusalem
President Vladimir Putin: Ladies and gentlemen!
First of all, I would like to thank the Israeli President for his invitation and for the very warm and hospitable reception I and all the Russian delegation have received here on Israeli soil.
I would like to note that the outcome of the talks we have just had confirm that our countries are ready to work consistently and energetically to develop our political dialogue and humanitarian ties. You have just witnessed the signing of our joint declaration. It reflects our two countries’ approaches – approaches that have much in common on many points – on the most important issues facing us today. Above all, this regards establishing a fairer international configuration, a fairer international system able to fight terrorism and settle the Middle East conflict. If we can work effectively together to combat the threats we face in the world today, we will be able to eradicate their feeding grounds of ignorance, poverty and social ills.
The situation in the Middle East was an important subject of our talks. We think there is an opportunity today to achieve a just settlement to the Palestinian-Israeli conflict, a settlement based above all on the relevant UN resolutions, the Madrid Principles and the Roadmap that was approved by the UN Security Council. Much will depend on the Israeli and Palestinian leaders’ readiness to take steps towards each other and follow the decisions adopted at Sharm al Sheikh. It is of principle importance that neither the Israeli nor the Palestinian side take steps that could predetermine the final status of the Palestinian territory.
The settlement process must not be interrupted. Once the situation has been normalised, talks should begin to find a definitive solution to this conflict that has gone on for more than 50 years now. As an active participant in the Quartet, Russia is ready to help achieve this objective that is of such strategic importance for the destiny of this part of the world. Today, we think the Quartet can play a particularly useful role.
We discussed our bilateral cooperation in detail today, especially our trade and economic relations. Trade between our countries has been increasing over recent years and has now reached a figure of more than $1.5 billion. We see good prospects for expanding our cooperation in the energy sector, in aircraft construction, transport construction and medicine. Russia and Israel have something to offer each other in high-technology fields such as the telecommunications sector. We have agreed to sign and approve soon a number intergovernmental agreements, including agreements that will put in place the conditions for broadening our cooperation – agreements on protection and encouragement of investment, for example, on joint exploration of outer space and on military-technical cooperation in the interests of third countries. We also intend to activate the work of the mixed commission on trade and economic cooperation that will hold its next meeting in Moscow in June.
People from our country make up a significant share of the Israeli population. Many of these people maintain close ties in Russia with their friends and families. We see the Russian community in Israel as a solid and reliable link binding our two countries. An Israeli cultural centre has been working in Moscow since 1994. Today, the President and I discussed the possibility of opening a Russian culture and science centre in Israel.
Contacts between our countries have been developing actively over recent years. Our citizens are opening up a wealth of new opportunities for joint business, scientific and cultural projects. We think it would be now possible and expedient to examine the issue of simplifying travel between Russia and Israel, making it easier for Russian and Israeli citizens.
Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday, when we unveiled the monument to the victims of the Holocaust, President Moshe Katsav and I spoke of the tragedy that our peoples lived through during World War II. I am sure that neither in Russia nor in Israel will people ever forget the horrors of war, will never forget that millions of our people were killed and will never forget that our peoples fought side by side against our common enemy — Nazism.
In January, President Katsav and I, along with other heads of state, marked the sixtieth anniversary to the liberation of Auschwitz by the Red Army. Soon in Moscow, on May 9, we will meet again to celebrate the great victory that we share. History teaches us to treasure and look after peace, this peace that came at the cost of such great trials and sorrow and so many millions of lives lost. It is our duty today to fight actively against xenophobia, anti-Semitism, nationalism, religious intolerance and the propaganda of violence and extremism.
In conclusion, I would like to thank the President for the very constructive, business-like and also very friendly atmosphere that prevailed during our talks today. I am sure that the partnership between Russia and Israel has a good future ahead of it. We have all the conditions for success, and most important, there is the will and desire on both sides to strengthen our friendship, trust and cooperation and to build a constructive partnership together.
Question: Did you discuss today the “missile deal” and nuclear cooperation between Russia and Iran, and if yes, then in what terms? Mr Katsav, did you listen to the Russian side’s arguments, or did you not listen to them or not want to listen to them?
Vladimir Putin: We discussed today the issues of arms supplies to Syria and the Iranian nuclear programme. We always discuss these issues when we meet with the Israeli leadership. You do not need to ask in future, did we discuss these questions or not. We always discuss them. The question is one of we say and what views we exchange.
In my interview with the Arab mass media before my visit to Cairo, and all the more here, I gave and can repeat now the following thesis: people from the former Soviet Union make up approximately 25 percent of Israel’s population. The situation in the world has changed completely and Russia’s attitude towards the emigrants from Russia and former Soviet republics has also changed completely. We want these people to be able to live in security. We take a most responsible line in our arms supplies to the Middle East.
The Middle East receives a total of around $9 billion of arms supplies from different countries. You can correct me if I’m wrong, but we estimate that the United States accounts for around $6.8 billion of this total. Arms supplies to Saudi Arabia, Egypt and the gulf countries account for around $2 billion. Russian arms supplies to the Middle East region come to a total of less than $500 million.
What are the concerns of our Israeli partners regarding arms supplies to Syria? Israel’s own security and the possibility of these arms falling into the hands of terrorist organisations. The President reminded me of these concerns today.
I want to inform you that the arms systems we are supplying are close-range air defence systems that pose no threat to Israeli territory.
Now, concerning the possibility of these arms falling into the hands of terrorist organisation. Are you certain that of the $9 billion-odd worth of arms that are supplied to this region, nothing can fall into the hands of terrorist organisations? I am not certain of this. But I am certain that the systems we are supplying to Syria will not end up in the hands of terrorists. We are aware of the concerns of our Israeli partners and we do take them into account in our arms sales activities.
First, we have installed systems in the mobile gun-carriages that cannot be passed on to terrorist organisations unnoticed. Second, these systems have been designed in such a way that if they are removed from the gun-carriages, the weapons will not work, they will not fire. Finally, keeping Israel’s concerns in mind, we have included a clause in our agreement with Syria according to which our specialists have the right to control and inspect these systems in the places where they are located and deployed.
As for genuinely serious systems that could indeed pose a threat to Israel, sales of such systems were discussed. Our military did have plans to sell to Syria our new Iskander missile system which has a range of around 300 kilometres. I prohibited this deal from going ahead.
So you cannot say that we are not behaving responsibly on this issue. We take into account the views and concerns of our partners and we have no plans to do anything that would upset the balance of force and interests in the region. We intend following just as responsible a line in the future. So, I am sure that it would not be right to exaggerate a problem that does not actually exist.
Question: This is a question for President Vladimir Putin. You take a somewhat one-sided line on arms supplies. You sell arms to Syria and are also offering Iran the possibility of acquiring nuclear technology. Is it possible that, for the sake of preserving a balance, you could also look at selling arms to Israel. You have excellent aircraft, for example.
Vladimir Putin: Once again, I want to say that the missiles we are supplying to Syria are close-range air defence systems that are no threat to Israel. In order for them to be a threat, you would have to attack Syria. But you are not planning to do this, surely? So, in this respect I think there is no problem.
Regarding our military-technical cooperation with Israel, we are in favour of developing our work together. As I said during my initial remarks, we plan to sign a military-technical cooperation agreement with Israel. As I understand the situation, when it comes to nuclear cooperation, Israel needs no outside assistance in some areas, but we are ready to develop our cooperation in peaceful nuclear use.
In Iran, we are working on developing nuclear energy use for civilian purposes. We categorically oppose any attempts by Iran to acquire nuclear weapons. Our position fully coincides with that of Israel on this issue.
Now, for the “sweetest” part of your question – the possibility of selling Russian aircraft to Israel. If you could help us sign contracts with Israel for the sale of fighter planes worth, say, a couple of billion dollars, I would give you the Medal for Services to the Fatherland.
Question: From time to time we hear concern about anti-Semitism in Russia. Could you give some specific examples of anti-Semitism in Russia which the authorities and society have not reacted to? Why, in your opinion, do people always have in mind Russia and not the Western countries when speaking of the anti-Semitism issue? The West also has this issue to deal with, after all. What is your view on this problem?
Vladimir Putin: There is nothing unusual in that, during discussions with the Russian leadership, our Israeli colleagues and friends focus attention specifically on the problems we face in Russia. Problems that arise in Western Europe should be discussed with Western European leaders, and what happens in America is something to be discussed with American leaders.
What is important is that there are manifestations of anti-Semitism in the world and we cannot allow ourselves to ignore this. As far as I know, there are such manifestations even in Israel. The place where Yitzhak Rabin was assassinated was desecrated just recently.
Russia considers any manifestation of nationalism and xenophobia to be destructive because we are a multiethnic country. We must and we will fight these manifestations, but we must do so using methods that do not simply make it look as if we are doing something, but which really do achieve genuine results. Russia has dozens of synagogues. There are 15 Jewish schools financed by the Israeli Education Ministry and five financed by international Jewish organisations. I want to tell you that I personally opened the first Jewish school in our country, in St Petersburg. Dozens of Jewish newspapers and magazines are published. We will continue to support the activities of the Jewish community in Russia. I am sure that this visit, our agreements with the Israeli leadership and the establishment of closer ties between our countries will help us to resolve this problem.
This year, as we mark the sixtieth anniversary of victory over Nazism, we should come back to this problem and make every possible effort to ensure that nothing like this ever happens in the world again. We need to work to eradicate the roots of all nationalism, and anti-Semitism, too.
Question: This is a question for the Russian President. I would like a brief and to-the-point answer if possible. Regarding Iran, if Iran rejects the “Troika’s” proposals and the IAEA proposals, will Russia support this issue in the Security Council and will it support the adoption of sanctions against Iran?
Vladimir Putin: First of all, I want to stress once again that our cooperation with Iran is exclusively in the area of civilian nuclear energy. In order to avoid causes for concern among the international community and among our own public at home, we have included additional clauses in our agreements with Iran. We have obtained that the Iranian side will return spent nuclear fuel from the Bushehr Nuclear Power Plant to Russia in order to avoid the possibility of it being used for subsequent enrichment and being used for nuclear weapons.
But I do agree with you that this is, it seems, not enough. Our Iranian partners must renounce setting up the technology for the entire nuclear fuel cycle and should not obstruct placing their nuclear programmes under complete international supervision. We will decide how to react, including within the framework of the international organisations, depending on the line Iran takes on this whole series of issues.
Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 28, 2005, 14:06
Text versionEvents
Speech at Official Welcoming Ceremony
April 28, 2005
11:06
Jerusalem
President Vladimir Putin: Dear Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
It gives me great pleasure to be here in Israel once again. This is now my third visit to Israel, but it is my first as President and head of state of Russia.
Relations between our countries have indeed been developing well over the last three years. But still quite recently it was hard to imagine a Russian head of state making an official visit to Israel. That this is now happening is a good sign that indicates the positive changes in the world and in the relations between our countries.
We discussed the possibility of this visit in January this year in Krakow, dear Mr President, and I am very pleased that we have realised our plans so quickly and not postponed them for some later date.
I want to stress right from the outset that we highly value the trust and mutual understanding that is developing between our countries and our peoples. I see today’s visit not only as the expected result of the development of our relations, but also as a starting point for the future. Today we are to discuss priorities for our bilateral business and humanitarian relations and how to strengthen cooperation between Russia and Israel in international and regional affairs.
I fully agree with you, Mr President, that we should improve our coordination in the fight against the greatest threats facing the modern world, threats such as terrorism, extremism and ethnic intolerance.
Our meeting is taking place on the eve of the sixtieth anniversary of victory over Nazism. The Jewish people, like the peoples of our country, suffered immense losses during World War II. Nazi aggression did not break the will of our peoples. Today we should remember once again that our peoples defended shoulder to shoulder their freedom and right to choose their own development path.
The Holocaust is humanity’s everlasting sorrow. The pain of this sorrow cannot be cured or forgotten. The continued work to preserve the historic truth of this tragedy deserves our greatest respect and support.
As a mark of our remembrance of the Holocaust, the President and I will now unveil together a monument to the victims of this monstrous crime. This sculptural composition, the work of the President of the Russian Academy of the Arts, is a gift from our people to the people of Israel.
I would like to note that we plan to celebrate the upcoming anniversary of victory together with President Moshe Katsav and the heads of a number of other countries in Moscow. I am sure that the victory celebrations on May 9 will become another symbol of the international community’s unity in the fight against the threat of terrorism.
Today we must state clearly that there can be no place in the twenty-first century for xenophobia, anti-Semitism or any other manifestations of ethnic and religious intolerance. This is not only our duty before the memory of the millions of people killed by bullets or in the gas chambers, it is also our obligation to future generations.
Developments in the situation in the Middle East will, of course, be a topical subject of discussion during our talks. We think that an opportunity has appeared to finally end the long-running Palestinian-Israeli conflict. Consistent steps to fulfil the recently reached agreements are the key to a political solution for the conflict.
Beginning a peace process, something that was supported by former Israeli president Ezer Weizman, is a very important task. Mr Weizman had great authority not only in his own country but throughout the entire world. I would like to express my sincere condolences to the Israeli people over his recent passing.
In conclusion I want to say that our talks will enable us to reach many practical decisions, both political and economic. Overall, they will help enrich and strengthen the partnership between our two countries.
I would like to take this opportunity to convey my warmest and most sincere greetings to the residents of ancient Jerusalem and to the entire friendly Israeli people.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 28, 2005, 11:06
Text versionEvents
Opening Address at the Meeting with Israeli Veterans of the Great Patriotic War
April 28, 2005
14:30
Jerusalem
President Vladimir Putin: Good afternon, dear friends,
Our meeting will be short, but it is very important for me. I want to congratulate you on our common national holiday – the 60th anniversary of Victory over Nazism and the end of the Second World War is approaching.
There is no need for me to talk about the role played by the peoples of the Soviet Union and the people who, in the course of years, came here, to the land of Israel, in putting an end to fascism in Europe and in the world as a whole.
Unfortunately, it must be said that the roots of Nazism and chauvinism are deep, and that a great deal needs to be done to eradicate them.
At the same time, I would like to say that if it had not been for your decisive contribution to fighting Nazism, it is uncertain what course world history would have taken.
I am very happy to note that here, in Israel, there are around 20,000 veterans of the Great Patriotic War. And judging from the large number of awards on your chests, it is clear that you are extraordinary people who did a great deal and made an enormous contribution to destroying fascism, and fought on the fronts.
Among the 20,000 Soviet veterans living in Israel, there are also people who worked in the underground, in partisan divisions. There are also people who were in concentration camps and were able to survive.
The Israeli President and I were in Poland for the 60th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz. This is also a great event, and to a large degree it was organised on the initiative of Russian Jewish organisations.
I also visited the Memorial complex Yad Vashem. I saw what is being done in Israel to preserve the memory of victims of the war.
Of course, we are all well aware of the horrors of the Second World War. But still, when you see this gathered in one place – and when it is put together emotionally – you cannot look at it without tears. I think that this is quite right.
In both Russia and in Israel, everything is being done to preserve the memory of those who died at the hands of the Nazis, and those who fought Nazism.
I would like to assure you that we in Russia will carry out this policy, and in the sense the peoples of Israel and the peoples of Russia suffered the biggest losses.
I would like to congratulate you once more on the anniversary celebrations. I wish you the very best, and good health, and good spirits before the holiday.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 28, 2005, 14:30
Text version