Events
Start of Meeting with Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan
January 11, 2005
14:07
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Allow me once again to wish you a sincere welcome. Yesterday we had the opportunity to discuss all issues relating to our cooperation in considerable detail.
Today we are meeting in enlarged format with business community representatives. I hope that all our colleagues will also be present for these consultations.
At the start of today’s meeting I would like to note that the high expectations we both share for developing our bilateral economic relations have been fulfilled. Last year we expected trade between our countries to increase by up to around $8 billion but it has increased by $10 billion. I agree with your forecast that we could soon reach a figure of $15 billion.
Today we have the opportunity to discuss in specific detail energy sector, transport, social and other economic issues that we touched on in general yesterday.
I am very happy to see you in Moscow and I hope that you have managed to get some rest.
Recep Tayyip Erdogan: Allow me to thank you, Your Excellency, for the warm reception and the hospitality you showed us yesterday evening. I hope that today’s meeting and the meeting with the delegations will be fruitful.
The development of our trade and economic ties opens the way forward for businesspeople from both our countries. Our delegation includes some 500 businesspeople. Yesterday we all flew here on a large plane and today two more planes will arrive.
Together we will open newly built facilities and the talks between our delegations will give us the chance to discuss opportunities for further development of our relations.
Along with the development of our trade and economic ties, development of tourism is helping our peoples to become better acquainted with each other, thus creating new opportunities for bringing our countries even closer together. As you rightly noted, our expectations for bilateral trade growth have been fulfilled and even exceeded.
It is my sincere conviction that we can reach the objectives we have set very quickly. I think that this process will move ahead even faster with the help of joint investment in our own and in third countries.
Once again, Your Excellency, I would like to thank you on my own behalf and on behalf of our delegation.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: January 11, 2005, 14:07
Direct link: en.kremlin.ru/d/22773
Text versionEvents
Concluding Remarks after a Meeting with Representatives of Turkish Business Circles
January 11, 2005
22:00
Moscow, President Hotel
President Vladimir Putin: First of all, I would like to endorse what my colleague said, the Prime Minister of Turkey, and also there is something I would like to add in conclusion.
Just a month has gone by since the official visit of the President of the Russian Federation to the Republic of Turkey, just a month. And quite honestly, I was surprised and pleased at how fruitful our talks were with the Turkish Prime Minister yesterday evening and in our morning session today. And this is not surprising, because the extent of our relations and their diversity require such regular meetings. Indeed, we did not waste a single minute yesterday evening or today: not a minute went by without discussion of important problems of our cooperation. I must say that everything that was heard from the respected participants of the meeting today was heard yesterday and this morning at an official level. The Prime Minister, Mr. Kursad Tuzmen [State minister of Turkey] the Energy Minister of Turkey [Hilmi Guler], and other colleagues addressed, in fact, all the problems that were raised today by business representatives.
Of course, we did not just talk about economic problems – we also talked about international issues. I must say that today proposals were heard to use Turkey’s infrastructure to develop and restore Iraq: we also discussed this topic. We are naturally concerned about the situation in Iraq at the moment. As we know, the state of emergency there has been prolonged by two months, although elections are scheduled for 30 January. The situation remains difficult; and we are interested in peaceful development of the situation in this country, and will do everything on our part to achieve this, and will unite the efforts of Russia and Turkey, because the situation in our country depends to a large degree on prosperity in this region of the world.
As for the problem of Cyprus, I can say that we of course discussed this topic, and I would like to stress that Russia supports the efforts of the UN General Secretary – and I recently had the opportunity to discuss this topic with him by telephone – aimed at regulating the Cyprus problem, including his plan to develop economic relations with Northern Cyprus, to remove the blockade that has been in force there for many years.
As for the economy, of course this is the main component of our cooperation, and I would like to comment right now on several speeches.
First, I was happy with the thorough work that has been conducted in many areas on the main strategic issues of our cooperation. In the energy sphere, we agreed to increase deliveries of Russian gas, and for Russian companies to participate in distributing gas on the territory of Turkey; our specialists are holding talks to build gas-holders in Turkey, to deliver Russian raw energy to third countries, and about the possibility to realise serious projects on liquefaction of gas. All this, as you understand, increases the economic and export possibilities of Russian energy sector, and creates a favourable new image for Turkey in international energy cooperation. We did not just restrict ourselves to delivery of raw energy, we also talked about cooperation in other spheres of power engineering, such as electrical energy: we discussed increasing deliveries, for Russian companies to take part in the network sphere, in generation etc.
We consider it very important to develop the proposals made by the State Minster of Turkey [Kursad Tuzmen] – I mean the development of our cooperation in infrastructure. And here I agree with our Turkish colleagues, with the Prime Minister and State Minister, that we need to think not just about pipeline transport, which is of course very important, but this project has already been realised – I mean the “Blue Flow” project – we also need to think about developing railway communications, sea communications, and to use the Black Sea more effectively. And here I agree with the Prime Minister’s comments that cooperation in the Black Sea needs to be intensified.
Yes, of course, we will continue to work in the processing industry, and in the light industry sphere. We will make according agreements in the social sphere.
As for tourism, naturally this is a sphere that has become a good indicator of the development of business ties, ties in the humanitarian sphere, and an improvement in the climate between our countries and peoples. There is probably something to think about here to improve this cooperation. Our colleagues spoke at official talks and today about making use of Turkish carriers for transporting Russian tourists.
We only have one restriction, and today we told our Turkish colleagues about this. It is connected with charter carriers, and they do not just apply to Turkey. Russian tourists are transported by Russian charters, but not just to Turkey, to other countries as well – this is a common restriction. But there are no restrictions for Turkish airlines to transport Russian tourists on regular flights. And here our specialists noted that Turkish companies do not make full use of these opportunities – for example they do not fly to Petersburg, although they have the right to do this. This is just a small detail. I am not saying that we need to restrict ourselves to this.
I merely want to say that in my opinion, these meetings help to open up opportunities and articulate problems that stop us from moving ahead. Of course, this also concerns the actions of administrative bodies, above all customs services. We agreed that a delegation from the Ministry of economic development and trade headed by Minister German Gref would plan to make a business trip to Turkey. The delegation will include heads of customs services, who will be guided not just by reference prices, but by economic realities. And on the one hand, they will not allow dumping, and on the other they will go from economic realities. Of course, our customs service will work on this, along with a series of other issues connected with debt obligations and using these debt obligations to develop economic ties. These possibilities exist, of course. We will work on this further.
As for the trade imbalance, here we need to look at the problems that exist together, from both sides. Yes, there is a flow of energy resources from Russia, but we also know of other imbalances in certain spheres – I already talked about this – such as in the construction sphere.
The investment made by Russia comes to $300 million — $350 million, while the investment made by Turkey in Russia comes to $1.5 billion. This is also an imbalance. All of this, I believe, or at least a great deal of this, can be solved when the Russian Federation joins the World Trade Organisation. Then many things will be regulated naturally for the benefit of our cooperation. I want to stress once more: we were very happy with the position of Prime Minister Erdogan directed towards a swift solution of the problem of Russia joining the World Trade Organisation.
In conclusion, I would like to thank you, to thank you for finding the opportunity to come to the Russian Federation. I would like to thank Mr. Prime Minister for being the initiator of this visit, because even against the background of Russia’s swiftly developing economic relations with other countries, it looks very impressive: 600 representatives of Turkish business came to the Russian capital together to take part in talks with their colleagues to look for new possibilities in developing economic ties! This is a good sign that our future will be provided for, and provided for in the best possible way.
I want to thank you and once more wish you a Happy New Year.
Thank you very much.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: January 11, 2005, 22:00
Text versionEvents
Concluding Remarks at a Meeting on Issues of Developing Information Technology
January 11, 2005
22:55
Novosibirsk, Akademgorodok
President Vladimir Putin: I think it is time to wrap up It is quite clear, it is obvious to everyone, that one of the main tasks in the economic sphere is diversification. In this sense, of course, a very important area is supporting and creating conditions for the development of information technology, and in general high technology in the wide sense of this word. Everything that we talked about today is related to solving this task.
It is also understood that we need to create favourable conditions in this country in general, which our colleagues from the Finance Ministry insist upon quite justifiably. And at the same time, in solving these tasks, we must not allow the situation to become worse for certain sectors, including for our high-technology companies that are already functioning today. From what we discussed today, it is clear that all our efforts are directed towards creating new elements of this infrastructure: scientific, technical and production.
When we discussed this in Moscow, our position was that if we are talking about creating special zones, then we would proceed from the ideas contained in the draft legislation proposed by the Ministry for Economic Development and Trade. I would very much like for those who work on these legislative documents to take into account today’s discussion, and its results, paying attention to the concerns that were expressed, including by representatives of fiscal organisations, which is extremely important.
And of course, while investigating and establishing order in the sphere of tax administration in extractive industry, we must not create anything that would hinder the development of the economy in processing industry, and above all the high-technology sphere. This should be a favourable administrative system with a restriction on the abilities of supervisory organisations. The restriction is not designed to deprive the state of control, but to create normal stable work conditions for business in the high technology sphere, so that people are not bothered by inspections of the health or fire service every week. At the same time, I stress once more, this does not mean that there will be no control at all.
This concerns the creation of a special administrative regime, a special regime of taxation with a reduced tax burden in general. I won’t talk about details now – income tax or the unified social tax. For these technologies, above all, the unified social tax is important. I would ask the appropriate ministries and departments, the Finance Ministry, to determine as quickly as possible what the bar will be. So that we do not do any harm to people working in this sphere, from the viewpoint of ensuring their retirement rights. When we talk about the unified social tax, we mean that the necessary allotments for people should be made to the accumulative part of the pension, to the common part of the pension. And if we are talking about this possibility and agree to set the rate of the unified social tax at 14%, then I agree with Minister Gref that the regressive scale should be maintained that exists for the system of calculating prices that should be applied this year.
We are talking about special customs conditions and co-financing of all these programmes, including by the state. And of course, it is very important to create stable conditions of work in these sectors over quite a long period, so that the state does not have the ability to worsen the legal or economic situation for participants of this process, and for those who will be registered in these zones as residents. These are the main areas of our activity in the near future.
Of course, it will be necessary to work with the heads of regions where the development of these zones is planned, because a great deal will of course also depend on governors and presidents of republics in the Russian Federation. This must not be imposed from the top, but supported by local legislative powers and governors. Without this, it will be virtually impossible to do anything.
And most importantly, last of all: when will all these problem issues be agreed on, and when will you submit this bill (talking to Mr. Gref)?
German Gref: Vladimir Vladimirovich, I think that if in the first half of the year we…
Mr Putin: No, more precisely, can you name a month?
Mr Gref: By the first of March, I think, we should submit it to the Duma.
Mr Putin: Fine, that’s agreed then. We will submit the law by the first of March.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: January 11, 2005, 22:55
Text versionEvents
Start of Russian-Turkish Talks in Enlarged Format
January 11, 2005
14:49
Moscow, the Kremlin
President Vladimir Putin: As we agreed, we are focusing our attention today principally on economic cooperation issues. Our priorities here are in the energy, transport and infrastructure sectors and include electricity, energy resource supplies and the construction of structural facilities in this sector. As for transport, this includes air transport and some other areas. We will also look at social issues and we have plans regarding military-technical cooperation and I would like to say a few words on this issue too.
But before we begin our work I would like to congratulate all our Turkish friends and colleagues on the New Year, wish you all the very best in this new year and wish you, your families and the entire Turkish people happiness, health and prosperity.
Recep Tayyip Erdogan: First of all I would like to express the hope that this new year of 2005 that has just begun will be a good year for all of humanity, for the Russian people and for Turkey. I hope that 2005 will be a year of prosperity for us all.
Your New Year and Christmas holidays are ending now and the working year is beginning.
Today’s meeting will give us the chance to exchange views on issues such as energy, tourism and trade and economic cooperation. We will also have the opportunity to discuss expanding our military-technical cooperation. Of course, we shall also have a chance to look at issues concerning our region of the world.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: January 11, 2005, 14:49
Text versionEvents
Speech at a Meeting on Issues of Creating Technology Parks in the Information Technology Sphere
January 11, 2005
22:30
Novosibirsk, Akademgorodok
President Vladimir Putin: Dear meeting participants,
We are here to examine the pilot project for creating echnoparks in the information technology sphere.
Today the information technology business is one of the most dynamic and profitable sectors of the world economy, and information technology itself is a powerful tool to renew and increase competitiveness of national industries and develop innovative activity. Their contribution to the GDP of the world’s leading countries is constantly growing.
Our position here is still rather modest: less than one percent of the world market. Russian companies, with their limited resources, have difficulty competing on the domestic market, let alone the foreign market.
At the same time, we have a human resources potential, and a serious scientific reserve in this area. I am sure that if these resources are used effectively and competently, the country will be able to achieve a serious breakthrough in the information sphere. We simply must not miss this chance, especially as a number of nations have achieved success in this sphere without having such a strong starting position.
I expect that forming a modern infrastructure of the information sector of the economy can become a major national project. Its realisation requires effective partnership and joint responsibility of science, business, the state, and according legal and organisational mechanisms. I would like to note several fundamental aspects in connection with this.
First, we need to understand that the technoparks created in the information technology sphere are fully-fledged market projects. They must be market projects. Their work must be based on the principles of competitiveness, effectiveness, profitability, and the product manufactured here must be oriented towards a specific client. In connection with this, it is important to make a clear prediction of long-term tendencies and requirements of the national and international economy. This first point is probably the most important thing. Not even the preferences in these zones and in this area in general which we will probably talk about today are as important. But demand for this type of service, for this type of production, is an extremely important factor.
Second, we must carefully analyse both the foreign and the national practice of creating research and production complexes, technoparks and special economic zones. We have our own interesting and successful experience. It is enough to name Akademgorodok in Novosibirsk, where we are right now. Several decades ago, models of integrating education, science and production in a single territorial complex were developed. Furthermore, dozens of scientific and technical centres in the information business are effectively working on the market. I remember that you told me about this the last time I came here. And there are certain projects in the Moscow region that are working well. People are present here who are involved in this activity at a practical level. I hope that they will also speak today.
Third, it is important to determine modern tools of state support for information technology centres, to stimulate and advance the export of high technology goods and services. And this cannot only concern special economic, tax or customs regimes. I would like to hear your opinion, your suggestions on the system of cooperation and on the measures of state support in this sector.
Fourth, the activity of these technoparks and other elements of the innovation infrastructure must be guided by adequate legislation. I expect that the federal law on special economic zones that is being prepared should take into account the specifics of the information technology business.
We must fully regulate the use of intellectual property. Research teams and developers must be interested in handing over their product for production. They must do this not through the use of shadowy schemes, but on the basis of transparent, civilised procedures that are beneficial for everyone.
Everything connected with protecting intellectual property is a very important element from the point of view of strengthening the legislative basis, and of protection of intellectual property rights in practice.
Fifth, forming the infrastructure of the information business must be closely accompanied by a modernisation of professional education. Mass production will require a large number of high-qualified personnel, personnel that is capable of solving specific technical and highly-specialised tasks. At the same time, it is important to maintain the competitive advantages of our education, such as its fundamental nature, and the traditions of the Russian engineering schools.
Sixth, the creation of these technoparks and centres is important not just economically, but socially as well. These are new, highly-paid and prestigious work places. They are to a large degree oriented towards young people: students, graduate students and young specialists. It is important to make it possible for them to achieve success and realise their abilities here, in Russia, within their own culture and language. And furthermore, additional possibilities are appearing here to attract specialists from other nations, above all from countries in the Commonwealth of Independent States.
And finally, the last point. I am certain that we must also use the experience of realising this project to develop common complex approaches to forming a modern innovation infrastructure – an infrastructure that can ensure the transformation of knowledge into real capital that works for the economy and the social sphere of the country.
Everything that I have said only gives the most general picture of the scale and importance of the problem that we will examine today. And I will finish here. Let us move to a discussion of the topic.
Thank you for your attention.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: January 11, 2005, 22:30
Text versionEvents
Opening Address at the Meeting with Turkish Business Community Representatives
January 11, 2005
21:36
Moscow, the Kremlin
President Putin: Dear Prime Minister Erdogan, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends,
I am happy to welcome representatives of the Turkish business community to Moscow. I already met with many of you just over a month ago in Ankara when a very open and constructive discussion on the current situation and prospects for Russian-Turkish business ties took place. I must say that at the meetings yesterday evening and today we also discussed all issues relating to our cooperation in considerable detail.
I would like to thank all of you who worked out specific proposals for this meeting and made rich presentations. Your interest, the interest that comes from your business community, and your thorough practical knowledge of the subject help us to identify the most pressing issues for business cooperation between Russia and Turkey. I know that all your proposals will be studied in detail by Russian and Turkish experts and officials. Life has shown us that the discussion that took place in Ankara and today’s discussion are very timely. Trade between our two countries is growing fast. In December we were expecting that results for 2004 would show an increase of trade between Russia and Turkey of up to a figure of $8 billion but our statistical reports today show that growth has exceeded our expectations and has reached the record figure of $10 billion and, according to some assessments, even $11 billion.
I know that in the interview he gave just before leaving for Moscow, the Prime Minister said he thought that through joint efforts we could increase our trade turnover this year to $15 billion and reach a figure of $25 billion by 2007. I think that these are entirely realistic objectives so long as our two countries’ business communities play an active part in attaining them, that is, if you here today, the leading representatives of the Turkish business community, play an active part.
It is clear that growing mutual interest among businesspeople in both our countries will require us to remove the barriers in the way of capital and goods flow. It also requires balanced resolution of disputes and ultimately obliges us in both Russia and Turkey to take an effective approach to building up modern infrastructure for our foreign economic ties.
I want to stress again that yesterday evening and this morning these were precisely the issues we discussed. I want to stress that our dynamic political dialogue, a dialogue between neighbours committed to the principles of democracy and openness, forms a solid foundation for our trade and economic partnership. In this respect I see the political declaration signed in Ankara on December 6, 2004 by myself and Turkish President Sezer as an important step. We can say that Russian-Turkish cooperation is now taking place in an ever growing spirit of mutual trust, equality and respect for each other’s interests.
We welcome and appreciate Turkey’s success at the Brussels summit with the European Union. As you know, Russia is also developing a strategic partnership with the European Union and we are building a common economic space together. The European Union accounts for more than 50 percent of our trade turnover and we hope that Turkey’s integration into the European Union will open up new opportunities for Russian-Turkish business cooperation. At the same time, it is very important to preserve what we have achieved thus far. All that is good and useful that we have built up through our joint efforts must not be lost. What is important here is careful calculation, pragmatism and, of course, analysis of the new EU member countries’ experience. We discussed this subject, though briefly, in Ankara.
Many of the barriers that stand in the way of trade and economic cooperation can undoubtedly be removed after the completion of Russian-Turkish talks on Russia’s accession to the World Trade Organisation on acceptable conditions. We spoke about this during our consultations and it is with great satisfaction that I note our Turkish colleagues’ positive attitude towards Russia’s joining to the World Trade Organisation. Coordination of the economic regulations in our countries, consistently pursuing market principles in our economic ties and expanding entrepreneurial freedom are of crucial importance in this respect.
We are watching with interest the reforms carried out by the Turkish government under the leadership of Prime Minister Erdogan. Our national goals to modernise our economies have a lot in common. The Russian and Turkish governments are both striving to improve the investment climate, expand the domestic market, encourage innovation and develop export opportunities. This creates real prospects for increasing our investment cooperation and diversifying our trade turnover by taking real steps like compensating the trade deficit and correcting the imbalance in investment. The work carried out as part of the joint meetings of our two countries’ Business Council will also be of undoubted use and assistance.
I am sure that these meetings and talks in Moscow will give you the chance to appreciate the opportunities and prospects for partnership with Russian colleagues. I sincerely wish you successful, long-term business projects and large-scale initiatives.
In conclusion, I would like to congratulate everyone here on the New Year. This year, 2005, is of special significance because it marks the 60th anniversary of victory over Fascism, and I am happy that the Turkish Prime Minister, Mr Erdogan, has accepted our invitation to take part in the celebrations of this anniversary in Moscow on May 9.
This year is also significant in that it marks a special date in the history of relations between our two countries – the 85th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between our country and the Republic of Turkey. I sincerely hope that this year will be a fruitful year for all areas of Russian-Turkish cooperation.
Thank you very much for your attention.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: January 11, 2005, 21:36
Text versionEvents
Press Statement after the Meeting on creating Technoparks in the Information Technology Sphere in the Russian Federation
January 11, 2005
23:49
Novosibirsk, Akademgorodok
President Vladimir Putin: Good evening,
The topic of our meeting in Novosibirsk today is well-known. I would like to add a few more words about what we did here today. We all know and have said a great deal that one of the most important tasks in the economic sphere is its diversification. It is clear that we need to move away from the raw-material tendency of our economy. We, I repeat, talked about this a great deal. Unfortunately, not much has been done to solve this task practically.
Today we spoke a great deal about what needs to be done, and of course there are many possibilities and many tools here that we should use to solve this task. Above all, we need to create conditions to speed up the development of processing industries and processing branches of the Russian economy as a whole.
But one of the tools for solving this problem is also the creation of zones with a special regime. Despite the continuing disputes – and they have gone on for several years – we have come to the conclusion that we will create these zones in Russia.
They must be zones with a special and favourable administrative regime, where there are limited possibilities for so-called controlling organisations, so that companies can function stably, resident companies which will be registered in these zones. There should be, and there will be, favourable tax and liberal customs regimes created there. As for favourable tax regimes, of course this means reducing the tax burden.
For companies working in the information technology sphere, one of the key taxes is the common social tax. We reached a preliminary agreement that it would be reduced in these zones to 14%, preserving the regressive scale developed for the current regime. Financing by the state in solving infrastructural problems will be provided for in these zones, and, what is particularly important, conditions for stable work must be and will be create, which will not allow the state to change or worsen the economic and legal situation these zones several years later. All this, we believe, should create the necessary conditions to develop the high technology sphere in the Russian Federation. And I am absolutely convinced that this mains the development of our country today and in the future. I repeat, this is only one of the tools for solving this problem. And on a practical level, evidently, it is also important that the Government has been given the task to submit an appropriate draft law to the parliament before 1 March this year.
There will probably be many other questions that will arise. My colleagues who have gathered here and who are directly involved in developing this draft law and these decisions will be happy to answer any questions you may have. I wish you all the best. Goodbye.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: January 11, 2005, 23:49
Text version