Events
Opening Address at the Ceremony for Presenting State Awards
December 21, 2005
16:16
Catherine Hall, The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon dear friends!
Despite the snowfall and traffic jams in Moscow you all made it here. I am very glad to see you. We are meeting just before 2006 and as a rule ceremonies that take place before the New Year are marked by the coming holiday's special atmosphere. And I am glad to be able to wish you all a very Happy New Year by presenting the Russian State Awards.
The high quality of your work, noble goals and the realization of ambitious ideas are behind each of these awards. These awards are the result of your devotion to your work as well as to the fundamental ideals of society and life.
In many respects it is due to your persistent, painstaking work and creative energy that our country is becoming stronger and that Russian society is finally finding confidence and dignity.
It is obvious that the present successes of Russia and Russian people are in many ways connected with the civil and military achievements of previous generations.
I think that on the last days of the year that marks the 60 th anniversary of Victory we must remember the feats of soldiers in the Great Patriotic War. And it is especially pleasant for me to present an Honour Award to the veteran and Hero of the Soviet Union Oleg Aleksandrovich Losik. Just recently he celebrated his 90 th birthday and I congratulate you, dear Oleg Aleksandrovich, on this important date. I wish you health and well-being.
Your example, an example of the virtue of the entire generation that lived through the war, is an inspiration to the citizens of modern Russia and is very present in the spirit of those who work in the military and who safeguard our Motherland today.
Colonel Viktor Alekseevich Ren, a space test engineer, is also here. His profession constantly requires both courage and selflessness and he is rightly awarded our country's highest honour, the rank of Hero of Russia.
Today's ceremony for awards and medals is all the more significant because of the number of brilliant recipients.
In this auditorium it is impossible to either single out or to overlook any of these famous, illustrious names. A whole era of our country's achievements is behind each of these names. Evidence of a real national calling and love is behind each of these names. You and your outstanding successes are the pride of Russia, landmarks in the country's history and in the development of its spiritual life and culture.
It is obvious that people who have devoted their lives to creative endeavours keenly feel and perceive events and their times and, most importantly, have the possibility of transmitting that feeling to society. The fruits of your work are more than just a source of pleasure and inspiration. They make people reflect very seriously and inspire profound insights and judgements. Your work is always present. Everybody knows how talented you are. And it is impossible to imagine our national culture without the music of Vladimir Yakovlevich Shainskii and Andrei Pavlovich Petrov, or without the impressions made by the unique dramatic gifts of Liudmila Markovna Gurchenko, Sergei Iurevich Iurskii, Vasilii Borisovich Livanov.
Dear friends! The New Year can be celebrated among a close circle of friends. And the reward ceremony that takes place in December gives us an opportunity to do so.
We have a common cause and are working together to increase the prestige of our country, the prosperity of Russia. But one of today's most important tasks is to transmit to future generations not only the feeling of pride in one's country but also an understanding of what a large contribution they can make to the development of the Motherland, to further strengthening Russia and to increasing Russia's authority in the world.
In conclusion I would like to wish you once again Happy New Year and to wish you, your friends and families health, success, happiness and warmest relations amongst yourselves.
May 2006 be once again a year of grand victories and creative achievements!
Thanks very much for your attention.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 21, 2005, 16:16
Text versionEvents
Opening Remarks at Meeting with the Leadership of the Republic of Chechnya
December 21, 2005
22:20
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, dear colleagues,
We are meeting here today, as we agreed during my last visit to Grozny, in order to discuss the full range of socio-economic development issues facing the Republic of Chechnya. Most important of all right now is to speed up the pace of work on the main areas so that people will be able to see visible signs of progress in resolving the economic and social tasks the republic must address.
I ask you, and here I am addressing both the federal authorities and the regional authorities, the republic’s authorities, to also maintain attention on fulfilling commitments to the republic’s people: I am referring here to the payment of benefits, pensions, compensation for lost housing and property. This all needs to be very rigorously monitored, of course.
We need to work together to put in place serious measures to ensure that the financial and material resources allocated to the republic are protected from non-rational use and from, let us be honest, misuse and corruption. Not one rouble should be wasted or spent on purposes other than that which it was allocated for.
Of course, the primary condition for stable development is stability in the republic itself. The federal authorities have undertaken much of late to ensure this stability, but above all, it is the citizens of Russia living in Chechnya, the Chechen people themselves, who have contributed to this process.
The republic has now formed all the branches of power – the executive and the representative branches of power. The election of the parliament marked the completion of the process of forming legitimate bodies of power in Chechnya. The task now is to strengthen this power system, coordinate its activities and organise effective work for the good of the people of Chechnya.
Overall, it is important now to make state management and budget planning more effective and put in place better mechanisms for developing, implementing and monitoring reconstruction programmes.
Let us now look at each of these issues in detail, and let us also not forget the routine issues that are also of great concern. I am thinking in particular here of children’s welfare. If the republic’s leadership thinks that more assistance is needed from Moscow to address the problems of the children who have fallen sick in circumstances that are as yet not entirely clear, we will do everything we can: we will send additional medical personnel and send the necessary medicines. If necessary, we will transport the children to Moscow or send them for treatment to other Russian cities. Most important is to identify as quickly as possible the causes of this situation.
So, let us begin with the subject announced, and I would like to give the floor to the President of Chechnya.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 21, 2005, 22:20
Text version