Events
Beginning of the Meeting with the Prime Minister of Thailand, Thaksin Shinawatra
October 15, 2005
18:34
Novo-Ogaryovo
Vladimir Putin: Dear Mr Prime Minister, first of all I would like to thank you for having found the time for a trip to Moscow.
I must say that recently our trade and economic relations have actively developed. I am even afraid to name the growth's exact percentage – it really is outstanding. In absolute terms this growth is modest enough but still decent; this year we can attain 1.7 billion USD. We consider Thailand our prospective partner in Asia.
Mr Prime Minister, I wish to congratulate you and your government on the economic results you have recently achieved. The low rate of inflation combined with the economy's high growth rate is a very good sign.
Thaksin Shinawatra (translated from Russian): First of all, Mr President allow me to thank you for the warm reception you gave me and the members of my delegation and for being able to meet with me on a Saturday, especially since this visit was organized only a short time ago. I wish to express my condolences regarding the events in the south of Russia. In my country there are the same problems in the south. I very much hope that you can resolve the situation and that I will manage to do the same in the south of Thailand.
As you may remember, during my first visit to Russia two and a half years ago the volume of trade amounted to one billion USD. And I hope that by the end of this year the volume will reach two billion USD. I have been closely following Russia's level of growth and development and would like to express my admiration to the President of Russia for such high indicators of growth during the last few years.
During the present visit I intend to strengthen close relations with Russia on all levels. Especially in the areas of security, the economy and politics. I am also glad to welcome Russia as a member of the ACD.
I will be very glad to welcome your Excellency during the ASEAN summit that will take place in December of this year.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 15, 2005, 18:34
Text versionEvents
Beginning of the Meeting with the Secretary of State of the United States of America, Condoleezza Rice
October 15, 2005
18:20
Novo-Ogaryovo
Vladimir Putin: Dear Madame Secretary of State!
Allow me to warmly greet you to Moscow.
I am very pleased that we have developed a constant dialogue which is virtually never interrupted, not even for a week.
My colleagues and I well remember how warmly we were greeted by the President of the United States recently in Washington.
I know that you have just completed a long trip across the countries of Central Asia and Europe. And considering the great volume of Russian-American relations, it is very pleasant for us to see you today in Moscow.
Condoleezza Rice: Thank you Mr President!
Thank you for receiving me here, particularly on a Saturday, here at the residence. I greatly appreciate it.
The President also remembers warmly the time that you spent together in Washington and I do think that it’s a good thing that we have a continuing dialogue. And you can be certain that as we go through the entire range of issues in US-Russian relations that we have a firm foundation and a firm basis for strong partnership together with Russia. And that is why it is a good thing that we get together frequently and talk about the whole range of issues before us.
Thank you for receiving me.
Vladimir Putin: I wish to congratulate you on the results of your trip to Central Asia. I know that the trip has been a great success. We have many common interests with the United States and the states of Central Asia in the struggle against terrorism and in settling the situation in Afghanistan. And if you think it is possible to tell us more about your trip's results we would be grateful to you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 15, 2005, 18:20
Text versionEvents
Opening Address at the Meeting with the Members of the Security Council
October 15, 2005
18:04
Novo-Ogaryovo
Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon dear colleagues!
Before we start our work I wish to express my condolences to the families of the victims who died as a result of terrorism in Nalchik on October 13, 2005.
It is necessary that the government of the Russian Federation provide the victims with all necessary help as quickly as possible.
Once again I would like to point out the harmonious work of the law enforcement agencies and special services which managed to liquidate a significant number of bandits.
Today during our meeting we will discuss in detail the way the operation was carried out and its results.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 15, 2005, 18:04
Text version