Events
Speech at the Official Opening Ceremony of the Blue Stream Gas Pipeline
November 17, 2005
22:23
Samsun, Turkey
Vladimir Putin: Many thanks for such a warm reception. I address first of all my dear colleagues, the Prime Minister of Turkey and the Prime Minister of Italy, and everyone present.
Dear ladies and gentlemen!
We have been waiting for today for a long time. We are ceremonially opening the Blue Stream gas pipeline which started to work at full capacity. And first of all I would like to thank everyone who helped carry out this remarkable and difficult project. More than one hundred thousand people worked on implementing it. Of course, they cannot all fit into this hall but I hope that they will hear us today. For it is also their day. They are workers, engineers and those who financed the project.
This was a very difficult project and sceptics called it not 'Blue Stream' but 'Blue Dreams'. This was understandable because throughout history no other such project has used technology quite like this one. Experts from the largest energy companies – Gazprom from Russia, ENI from Italy, Botas from Turkey – took part in setting it up. Joining the resources and intellectual capital from Russia, Turkey, Italy and other countries proved successful.
I consider that launching the gas pipeline is one more step towards creating a common European energy space. I completely agree with my Turkish colleague who talked so convincingly about this. It is a step towards strengthening the continent's energy security and diversifying deliveries of crude energy to general consumers.
Blue Stream actually turns Turkish territory into an energy bridge between east and west and gives Turkey a new role in the European energy space. It creates opportunities to develop the Southern European Gas Ring which optimizes gas exports to southern Europe and the Balkans. The gas pipeline is built on such a huge scale; it really is impressive. Already this year Blue Stream will provide 3,7 billion cubic metres of gas.
Russian companies are ready to cooperate further in the Turkish oil and gas markets. And not only increasing energy exports but also participating in developing gas transit infrastructure, finding and extracting raw materials, including by shared investment.
Blue Stream also opens new possibilities for Russian gas to transit through Turkey to other countries' markets. It is possible to construct another gas pipeline under the Black Sea and establish additional gas transit structures to deliver gas to southern Italy, southern Europe and to Israel.
I would like to thank our Italian partners. Their active and reputable experience and authority in international markets did a great deal for teamwork and the shared result. And the most important thing is the possibility of seeing a global historic prospect to develop one or another such process.
I would like to remind you that the ENI group organized gas deliveries from our country to western Europe during sixty politically difficult years of last century. And joint efforts at that time laid the foundation for today's successful cooperation between Russia and our European partners.
I would especially like to point out Prime Minister Berlusconi's contribution to the development of our interstate relations over the last few years. This certainly facilitates implementing such projects. The experience of establishing Blue Stream is really unique. Technologies and engineering practices that are not found anywhere else were used here. In many respects it is these innovations which allowed us to overcome the Caucasus' difficult terrain and to cross under the Black Sea.
I shall especially emphasize reliability and safety concerning gas transit. All ecological standards have been observed. We have taken maximum care to preserve the environment. Setting up Blue Stream has really encouraged technological progress and opened new prospects for cooperation in the gas sector. I am confident that this experience will also prove useful in future projects.
Dear friends, it is symbolic that our ceremony is taking place in Samsun, the city connected with the Turkish people's national liberation movement led by Mustafa Kemal (Ataturk).
During those years Russia acted as Turkey's ally and gave it significant support. This is a historical fact and, along with many other things, is an opportune example of Russian-Turkish cooperation. This cooperation is actively developing today and I am confident that its prospects are extremely auspicious.
Once again I congratulate all Turkish, Italian and Russian experts on the opening of the new gas pipeline.
I wish us all new successes.
Thank you very much for your attention.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 17, 2005, 22:23
Text versionEvents
Russia-APEC: Broad Horizons of Cooperation
By President of the Russian Federation Vladimir V.Putin. Published in APEC-countries
November 17, 2005
12:15
Development of the Asia-Pacific Region to which in the view of many experts the center of gravity of world politics and economy is gradually shifting, is really amazing. One can often hear suggestions that an economic miracle is being born here. There is a certain reason to say so. However, a more pragmatic approach is the one I like more. After all, one can only hope for a miracle yet. Here we witness the results of large-scale and intensive work being carried out by the APR economies. Suffice it to say that the region produces two thirds of the global GNP and a considerable part of world investments is concentrated here.
Russia seeks to make its meaningful contribution to the economic development of this region. The annual growth rates of goods turnover of our country with APR economies are over 20 percent. For example, trade with China increases by 20–30 percent annually and by the end of the current year is likely to reach a record level for our states – 25 bln. US dollars. The same trends can be seen also in our performance with other APR economies. In our actions and plans we proceed from the understanding that Russia is an inalienable part of the APR. This region is not only a space of rapid economic growth. Here we witness positive effects of globalization, that is, gradual leveling-off of social and economic development of different regions of the world. Another APR distinguishing aspect is high dynamics of integration processes which positively influence the formation of a new and more equitable world order. This desire to address regional problems collectively is of great importance and value. Besides, we see a real desire and willingness of the APR economies to learn from the experience of others. Take the example of the states of Europe which have gone their own road to solidarity and mutual support. They came to understand that well-thought-out integration based on smoothly functioning institutions and mechanisms can effectively ensure security and prosperity.
We realize that development of Russia can only be successful if we participate most actively in the regional integration process. Constructive involvement in these processes is our strategic choice and a most important task for the foreseeable future. Russia was guided by precisely these considerations when in 1998 it joined the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum. In the APR context today it is the most representative mechanism for consultations and collaborative discussions on key regional and international issues.
Together with our partners we are productively using the APEC ground to collectively define the ”rules of the game“ in the economic ”field“ of the region. And what is especially important – we rely upon principles of consensus and voluntary action which have already proven their effectiveness.
Yet, the time has come to assess the results and the possibility of timely fulfillment of the Bogor Goals, i.e. the program of establishing a free and open trade and investment regime in the region. I would emphasize here that it is the strategic objectives defined in Bogor, rather than details, that are important. In my opinion, the APEC does have something to offer to the world. The principal point is that all the APEC economies, including Russia, have deliberately chosen the path of trade and investment liberalization and have already gone through different in length, but equal in significance, parts of this way.
Let us recall that the Bogor Goals were adopted eleven years ago when the APEC focused on ”pure economy“. At that time, who could, for example, foresee the scale of the terrorist threat? Yet, after the tragic events of September 11, 2001 in the United States the tasks of fighting terrorism and countering other threats firmly established themselves as priority topics on the APEC agenda. Russia regards APEC as an important instrument of strengthening the antiterrorist front in both regional and global dimensions. It is encouraging to see that all my colleagues in the APEC share this approach.
It is logical that today main attention is paid to uniting efforts to stop financial support of terrorist organizations. However, to the APEC's credit, it does not limit itself solely to this line of activity. The APEC leaders noted the need for joint steps to weaken the ”resource“ base of terrorprevention of illicit turnover of MANPADS and strengthening the non-proliferation regimes in the region. In its turn, an active cooperation in eliminating economic underdevelopment, curbing organized crime and fighting corruption gradually reduces the fertile ground for these negative phenomena.
The APEC efforts to develop the inter-cultural, inter-civilizational dialogue in the region are to play a special role in this respect. Multiplicity of regional cultures and religions is a unique advantage of the region. Russia believes that the APEC is able to demonstrate a far greater interest in the issue of bringing closer the people that live in the diverse Pacific region. Our Organization should initiate programs in the areas of culture, mass media and other humanitarian spheres. A project to create series of TV films on business ethics and corporate culture of different peoples of the region could be very useful and needed. It could be pursued within the APEC and promoted through national mass media, as well as through the existing programs on business education. I think the idea promoted by the Republic of Korea, current APEC Chairman, is very timely. It seeks to involve the Forum mechanisms in making regional cultural exchanges more active.
Russia is interested in further interaction across the entire spectrum of our objectives, including guarantees of equal access of all economies to the advantages of globalization. I would single out a most urgent problem of preparedness for emergency situations. We all remember and mourn the victims of natural disasters which befell a number of regional countries. Joint active relief efforts are contimuing. However, it is no less important to improve cooperation in establishing efficient early warning mechanisms for such catastrophes. I am sure the APEC can do a lot in this respect. Russia is prepared to make its own contribution to this activity. We have considerate high technology expertise relating to forecasting natural disasters, environmental monitoring, development of systems for early warning and evacuation of people and mitigating consequences of natural disasters. We are in favor of developing joint projects in this sphere.
In general, from the very beginning of our participation in the APEC Russia emphasized its technological potential which has excellent prospects. And not only in the industrial area, but in area of medical and biological technologies as well. APEC can be proud of its role in controlling the SARS. Now time has come to use that experience to control the avian flu. This is our common problem. That is why we should strike this epidemic a preventive blow, lest the avian flu becomes a ”human“ disease. By saying so I refer not only to our experience in taking quarantine measures, but also to joint programs for the development and production of vaccines. Russia possesses an extensive experience and potential in this sphere.
We take a very serious and responsible attitude to the areas of our common activities, such as energy and transport. Because of its geographic position and resource potential – not only raw materials but also technological and intellectual one – Russia is prepared to play a key role in the formation of a new transport and energy architecture in the APR. Naturally, we are prepared to do that together with our partners, employing their potential, including investments.
Acceding the APEC seven years ago, Russia understood very well its unique potential as a transit territory. Transportation of goods through our territory proves to be much cheaper than the choice of other trade routes. I am referring to the cargo flows between the two powerful centers of the world economy –Pacific and European. We have already accumulated a meaningful practical experience in this sphere. However, such projects require international cooperation within the framework of a vast region. The APEC is precisely the mechanism for such cooperation.
I will cite here an example, may be unexpected for many, the TransKorean main route. This project which aims at providing the delivery of goods from the South to the North of Korea is going gradually forward. But at a pace that, because of the slow progress in the ”Korean nuclear issue“, cannot be called rapid. The existence of such a project which makes the cost of transportation of goods between Europe and Asia significantly lower is one of the elements of patient efforts which Russia, together with other participants in the six-party negotiations on Korea, is taking to make the Korean Peninsula a zone of peaceful cooperation and development. Sooner or later it will become such a zone. Then all of us, the APEC members, will cooperate actively in the implementation of many projects which the region vitally needs.
I urge everybody to ponder on those great possibilities which the transport projects under consideration within the framework of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization now open up. These are the transport and other main routes crossing the extensive space of the Central Asia. They also offer great prospects for transit between the Pacific and European regions and will directly influence the accelerated development of the regions through which these main routes pass.
One should not overlook the possibilities that the APEC provides for cooperation in the fields of protecting intellectual property rights, developing small and medium size enterprises and innovative technologies. Last August the Russian delegation took an active part in the APEC meeting on small and medium businesses. This is an important signal to hundreds of small Russian companieswhich in any country are the foundation of economic developmentin terms of joining the Pacific cooperation. To be sure, it will provide a new impetus to Russia's cooperation with the economies of the region.
Participation in the APEC is an undeniable and long-term priority of the foreign policy and foreign economic policy of Russia towards the APR. Our objective is to promote economic and social development of our country, above all the regions of Siberia and the Far East. Two main and interrelated tasks are obvious in this context. The first one is to apply in our country common standards and collective practical experience of the APEC consistent with our national interests, requirements and potential. The second one is to promote, through the APEC, Russian technologies, conceptual designs, methodologies, as well as specific products, technologies and equipment. All these can be used to attain program objectives of the APEC. Relevant potential is available in Russia. I am sure, such a form of ”Russian invasion“ will only be welcomed by our APEC partners.
Time runs very fast. Impressions of the Santiago APEC Summit are still fresh in our memories. Very soon we will be meeting again, this time in Busan. The very theme of the forthcoming Summit – ”Towards One Community: Meet the Challenge, Make the Change“ – presupposes an exchange of opinions regarding the ways of further strengthening the ”APEC family“, developing cooperation in addressing the problems that we are facing and raising efficiency of our joint work. I am confident that the Busan meeting will be a success. Taking this opportunity, I would like to express my sincere thanks to the leaders of the Republic of Korea, all our South Korean partners for their very fruitful leadership in the APEC during the current year.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 17, 2005, 12:15
Text version