Events
Opening Address at a Meeting of the Supreme State Council of the Union State of Russia and Belarus
April 22, 2005
18:03
Grand Kremlin Palace, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Dear Aleksandr Grigor’evich [Lukashenko], dear members of the Supreme State Council, colleagues.
There is quite a wide range of issues on the agenda today relating to the development of the Union State and the continuation of our joint integration work. The distinguishing feature of this stage of bilateral relations is dynamic development of economic cooperation. As was just mentioned, our trade turnover has reached a record level – almost $18 billion, and growth rates continue to be very high. We need to strengthen this tendency. It remains to discuss issues of bringing the economic systems of our two countries closer together. This primarily concerns harmonising our trade and tax legislation, and removing restrictions on mutual trade. The budget of the Union State for 2005, which we will examine today, was formed taking these priorities into account. We must confirm the new personnel of the joint work group for preparing the Constitutional document. The main task of experts in working on this document is to take into account every nuance in the draft Constitution.
One of the most important issues is to ensure equal rights of our citizens. Here I absolutely agree with Aleksandr Grigor’evich; we talked about this at the last meeting in Sochi. He was the one who raised these issues. I agree with him. In both Russia and Belarus, citizens must feel equally confident and socially comfortable. They must not only enjoy all democratic freedoms, but also have every opportunity to receive pensions and medical service. We must make maximum progress in reaching these goals.
It remains for us to confirm the programme of coordinated actions in the foreign policy sphere, and also to take a number of decisions in ensuring security of the Union State and developing military and technical cooperation. We have returned to this several times, we have specific plans both with the Defence Ministry and with the producers of appropriate technology. All this has been in the sphere of our attention and remains there.
Very soon, we will celebrate an important event together – the 60th anniversary of Victory. For our peoples, who went through the terrible ordeal of war and together defended their right to life and freedom, this is a truly sacred date. And today we will discuss how preparations are going for these celebrations.
I would like to thank you for your attention. Aleksandr Grigor’evich, I think that we can now start to move through the agenda.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 22, 2005, 18:03
Text versionEvents
Beginning of a Meeting with the CEO of British Petroleum, John Browne
April 22, 2005
22:03
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: I am very happy to see you once more in Moscow. But before we begin out talk, I would like to congratulate your colleague, Mr Fridman. It was his birthday today. And I would like to wish him the very best.
Mr Browne, British Petroleum is one of the companies that is most interested in the Russian economy. And, as far as I understand, cooperation with your Russian partners is developing very successfully, and business is going well. In upholding the decision that was made two years ago, we were not mistaken if only because the profit that the unified company and your management now shows has increased more than 20 times. This shows the quality of management. As far as I know, according to the information that I have, almost a quarter of the oil produced by British Petroleum is produced in the Russian Federation, and almost a quarter of the income of British Petroleum is received by working here in Russia. TNK-British Petroleum is one of the three largest oil companies in Russia by production and volume of supplies – if I am not mistaken, around 1.2 billion tons of supplies.
TNK-British Petroleum is represented in all important Russian oil and gas provinces, and the volumes produced, and the volume of work is increasing – there has been a significant increase in the first quarter. I would like to express the hope that your business in Russia will continue to develop at the same rates and with the same quality.
What is particularly pleasing for me is how you describe British Petroleum – I heard you call it a “corporate citizen of the Russian Federation” and this reflects the approach to solving problems, including of a social nature, which we encounter, which you see and which you also take part in solving, and continue to take part in solving in future. I would like to thank you warmly for this.
Mr Browne: Mr President, thank you very much for seeing us again. It’s a very great pleasure to see you. I remember when we last met you set me a four-point agenda which I have not forgotten. And I don’t believe any of the shareholders in TNK-BP has forgotten it. And it is… You said to me: first you have to increase production. Second you said we have to add technology. Thirdly, you said we have to make management world-class. And fourth you said we had to be a good Russian corporate citizen.
I have not forgotten this agenda. And I believe we have very considerable facts, figures and data to support good progress on each of these four points.
One of the things of course which we have been doing, which is I think very important, is investing not only for the day but also for the long term future.
And since… We are developing in several dimensions. First, over the last 1,5 years this company has doubled the investment it is making per year for the future development of oil and gas resources to increase production. The number now stands well over $2 billion a year.
Secondly, it is, as you say, increasing production. We are doing it very rapidly. And it’s adding reserves, which is very good for Russia as well as, of course, it is good for BP and TNK-BP. What we are adding makes 130 per cent of the reserves that are being taken out. And it’s modernizing and adding world-class activity to the management of the company, building on the excellent, and I do stress, the excellent Russian work force, that was there.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 22, 2005, 22:03
Text version