Events
Beginning of Meeting with Hungarian Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsany
February 17, 2005
19:20
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Dear Mr Prime Minister,
Allow me to wish you a warm welcome.
Right at the start of our meeting I would like to say that over recent years the relations between our two countries have been developing along very positive lines. There are no political obstacles in the way of developing our relations in all areas – our political, economic and humanitarian relations.
I think the results are now speaking for themselves. Our trade turnover rose by 25 percent last year and reached a figure of $4.5 billion, and there was a 37-percent increase in exports of Hungarian goods to Russia.
We share many common interests – in the energy sector, in high technology and in logistics. Many Russian companies are showing ever increasing interest in investing in the Hungarian economy, having in mind above all, of course, the favourable conditions for working together.
I know that you had a busy work schedule yesterday and you met with our prime minister and signed documents. We can already say now that your visit is going very successfully.
I am very pleased to have this opportunity to meet with you and discuss all the bilateral and international issues that are of mutual interest to us.
Hungarian Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsany: Mr President,
First of all, thank you for this opportunity to meet with you. This, the first visit by a Hungarian Prime Minister to Russia since Hungary became a member of the European Union, is intended to show that “more Europe” for Hungary does not mean “less Russia”. Russia remains one of Hungary’s most important strategic partners, a partner with whom we want to build relations on a pragmatic basis. But underlying this pragmatism are memories and feelings that we want to respect and cultivate. In this context I think it important to say that this year, as we celebrate the 60th anniversary of victory over Fascism, Hungary has not forgotten and is grateful for the role that the Soviet Union and the Red Army played in liberating our country from Fascism. The Hungarian government will never allow this to become the subject of unscrupulous debate.
Mr President, I would like to thank you and, in your person, thank the people of the Soviet Union for the part they played in our liberation.
Of course, what is most important for us in the end is not the past but the present and how the situation is developing on a daily basis. People place most importance on how their businesses are doing and how our humanitarian, cultural and scientific ties are developing.
As for me, people will measure the success or failure of my policies by how they will live tomorrow. We have nothing to be ashamed of in our bilateral relations – we have managed to almost double our bilateral trade in not quite three years.
Yesterday, I visited the Prodexpo exhibition and I asked Hungarian businessmen present there what obstacles stand in the way of further developing our bilateral ties. Not a single one of them complained of hindrance from either the Russian or Hungarian governments. They all said that everything was fine and they are getting on with their business.
As far as I recall, during Mr Medgyessy’s visit three years ago, we sat at this very table and the Russian side raised a number of questions. If you have no objection, I would like to raise a couple of questions today. Thank you for this meeting.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister, thank you very much for your words on the events that took place 60 years ago and the attention the Hungarian government and public pays to preserving the memory of the Soviet Army soldiers who gave their lives during the liberation of Hungary from Nazism. We are expecting the Hungarian President in Moscow on May 9. I would also like to say that we also remember other pages in our shared history. We have not forgotten 1956. I am sure that we can develop our relations together in such a way as to ensure that this never happens again. Regarding the future, I fully share your optimism over prospects for developing our relations.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: February 17, 2005, 19:20
Text versionEvents
Speech at Letters of Credential Presentation Ceremony
February 17, 2005
17:34
St Alexander Hall, Grand Kremlin Palace, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, esteemed gentlemen,
I wholeheartedly congratulate you on the beginning of your diplomatic missions in Russia.
Our country has on many occasions proven itself to be a responsible and reliable ally in resolving the common problems faced by all humanity and building a new, safer and fairer world order. Also important is that the stable economic development Russia has demonstrated over recent years makes it an attractive financial and economic partner.
I hope that your missions here will be aimed at achieving greater mutual understanding, more fully developing the potential we have for cooperation and will give genuine new impetus to all-round development of the relations between our countries.
Esteemed gentlemen,
Here today are the official representatives of countries with which Russia has longstanding relations of friendship and partnership.
This is every bit true of Portugal. Our cooperation has developed considerably over the last 30 years. But we do not plan to stop here, of course. The excellent prospects for expanding our cooperation received confirmation during our meetings in Portugal last November.
What distinguishes our relations with Belgium is their concrete substance and the trusting dialogue we have established. This is a good foundation on which to build up our cooperation in all different areas, including in trade and the economy.
I would like to emphasise that we are grateful to the Belgian and Portuguese leadership for their consistent support for strengthening the equal partnership between Russia and the European Union. As you know, this is one of our key foreign policy priorities.
We are pleased to note that our political, economic and humanitarian-cultural ties with the republic of Macedonia are undergoing rapid development and we have already achieved some noticeable results in all these areas.
We will do all we can to ensure that Russian-Swedish relations, which go back centuries, will develop in a positive direction and bring benefits to both our countries. We hope that a similar positive impetus from the Swedish side will enable us to take our cooperation to an even higher level, that of a genuine partnership. The already well-established direct contacts between Sweden and Russia’s northwest regions are a good foundation for this.
A spirit of friendship and understanding form the basis for Russia’s relations with the Republic of Benin. We have managed to establish a dynamic political dialogue and activate our work together on international affairs over recent years. We also see real prospects for building up our trade and economic ties.
We have longstanding traditions of friendship with the Republic of Cyprus and we welcome Cyprus’ interest, including as a full member of the European Union, in active cooperation with Russia. It is in the interests of both our countries to make maximum use of the potential we have built up through our scientific, economic, trade and other ties. We are ready to continue actively helping to work towards a fair and viable solution to the problem of Cyprus based on the United Nations Security Council resolution.
We value our consistently friendly relations with the Republic of Senegal and we hope that the renewed activity of your embassy in Moscow will help us to develop our relations fruitfully in all different areas.
We have every possibility we need in order to give our bilateral cooperation with the State of Kuwait an additional impetus and take our relations to a qualitatively new level. I hope that you will take an active position in this respect, Mr Ambassador.
In conclusion, I would like to ensure you that all your efforts to develop multifaceted and mutually beneficial cooperation with Russia will meet with the unfailing support of your colleagues in the Russian Federation.
I wish you success in your responsible work in our country.
I wish you and your families all the very best.
Thank you very much for your attention.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: February 17, 2005, 17:34
Text version