Events
Beginning of a Meeting with Acting President of Kyrgyzstan Kurmanbek Bakiev
May 8, 2005
19:41
President Hotel, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Kurmanbek Salievich, I am very glad to see you and would like to thank you for coming to Moscow for the 60th anniversary of Victory. Today, when we met in a small format, you said correctly that this is our common holiday. We all stress this. And it is very pleasing for me that today you will represent the people of Kyrgyzstan here, at the ceremonies of the 60th anniversary of Victory.
Kurmanbek Bakiev: Thank you once more, Vladimir Vladimirovich, for the invitation.
I believe that the issues which we discussed are very important above all for Kyrgyzstan and for our economy. And I would like to take the opportunity of today’s meeting to propose once more to return to these issues which were raised at one time, but which were not resolved. I mean our industrial enterprises which are idle, that is they are not working. If you agree, then I will prepare a list of our enterprises which we would like to provide to you as part of the debt to Russia.
Mr Putin: Similar to what Armenia did with us, yes?
Mr Bakiev: Yes.
Mr Putin: Good.
Mr Bakiev: There are enterprises that are not being used, they are idle. Generally, we have enormous unemployment, that is I think that they need to be started up again to solve serious problems.
Mr Putin: An inter-governmental commission needs to work on this.
Mr Bakiev: Of course.
Mr Putin: Good.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 8, 2005, 19:41
Text versionEvents
Speech at Celebratory Concert for Veterans of the Great Patriotic War
May 8, 2005
21:49
Bolshoi Theatre, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Dear friends, esteemed veterans!
Esteemed heads of state of the Commonwealth of Independent States!
It gives me great pleasure to welcome you on the eve of this great holiday and to congratulate you on Victory Day – this celebration that we really do all share.
Sixty years ago saw the end of this most terrible war, a war that came at an impossibly high cost and that unleashed an evil the true scale of which we cannot comprehend or accept to this day.
The ruthlessness and designs of this Nazi aggression are beyond the bounds of human understanding and are one of the most horrific crimes against humanity.
Knowing this, we feel ever greater respect and admiration for you, dear veterans, from year to year, and we bow down before your great achievements.
You found yourselves thrown into the inferno of war young and full of hope. You fought selflessly and gave all your strength, all you most dearly treasured and believed in, for the cause of victory. And through your sacrifices, you gave the people of this world the chance to live, love and work in peace.
For three long years the Soviet army was all but alone in its struggle against Nazism. Decisive events and battles that determined the outcome of the Second World War were taking place here on our soil. It was here in Russia that the myth of the Nazi military machine’s invincibility was destroyed and every possible effort was made to ensure that May 1945 brought this great victory.
The Nazis main forces were concentrated on Soviet territory. And it was there that they suffered their greatest losses. And Nazi forces suffered three quarters of their losses on Soviet territory, on the Eastern front.
Today, sixty years on, our struggle and our victory have great political and moral significance and are not just a source of pride and honour for our country but are part of the historic, political and spiritual heritage we share with many other peoples – a heritage of global scale and significance.
Today, you, the veterans of the Great Patriotic War, live in different countries but the memory of those years’ events is something that no borders can ever separate and that we will all always share. Likewise, we all share the real truth of this war and the desire not to allow it to be distorted, not to give it over to the dishonest intentions of those who would revise and challenge it.
Dear friends,
Today, I would like to remind you that in a matter of mere months the Nazis occupied and enslaved 11 European countries and put 18 million people behind barbed wire, physically exterminating more than half of all their prisoners.
The Nazis plundered and ruined the European continent. Even more terrible was the prospect of their so-called “new order”. As we know, the Nazis had plans to methodically exterminate entire peoples.
There, where the blood of innocent people was shed and a just war of liberation was fought, where the Nazi extermination machine pitilessly devoured human lives, any conclusions based on opportunist political and ideological motives would be insulting.
The lessons of the war have no less significance today when humanity again faces a global challenge. This time, the challenge comes from international terrorism. Like fascism, terrorism sows violence and death in the world and tramples on human dignity. Double standards in our attitudes towards terrorists are just as unacceptable as attempts to rehabilitate Nazi accomplices.
We cannot remain indifferent and keep silent when we see such things. We cannot be indifferent to manifestations of extremism, hatred and ideas of racial supremacy. This would be an insult to our historic memory and our conscience.
But more importantly, it could lead us towards new tragedies. It is therefore our duty to fight such threats together through the strength of our unity and our common desire to make sure that the horrors of the last war never happen again.
Dear friends!
Again and again we think and speak of peace in our world during these May commemorations and affirm the fact that we simply must work for peace together.
On the initiative of Russia and the other CIS countries, the United Nations has declared May 8 and May 9 Days of Remembrance and Reconciliation. We also spoke about this at the CIS summit today. I fully agree with those colleagues who support this view and this slogan.
I am sure that the veterans, you who know the reality of war better than anyone, will support this initiative.
Yes, state borders now divide the peoples of the Commonwealth of Independent States. But our friendship and our fraternal ties, ties that really were forged in blood, know no borders and nothing can break or destroy them.
We are united by historic, moral and humanitarian values. This is a common heritage that we share, not something that can be divided into separate pieces. This spiritual unity continues to help our countries resolve many problems today and is an asset that we cannot ever lose or give up.
I think that the outcome of today’s meeting of the CIS heads of state was very positive and I thank everyone for a constructive dialog took place.
This is precisely why now the CIS countries have agreed to strengthen broad-based humanitarian contacts and help our peoples to communicate with each other as freely as possible. We will develop new ties and support traditional, solid historic relations. We will do this through cultural channels, through the media and through direct contact between our peoples.
That is out duty to the veterans to do all we can to ensure that the citizens of our countries have every opportunity to communicate each other.
We will do everything in order to remove all barriers to the openness of our hearts and our intentions.
I repeat once again, this is our eternal debt to you, dear veterans, our everlasting debt to the peoples who have worked together over many centuries to build our common peaceful life and our common, indivisible future together.
I congratulate all veterans once again on this holiday. Thank you for your courage, steadfastness and your faithfulness to the ideals of justice. To Victory!
Happy Victory Day, happy sixtieth anniversary, dear friends!
  Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 8, 2005, 21:49
Text versionEvents
Opening Address at the Meeting with CIS Heads of State
May 8, 2005
15:56
Moscow, President Hotel
President Vladimir Putin:
Good afternoon, dear colleagues and friends,
I am very glad to welcome you all here on Moscow on the eve of Victory Day.
The peoples of our nation made the main, decisive contribution to the defeat of Nazism. This victory was achieved by them through suffering, by innumerable victims, by a joint struggle and effort.
Today, by the joint efforts of CIS member countries, a great deal has been done to give the anniversary of Victory the widest and most objective resonance.
It was on our initiative that the UN General Assembly declared 8–9 May of this year to be Days of reconciliation and memory. It called for nations to unite their efforts in the fight against the ideological successor of Nazism, terrorism, and also against doctrines founded on racism and xenophobia.
I am certain that the CIS is capable of becoming an effective tool in this joint effort.
I think that at this time it will also be beneficial to draw the attention of the international community to the address we passed in Astana in September 2004 regarding the 60th anniversary of Victory.
This document from a position of historical objectivity gives assessments of the nature of the Second World War and the role and contribution of peoples of the former USSR in achieving victory over Nazism.
New generations of our citizens must know the truth about the events of those years. To know this truth means to be immune to propaganda of extremism and xenophobia, national and religious discord. Ultimately, it means to protect the world from a repeat of conflicts and wars founded on genocide, nationalism and racism.
It is clear for all of us: Nazism, extremism and terrorism are threats that feed on the same ideology. The threats are terrible, and we are simply obliged to protect our unique peaceful community of civilisations from these dangers.
I am certain that today it is extremely important to work together on confirming the principles of tolerance and respect between peoples, and teach the young generation solidarity and the ability to fight together against common difficulties and threats.
Preserving our historical and cultural unity, the common values we have developed over centuries, is a firm foundation for realising an entire range of integration processes, for stable and confident development of our countries in this difficult modern era.
As you know, Russia, together with the European Union, is consistently developing a project of four common spaces, including the humanitarian space. It is culture, science, education and humanitarian cooperation which together work effectively to bring people closer together, to form an atmosphere of mutual understanding, trust and mutual respect. And thus the best conditions are created for dialogue and partnership in all spheres of international cooperation – in the economy, politics, and other areas.
I expect that the countries of the CIS – in the new historical conditions and using the opportunities that have opened up for them – are now capable of realising very useful, interesting and promising projects in the humanitarian sphere. Projects which bring our peoples noticeable benefits and which they definitely need.
I believe that our support of the Declaration of humanitarian cooperation will stimulate real work in expanding and developing direct human contacts in the CIS area. It will make it possible on a modern basis to build mutually beneficial relationships in the cultural and humanitarian sphere.
Dear friends,
For all the peoples of the Soviet Union, the war against Nazism became the Great Patriotic War.
Without exaggeration, it was a just war – for the very right to life on the Earth, to have statehood, language and culture. A war for the free development of our peoples, against the ideology of barbarism, violence, aggression, nationalism and racism.
Decades go by, but the memory of the military brotherhood – in the name of freedom, independence and humanism – still binds our peoples.
And it remains for us to pass on this invaluable experience of unity and solidarity to new generations of our fellow citizens.
Thank you for your attention.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 8, 2005, 15:56
Text versionEvents
Excerpts from a Talk with US President George W.Bush
May 8, 2005
23:12
Novo-Ogaryovo
President Vladimir Putin: Mr President, allow me to welcome you cordially in Moscow. I’d like to thank for having decided to visit Moscow to participate in the 60th Anniversary of the end of the World War II giving confirmation by that fact to the main role played by the United States, the Soviet Union, Russia, in the Victory over nazism.
Tomorrow we will be pleased to receive other guests but the visit by the President of the United States is of special importance. On top of that, even today we enjoy a very large volume of cooperation between our countries. And I hope this cooperation will be hopeful to us in tackling our domestic problems in both countries. And I know that fact that you are currently confronting with main tasks which respect to the social sphere. So if we are very positive in tackling those energy related and security related questions that will be very helpful in tackling the problems which are confronted by people in our countries.
Besides, I recently visited the Middle East. Therefore, in the conversation with you today I’d like to compare the notes regarding the current state of the Middle East.
GEORGE W.BUSH: Vladimir, I thank you for having me. It’s such an honour to be here. Right here the President welcomed me and Laura two years ago. It’s great to be back.
I am looking forward to this celebration tomorrow. It is a moment when the world will recognize the great bravery and sacrifice of Russian people made in the defeat of Nazism. The people of Russia suffered incredible, hardship and the Russian spirit never died out.
I equally thank for you invited me for a dinner tonight. And having been offered your meals before I am looking forward to this one a lot.
Vladimir Putin: Recently I took a look at a coverage of your meeting with the press. And I could see how Laura could attack you sometimes. So, I think, we shall have a good chance to protect you.
GEORGE W.BUSH: She is quiet a comedian.
I am looking Russia as a great nation and I am looking forward to work on and to get on big problems. And I want to thank for your work on Iran and the Middle East. There is a lot what we do together.
So thank you for having us.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 8, 2005, 23:12
Text version