Events
Speech at the Closing Ceremony of the 2003–2004 Russian-German Cultural Meetings
January 14, 2005
15:19
Dmitry Shostakovich St Petersburg Academic Philharmonic Society
President Vladimir Putin: Esteemed Mr President, ladies and gentlemen,
First of all I would like to give my sincere thanks to all the participants and organisers of the programme of Russian-German cultural meetings. I would like to thank you all for your dedication and enthusiasm and for your contribution to strengthening the friendship and mutual understanding between our peoples.
This project was the result of our common desire to help the citizens of Russia and Germany become better acquainted with our countries’ rich cultural heritage. It has helped us to learn more about the spiritual and historical roots of our two peoples.
It was initially planned to hold some 600 joint events, but in the end, according to what are so far only the most approximate calculations, the number of events that took place was almost five times higher – around 3,000.
I would like to make particular note of several events. First of all, there was our German friends’ active participation in the celebrations of the 300th anniversary of the founding of St Petersburg. I also want to note the Russian delegation’s presence at the Frankfurt Book Fair in 2003 and, of course, the Berlin-Moscow Moscow-Berlin exhibition that took place in both capitals and was a genuinely huge success.
Another important event is taking place today as part of the Russian-German cultural meetings. The sounds of an organ restored by German craftsmen will ring out today here within the walls of the St Petersburg Academic Philharmonic Society.
This restoration is the result of two years of hard work, work which has made yet another significant contribution to the humanitarian and cultural cooperation between our two countries.
I am sure that this impressive and eventful two-year marathon will hold a worthy place in the chronicles of friendship and cooperation between Germany and Russia, and that we can expect more such interesting and fruitful projects in the future.
Ladies and gentlemen,
Our Russian-German cultural meetings are coming to a close on the eve of important world events. In a few months we will be celebrating the 60th anniversary of the end of the Second World War in Europe.
Our peoples found themselves at the epicentre of this, the most terrible tragedy in the entire history of humanity. But we have shown that we are able to overcome this difficult legacy of the past. We have proven ourselves capable of showing a sincere desire to take steps towards each other and build up feelings of mutual respect and trust rather than speculating on the tragedies our peoples have faced and puffing ourselves up with conceit and chauvinism.
Today this priceless experience is helping us to build new relations as partners, relations that will help our countries and Europe in its entirety to move towards a safe and prosperous future. Our common task now is to continue this noble work at state level and through our civil societies.
In conclusion I would like to stress that the value of Russia’s and Germany’s spiritual inheritance is of significance for the entire world and over the course of centuries it has acted as a sort of cultural beacon. This means that active and ongoing cultural ties between our countries are important not just for us but for the whole world and for all of Europe.
Our cultural ties serve as an example of constructive humanitarian dialogue for all those who understand that peace and prosperity in this world depend not only on political will, and that by opening ourselves up to the culture and traditions of other peoples we draw closer together and learn to understand each other better.
Once again, I would like to thank sincerely everyone who took part in these Russian-German cultural meetings.
I wish you all health, prosperity and creative success.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: January 14, 2005, 15:19
Text versionEvents
Press Statement Following Russian-German Talks
January 14, 2005
16:39
St Petersburg
President Vladimir Putin: Good evening, ladies and gentlemen,
It gives me great pleasure to receive in St Petersburg today a respected guest – President of Germany Horst Koehler.
St Petersburg is a major cultural centre not only for our country but for the entire world. I think it is symbolic that the series of Russian-German cultural meetings held over 2003–2004 are ending here in this city.
We all agree that this large-scale and in many ways unique programme of events has been a clear success. These two years of Russian-German cultural meetings have shown just what need there is for humanitarian projects and initiatives and how useful they are for developing cooperation between countries and bringing different peoples closer together.
Our peoples have had the chance to get to know new works from leading Russian and German theatre and music groups and have had an excellent opportunity to appreciate the creations of modern Russian and German artists, poets and writers.
In 2003 alone around 3,000 Russian artists and cultural figures spent time in Germany. German cultural figures visited 25 different Russian regions and took part in many promising projects. One project that I particularly want to mention was the restoration by German craftsmen of the organ that we just heard today.
The Russian-German cultural meetings have strengthened our two countries’ historically close cultural ties. I am convinced that we must consistently continue our work in this area and enrich it with new ideas and projects.
We will continue to develop our cultural ties and look together for new forms of creative cooperation, involving professionals, amateurs and above all young people. It is of great importance that people in both Russia and Germany understand well the significance of this cultural contribution to the strategic partnership we have developed.
The President and I held very substantial talks today. Bilateral relations were at the centre of our attention, including, of course, pursuit of the multi-faceted Russian-German dialogue and development of humanitarian contacts, above all youth exchanges.
Russia and Germany will mark a significant date this year – the 50th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between our countries.
We believe that joint participation in the events marking this occasion can symbolise the new character of Russian-German relations – relations built on the principles of genuine partnership.
In conclusion I would like to thank the President for the constructive and positive discussion we had. I am convinced that its results will help to further strengthen the trust and cooperation between our countries, between the peoples of Germany and Russia.
Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: January 14, 2005, 16:39
Text versionEvents
Introductory Remarks at Talks with German President Horst Koehler
January 14, 2005
16:37
St Petersburg
President Vladimir Putin: Esteemed Mr President, allow me once again to wish you a warm welcome to Russia. This is not our first meeting. I remember our meetings in Moscow when you were still at the head of the International Monetary Fund. We worked together quite well during that period, indeed, we worked together not just quite well but very well. It gives me great pleasure to see you here again in Russia this time in a completely different capacity, that of head of state of Germany, a country with whom we have good relations. What’s more, you have arrived for such a pleasant occasion as the end of our series of cultural meetings that has gone on for the last two years. I am very pleased to have the opportunity to exchange views with you on the end of these events and discuss our next steps in the humanitarian area and in political cooperation. And since I cannot forget that you were just recently still head of the International Monetary Foundation, I think we will also have be able to discuss global and bilateral economic issues.
Mr President,
You just mentioned the 60th anniversary of the end of the Second World War. We would like the events marking this anniversary to be a symbol of reconciliation in Europe in general. As for our peoples, I think that this is not enough for Russia and Germany because a lot in Europe and in the world overall depends on how we work together. When we were listening to the organ concert just before, our specialists told me that the German restorers had restored the organ’s original sound. This was not just restoration work but was an example of scientific restoration. Now we have had the chance to hear how not only has this original sound been restored but the organ’s capabilities have also been expanded.
I ask you to convey my very best wishes to Mr Rau. We worked well together and over the last years we were able to do a lot to develop relations between Russia and Germany. I think, Mr President, that we must take the next steps forward in developing our relations. Just as the German specialists expanded the organ’s capabilities, we must expand and intensify our cooperation as much as possible in order to reach new horizons in our work together.
You are in St Petersburg for the first time, but I hope it will not be the last time.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: January 14, 2005, 16:37
Text version