Events
Beginning of Meeting with President of Armenia Robert Kocharian
December 16, 2005
00:01
Bocharov Ruchei, Sochi
President Vladimir Putin: Welcome, Robert Serdakovich, I am happy to see you.
First of all, before we begin our discussions, I would like to thank you for the attention you gave the Year of Russia in Armenia. We will be expecting you in Moscow soon to join us in taking the next step together and opening the Year of Armenia in Russia. These events show just how intensively our relations are developing. Our trade is also on the rise and in all other areas, too, we are maintaining contacts at the highest level.
I am very glad to see you. Welcome!
President of Armenia Robert Kocharian: Thank you very much for this opportunity to meet, Vladimir Vladimirovich.
This has indeed been an interesting year for the development of our bilateral relations. The year has been rich in cultural and humanitarian events, but at the same time we have also seen growth in our trade and investment activity. This has been a significant year overall for our relations and I hope that next year we will be able to maintain the pace we have set over the course of these last 12 months. What I would note above all is that, with regards to our humanitarian and cultural relations, I think that we could draw up some real systematic approaches for our relations in this area, along the lines of what we have already developed in the economy, in military-technical cooperation and in cooperation between our foreign ministries in terms of formulating coordinated positions.
I am very grateful to the attention and effort Russia put into helping to organise what was indeed a very interesting programme of events over the course of the Year of Russia in Armenia.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 16, 2005, 00:01
Text versionEvents
Discussion with Russian Journalists
December 16, 2005
21:39
Bocharov Ruchei, Sochi
Vladimir Putin: Good evening everyone. If you have questions, I shall try to answer them.
Question: Vladimir Vladimirovich, I wanted to ask about the protocols on the WTO, many of which have been signed. Were there not some small problems with respect to America?
Vladimir Putin: These negotiations are never easy. They are proceeding with difficultly with almost all countries. Here the USA is not an exception. We recognize that the WTO was founded and functions to guarantee free trade and economic relations and, that if one of our partners proposes an exception which limits this freedom, then acceding to the organization becomes meaningless. We want to enter the WTO and will continue this process but under conditions that make sense for Russia's economy.
Question: Presently relations with Georgia, Ukraine, the Baltic states and Moldova are sharply deteriorating. What is the explanation for this? Is it only the fact that we are changing to market prices?
Vladimir Putin: Our relations with these countries are not deteriorating. However, there is an attempt to use interstate relations for resolving trade problems. I am against using political tools for resolving economic problems.
Question: A question about developing national gas infrastructure. How is this being implemented?
Vladimir Putin: I think that they have been talking about this since this morning in Urengoy. Dmitry Anatolevich [Medvedev] laid out in detail the company's plans to develop the country’s gas infrastructure. These plans will receive administrative support at the level of the regions and at the level of the Russian Government. It is a question of providing additional gas infrastructure to population centres, including rural areas and small and medium-sized cities. Today, the total number of citizens who will receive gas was also revealed—it amounts to 11 million people. It is a question of substantially increasing the means allocated for gas infrastructure. I consider that this is taking place in due time and correctly.
Question: Is it true that Mr Donald Evans received an offer to act as Chairman of the board of directors of Rosneft? If so, what was our side's motivation in making such a decision?
Vladimir Putin: I believe that any of our public companies, and you know that Rosneft is becoming a public company and preparing to launch an IPO, are interested in attracting high-quality managers, independently of their nationality or citizenship. Rosneft has the chance to become a company on a global scale; I believe that it will do so and I do not exclude the possibility of inviting foreign and high-value experts here.
Question: Does American citizenship have any special value for you?
Vladimir Putin: It does not.
Question: Is there a hidden meaning here?
Vladimir Putin: There is no hidden meaning.
Question: But we shall find …
Vladimir Putin: I have no doubt that you shall find. I believe that it is a sign of the openness of the Russian economy and the openness of Russian companies. Of course it will bring benefits both on the interstate level and in the interests of Russian companies.
Question: What, has the decree been signed?
Vladimir Putin: I did not name any names. I just said that we are interested in attracting high-value experts.
Question: And can you tell names now?
Vladimir Putin: I can always name any name. It is simply a matter of negotiations between the company and the managers they invite.
Question: There were signs that Belarus is thinking of joining the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO). You discussed this with Aleksandr Lukashenko. How do you feel about this possibility?
Vladimir Putin: SCO is an open organization. We have always said this. However, before any additional country can participate, all members of the organization must consult. Just now, when Aleksandr Grigoryevich Lukashenko came here, we did not discuss this theme.
Question: Vladimir Vladimirovich, you were in Grozny. You did not talk about this in detail, could you now tell us a little bit more?
Vladimir Putin: What is there to tell? You saw it all.
Question: How do you feel about renaming Grozny? We did not see that.
Vladimir Putin: You know that deputies in the Chechen parliament came up with this initiative and I do not see anything unusual in it. Moreover, I understand them because Akhmat Kadryov made a huge contribution towards stabilizing the situation in the Republic. He is a person who deserves to have his memory immortalized. But there are different ways this can be done. The first Vice Premier and acting Prime Minister of the Chechen Republic, Ramzan Kadryov, expressed himself on this issue. As you well know, he is also the son of Akhmat Kadryov. Therefore I consider this topic closed.
Question: To return to national projects, in your opinion, what are the main dangers threatening their implementation and how can one best fight against those dangers?
Vladimir Putin: Bureaucracy. Excessive bureaucracy.
Question: And how to fight?
Vladimir Putin: To fight in the way that all countries fight against bureaucracy, that is by concentrating administrative resources on solving priority tasks that face the country and those tasks the citizens of the Russian Federation are waiting to see resolved. For this very reason Dmitry Anatolevich Medvedev has been delegated to the Government.
Question: How do you feel about Georgy Boos's initiative to invite compatriots from the Baltic states to the Kaliningrad Region to help the economy there?
Vladimir Putin: I do not know anything about this initiative but if it exists then I support it. I consider that this is an absolutely normal offer.
Question: In general are there any changes with respect to the compatriots in the Baltic states?
Vladimir Putin: The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation has taken an active position on this question, especially recently. I consider that the position is absolutely correct. Here, it is impossible to bend, it is impossible to work with methods or means that would worsen our compatriots' situation in any country. We must always think that they chose their place to live and their second native land, in this case the country they reside in. Therefore it is necessary to start from here. This work is delicate enough. But we intend to do everything we can in the future to best defend these people's interests.
Question: What were the results of the Russia-ASEAN meeting?
Vladimir Putin: Positive. It was a very good conference. These are all our partners, a significant number of our Asian partners. You know how actively, vigorously and dynamically this region is developing. They are very interested in developing relations with Russia not only in the energy sector but in other areas as well, including high-tech, space, telecommunications, communications, the iron and steel industry and naturally in military and technical cooperation. We are increasing our production and intend to do so in the future. I hope that our agreements will be executed.
Question: Will Russia become a member of the East Asian Community (EAC) or a guest of honour?
Vladimir Putin: We are indifferent either way. Mechanisms through which we can defend our interests are in general interesting to us and bilateral relations are one such mechanism that works, and works quite effectively. As a whole, an international organization is a good platform on which to resolve these issues. And what they will call us is not important to us. You know the Russian proverb: you can call me a pot, just do not put me on the stove. So any name is fine for us, the main thing is to have contacts and additional opportunities to communicate with our partners. We will find them within EAC or outside of EAC. Here there are proposals to be made and Russia has some proposals.
Question: Did any states try to prevent Russia from acceding to the EAC?
Vladimir Putin: I do not think so. I think that our partners must value the opportunities to cooperate with us not only in a bilateral format but also in a multilateral format. For our part we must increase the volume of our cooperation and everything will fall into place. Nothing needs to be dramatized here.
Question: Vladimir Vladimirovich did you see the TV channel 'Russia Today'? Did you watch anything?
Vladimir Putin: Yes, I watched something. It seemed to me that the beginning was quite good, but that there is still a great deal to do so that 'Russia Today' can really provide objective information about our country. I think the experts understand that it is necessary to have more space and air in the studio. The beginning was, in my opinion, quite convincing and I absolutely believe that the company will develop most advantageously.
Question: Did the structural changes you made in the Government live up to your expectations?
Vladimir Putin: Which changes are you referring to?
Question: For example assigning Sergei Ivanov and Dmitry Medvedev the positions of Vice Premier?
Vladimir Putin: In my opinion, right now everything is justified because of the energy our colleagues invested in the additional duties they were assigned; all this inspires confidence that they will be able to solve the problems that face them more effectively than has been done in the past. There are more opportunities. People want to work. I am satisfied with what I see now.
Question: Vladimir Vladimirovich are you planning any changes in the Presidential Executive Office?
Vladimir Putin: Sergei Semenovich [Sobianin] has gotten involved very quickly in almost all affairs. In practice, he took almost all the work upon himself. Well, Dmitry Anatolevich is helping him with current issues and coming to the Kremlin on a regular basis, but as a whole Sergei Sobianin has very good relations with all his colleagues. We have contact with him every day and discuss questions with respect to the Office's current life and the questions that face it. It is not necessary to make any changes there.
Vladimir Putin: If there are no more questions than thank you very much. See you tomorrow.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 16, 2005, 21:39
Text versionEvents
Answers to Journalists’ Questions After Meeting with President of Armenia Robert Kocharian
December 16, 2005
00:02
Bocharov Ruchei, Sochi
President Vladimir Putin: You will soon see the President of Armenia in Russia again, in January.
Question: What will happen then?
Vladimir Putin: In January the Year of Armenia in Russia opens and the President is coming to participate in the events. It will take place in the second half of January.
Question: During the talks you certainly discussed issues regarding energy deliveries…
Vladimir Putin: We discussed all issues. There are economic actors who will continue negotiations. There are agreements, contracts, papers… The negotiating process is working and will continue.
Question: How was the Year of Russia in Armenia?
Robert Kocharian: Very good! Actually, everything was interesting.
Question: And what exactly?
Robert Kocharian: With respect to cultural relations, it was certainly the tours of the Bolshoi Theatre and of several other theatres. In general, everything was very dynamic. The most memorable thing is that several investment projects were realized. I expect that these investments will take place. This will have important effects throughout the whole economy.
Question: Did you discuss issues with respect to the future of the CIS?
Vladimir Putin: No, we did not discuss them. We basically concentrated on our bilateral relations.
Question: Does the future of CIS depend on deliveries of Russian gas to CIS member states?
Vladimir Putin: I think it does depend on this, but it does not depend on prices. Prices must be market ones.
Question: Did you discuss prices?
Vladimir Putin: These issues are discussed by economic actors. They trade amongst themselves. We are not involved in trade. Russian-Armenian relations are made up of far more than simply energy projects and cooperation. We have political, military and technical relations, as well as relations in the cultural and educational spheres that the President just spoke about. We have a great many ties. In addition to energy there are also many directions and prospects in the sphere of the economy. We talked about all the issues that are important to us.
Question: And did you discuss the orange, tulip or other revolutions which have taken place around us?
Vladimir Putin: No, we did not discuss them. It was not so interesting to us.
Robert Kocharian: This theme has become outdated.
Vladimir Putin: Do you know what a revolution is? You must have read the theory of revolution—when the upper class cannot, and the lower class does not want. We are not in such a situation.
Question: Did you discuss the question of drug trafficking? Is it possible to do something about drug trafficking?
Vladimir Putin: We did not discuss this question today, but of course it is being looked at by our special services. They cooperate and we are satisfied with their level of cooperation.
Question: I understand that Presidents do not discuss the issue of prices but, in general, is the transition to market prices necessary? What did you arrive at?
Vladimir Putin: We arrived at the fact that our economic actors will continue negotiating. And we arrived at the fact that our cooperation in this sector should be equitable and correspond with the spirit of our state relations.
Question: Will market prices apply only to gas, or to something else as well?
Vladimir Putin: It worries you so much, as if you yourself were going to buy at market price… You are not going to buy at market price. Our prices within Russia are much below market prices. The spot price in Great Britain is 1000 USD per 1000 cubic metres and we are going to sell to European consumers in the first quarter of next year at 255 USD. In Russia, prices are much lower and do not have anything in common with this.
Question: Let me explain why it worries me. When talks with the Ukraine on market prices began, Ukrainians said that they were going to reconsider agreements with respect to the Black Sea Fleet. They can allow American inspectors into the tracking stations which cover all of Europe and the western direction. There is also the question of Crimea.
Vladimir Putin: I think that we should ask our Ukrainian partners these questions. I think that normal people in Ukraine perfectly understand that regarding the Crimea, no problem shall arise between Russia and Ukraine in the foreseeable future. I will not list all the problems here. Any thinking person can understand the nature of these problems. Russia will act as an ally and will help Ukrainians solve these problems. But the fleet is a separate matter, one that is not linked to gas. I just talked to Viktor Andreevich Yushchenko. We finished our conversation just now. We agreed that we shall not politicize the issue in any way. Business and energy is one issue, and all the others are separate. It is not necessary to mix everything in one basket and make these complicated energy questions even more difficult. And the President of Ukraine is absolutely right –these questions cannot be politicized. I completely agree with Viktor Andreevich.
Question: Vladimir Vladimirovich, will prices rise across the CIS according to schedule?
Vladimir Putin: There is a market and we recognize that conditions should be identical for all. When I say that we are not going to politicize this issue, I mean that our partners should be treated equally and I am referring to Russia's partners. Not inside of Russia, not consumers, but Russia's foreign partners. This is exactly what depoliticization should be.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 16, 2005, 00:02
Text version