Events
Meeting with the Former Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, Helmut Kohl
October 13, 2005
22:03
Novo-Ogaryovo
President Vladimir Putin: First of all, I would like to warmly welcome you to Moscow. I am very happy that we have developed the habit of regularly consulting one another.
I must point out that the practice of holding interstate consultations, something you initiated in 1998, has become firmly established. I hope this will continue under the new Chancellor of the Federal Republic. In connection with this, I would like to congratulate you on the fact that the new head of the German government is a member of the party you led for so many years.
Helmut Kohl (translated from Russian): Many thanks President Putin.
Dear President Putin, I highly value and always warmly remember the development of friendly relations between our countries, first under Mikhail Gorbachev and then under Boris Yeltsin. And we saw how determined you were to improve those relations, both as your interest and as your task. Indeed, this improvement is occurring regardless of who is head of state at any one time. The most important thing is that relations between our peoples improve, and one of the best experiences of my life is recognition from people in the street. Knowing both the monstrous sufferings that Hitler's Germany inflicted on your country and how we are presently constructing our future relations, I can assure you that the government, the head of state and the people all aspire to improving our relations.
For Germany, Russia is its most important neighbour in the East. And it will continue to be so. We will try hard so that these relations develop in the same way under the new government.
Vladimir Putin: I thank you for those words. Not long ago I had the opportunity to meet with Angela Merkel in Berlin. It was with satisfaction that I noted that she supports continuing Russia and Germany's strategic relations.
I must say that very recently, only several days ago, I had the opportunity to see you receiving an honourable prize, one that I think is given in the name of Konrad Adenauer. It was with great satisfaction that I noted that during your acceptance speech on this occasion you mentioned Russian-German relations and how much importance German politics gives to relations with Russia. I hope that we will conserve all the positive aspects of the relations that have accumulated over many years.
Helmut Kohl: I am absolutely optimistic on this point. Thank heaven that all of us are able to learn lessons from the past. And of course, since you mentioned Konrad Adenauer, it is also necessary to point out what a great distance we have travelled since his historical visit to your country 50 years ago. I recollect that I was already in politics at the time and I distinctly remember how many disputes and discussions that visit occasioned in Germany. Discussions over whether he should go, whether he should not go, whether he should wait. But today no one has any doubts on this account and it is a source of great happiness for all of us that this occurred. And it seems to me that we can be proud of this. We can be sure that regardless of any number of discussions within German politics we will continue in the same direction. First and foremost, this must be seen as a direct compliment to you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 13, 2005, 22:03
Text versionEvents
Beginning of the Meeting with the Deputy Minister for Internal Affairs, Alexandr Chekalin
October 13, 2005
22:56
Novo-Ogaryovo
Alexandr Chekalin: At 9 o'clock and 25 minutes …
Vladimir Putin: No, begin with yesterday.
Alexandr Chekalin: The day before yesterday law-enforcement agencies uncovered a huge hiding place with packages containing up to half a tonne of explosives. This was a sign that armed insurgents are preparing a serious attack on their targets. Naturally, we tried to find the owners of these packages and as a matter of fact, last night's operative and search operations in the White Stream area of the suburb of Nalchik, a resort zone, enabled us to find a group of 10 people who put up fierce resistance.
Therefore three armed insurgents were killed and the others were cornered. At dawn, morning operations resumed.
And I am a hundred percent certain that an attack by bandits on some law-enforcement structures in Nalchik have a direct, cause-and-effect relationship with the people we cornered in the White Stream area.
We have reason to believe that one of the major organizers of the bandit underground and illegal armed organizations was, and perhaps still is, within this group.
This attack is, so to say, the bandits' retaliatory action. The attack's intention was to deflect attention away from this group, and enable them to get away.
Vladimir Putin: The group you cornered?
Alexandr Chekalin: Yes, the group that was cornered continued to render armed resistance this morning and has now been completely destroyed. So I can report that all memebers of the group have been liquidated today as a direct result of their fierce armed attack.
Vladimir Putin: Resistance …
Alexandr Chekalin: Yes, resistance. Regarding the citizens' and, strictly speaking, the local population's safety, immediately after the receiving news of the attack schoolchildren were dismissed from school, all social establishments where people might be gathered were protected by law-enforcement bodies, and certain constraints were introduced.
Vladimir Putin: How is cooperation with other law-enforcement agencies such as those of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and the Federal Security Service proceeding?
Alexandr Chekalin: The cooperation took place along the lines of the decree you signed on creating groups of operational management. This system worked. It worked quickly and faultlessly. The head of the group of operational management took on the leadership of the operation, and the numbers were sufficient. And just now we received news that all the targets of the military attack are now deblocked and deblocking of the department of internal affairs number three is coming to an end.
Vladimir Putin: But the armed combats are still going on?
Alexandr Chekalin: Yes, the armed combats are still going on. There are five armed insurgents who are firing heavily. I think that this will be over in an hour or so.
Vladimir Putin: How many bandits have been destroyed?
Alexandr Chekalin: We have reason to believe that in total, more than fifty bandits have been killed.
Vladimir Putin: How many losses did we incur?
Alexandr Chekalin: Our losses number around ten to twelve people. These are irrevocable losses.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 13, 2005, 22:56
Direct link: en.kremlin.ru/d/23213
Text version