Those people who have, in my view, shown their worst side, took advantage of the problems in our past and appropriated the right to speak on behalf of the entire Chechen people. But life has shown that they put their personal ambitions, their personal political ambitions and their material interests higher than the interests of the Chechen people. How else can we explain the gang of terrorists that invaded the fraternal Republic of Dagestan in 1999? What connection can there be between the fight for independence and attacking Dagestan? What is there to even debate in this respect? The simple fact is that this was yet another attempt in history to manipulate and take advantage of the Chechen people.
This is what Chechnya ended up with as a result of destructive forces’ activities in the early and mid-1990s, this and all the other negative events that took place in the republic’s life during those years – complete economic collapse, the closure of hospitals, schools and kindergartens, unpaid wages, pensions and benefits of various kinds and the occupation of the republic by armed gangs and foreign mercenaries who established their own control over each and every political structure. I know all this and you know it too. But this is not all and it is perhaps not even what is most important.
Most terrible of all was that the people who came here bearing arms brought with them a perverted interpretation of the Koran that goes absolutely against the traditions of the peoples of the Russian North Caucasus. Not only did they pervert the Koran in their interpretations, but they discredited it in their deeds. At least, they attempted to discredit it, for it is not possible to discredit Islam, a world-wide religion infused with humanist ideals. But there were people who looked at all that was happening, people who saw these problems and negative tendencies, who realised that this was a dead-end road that would take their people nowhere, and who used this realisation to make the courageous decision, the only possible decision, namely, that freedom, independence and prosperity can be achieved only together with a free and prosperous Russia.
I remember very well my conversations with Akhmat-Hadji Kadyrov, and I have spoken about them publicly in the past. I tried to dissuade him from becoming president of the republic. I said to him, “You know, let’s wait a while. There are still a lot of problems, security problems, problems with legal violations, problems rebuilding the economy and the social sector, and all of this will be on your shoulders, it will all be your responsibility, even if you are unable to do anything yourself to address it”. And I remember his reply very clearly. He said essentially the following: “I believe”, he said, “that the time will come when Chechnya will flourish and the people will live in prosperity and security. And then there will be plenty of people wanting to head the republic in such conditions. But today it is people like I who are needed, people who need nothing for themselves and who are ready to give everything they have, even their life if need be, for the sake of their people”.
And now I want to address my words to you who are present here in this hall, my words of thanks, because I know that there are still many unresolved problems today. Taking your seat in this hall today, heading a district, a region, heading the republic or the parliament, becoming a member of the parliament and carrying out active work in the interests of your people are all things that require great personal courage and the desire to achieve positive results. I can assure you that we are on the right road together.
I recalled unpleasant events linked to international terrorism. I would like to draw your attention to another circumstance, something I did not immediately give thought to myself, though it seems obvious enough. I want to mention it now. Those who are on the other side, fighting for their false ideals, either do not know or have forgotten, and those ordinary people who get used as cannon fodder, who get paid $10 to place a landmine or to fire a machine gun, simply do not know that Russia has always been the most loyal, reliable and consistent defender of the Moslem world’s interests. Russia has always been the best and most reliable partner and ally. In trying to destroy Russia, these people are undermining one of the Moslem world’s main sources of support in the fight for the legitimate rights of the Islamic world on the international stage. But those who organise these activities are probably acting deliberately, consciously aware of the aims they are trying to achieve.
The leaders of the main Islamic countries understand very well this idea that I just expressed. This is why their representatives were present during the referendum on the Constitution of the Republic of Chechnya, during the presidential election and recently during the parliamentary election. The Organisation of the Islamic Conference, the League of Arab Nations and our other colleagues and friends were all present. And, as you know, the members of the Organisation of the Islamic Conference took the unanimous decision to allow Russia to take part in the organisation’s work as an observer on a permanent basis. We will continue our work within this organisation. A delegation of Russian Moslems was in Mecca just recently and discussed issues of developing the Moslem world there together with their brothers. I repeat, Russia will continue this policy in the future.
I also want to draw your attention to the fact that everyone entrusted by the people to represent them has a great responsibility to bear. We have great problems to resolve and much work still to be done.
The first objective is to convince those who have not yet laid aside their arms, and there are still such people, that they are fighting for a false cause that is harmful to their republic and to their people.
The second objective is to do everything necessary to strengthen the republic’s law enforcement system: the courts, the prosecutor’s office, the interior ministry and the legal profession.
This is not possible without building a system of modern relations between the different branches of power, between the legislative branch, which you represent, and the executive authorities, the district heads, and between the government and the president. This is not an easy undertaking. It is a difficult task for Russia in general. Russia in general does not have lengthy historical experience in developing democratic institutions. We are doing many things for the first time. We should base ourselves on the general world trends in this work. We not only should do this – we need to do this, for ourselves. I want to wish you success in this work. It is work that requires professionalism, responsibility and the ability to reach agreements and look for compromise solutions. This is probably not an easy task for anyone, but for people from the Caucasus agreeing to a compromise is probably always somewhat difficult. But such are the rules of democratic society, which is a far more efficient form of society, today at least, than any other kind of social organisation.Events
Opening Address at a Meeting with Cabinet Members
December 12, 2005
23:56
The Kremlin, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon dear colleagues!
Today is Russia's Constitution Day. I congratulate you on this holiday. It is symbolic that the first session of the parliament of the Chechen Republic took place today. Today I had the pleasure of congratulating our colleagues in the Chechen Republic on this occasion, one that I think is significant both for the Republic and the whole country. It is an important step towards resolving the situation in the Chechen Republic.
As I have already said, this marks the completion of restoring formal legal constitutional order in the whole country and in the Caucasus in particular, although there is still great deal of work to do there.
I would like to address this to the Prime Minister and all our colleagues: it is necessary to help our Chechen colleagues, including helping them implement plans that they are now discussing with the elected deputies with respect to rebuilding the Republic and Grozny in particular.
I agreed to meet the Republic's leaders in Moscow in a week's time. And I asked that the heads of chambers who were elected today come as well. They were elected after I left; I was not there during their election. And to tell you the truth, I thought it was better that this be done in my absence, rather than have the heads of chambers elected in the President's presence. I asked that they also be invited.
And I shall ask the Prime Minister to determine which Cabinet Members can and should take part in this meeting to discuss the problem of rebuilding the Chechen Republic.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 12, 2005, 23:56
Text version