Events
Excerpts from a Transcript of a Meeting with Members of Government
May 23, 2005
16:24
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Sergei Viktorovich (talking to Sergei Lavrov), you have completed work on regulating border issues with Estonia. How was cooperation with colleagues organised at the concluding stage?
Sergei Lavrov: Everything took place as we had agreed with our Estonian colleagues. No additions were made to the agreement on the border that was signed. During the talks that preceded the signing of the document, the Estonian minister confirmed the position that after ratification, the agreement would finally solve the issue of border crossings. We will naturally see how this ratification is passed in Estonia, and then we will present you with proposals on the dates of our ratification.
Mr Putin: Did you agree on synchronising our efforts in working with the national parliaments?
Mr Lavrov: We agreed that in the near future we would exchange estimates on when this work can begin in parliaments, and we will work together. But our Estonian colleagues are well aware of our position – that there will not be any provisos, reservations, or -sided alterations on either side.
Mr Putin: Is the situation with our Latvian colleagues unchanged?
Mr Lavrov: Yes, it is unchanged. Although the Latvian President told me in a brief conversation at the recent Council of Europe summit in Warsaw that she believes it is necessary to change the incorrect position of the Latvian government, which passed a one-sided declaration that essentially maintains its territorial claims to Russia. For us this is unacceptable.
Mr Putin: Good. Report to me separately about this later.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 23, 2005, 16:24
Text versionEvents
Beginning of a Meeting with the CEO of Daimler-Chrysler, Jurgen Schremp
May 23, 2005
21:50
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Mr Chairman, allow me to wish you a warm welcome.
It is very pleasing for me that you and your colleagues decided to hold a meeting of the Daimler-Chrysler board of management in Moscow. I have already had the pleasure of meeting one of your colleagues today, a member of the board of management, former U.S. President Mr. Bush.
I hope that your work here will be held at the necessary level, and it is very pleasing for me to note that you are examining the possibility of expanding your activity in the Russian Federation.
I hope that these talks are at a sufficiently advanced stage. On our part, as far as I know, the Russian Government has quite a harsh but consistent position and creates favourable conditions for you to expand your activity, including your production activity in Russia. This above all concerns the special order for importing components and parts. There are agreements on expanding production within Russia. I talked about this in considerable detail with the Federal Chancellor when I was last in Germany. And I am very happy that these talks are moving ahead and reaching completion.
Jurgen Schremp: Mr. President, first of all allow me with all my heart to thank you for giving me the opportunity to meet with you today, and for the support that we received at a meeting of the International Advice Board in Moscow. Of course, we talked about many topics which are important for the world today, but of course we also talked about Russia. And if I ever had any doubts, which I did not, about the process of development in Russia, they would have vanished after this meeting. By the way, it is not just two high-ranking Russian politicians, but also economists who predict successful development for Russia.
Half an hour ago I talked to Federal Chancellor Schroeder. He asked me to pass on the very best wishes and greetings to you.
As for the project, everything here is quite simple. I think that all the existing issues have been clarified. As for the system that you talked about concerning customs duties on import of components over eight years, I think that everything will be fine with this as well.
I hope that the first Mercedes will come off the production line in autumn. Permission for investment of such a scale is in the competence of the board of management, and this remains to be done, but after a series of confidential talks, I think that this permission will be given. And it is very fortunate that this project is being realised in St. Petersburg.
Mr Putin: It is your decision.
Mr Schremp: Yes, it is our decision. But I think that it is a fortunate decision.
Mr Putin: I agree.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 23, 2005, 21:50
Text versionEvents
Beginning of a Meeting with former U.S. President George Bush Sr
May 23, 2005
18:08
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: It is very pleasing for me to see you, Mr President. I remember our meeting in Sochi and would like to say that we do not forget that your signature is on the Charter for cooperation and friendship between Russia and the United States of America, which was signed in 1991. It is very pleasing for me that you continue to work actively in the political field, and this is how we see your visit on the international board of Daimer Chrysler. Welcome!
George Bush: Thank you very much, Mr President. On Friday evening I dined with President No. 43. I told him that you would be so kind as to give me a few minutes. He was very pleased with this. He did not ask me to pass on any specific message to you, but he said that he was extremely happy with the results of his visit to Moscow. He believes that this visit was successful. He reacted negatively to certain criticism that was made of him after this visit. He believes that it was an outstanding visit.
Mr Putin: We also value this visit highly: both the ceremonial part devoted to the 60th anniversary of the end of the Second World War and the victory over Nazism, and the material part, which was devoted to our dialogue on bilateral and international problems.
So I urge you to pass on my very best wishes to the current U.S. President and his wife. We will soon meet at the G-8 meeting, and of course we will continue our talks within the G-8 and on bilateral issues.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 23, 2005, 18:08
Text version