Events
Beginning of Meeting with President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev
April 8, 2005
11:17
Novo-Ogaryovo
President Vladimir Putin: Nursultan Abishevich [Nazarbayev], thank you for coming. I am very happy to see you. On May 8, we will meet again in Moscow and one of the matters I wanted to suggest we discuss today is Russia’s and Kazakhstan’s preparations for celebrating the 60th anniversary of victory in the Great Patriotic War. This is our great common celebration.
I also propose that we discuss our economic interaction. Last year we had record trade growth – a 1.5-fold increase. We have now broken the $8 billion mark. Everything that you and I reached agreement on several years ago has now become reality. Our economic ties are developing actively. Now we need to talk about our priorities and our big projects in the energy, machine-building and metals sectors. That is the second main item I wanted to discuss.
And, of course, I also wanted to consult with you on issues concerning the integration processes underway in the post-Soviet area. I am referring to your proposals for reforming the CIS and for taking further steps in work on building the Common Economic Space and the Eurasian Economic Community.
President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev: First of all, thank you for your invitation. These sorts of informal meetings are always very useful and have long since become a normal part of our relations. They give us a chance to discuss bilateral issues.
Kazakhstan is also preparing actively for the 60th anniversary of victory celebrations and, at your invitation, I will be taking part in the celebrations in Moscow. We will also be holding our own celebrations in Kazakhstan, all the more so as we have now completed restoration of the Monument to the 28 Panfilov Heroes in Dubosekovo. I will be going there. The CIS heads of state will be holding their summit just before the victory celebrations begin in Moscow. As you know, Kazakhstan has proposed fundamental reforms of the CIS directing organisations in order to take into account the new situation that has emerged in the CIS area. I would like to exchange views and consult with you on this matter because Russia’s position regarding this issue is very important.
I also think the Eurasian Economic Community is developing very well. I met recently with the heads of government of all the countries involved and they reported that trade relations are developing very actively within the framework of the Eurasian Economic Community.
As you know, the Common Economic Space High-Level Group finished its meeting today and our representative reported that everyone, including Ukraine, has given their approval to 17 draft laws. There were 29 draft laws in total being examined this time. The others will be approved by July – that is the deadline we have set.
I would like to discuss energy cooperation issues with you and our cooperation at Baikonur on outer space programmes. There are some matters we must discuss in order to be able to move forward in these areas.
Trade and mutual economic penetration between our countries is progressing actively and this is something that we in Kazakhstan encourage.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 8, 2005, 11:17
Text version