Events
Beginning of Meeting with Federal Chancellor of Austria Wolfgang Schussel
December 2, 2005
19:32
President Vladimir Putin: Dear Mr Federal Chancellor!
Allow me to wish you a warm welcome to Moscow. You and I meet quite regularly in various places in Europe, but on this particular occasion it gives me great pleasure to welcome you here in the capital of the Russian Federation.
The pleasure is all the greater because relations have been developing very well between our two countries, especially recently, and have reached a high level. This is true not just of our political contacts but also of our economic ties. We have reached a record figure of more then $2 billion for bilateral trade this year. I think the final result for the year will be around $2.5 billion. Direct Austrian investment in the Russian economy is also on the rise. This level of relations offers many opportunities of which we can make effective use. I am sure, Mr Chancellor that your visit will contribute towards reaching these objectives.
Welcome!
Federal Chancellor of Austria Wolfgang Schussel: Thank you.
Thank you very much for your invitation, Mr President. This is a special moment for me. I am making this visit to you because Austria will be holding the presidency of the European Union next year and, naturally, we will be discussing above all the question of 2007, when the cooperation and partnership agreement between Russia and the European Union expires.
Seeing as the media is here – the TV and the press – I would above all like to thank you for the invitation and I would also like to take this opportunity to personally thank you for the unique event we were able to take part in this year – for presenting Austria with the original of the State Treaty for a few months. It is perhaps hard for you to imagine just how much it meant for us to have the original of this document – the document testifying to the birth of the independent and sovereign Republic of Austria. In this significant year of 2005 that has seen us mark such anniversaries as 60 years since the end of the war, 50 years since the State Treaty and 10 years since Austria joined the European Union, this was a very important event for us. The document was shown at two exhibitions in Vienna at the Belvedere Palace and at Schallaburg. Practically one in ten Austrians had the opportunity of personally seeing this document. And more than 10 million viewers watched a number of documentaries that were shown on television. We can discuss all of this in more detail later of course, but I wanted above all to thank you very much for this gesture.
Our economic ties are indeed developing very well. I must say that this development reflects the work you are doing – we can see that the economy is growing, that unemployment and inflation are coming down, the level of poverty is being reduced and economic growth is visible in the country. Over the six months of the Austrian presidency of the European Union we want to continue this cooperation, be it in the economy, on environmental issues, transport development or security.
As a country that is home to the headquarters of certain of the UN organisations and the OSCE, we place great emphasis on cooperation with these international organisations. We also have a very large number of international issues to discuss – from Iran to the Middle East and from Afghanistan to the Balkans – your knowledge and experience are needed for the resolution of all of these issues.
Vladimir Putin: First of all, I want to say that we place a lot of hope on the Austrian presidency of the European Union next year. Over these months of the British presidency we have taken considerable steps forward in our relations with the European Union and have strengthened our commitment to implementing the plans for creating the four common spaces.
We have very good relations with Austria and we hope that our cooperation with you, as president of the European Union, will see us make further progress in this work. The same is true of course, for coordinating our positions on key international issues.
Regarding our relations, they have roots that reach deep, right back to the very beginnings of the formation of modern Austria. These are good memories for us because Russia – the Soviet Union as it was then – played a key role in the formation of the new Austria. Handing you the original of the State Treaty was not a usual gesture in diplomatic practice, of course, but we felt that we were simply obliged to give the Austrian people the chance to see the document that is at the foundation of modern Austrian statehood. Furthermore, it was in answer to your personal request, Mr Federal Chancellor. Given these circumstances, we have prepared a copy of this document that I would like to hand you today.
Wolfgang Schussel: Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 2, 2005, 19:32
Text versionEvents
Beginning of Meeting with Director of the Federal Drugs Control Service Viktor Cherkesov
December 2, 2005
21:09
The Kremlin, Moscow
Director of the Federal Drugs Control Service Viktor Cherkesov: Vladimir Vladimirovich [Putin], I think that one of the main results of our agency’s and of the entire Russian law enforcement system’s work is the major international operations that we have held just recently. Such operations have been taking place regularly in the Central Asian region. Over the last two years we have been organising them within the framework of the Collective Security Treaty Organisation (CSTO).
President Vladimir Putin: Conducting operations is a good thing. But how many criminal proceedings have been instituted on the basis of your evidence, and how many people have been sent to prison as a result, and not drug addicts, but the organisers of these criminal activities?
Viktor Cherkesov: This year more than 80,000 criminal proceedings have been instituted. Of this total, more than 60,000 suites have been filed against drug dealers. For the most part these are people who are involved in organised crime. It is they who are largely responsible for forming these large drug dealing networks and organising the drug trafficking that takes place in this country. It is they who have been in control of this business of late.
Vladimir Putin: How many cases have not just been brought before the courts but have resulted in a guilty verdict? Do you have this information?
Viktor Cherkesov: Yes, of course. Of all the cases brought before the courts, not guilty verdicts were delivered in only 80 cases. In other words, fewer than 100 people were declared not guilty by the courts out of the tens of thousands of accused brought before the courts for drug trafficking.
Vladimir Putin: How is cooperation with our partners developing? You mentioned the operations you have conducted together, ‘Channel 2005’ and other joint operations. How do you assess the state of cooperation with our partners, especially within the Collective Security Treaty Organisation?
Viktor Cherkesov: I think that our cooperation is developing very reliably. This is not just my view as director of the Coordinating Council. We have set up a special structure within the CSTO that enables us to coordinate the activities of all the different agencies involved in fighting drug trafficking.
But there is also another very important factor that increases our potential. Two years ago when we began holding these kinds of operations, only six CSTO countries were involved, but the effectiveness of these operations has incited another six countries to take part too. This autumn, we carried out an operation that involved 12 countries. Now that we have the participation of Iran, Pakistan, China, Uzbekistan and a number of other countries, we have been able to put in place elements of a security zone right around Afghanistan’s borders. In between carrying out large-scale joint operations with these countries, this new cooperation also makes it possible to work on a useful bilateral basis, exchanging operational information and carrying out joint operations to cut off drug supply channels. This all serves to reinforce the possibilities for us and for our partners.
Vladimir Putin: What is the staffing situation in your service at the moment?
Viktor Cherkesov: At the moment we meet our staffing requirements by about 90–92 percent. This means that we have the personnel reserve we need to be able to train young people and take into account the staff rotation necessary as people come to the end of their service.
Vladimir Putin: How many people do you currently employ?
Viktor Cherkesov: Currently we have around 35,000 people.
Vladimir Putin: Viktor Vasilyevich, 35,000 people – this is a huge staff. I don’t even know if any other countries have committed such means to combating drug trafficking as we have. We have set up an entire separate federal service to work in this area. Over these last years you have indeed managed to achieve a lot in terms of setting up the organisation and focusing it on resolving its primary tasks. But at the same time, I think you will agree that we still have a great deal to do to convince the people of Russia that this step was not in vain and that these 35,000 people are working effectively to combat drug trafficking, which remains a very serious threat for our country.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 2, 2005, 21:09
Text version