Events
Beginning of Meeting with Former Japanese Prime Minister Yoshiro Mori
June 14, 2005
15:30
Konstantinovsky Palace, St Petersburg
President Vladimir Putin: Dear Mr Mori,
Allow me once again to wish you a warm welcome to Russia, thank the Japanese Prime Minister for facilitating your visit to St Petersburg, and thank you for taking part in the events marking the beginning of the Toyota company’s activities here in Russia. I am very pleased to have this chance to meet with you and exchange views on our bilateral relations. We think that relations with Japan are developing quite well indeed today. We have established contacts at a high level and our economic ties are also developing.
I would like to ask you to pass on my very best wishes to the Prime Minister and thank him for the invitation to visit Japan. I intend to make this visit in accordance with the plans we have agreed on.
Yoshiro Mori: I made my first visit to St Petersburg immediately after becoming Prime Minister. President Vladimir Putin was the first leader I met with in my capacity as Prime Minister. Now we are meeting for the tenth time. I am very grateful to you for the fact that we have been able to preserve this warm, mutual friendship. Last year I received a state decoration. In the summer, I visited my father’s grave in Irkutsk and I showed him that decoration.
I would like to congratulate you on the celebrations that took place on May 9 to mark the anniversary of the end of World War II. I watched these celebrations, which took place under the slogan, “Memory and Conciliation,” on television. At that time I was accompanying His Majesty the Emperor on a visit to Ireland.
When I returned to Tokyo, our current Prime Minister, Junichiro Koizumi, passed on the message that the President of Russia would like to drink beer with me in St Petersburg. So, I am very happy to see you today.
Thank you very much for taking part in the ceremony today marking the beginning of construction of the Toyota car plant. Your participation in this ceremony means a great deal not just for Toyota but also for other Japanese companies.
Vladimir Putin: We were very glad to see the Japanese Prime Minister’s participation in the celebrations on May 9. We saw in his participation a sign of respect for the Russian people and a genuine desire on the part of the Japanese leadership to develop relations with our country.
Today’s event, the beginning of Toyota’s activities in Russia, is the continuation of the dialogue that our two countries have built up over the last years. I am sure that, through a constructive and interested partnership, we can settle any issues in order to develop long-term relations for the good of the Russian and Japanese peoples.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 14, 2005, 15:30
Text versionEvents
Concluding Remarks at the Ninth St Petersburg International Economic Forum
June 14, 2005
13:00
Tauride Palace, St Petersburg
President Vladimir Putin: I think that all of us here have had the chance to get to the essence of the problem raised during our discussions today, an issue that really is one of the most important matters and key problems for many countries, including for Russia.
A brief analysis was made during this discussion of the relations between two different development models: the paternalist model, that is to say, a model in which the state plays a considerable part in developing the economy, and the liberal model. And I think it was rightly pointed out that each of these different models have proven themselves more or less effective at different periods in the development of the world economy.
Let’s think back, for example, to the Great Depression in the United States in the late 1920s-early 1930s. It was precisely at this time that the Soviet Union’s command economy produced its greatest results and the country developed rapidly as an industrial power. But later, as innovation-based development models became more effective and the world economy became increasingly global in nature, the paternalist foundation of the Soviet command economy and an increasing isolation from world trends brought about the Soviet Union’s collapse.
I think that many would agree with me that any government, including the Russian government, should be able to identify world development trends, world economic trends, and should be able to evaluate the state of their own countries, their social, political and economic situations, in order to choose the optimum development path.
Our main goal remains unchanged, of course. Our goal is to ensure rapid growth of the Russian economy. We realise that in this time of globalisation Russia can only achieve this if it becomes an integrated part of the world economy – but only on condition that our state preserves and ensures its sovereignty. I want to wish all of us success in this work.
Thank you very much to the organisers.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 14, 2005, 13:00
Text versionEvents
Speech at a Ceremony laying the First Stone of the Toyota Motor Corporation Car Plant
June 14, 2005
14:25
Shushary Village, Leningrad Region
President Vladimir Putin: Dear Mr Mori, Dear Yoshiro,
Dear Mr Okuda,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Today, together with our Japanese partners, we are marking the start of the construction of the first Toyota car plant in Russia. First of all, I would like to wish success to everyone who will be involved in carrying out this very promising project.
Toyota, Japan’s biggest carmaker, is known throughout the whole world. It is a popular brand here in Russia, too. I am sure that there will be great demand indeed for the cars produced by Toyota’s St Petersburg plant.
Leading Japanese enterprises are taking ever-bolder steps to expand their activities here in Russia. We see in this a sign that Japanese industry and business circles feel confident about the Russian economy’s possibilities and potential.
This confidence is based on the positive experience of cooperation we already have, the growing direct contacts and ties between businesspeople in both our countries, and on our country’s successes in carrying out social and economic reform and creating an effective market economy that is showing stable development.
I am sure that there are excellent prospects for Russian-Japanese business cooperation, especially in investment, trade, innovative technology, the energy sector and joint development of Siberia and the Far East. It is very important, and I want to stress it one more time, that the political dialogue between our two countries is constantly developing and is opening up broad new opportunities for partnership.
In conclusion, I sincerely wish Toyota continued success on the Russian market.
I would also like to thank the heads of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for supporting this project. The EBRD is our longstanding partner and has a 20-percent stake in this project. I would also like to note the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development’s other projects, including its participation in what is a new project – the issue of rouble-denominated financial instruments on the Russian market for a total of five billion roubles. We see this as another significant step towards making our national currency fully convertible. All of this together gives us reason to expect that the Toyota project will be a success.
I hope that other recognised Japanese economic leaders will follow your example. Russia is open to cooperation and to interested, substantial dialogue.
I wish you all the best.
Thank you very much.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 14, 2005, 14:25
Text versionEvents
Speech at the Ninth St Petersburg International Economic Forum
June 14, 2005
12:00
Tauride Palace, St Petersburg
President Vladimir Putin: Good day, dear colleagues and friends,
It gives me great pleasure to see all of you here at this forum that has traditionally taken place every year for the last nine years now. These kinds of regular gatherings are obviously useful for the business community, the academic community and for the state. I would also note that your forum has become a kind of institute for promoting economic integration. It goes beyond borders and distances and provides opportunities for a free discussion on today’s most pressing problems.
One of the forum’s key themes is analysis and evaluation of the effectiveness of various economic models. You are also to discuss the problems of transition to a more promising innovation-based development path.
It is well known today that countries able to ensure rapid advances in new technology are at a competitive advantage. How to adapt to such sweeping global changes is a relevant issue for practically all the countries present at this forum.
More than 40 countries are represented here. Our friends from the CIS countries and from countries further abroad have all come to this forum. This summit is taking place under the slogan: An effective economy and a decent life. These few words sum up the main goal that many countries have set themselves today. But each country chooses its own development path as there is not, and cannot be, it seems, a single universal recipe for development and prosperity. But I think that it is clear to all of us that, whatever our chosen path, only sustainable and long-term economic growth can make this goal of a decent life reality.
In this respect, let me look at the situation in the Russian Federation. I would like to just quote a few figures. Our country had an industrial output growth rate of 4.2 percent over the period from January to April 2005. Investment in our economy was up by 9.8 percent, people’s real incomes rose by 5.6 percent and real wages increased by 8.7 percent. Unemployment fell by 9 percent. Our gold and currency reserves, stabilisation fund, budget surplus and trade surplus are all continuing to grow.
Of course, we are not satisfied with everything that is happening in the Russian economy. Above all, we are not satisfied with the high inflation rate, which reached 7.3 percent over the first five months of this year. We are also not satisfied with the pace of economic growth in the country. But even so, the achievements we have made in the economy are enabling many Russians to improve their living standards and are giving business the chance to develop and carry out investment projects. What is also important is that the state is fulfilling its commitments and is setting major long-term guidelines, including in strategic planning and budget policy.
One of the most important issues that you are set to discuss is the extent of the state’s participation in the economy. It would seem that this question has long since been settled, but discussions continue and the issue remains a subject of much debate. This is an important issue for any country, for any economy. I think that many here today would agree with me that this question of the extent to which the state should get involved in economic matters can be seen in different ways at different times and during different historical periods.
It is clear that excessive state intervention in the economy puts a brake on business initiative. We have felt this on our own skins. But at the same time, the state cannot completely withdraw from the economy. There are, after all, some sectors where the state’s presence is entirely justified. Here, I am thinking of certain infrastructure facilities and the defence industry, for example. Of course, every country sets its own economic policy, but sharing experience and discussing these issues together at this forum is something that will be very useful for all of us.
Another subject that I consider of immense importance on your agenda is that of Russia’s place in the world system of division of labour. Russia today is a major exporter of natural resources, and this is our natural competitive advantage, a very significant advantage. Furthermore, extraction and primary processing of raw materials can also be transformed into a high-technology industry. But effective use of natural resources is by far not enough to ensure sustainable economic growth and even detracts us from resolving key development issues. One of our primary objectives, therefore, remains to restructure the economy and develop industries producing quality goods for which there is market demand. The competitiveness of our country in general is built on the competitiveness of each Russian product, each Russian enterprise.
Dear colleagues,
Regional cooperation is also a considerable focus for this forum. Russia, for example, places great importance on developing its vast northern territories and we are most certainly interested in effective international cooperation in this area. Our chairmanship of the Arctic Council places particular responsibility on us. We see our mission as being able to form a balanced approach to ensuring sustainable development for this part of the world. Our cooperation has been most successful in environmental matters, but we know that we have to work on making our partnership more active in other areas such as information technologies, preserving the unique cultures of the northern peoples and helping them to adapt to the reality of the market.
I would also like to note the multi-dimensional work that the northern regions of European countries and Russian regions are carrying out in the Barents Sea region. Effective energy use centres have been set up here, customs and border infrastructure is developing and an environment protection project is being implemented. I hope that this forum will also make a significant contribution to settling the problems the Arctic and the northern regions in general face today.
Dear colleagues,
It is no secret that a variety of opinions are heard at this forum, some that are similar and some quite different or even sometimes diametrically opposed. But we are all equally interested in coming up with management solutions that combine pragmatism, justified risk and a responsible approach.
In conclusion, I would like to wish all the forum’s participants fruitful work. I am sure that your debates and discussions will give rise to new concepts and legislative proposals. And I hope, of course, that your work will also result in new investment projects.
Thank you very much.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 14, 2005, 12:00
Text version