Events
Beginning of Meeting on Economic Issues (on the Transition to Market Forms of Payment for Russian Gas Supplies to Ukraine and for the transit of Russian Gas via Ukraine to Western Europe)
December 8, 2005
13:01
Novo-Ogaryovo
President Vladimir Putin: I would like to draw the Russian Government’s attention to the fact that the negotiating process on energy supplies between the different economic actors should not in any way affect the development of relations between Russia and Ukraine. This is the most important thing. But the Russian and Ukrainian public, of course, should be informed about the events taking place in this sector. These events are really quite straightforward. The talks on introducing market forms of payment for Russian gas supplies to Ukraine and for the transit of Russian gas to western Europe did not just begin out of the blue yesterday or the day before, but got underway back in March. Our Ukrainian partners were active in supporting this process and even initiated it, to a large extent, which I think was absolutely the right thing to do.
I would like to point out that Ukraine’s own gas production comes to approximately 18 billion cubic metres of gas, and this fully covers its household consumption needs, that is, the demand from Ukrainian citizens who use natural gas in their homes. This aspect is therefore completely unrelated to Russian gas supplies to Ukraine. With respect to this gas, of course, our Ukrainian colleagues can set whatever price they wish. This is their sovereign right. If they see this as a way of helping to resolve social issues, as an economically viable option for their country, then why not?
Regarding industrial consumers, however, regarding measures to support and subsidise certain sectors of the economy, this is something that in any normal economy is done in a transparent manner through budget policy, that is, in such a way that the public knows who is getting money from the state, how much and for what purpose. This is standard world practice. Ultimately, this is also not our issue to decide, but we must not put our Ukrainian colleagues in a difficult situation and we should base our position on the reality of the situation. This is what I particularly wanted to emphasise.
And what is the reality of the situation? The reality today is that, despite the noticeable slowdown in economic growth compared to recent years, the Ukrainian economy is still growing at a similar rate to the Russian economy. Furthermore, the Ukrainian economy has received considerable revenue from privatisation and from loans from Western financial institutions for energy projects – all to a total of billions of dollars. This is quite sufficient to allow Ukraine to purchase the gas it needs from Russia at market prices.
I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that as from the first quarter of 2006, our western European consumers will be receiving Russian gas at a cost of $255 per 1,000 cubic metres. If we consider that Ukraine pays just $50 at the moment, the difference is clear. Even taking into account the fact that there are lower transport costs involved in getting our gas to Ukraine, we still have a difference of around $180 per 1,000 cubic metres of gas.
I also want to make another point: along with the money received from international financial institutions and the possibilities offered by its own budget resources, Ukraine has another source of revenue that we should not overlook and that concerns us directly. At the beginning of this year Russia introduced a system of tax payments for natural gas and gas condensate in the destination country with regard to Ukraine. Taking into account the current gas prices, this means that we are directly pumping from the Russian budget to the Ukrainian budget around $1 billion. I say that we are ‘directly pumping’ this money because there is no flow of similar goods coming the other way into Russia. Essentially, this amounts to Russian budget support for our Ukrainian friends.
Gazprom’s potential losses from the difference between world prices and the current sale price come to $3.6 billion a year, plus the $1 billion that goes from our budget to the Ukrainian budget. This makes for a total of around $4.6 billion. This is a burden on the Russian economy that is difficult to justify. We have enough of a load of our own to carry without taking on an additional burden.
Quite aside from anything else, household consumers in Ukraine pay less for their gas today than do household consumers here in Russia. We still have 25 million people living below the poverty line and we also have big plans, still in the development stage, to connect all different parts of the country to the gas network. All this means that we need to be looking for solutions that are acceptable both to our partners and to the Russian economy.
I hope that the Russian Government will help and support our energy sector companies during this negotiating process, taking into account, of course, all the circumstances that I have just outlined.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 8, 2005, 13:01
Text versionEvents
Beginning of Meeting with Economy Minister of the Federal Republic of Germany Michael Glos
December 8, 2005
13:05
Novo-Ogaryovo
President Vladimir Putin: Mr Minister, dear colleagues,
Allow me to wish you a warm welcome to Moscow. I am very happy to see you here.
Relations between Russia and Germany have been developing very successfully of late, especially in the trade and economic sector. Bilateral trade has increased by more than 40 percent over the last months and German investment in the Russian economy has risen by 19 percent. This is a very good result. The energy sector, increasing security in the energy sector and diversifying transport routes for Russian energy supplies to our main consumers in western Europe continue to be important areas for cooperation between our countries.
Other sectors also offer good opportunities for cooperation. As you know, we have decided to pursue the rapid development of the sectors that will form the foundation for a growing modern economy based on advanced technology. We have decided to create a number of high-technology zones with a very liberal tax regime, and we hope that our German partners will be interested in joining in work in this area.
I know that German companies are showing an interest in sectors such as construction, medicine and several others. We welcome all efforts to develop our relations and our cooperation in these important areas. We also have some very good agreements regarding the development of infrastructure projects, transport and telecommunications.
I very much hope that not only will we continue working together at this pace, but that we will also take new steps forward in developing trade and economic ties between our countries.
We are looking forward to the Federal Chancellor’s visit to Russia in mid-January and are preparing for the intergovernmental consultations in Tomsk in March.
German Economy Minister Michael Glos: Dear Mr President, I would like to thank you sincerely for your warm words of welcome and for receiving me today. I see it as a great honour.
We had very intensive consultations last time we met. On that occasion I was part of the delegation that accompanied Mr Schroeder, who was then running for the office of Federal Chancellor. Now we have a new Federal Chancellor, and she welcomes the fact that I have come here and she asked me to pass on her very best wishes to you. She thinks it useful that my first contact with a foreign official was with my colleague Mr Gref in Hamburg, where we looked at Airbus production together.
Indeed, I can say that Mr Gref and I established very friendly relations right from the start. This illustrates the continuation of our economic relations that are developing well as it is, in particular in the area of energy supplies. I am very pleased to have the opportunity tomorrow of taking part in the ceremony of welding the first joint for the new North European Gas Pipeline that will ensure gas supplies not only for Germany but for all of western Europe.
Mr President, we now have a new coalition in power in our country and this leaves its mark on our new government. At first, of course, it was all quite a surprise for us, but now we have formed a truly solid base for this coalition government. The two leading parties, equal in importance and weight, managed to reach an agreement sooner than anyone expected. There can be no doubt about the fact that Germany is interested in continuing to develop good relations with Russia, in the economy and in other areas.
I used to head the CDU commission that was responsible for security, defence, foreign and European policy. I did not know at that time that I would be named economy minister. At that time, Mr Steinmeier and I had very intensive talks and the least differences between us were over the question of ensuring continued positive development of our relations with Russia.
Mr President, you spoke of the good economic relations between our countries. Your country has built a solid political foundation for continued development and has taken the right economic decisions. We are interested, of course, in further developing our economic relations. Germany needs to do this because we must at all costs address the issue of increasing economic growth in our country. We would like to once again become a leading European economic power and for this we absolutely must achieve additional economic growth. This means that we are interested in good relations with Russia, in particular in the economy, and not only as concerns raw materials supplies, but also in other areas, in the aviation industry, for example. This, of course, is the prerogative of the industrial companies themselves.
We hope that Siemens, a major company and world technological leader, could play a greater role in Russia. We have an interest in seeing Siemens acquire quite a large stake in the Siloviye Mashiny Plant in order to improve our economic relations.
Mr President, I think that we could be of help to you in developing small and medium business, as we already have experience in this area. I would like to say that for my part, I am ready to a make my contribution to developing our economic relations.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 8, 2005, 13:05
Text version