Events
Beginning of the Meeting with Secretary of the Iranian Supreme Council of National Security Hassan Rouhani
February 18, 2005
18:48
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Dear Mr Rouhani, dear colleagues,
Let me wish you a warm welcome to Moscow. I remember our meeting in November 2003 here, in the Kremlin. We had a very detailed talk. And it is very pleasing for me to note that relations between Russia and Iran are developing consistently in almost all directions.
Iran is our long-standing partner. In 2003 our volume of trade turnover doubled, and grew by another third in 2004. We have many joint interests as Caspian nations. And although dialogue is not easy between all Caspian nations, I know for a fact that everyone has the desire to find a compromise in this region.
I remember the invitation of the Iranian leadership to visit your country. We are preparing for this visit. We will agree on the dates separately, but I think that we will talk about this issue again today.
We have many interesting projects in the sphere of the economy and in the security sphere, above all in the Caspian region, of course. In connection with this, we support several of Iran’s initiatives, and I hope that we will also talk about this in more detail today. We hope to be met with a similar position in our initiatives.
I would ask you to pass on my very best wishes to the Iranian leadership. It is very pleasing for us that relations between us are developing well at practically all levels, and that dialogue is continual. I hope, of course, to discuss with you issues concerning the so-called nuclear problem, and to discuss the situation in the region. In general, we have a very large agenda, and we are glad to see you.
Hassan Rouhani: Thank you very much, Mr President,
I am very happy about today’s meeting which allows us to exchange opinions. I thank you for your very hospitable reception, and I am glad to pass on warm wishes and greetings from our leadership.
The development and deepening of our relations in the area of bilateral ties, regional issues, and also issues of the international agenda are priority areas of Iran’s foreign policy. In the current international situation, and also given the complex regional situation, we have no doubt that developing relations matches the interests of the two parties, and will be a factor for strengthening stability in the region.
We attach great importance to your visit. Undoubtedly, it will provide additional stimulus for the development of our relations. Mr Khatami hopes to welcome you soon in Tehran.
At our last meeting held last year, we discussed a large list of issues of our cooperation in various areas. I am glad to inform you today that over the last year, significant progress has been reached in all these areas. In the Iranian Supreme Council of national security, we are keeping track of the progress of these joint projects, and I hope to present you with a report today on the development of the situation in these issues.
Since last year, major steps have been taken on our part in the nuclear sphere. Last year, when we were in Moscow, many people in the world had doubts about the nature of our activity in the nuclear sphere. But today no one doubts that our activity in the nuclear sphere is of an exclusively peaceful nature. This was stated by representatives of the International agency for nuclear energy, and also by the Board of Governors, and recorded in the last resolution of the Board. Along with the talks that we are holding with the European Group of Three, we also attach great importance to the role that Russia can play. We believe that Russia’s role may be very beneficial to advance these talks.
Very important problems lie before us in connection with the situation in the region. And I would like to discuss individual aspects of this situation once more
Where our two countries have worked together, this has only helped security and stability in the region. This is shown by our cooperation in Afghanistan, in Central Asia, in Transcaucasia, and in the Caspian region. Our cooperation in all these regions has helped to strengthen stability. Naturally, today we are encountering new problems in the region, but we have no doubt that consultations between Moscow and Tehran will help to overcome these problems.
Mr Putin: I completely agree with your assessment. You know our position on the nuclear problem. We are firmly convinced that proliferation of nuclear weapons will not help security, and will not strengthen security either in the region or in the world in general. The recent actions by Iran have convinced us that Iran truly does not intend to manufacture nuclear weapons, and this means that we will continue cooperation in all spheres, including in the sphere of nuclear energy.
We hope, of course, dear Mr Rouhani, that Iran will strictly adhere to all the obligations it has taken on bilaterally – with Russia – and internationally. We will continue cooperation with Iran in all spheres, including the military and technical sphere. And I agree with you that our joint work in a number of regions in the world – you have listed them: the Caucasus, Afghanistan and Central Asia – will have a positive result. These joint actions can only be assessed in a positive light, and we count on this joint work in future.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: February 18, 2005, 18:48
Text versionEvents
Excerpts from a Speech at a Meeting of the Commission for Military Technology Cooperation with Foreign States
February 18, 2005
21:10
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Today’s meeting is devoted to problems of military and technical cooperation.
There are two main issues on the agenda. Above all, to sum up the results of military and technical cooperation with foreign countries for the past year, and also to take measures that will allow us to make this work more effective and more profitable economically.
Among the positive tendencies, I would like to note the access of Russian manufacturers to new markets, and the strengthening of corporate ties. There has been a noticeable increase in the activity of enterprises which have received the right to independent export of spare parts and post-warranty servicing.
A great deal still needs to be done here to make this activity less bureaucratic. We have already talked about this with the Defence Ministry, Rosoboronexport and the respective committee: if enterprises have received this right, then we need to save them the need to run around the corridors of power receiving additional signatures and wasting time solving administrative issues.
But that which has been done has already made it possible to increase deliveries of military equipment in 2004 by $200 million, and in general to pass the $5.7 billion mark. As a result, our country has a firm position among the five leading exporters of military production.
However, it is also clear that there are significant potential resources for further development of the Russian defence and industrial complex. This involves a noticeable financial profit for the country and the possibility of increasing it. Along with strengthening the position of national manufacturers on traditional markets, our task is still to reach new weapons markets and increase competitiveness of production.
What resources are these?
Above all, today enterprises of military and technical cooperation have a significant portfolio of orders, which makes it possible to plan volumes of delivery with reasonable certainty, but only for 2005. It is necessary to formulate strategic actions for the middle-term perspective, from 2006 to 2010.
The projected figures should stimulate the work of defence enterprises and be taken into account in improving the defence and industrial complex, such as by creating major integrated companies, the projected capacity figures of which, including from Russian state order, will in many ways determine their internal structure, and ultimately the structure of the entire defence and industrial complex of the Russian Federation.
The second thing I would like to pay attention to is deepening cooperation with European partners, including through joint projects on developing and producing weapons. A number of projects have already been realised here, there is good experience, and it needs to be developed. We have seen for ourselves numerous times that this cooperation can drastically increase the competitiveness of Russian defence enterprises, above all by reducing expenses, and in joint use of leading, truly breakthrough technology. During our discussion, I would like to hear your proposals for improving the mechanisms of this work.
Third, the diversification of deliveries and the expansion of the geography of deliveries remain important. Last year there was noticeable progress made by naval technology, but so far there have not been any fundamental changes in the nomenclature of export. The main component remains aerotechnics. This is not bad, it is even a good thing, because this equipment – is leading equipment, undoubtedly the best in the world, which makes it possible to further develop our military aircraft construction. But I repeat once more, we are all interested in the expansion of our nomenclature.
As I have already said, serious attention here needs to be given to finding new markets. Russian manufacturers need to be more active in making their capabilities known, including at major international weapons exhibitions. One of these exhibitions has just been held, and I hope today to hear information about the results of work at this exhibition.
Another issue on the agenda is the development of military and technical cooperation with the nations of the Collective Security Treaty Organisation and other member nations of the Commonwealth of Independent States. This area remains a priority for us, and the basic task today is to assist the strengthening of the system of collective security, which makes it possible to react effectively to modern threats, and reliably ensure the peaceful lives of our citizens. We should make more active use of the potential of Russian defence industry, and deepen manufacturing and scientific and technical cooperation within the CIS, and to do this we must improve the normative base, and liquidate the bureaucratic barriers that I have mentioned earlier.
Serious attention needs to be given to training national military personnel. This year, financing has been increased on training miltary from CIS countriesthrough enhancing their professional level in Russian institutes. I believe that this training in the framework of unified programmes is a factor that will seriously strengthen the defence potential of our countries. I would ask the Defence Ministry and the Finance Ministry to make sure that the interests and requirements of our partners are taken into account more efficiently and to a greater extent. I am absolutely sure that this fully meets the national interests of Russia in the long-term and middle-term perspective.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: February 18, 2005, 21:10
Text version