Events
Excerpts from Transcript of Meeting with the Government Cabinet
December 11, 2006
18:24
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin:
As you know, I had a meeting a few days ago with the leaders of the country’s main political parties, including parties that are not represented in the current parliament but that do have a presence on the national political stage. We discussed the fight against extremism. This is why I have decided to hold today’s meeting in a more enlarged format than usual. I want to tell you all about the results of last week’s meeting and outline some concrete steps to carry out the agreements that were reached as a result of our discussion last week.
First, I think it is essential to instruct the Public Health and Social Development Ministry, the Education and Science Ministry, the Regional Development Ministry and the Interior Ministry to draft a programme to support children who are without parental care. I already spoke about this need recently at a meeting at the Kremlin with law enforcement officials. I think we need to develop a special state programme in this area.
<…>
Some of our colleagues at last week’s meeting with the political party leaders spoke in favour of increasing liability for crimes motivated by ethnic intolerance and for crimes that we would consider extremist in nature. I ask the Government to reflect on these proposals and formulate its point of view. This concerns not only the Interior Ministry but also the Justice Ministry and the government experts.
There are increasingly frequent calls for us to make effective use of the possibilities we have for work through the Culture Ministry, art unions and the media. This does not mean we need to ban anything. We need to work more actively in the media to promote the necessary programmes and ideas, come up with new initiatives and take the according steps to ensure their coverage in the media.
There is also the question of working with the different ethnic and immigrant communities. This comes under the responsibility of several different agencies, above all, of course, the Interior Ministry’s Migration Service, but other agencies are also concerned by this work. Without the support of the other agencies the Interior Ministry alone is unlikely to be able to organise this work effectively. I ask the ministry to draft a separate programme on working with the different communities and coordinate it with their colleagues by involving them in the work and making it a joint effort.
<…>
This is just an outline of the main things that I discussed with the leaders of the country’s political parties. I hope that you will take an active position and that the proposals you come up with will address a broader range of problems and issues directly related to resolving the issue of combating extremism in our country.
 Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov on his upcoming visit to Latin America:
Sergei Lavrov: As you agreed with President Lula and President Kirchner, I will be visiting Brazil and Argentina this week. The visit’s main emphasis will be on looking at what still has to be done to implement in full the agreements you reached, including with respect to developing a legal base for our cooperation focusing in particular on creating conditions for building up our ties in the high-technology sector, especially in the space sector (with the Brazilians). Aside from my meetings with the leadership and the foreign ministers of these two countries, I will also have meetings with businesspeople at their request. We will tell them about what we are doing here and what possibilities we can offer. We have already worked with all of our colleagues to prepare all the documents. In Brazil, there will also be a separate meeting with the foreign Ministers of the MERCOSUR member countries. MERCOSUR is a promising regional integration organisation and we plan to sign an agreement with it on developing our political contacts and putting in place a special mechanism for this purpose. This is in keeping with our policy of developing solid partnership ties with regional groupings in different parts of the world, including in Latin America. I will report on the results when I return.
 On the introduction of contract-based service for Interior Ministry troops serving in Chechnya:
Vladimir Putin: Rashid Gumarovich (addressing Interior Minister Nurgaliyev), you promised me that there would not be a single Interior Ministry serviceman carrying out compulsory military service in Chechnya by the end of this year.
Rashid Nurgaliyev: As from December 1, all Interior Ministry troops in Chechnya are serving on a contract basis. I went personally to Chechnya yesterday and inspected the new units there, in particular two operations regiments stationed in Gudermes and Urus-Martan. I can inform you that over this year so far we have withdrawn more than 6,000 troops from Chechnya, who were stationed there on a temporary basis. Today we have a group of more than 22,000 Interior Ministry troops stationed there. Your instructions have been fulfilled and all the servicemen in Chechnya today are serving and performing military duties on a contract basis.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 11, 2006, 18:24
Text versionEvents
Opening Remarks at Meeting with Russian Federation Constitutional Court Judges
December 11, 2006
20:50
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin:
Dear colleagues,
We meet regularly in the run-up to Constitution Day. For 13 years now, our Constitution has provided our country with a solid legal foundation, a foundation for the life of the state, society and our citizens. We have all become more aware of how important it is that both the state and its citizens respect and abide strictly by the Constitution.
The Constitutional Court is the main guardian and interpreter of the Constitution. It was established 15 years ago and has always carried out its noble mission with honour. You ensure not only that the Constitution’s provisions are respected in full, but also that it maintains its supremacy in our legal system.
The Constitutional Court’s legal decisions open up more fully the substance of the Constitution’s provisions and the links between them, and this in turn ensures a unified understanding of the Constitution. I would like to thank you once again for your work in this area, in particular in ensuring a common and unified interpretation of the Constitution’s provisions. The Constitutional Court provides legislators, judges and all involved in implementing and enforcing the law with the necessary references and guidelines.
Protecting the rights and freedoms of Russia’s citizens is deservedly the Court’s main area of activity. Our country’s citizens make wide use of the possibility to appeal directly to the Court to settle the issues of greatest concern to them.
A huge number of complaints concern the protection of social rights. In this respect, I note the decision on legal acts imposing a ban on the privatisation of housing provided to citizens after March 1, 2005. The Court ruled that these legal acts do not conform to the Constitution. This ruling clearly has immense social importance for a huge number of people in our country.
We discussed a broad range of problems at our last meeting and you raised a large number of questions. As you know, work on these issues is now at various stages of being put into law. Some issues have already been settled. You raised the matter, for example, of reintroducing to our criminal law the confiscation of property for certain types of crimes. As you know, this issue has been settled and a decision has been made.
I am sure that we will continue today with a discussion of the problems you think most important now. This will be a wide-ranging discussion given that the Constitutional Court’s work is concerned directly or indirectly with every area of the state’s life.
<…>
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 11, 2006, 20:50
Text version