Events
Opening Remarks at the Russian-Venezuelan Talks in an Enlarged Format
July 27, 2006
17:44
The Kremlin, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: Dear Mr President!
Dear colleagues, dear friends!
Allow me to welcome you warmly to the Moscow Kremlin. Your visit, dear Mr President, to the Russian Federation acts as a good opportunity to analyze the way we are implementing the bilateral agreements on developing our relations.
During our private conversation Mr President and I noted that relations between the Russian Federation and Venezuela are developing in a positive way. Our volume of trade is growing. We are finding more and more new spheres for cooperation, including trade and technological cooperation.
Venezuela is one of the largest suppliers of energy resources on world markets. I am confident that my colleague and all of yourselves, dear ladies and gentlemen, will be interested to know about the results of our work during the G8 in St Petersburg, where world energy security represented one of the main themes. We consider that rapidly developing Venezuela, other countries in Latin America, and OPEC countries will react with understanding to the results achieved in St Petersburg in this sphere and to the implementation of these results.
We are satisfied with the positive dynamic of our political contacts. Our members of parliament, foreign affairs departments, and representatives of our judicial systems are in constant contact with one another.
Our practice of coordinating our positions within the United Nations has proved fruitful. And we welcome Venezuela’s aspirations to become a non-permanent member of the Security Council.
I am confident that your visit, dear Mr President, will act as a good, new powerful incentive towards the development of our mutual relations.
Hugo Chavez (translated from Spanish through Russian): Thank you Mr President .
Dear comrades!
Dear friend, Mr President!
As we said this morning and at noon, and as we declared to the media yesterday in Volgograd and yesterday evening here in Moscow, we are happy to be back here. I would like to once again state our sympathy, our friendship and our obligations. And we are happy about the fact that Venezuela and Russia are going down the same path, the path of development and economic growth. Under your firm, legitimate authority. We are watching the development of Russia, the Russian people and the national project that you embody but that you also supervise with happiness and excitement. And for our part we are also happy that today we can show off Venezuela’s significant achievements. You know, you all know, the roads we had to cross. And the so-called hurricanes that plagued us. We have left this all in the past. And we thank you for your constant and strong support – both your personal support and that of Russia. Today Venezuela is in a stable political situation and is seeing increasing economic and social development.
And as you know – but I would still like to emphasise the significance of this event – we just became a full member of Mercosur. As the President of Brazil Lula da Silva said not long ago in Cordoba, Venezuela became the fifth star in Mercosur. We are moving towards establishing unity in Latin America.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 27, 2006, 17:44
Direct link: en.kremlin.ru/d/23732
Text versionEvents
Press Statement Following Russian-Venezuelan Talks
July 27, 2006
21:00
Grand Kremlin Palace, Moscow
Hugo Chavez (translated from Spanish through Russian): Good afternoon everyone.
We are very happy with our meeting with the President. Our meeting with the President was very pleasant, very fruitful. We examined the future prospects for our cooperation in detail. And we also looked at how our bilateral relations are developing. We have various strategic directions that we would like to further develop.
I consider our cooperation in the energy sector to be of primary importance. We examined issues linked to developing cooperation between major Russian and Venezuelan companies. We were very glad to acknowledge that firms such as Lukoil and Gazprom are already working in Venezuela and will soon start to develop deposits located both in the sea and on land. I think that this is one of today’s best results and a very important step forward in developing our bilateral relations. Mr President, you know, and all of Russia must know, that oil reserves in Venezuela continue to grow. And as we continue prospecting and drilling our oil stocks are doubling. We can take the stocks around the Orinoco River as an example; there, our oil reserves are estimated at approximately 270 billion barrels. This will make Venezuela the OPEC country with the world’s largest oil reserves, since our reserves will even be greater than Saudi Arabia’s. And we are glad to reveal that Lukoil and all of its experience, technology and determination, will work in the region surrounding the Orinoco River.
We know that world energy security was the central theme of the G8 that was recently held in St Petersburg. And I think, please let me say, that you were right to raise this issue; opportunities to ensure energy security represent one of the most important issues for humanity. And considering what was said, the size of the oil deposits that we have, and the significance of our countries on the international arena, I think that Russia and Venezuela should play a very significant role in the world’s future development. And this is the reason that we are resolved to look for solutions to these problems together.
All of this also applies to the gas sphere. We are very pleased to note that Gazprom made the decision to work with us in southern Venezuela. Venezuela also owns one of the most important gas reserves in the American continent and in the world. Russia’s support in constructing this major gas pipeline that will run from Venezuela until the southern part of Latin America, to Rio de la Plata – about eight thousand kilometers – is very important for us. Around 20 billion USD of capital investments are needed for this project. The governments of Venezuela, Brazil and Argentina are working very actively towards implementing this project. We have a firm political will to see it implemented and have already established six working groups to ensure this project goes ahead. Not long ago the governments of Uruguay, Paraguay and Bolivia agreed to join this project. You know, Mr President, that all of this is being done within the framework of Mercosur.
We examined issues related to developing our relations in other areas. I am pleased to note that both Venezuela and Russia are developing their industries, economies, agriculture and social spheres. In turn, this has a great significance for the world as a whole.
We also considered the very interesting prospects for our military technological cooperation. I have already had the opportunity to thank President Putin and would like to do so in front of you for his firm support in this field. In the face of pressure and even an embargo that they wanted to impose on us, Russia lent us a helping hand. I have already said and I would like to repeat that 5 July, [Venezuela’s] Independence Day, everyone was gripped by a feeling of triumph when two Sukhoi airplanes appeared in Venezuela’s clear sky. When we give our soldiers Kalashnikovs, this will provide them with a special moral firmness. The Kalashnikovs are replacing guns from the 1940s for which we no longer have any spare parts.
In summary, we have attained very impressive achievements while we developed our relations, especially in this past year. And we are full of determination, Mr President, to continue to move forward in this direction.
I would also like to thank President Putin for supporting Venezuela’s candidature as a non-permanent Security Council member.
Once again I repeat that we examined all these issues and noted huge achievements in all these areas.
I am very grateful for the attention of Mr President and all of his team. Just a few hours before I leave Russia I would like to thank not only those who are present here but also those who supported us in Volgograd, in Udmurtiya. For the warm reception that was given to us. Today we unveiled a bust of Simon Bolivar in the Foreign Literature Library in Moscow. He is a symbol of our struggle. Miranda and Bolivar dreamed of a world in which there is equilibrium, justice and peace.
Thank you very much.
Vladimir Putin: First of all I would like to thank President Hugo Chavez for accepting our invitation and coming on a working visit to Russia. The Russian party is satisfied with the results of this working visit. Our discussions were very frank and quite productive.
Relations between Russia and Venezuela go back more than 150 years.
I am very glad to see that we are witnessing the development and expansion of our bilateral ties. And to a certain degree this is connected with the economic successes that President Hugo Chavez is achieving today in his country’s economy. Economic growth of more than eight percent a year is a figure that every country can envy.
I am very pleased to note that we have good relations in practically all areas in which we cooperate. We are actively cooperating in the international arena and believe that the world order should be firmly based on international law. We are in favour of a multipolar world. And certainly we shall support Venezuela in its legitimate aspirations to take a place as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council.
Certainly, the oil and gas sectors are the most promising and interesting branches in which we cooperate. And I am very pleased to note that our leading companies are making their first steps onto the Venezuelan market.
At the same time our interaction is not limited to the energy sector. The financial and investment sectors, engineering, the mining industry, the metallurgical industry, the chemical industry, transport and, of course, military and technological cooperation are all promising spheres.
Cooperation between Russia and Venezuela is not directed against any third country. Our cooperation is based on developing the economies of both our states and raising the living standards of our population.
Russia will be a reliable partner for Venezuela just the same as it will be for any other of our partners on the international scene.
Today we set out concrete steps for developing our cooperation, including with respect to strengthening the legal basis for our cooperation. I was pleased to note that Russian companies are increasingly interested in working with their Venezuelan partners. The possibilities offered by private investments by Russian companies can be measured in hundreds of millions and billions of dollars. The efforts of private Russian investors will certainly be supported by the Government of the Russian Federation.
I was very pleased to see today that Mr President, the same as the Russian side, is paying serious attention to developing ties in the spheres of culture and education. Our relations are taking on not only a profound but a multifaceted character. We will do everything to implement all the plans that we have laid out today.
I wish to thank Mr President and all the members of his delegation for their constructive work today and I hope for your support in implementing the plans we have laid out.
Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 27, 2006, 21:00
Text versionEvents
Beginning of the Meeting with the President of Venezuela, Hugo Chavez
July 27, 2006
17:42
The Kremlin, Moscow
President of Venezuela Hugo Chavez (translated from Spanish through Russian): How are you?
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Very well.
Mr President, I am very glad to see you in Moscow. You have a very big trip ahead of you – both in our country and elsewhere.
I know that you are already embarked on a pre-election campaign. Judging from what we saw in municipal and parliamentary elections, there are excellent chances for you to win the elections. We wish you success.
I am pleased to note that relations between our countries are developing in a positive way. In absolute terms numbers are still small but, nevertheless, our volume of trade is growing and growing at impressive rates. Our trade is growing at more than 50 percent.
Venezuela is a natural partner for us. Venezuela is the country on the American continent with the largest oil reserves and has the eighth largest gas reserves in the world. This represents enormous potential opportunities. And I am very glad that our companies are involved in searching for joint initiatives in the energy sector. And our companies are not only looking the energy sector but also engineering, outer space and the metallurgical industry. Mr President, I hope, or rather I am confident that your visit will certainly act as an incentive to develop multilateral ties between Venezuela and the Russian Federation.
I hope that you enjoyed visiting various Russian regions. I am expecting to hear your impressions and stories from the trip.
Welcome Mr President!
President of Venezuela Hugo Chavez: Thank you Mr President!
Dear friend, I am very glad to be here for what is already the fourth time. As I just recently said in the all-Russia Library [Margarita Rudomino Foreign Literature Library] – and the director of the library asked me to transfer her best wishes to you – as I said in front of ambassadors and the others present: ‘each trip to Russia is different from the previous one’. As Heraclitus said: ‘you cannot step in the same river twice’. During this trip we were able to understand even more deeply the soul of the Russian people because the first stop in our visit to Russia was Volgograd. The Governor also asked me to transmit greetings to you.
As you know, we visited Belarus. President Lukashenko also asked me to send along his best wishes. I met him for the first time. We developed good relations and a nice friendship.
Yesterday we were in Udmurtiya in a factory that produces automatic Kalashnikovs. We visited a museum there. I saw your picture taken with General Kalashnikov. In fact, you recently visited the region. The President of Udmurtiya also asked me to pass on regards to you. Now he is preparing to open the [VI all-Russia] rural summer games in Izhevsk. Perhaps you will play football there?
Vladimir Putin: I’ll think about it. It’s a good idea.
Hugo Chavez: As I already said, I understood the soul of the Russian people even more deeply.
We visited a major factor that produces oil refining equipment. Workers, managers and technicians in the factory all told us about reestablishing production after the awful situation at the beginning of the 1990s. We learned about an enormous potential that we had not even imagined. For example, we got to know new technologies used to produce drilling equipment and special pumps operated by electric propulsion. And after that we had time to visit a factory that produces dairy products where we tasted locally-produced cheese and yogurt. We were also on a firing range.
My present visit has a much deeper significance. I am fully determined to continue strengthening relations with Russia. And you well know that this stems from my soul, my heart and the vision of the world that I think we both share. We also constantly follow what you are doing in Russia, the proposals you make on the international arena, and your successes. Your successes are Russia’s successes. And despite the distance that separates us we share all of these successes with you. Russia’s steady, firm position, protecting the sovereignty of its people, protecting diplomacy from war – ensuring that wars do not start, protecting peace, a position designed to strengthen a multipolar world, development and integration are all positions we will always share with you. Allow me to tell you in the sincerest possible way that I recognize and highly value all of your achievements. I am confident that you will continue to work indefatigably in this area.
Just now in the [Foreign Literature] Library we recalled Simon Bolivar. We uncovered a bust in his honour. I remembered an oath that Bolivar made in 1805 when he said: ‘I will not fail, and neither my heart nor my hand will fail’. In our struggle we also should not allow either our minds or our hands to get tired. Venezuela will be always with you in this.
As you said, we are ready to expand and strengthen bilateral relations. And in this sense we can continue our efforts towards establishing a multipolar world. I am very grateful for your personal solidarity and Russia’s solidarity.
We are very happy with how joint projects are developing. You probably know that the company Lukoil is working with us on several such projects. Thanks to the Governor’s efforts we met in Volgograd. I think that before the end of the year we will begin drilling oil deposits that have already been opened. And we are almost ready to start drilling on a site in the Orinoco river basin.
As you rightly said, Venezuela posses one of the largest stocks of oil in the world. Prospecting is now underway around the Orinoco river to determine the stocks of hydrocarbons. Approximately 270 billion barrels of oils are estimated to be contained in these stocks. We made the first drilling two months ago together with the Brazilian company Petrobras and it confirmed that there is oil very close to the surface. The results of our drilling were surprising: there was three times more oil than what we had expected. For that reason it seems to us that the volumes of these stocks will amount to much more than the initial estimation of 270 billion barrels.
Vladimir Putin: As far as I know, our company has also won the right to develop a gas deposit in the gulf of Venezuela.
Hugo Chavez: Thank you for reminding me of this because it represents yet one more hand that Russia is holding out to us and in a strategic place, in the gulf. You rightly pointed out that we have the eighth largest gas reserves in the world. But after developing the deposits the volumes of gas certainly seem greater than the initial estimations. We are now implementing a project for a major gas pipeline towards the south and hope that Russia will help us carry out this project.
You know, it has been seven years since I began campaigning for integration in Latin America. And you know how Latin America has changed. I came to visit you as a full member of Mercosur. From a geopolitical point of view this is a very important step. Five years ago not one government wanted Venezuela to become a member of Mercosur and now Lula [da Silva, President of Brazil] and Kirshner [President of Argentina] are our great colleagues.
Vladimir Putin: Mr President, how did you like the demonstration of our aviation technology?
Hugo Chavez: You know, Su planes flew. We were gripped right away. In fact, it was marvelous. I almost gave into the temptation to sit in a plane myself and to fly. And in addition to this I would like to thank you, Mr President, for having liberated us from, shall we say, a blockade. Because there was a moment when our F-16 planes couldn’t fly because of the absence of spare parts. They took away all the radars and we were practically disarmed. And now we have Kalshnikovs.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 27, 2006, 17:42
Text version