Events
Meeting with the Champions and Medallists of the XX Winter Olympics in Turin
March 6, 2006
20:48
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, dear friends,
I am happy to see you here in the Kremlin and to have this opportunity to congratulate you personally on your achievements at the XX Winter Olympics.
People were giving various assessments of the Russian team’s chances before the Olympics got underway, but right from the start it was clear that our team was well prepared and had its sights set on the highest possible results.
Through fair and honest competition you have won 22 Olympic medals, including 8 gold medals. You have practically doubled Russia’s medal count compared to the last Winter Olympics in 2002. This success has reaffirmed Russia’s status as a sporting power. Furthermore, Russia’s athletes have performed strongly not only in the events traditional for our country, but are also proving themselves ever-stronger in new disciplines and are achieving good results.
I particularly want to note the outstanding performance by our figure skaters. Our country has always been known for its figure skating school. But winning three Olympic gold medals of the four possible and taking medals in all categories is genuinely a sensational result and a very happy sensation for us all indeed.
In other Olympic events too our athletes have made a real breakthrough. For the first time Russia has won a medal in the freestyle event. After a brief interlude, our athletes have also won silver medals in the sledding and bob sleigh events. Russia is again affirming its positions in speed skating.
I address my warmest words of thanks to the trainers and to everyone who helped our Olympic athletes achieve victory. We all know that quality training and competently selected tactics are half the recipe for success. The high medal count and the emergence of young talent in our team are both the great service of the trainers.
Top-level sport always involves dozens, hundreds, of nuances. Of course, there is always a bit of luck in any sporting victory, sometimes quite a noticeable bit of luck, and sometimes luck is not on the side of even famous athletes and smiles instead on newcomers.
I would also like to take this opportunity today to thank the athletes prevented by injury or by other circumstances from demonstrating the full measure of their talent. They remain nonetheless recognised and beloved heroes for their millions of supporters in Russia. I note that many of our athletes were really just a step away from an Olympic medal and this shows very convincingly that we have good Olympic potential to draw on.
The state is actively supporting sports today. We will continue to increase financial support for physical education and for children’s and young people’s sport. Our country has always set an example in this area and we will strive not only to reach the level of our past achievements but to go yet further, with the help of the state, the help of the public and the help of the business community, which has been working quite actively in this direction of late.
Dear friends,
Your lives and your sporting achievements are an example for millions of people in our country and I wish to congratulate you once again on your excellent Olympic results.
I thank all of Russia’s Olympic athletes for their skill, strength of will and determination to win, and for the feelings of joy and pride that they have given millions of our fellow citizens.
As I said, the public and the state will continue to give attention to sports and to the Olympic movement. This also goes for the business community. I would like to inform you that business representatives, as you know, helped in the preparations for these Olympic Games and now that the games are over and the results are known, they have asked me to tell you that they are ready, voluntarily, to offer their own reward to the Olympic winners. Considering that you practice winter sports and have to travel to your training sessions, we have decided – although our Japanese friends and colleagues have not yet begun producing their cars in St Petersburg yet – but we have decided together with the business community representatives that all men who won medals at the XX Winter Olympics will receive a Toyota Landcruiser, and all the women medallists will receive a Lexus. All the trainers will receive a premium in roubles equivalent to $25,000.
I congratulate all of you from the bottom of my heart and I address my special congratulations to the women among you, as we are about to celebrate International Women’s Day on March 8. I wish you all the very best.
Thank you for your attention.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: March 6, 2006, 20:48
Text versionEvents
Extracts from Transcript of Meeting with the Government Cabinet
March 6, 2006
19:20
The Kremlin, Moscow
On the creation of a united aircraft manufacturing corporation
President Vladimir Putin: (Addressing Industry and Energy Minister Viktor Khristenko). Viktor Borisovich, what is the situation with work to create a unified aircraft manufacturing corporation?
Viktor Khristenko: The issue of the decree has brought a lot of clarity to the situation in the Russian aircraft manufacturing industry and has enabled us to activate all aspects of our work in this area.
We now have a coordinated general action plan for the corporation’s formation and development that has received your approval. This plan will take us through to the period 2006–2007 and sets out the different phases of the corporation’s development.
As the situation stands today, following the issue of the decree, all the ministers have approved a development strategy for the aircraft manufacturing industry through to 2015, and this strategy has been submitted to the government. In accordance with this revised strategy we have clarified the federal targeted programmes for the development of civil aviation and of the country’s national technological base. We have also prepared a package of normative documents at government level on the decree’s implementation as well as draft amendments to Russian Federation legislation concerning the aircraft manufacturing industry. Although the organisational changes to be made over the coming years are on a large scale indeed, special work and supervision timetables have been drawn up for all the priority projects, including the creation of the Russian regional plane and the fifth generation fighter plane. These projects are not just pegged clearly to the organisational work of all the participants involved but are supported by the state through a three-year financial plan that provides for the necessary investment.
Overall, under the plans for the aircraft manufacturing industry and the united corporation, investment from all sources in the corporation should be around $20 billion by 2015. We expect that over this ten-year period, the corporation will increase business in this sector from the $2 billion-$2.5 billion it brings in today to $7 billion-$8 billion in 2015. The goal is to enter international markets – to establish our place on the global market in new areas and in our traditional areas of work. We expect to see a 7-fold increase in the civil aviation aircraft manufacturing sector. We are aiming for a target of 15–20 percent of the market in our segments in the civil aviation and transport aircraft manufacturing sector. Overall, the package of documents that has been prepared give us reason to believe that the crisis period the aircraft manufacturing industry has gone through can be overcome. We know how to do this and we have the organisational and financial resources we need to be able to do this.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: Regarding the activities of certain segments of the future corporation, certain companies that remain independent today until the corporation’s establishment is completed, Sergei Borisovich [Defence Minister Ivanov] and I were discussing the day before yesterday how some of our colleagues are worried that companies could lose their licence to carry out foreign economic activity and could find themselves without the instruments they need for fulfilling their current obligations while the corporation is still in the process of formation? Is this the case?
Viktor Khristenko: We have addressed this aspect of the question. In this case, there is no risk at present until the ownership of the shares in these companies is transferred. But the risk exists at the time ownership of the shares is transferred. We have therefore acted in accordance with one of the provisions of the decree and have drafted an amendment to the law that will remove this risk completely.
Vladimir Putin: This is something that needs to be addressed in advance. This question was raised, and justifiably so, at the Security Council meeting yesterday. All these questions need to be settled in advance.
Sergei Ivanov: We have to ensure that the changes taking place do not put old licences and old contracts at risk of being reviewed with the danger that they might not be able to be fulfilled.
Vladimir Putin: The G8 energy ministers are due to hold a meeting in Moscow. When is this to take place?
Viktor Khristenko: This entire week will be devoted to energy matters. The international conference on global energy security begins work on Monday. It is being attended by representatives of many different countries and companies, around 400 participants in all, and will be the run-up event to the G8 energy ministers’ meeting that will begin on Wednesday evening and continue on Thursday. As well as the G8 energy ministers, the energy ministers of China, India, Brazil, Mexico and South Africa will also take part in the meeting, as well the directors of the International Energy Agency, the International Energy Forum, the World Bank and the IAEA – in other words, all the key international organisations and key countries that to a great extent today define the outlook, risks and opportunities involved in developing solutions to global energy security issues.
Economic Development and Trade Minister German Gref on preparations for the St Petersburg Economic Forum
Your instruction on the organisation of this year’s St Petersburg Economic Forum has been issued and we will, as usual, work together with the Federation Council to organise the forum. This year, however, given that the G8 summit is taking place in Russia, we have already prepared the agenda, trying to make it as interesting as possible for the participants and also anticipating the discussions that will take place within the G8, and this means that the Petersburg Economic Forum will be completely different in format this year.
We travelled to St Petersburg and inspected the new pavilion that has been built there. Three exhibitions are to be organised this year: an exhibition of high-technology goods produced by Russia and the other participant countries, an energy exhibition and our own Russian forum. We want to get a new tradition started this year and organise an exhibition of investment projects for direct investors. A major exhibition of this kind currently takes place in Cannes every March and we want to create something similar for the Russian Federation in June. We want this to become an annual tradition that will be part of the St Petersburg Economic Forum.
We are currently engaged in talks with the Mariinsky Theatre in order to combine the forum and the White Nights Festival. This would be the thing that sets our forum apart: just as Davos has skiing, Russia has culture, great culture, and this could be a big added draw for investors and forum participants to visit St Petersburg at this time and take part in the forum.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: March 6, 2006, 19:20
Text version