Events
Speech at the St Petersburg Dialogue Social Forum
October 10, 2006
21:38
Munich
President Vladimir Putin: Dear Madame Federal Chancellor! Dear Mr de Maziere! Dear Mikhail Sergeevich! Ladies and gentlemen!
First of all I would like to point out that our meeting is taking place in Dresden, in the year that marks the city’s 800 th anniversary. And today, when unveiling the monument to Dostoevskii, I was once again convinced of how much the authorities of Saxony and Dresden care about developing Russian-German ties. I want to congratulate all of Dresden’s inhabitants on this anniversary, a date that is significant for all of Germany and all of Europe, and to wish the inhabitants of Dresden all the best. Dresden really does concentrate a great deal of European culture – this has always been the case and I am convinced that it will continue to be so for a number of years to come.
The St Petersburg Dialogue holds a special place among the numerous institutions that help compose Russian-German relations. Things are proceeding freely and openly – Mikhail Sergeevich Gorbachev talked about this and what he said was very pleasant to hear – an open dialogue on almost all the issues that concern our society, the societies of both our countries, is proceeding. And the more vigorous the discussion is, the more value our Forum will have, and the better it will help clear up what remains unclear and promote trust and mutual interest between our countries.
Today we have already talked about Russian investments. I was very pleased to hear how Mr Manngeld said that Russian investments in Europe, and in Germany in particular, will be welcomed. We do not see such an attitude everywhere. I am convinced that it is only a matter of time. We only need to expand our dialogue, contacts and get used to the idea that if we are all confident that the free movement of people, capital and goods is a priority of economic development, then we must not be afraid of this capital moving to where it can be put to work in the best and most favourable conditions. And we should only be happy that capital is moving to a given sector. In fact this helps develop the economy of the country receiving that capital. But the level of partnership that we have reached with our German colleagues bears witness to the fact that this misunderstanding has long been a thing of the past. And of course those five billion that Mr Manngeld talked about is only the beginning. It is just – I am not sure whether I should put it this way – but it’s a ridiculous sum for Russian-German relations.
I recently met with Ms Federal Chancellor in Paris during a tripartite meeting. Incidentally, this is a very good format because where else could we discuss issues such as relations between the European Aeronautic Defense and Space Company and Russian producers of aviation technology? In Paris we discussed this with our French partners. We are referring to investments amounting to ten billion dollars. We at once signed documents about possible investments in Russia amounting to ten billion dollars. And with Germany we are talking about five billion dollars – isn’t it funny? This absolutely does not correspond to our possibilities. Especially since Germany is our major trade and economic partner. This year we are going to once again attain the record sum of 40 billion dollars of trade. In the first quarter we had almost 20 billion and the total sum will amount to no less than 40 billion dollars.
Almost 50 percent or a little more of Russia’s trade goes to Europe and 10 percent goes to Germany. As a point of comparison I can say that 4,4 percent of our trade takes place with the USA. And of course we incur great obligations from this amount of cooperation. Undoubtedly the St Petersburg Dialogue well help us resolve all of these problems.
I believe that the crucial issue in your discussion today, ‘The European Responsibility of Russia and Germany’, is really a topical and extremely important theme. After all, our countries are the largest ones on the European continent. And without any undue exaggeration, Europe’s present and future depend on Russian-German relations.
In full awareness of our responsibility, we aspire to use all opportunities to ensure strong and effective cooperation. In the last few years a large number of positive changes took place in our bilateral contacts. And I am not only referring to our intensive and quite fruitful high-level contacts – Ms Federal Chancellor and I have met five times this year. I am referring to the fast developing joint economic, scientific and cultural projects in which the regions and institutions of civil society are participating actively and, of course, to our prospects which are increasing along with our cooperation.
The development of our bilateral relations has a huge potential to allow both countries to realise their national interests and also to constructively influence global peace processes. I shall emphasise that our countries’ positions with respect to the majority of foreign policy issues either coincide or are very close. This is the case in terms of the UN’s international role and with regards to the most difficult problems on today’s international agenda – Iran, Iraq and the Middle East. And of course we are very worried by what just happened in the Democratic Republic of North Korea. We share general approaches that consist in creating a stable system of European security, including energy security.
I think that in this respect the mechanism established by the St Petersburg Mining Institute and the Freiburg Mining Academy, a permanent Russian-German forum on the use of natural resources, is very much in demand.
It is obvious that both our strategic goals in the field of energy security and tangible, practical work have a positive influence on harmonizing relations between Russia and the European Union as a whole. And we consider that during the time that Germany will head the European Union we will make significant steps towards developing relations between Russia and a united Europe.
I am confident that Russia and Germany can act as leaders in developing an effective policy to combat international terrorism. And for that reason it is impossible to concede that the struggle against this evil has aggravated religious and ethnic conflicts. It is necessary to look for ways to cooperate between all religions and to strengthen mutual respect between peoples.
The World Summit of Religious Leaders that was carried out successfully in July 2006 in Moscow is an example of the fact that such a dialogue is not only possible, it is also very much in demand.
And I believe that the institutions of civil society have a key peace-making role. It is well-known that your forum has already done a great deal in this field and has proven its ability to objectively and profoundly analyse difficult problems related to the struggle against terrorism. And of course the freedom of the press and the media in general plays a major role here. A reprehensible attitude towards members of the media, towards people that are called on to disseminate information to the world and to various countries, cannot but trigger a deeply negative reaction. We know that, unfortunately, the attacks and murders of journalists are unfortunately not isolated events. Just recently while we prepared for the G8 summit in Moscow we met with representatives from the international community of journalists. We mentioned facts about how, in many countries of the world and, of course, first and foremost, in hot spots such as Iraq, the Middle East, and now in Afghanistan, journalists are sometimes killed. Regrettably, it also happens in our country, very regrettably. A short while ago an American journalist of Russian origin, Paul Khlebnikov, a journalist who also worked on Chechnya was killed. After he published his book ‘Conversation with a Barbarian’ where he presented the protagonists in an unfavourable light – or so it seemed to them – and he talked about the activities of people that we refer to in Russia as terrorists and extremists, he was killed. With regards to the murder of the journalist Anna Politkovskaia, then I have already said and I can say once again that this is a disgusting crime. To kill not only a journalist but also a woman and a mother. And the experts know well – Ms Chaplin is sitting here and I think that she will confirm this as well – that perhaps because Ms Politkovskaia held very radical views she did not have a serious influence on the political mood in our country. But she was very well-known in journalistic circles and in human rights circles. And in my opinion murdering such a person certainly does much greater damage from the authorities’ point of view, authorities that she strongly criticized, than her publications ever did. Moreover, we have reliable, consistent information that many people who are hiding from Russian justice have been harbouring the idea that they will use somebody as a victim to create a wave of anti-Russian sentiment in the world. I do not know who has carried out this crime. But whoever they were and whatever their motives, they are criminals. They must be found, brought to justice and punished. The Russian authorities will do everything they can to ensure that this takes place.
Ms Merkel and I both perfectly understand that the most important political decisions must benefit from the support of civil society. For that reason we highly value the activities of the St Petersburg Dialogue, activities that not only put forward new ideas but also make a powerful contribution to developing the strategic partnership between our countries.
As you know, some time ago in both Russia and European countries, we very actively discussed the fate of non-governmental organisations in Russia and whether the law that was recently adopted in Russia that regulates NGO activities would damage their activities in the Russian Federation. And now I can inform you that we have received 400 applications for registration from NGOs and only two registrations have been refused for what were, sorry to have mention it, purely technical reasons. I am confident that if these technical problems are resolved than these organisations will also be registered. In any case, I shared many people’s opinion that it is the implementation of the law which is very important. And the fate of NGOs in Russia is going to depend on how it will take place. And today it is possible to ascertain that, in practice, our legal practices perfectly correspond to international democratic standards.
I would like to say a few words about the value of science and education and emphasise that bilateral cooperation in this sphere is developing both dynamically and successfully. People in Russia and in Germany understand perfectly that in today’s world the knowledge economy occupies the foremost, priority position. And for our part we are certainly going to support the Forum’s efforts in this direction. And I must say that it is thanks to the Forum’s work that today we are implementing the idea of creating a Russian-German Koch and Mechnikov institute. This is a centre for exchanging research in topical fields such as bacteriology. And we consider that this institute is making a solid contribution to the struggle against infectious diseases.
And one more theme that I want to touch on is that of youth cooperation. My colleague already spoke about this and this theme always has been and remains at the centre of attention of the Russian-German dialogue. Youth are speaking each others’ language more and more easily. It is frequently young people who do this rather than those farther on in life and weathered by politics. Ms Merkel and I were once again convinced by our meeting with the participants of the Junior G8 in St Petersburg by just how mobile and how flexible young people are when they examine certain problems, even very difficult ones. Today we gave orders to the appropriate departments in our countries, to our national coordination bureaus, to create the conditions that would help youth exchanges develop as quickly and as favourably as possible.
In conclusion I would like to say that I consider that awarding the Forum a prestigious European prize for its political achievements is a well-deserved reward that shows just how effectively the Forum’s activities are developing. And awarding the prize of the Russian Orthodox Church and the Evangelical Church of Germany is also significant.
I thank you for your fruitful initiatives, for your tangible and practical work towards developing relations between the peoples of Russia and Germany in the 21 st century.
Mr Gorbachev was the president of the USSR and, as is well-known, there were special relations between the GDR and the USSR. For that reason one could probably say that he is somewhat linked to the fact that a whole range of quality politicians of east German origin have appeared in today’s Germany. Unfortunately or fortunately, today’s Russia has no part in this. And I am very glad that we are constructing our relations and our dialogue on an absolutely equal basis.
Thank you for attention.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 10, 2006, 21:38
Text versionEvents
Interview with the German Newspaper Suddeutsche Zeitung
October 10, 2006
15:19
Question (translated from Russian): Mr President, let us begin with what may seem to be a banal topic.
In Germany people are very worried because Gazprom is going to help finance a very famous German football club, Schalke 04, and invest 125 million euros in the club over five years. And Abramovich bought a player for England who was one of the main figures in the German national football team. And now we are asking ourselves the question: ‘Should we Germans be afraid of Russians buying up everything?’
Vladimir Putin: I think that this should only make you happy. Regarding Schalke 04 and Gazprom, as far as I am aware the issue at hand is not purchasing the club. Gazprom has no such plans. Rather, Gazprom wants to intensify relations between the Russian football club from St Petersburg, Zenit, and Shalke 04 – Gazprom also sponsors Zenit. The issue consists in establishing a partnership between two football clubs. And as far as I know, German partners have shown an interest in the fact that Gazprom is helping finance Schalke 04.
Remark: Former Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder acted as an intermediary here. And I understand that he was quite successful.
Vladimir Putin: The issue consists in the fact that even today he has links to some of Gazprom’s projects, some major cooperation projects in the energy sector between Germany and Russia. I am referring to the well-known project of the North European Gas Pipeline.
So he is not only helping ensure that Germany will have a good supply of energy resources, he is also helping cooperation in the spheres of culture and education, and in this case in sports. In addition, as far as I know, the traditional fans of Schalke 04 are miners. And this link to the energy sector means that Gazprom has a natural interest here.
I will repeat once again. The issue at hand is not that of purchasing the club. We are discussing cooperation between two football clubs supported by Gazprom and about advertising during this collective endeavor. Gazprom will receive advertising from these two clubs.
Question: Of course we have prepared a number of questions that relate to energy. But please allow us to now broach another, very serious issue. The fact that the famous journalist Anna Politkovskaia has been shot is in the headlines of all the newspapers.
Can you please tell us how you are affected by the death of this journalist who criticized you very harshly?
Vladimir Putin: First of all I would like to say that a murder is a very serious crime both with respect to society and with respect to God. The criminals must be found out and correspondingly punished.
Unfortunately, this is not the only such crime in Russia. And we will do everything we can to bring the criminals to justice.
And now, with respect to the political aspect of this affair. The investigation is looking at all possible variants. And of course, one of them, one of the most probable, is related to her work as a journalist. She really was a critic of the present authorities – something that is common to all media representatives – but she often adopted radical positions. And recently she mainly concentrated her attention on criticizing the authorities in the Chechen Republic.
I must say – and I think that experts would agree with me – that her political influence inside of Russia was negligible and that she was probably better known among human rights organisations and in the western media. In connection with this I think that one of our newspapers was correct when it stated today that Anna Politkovskaia’s murder has caused much more damage to the current authorities in general, and to the Chechen authorities in particular, than her reporting did.
In any case, I repeat that what has happened is absolutely inadmissible. This horrendous crime is damaging for Russia and must be solved. It causes both moral and political damage and is damaging for the political system that we are building, a system which must have places for all people, independently of their points of view. On the contrary, we must ensure that people receive the possibility to expose their points of view, including in the media.
You know that several years ago an American journalist of Russian origin, Paul Khlebnikov, was killed in Russia. He also dealt with problems in the Chechen Republic and wrote a book entitled ‘Conversation with a Barbarian’. According to the investigation, the protagonists of this book were not happy with how Khlebnikov portrayed them and they destroyed him.
Question: Please allow me to ask you another two questions. Just today I read the newspapers and various questions are being asked, including by your critics. One of the questions reads as follows: is it possible that the person you support in Chechnya, Ramzan Kadyrov, could be behind this murder? Do you think that this is at all possible?
Vladimir Putin: No, that is impossible. And I shall tell you why. Because Anna Politkovskaia’s reporting did not damage his political activity nor hinder the development of his political career. I am not going to say right now whether this is good or bad nor am I going to evaluate her point of view. I repeat that in my opinion she was too radical. But first of all, she had the right to her opinions and, second of all, by virtue of this radicalism she did not have a very strong influence on political life within the country, and especially in Chechnya.
Ramzan Kadyrov belongs to those people who, at the time, fought against the federal forces in Chechnya and we should not forget this. Today we are involving all people, independently of their past activities and political convictions, in the power bodies, in the law enforcement agencies in Chechnya. And to illustrate this point I can use the example of a member of a recently elected Chechen parliament who was the former Defense Minister in Maskhadov’s government. Therefore the composition of various political forces, of parliament and administrative structures remains uneasy but, in my opinion, they would have no motive to organise this murder.
Disagreement or a certain discontent with her activities is possible. But I could not imagine that one of the authorities could go so far as to organise such a horrible crime.
Question: Vladimir Vladimirovich, one more question related to the freedom of the media. Is this freedom only connected with Anna Politkovskaia’s murder? For example, is it not also linked to the fact that there is not a lot of criticism of the President on Russian TV? And the organisation Reports Without Borders has ranked Russia at 140 th – one of the last in the world.
Do you consider that Russia has problems linked to this issue?
Vladimir Putin: I consider that Russia’s political system is in an intermediate stage of development. Our media as a whole is developing. And there are several thousand broadcasting corporations that are registered and operate in Russia. And I want to emphasise this number. Even if the authorities from various levels would want to control such a large system it would be impossible. And with regards to written press and periodicals, than they number more than 58,000. And broadcasting companies number 5,500 and foreigners participate in more than half of them.
But I can also say something precise on this account, namely that when we try to enter the information markets of other countries, including in western Europe and in North America, then we are consistently prevented from doing so. Various bureaucratic pretexts cause delays that last for years. We have concrete examples of this. They find thousands of reasons to prevent our media from working in your information markets. And many of yours work in Russia even without licenses.
Question: Allow me to ask one more question before we move on to other issues. When you will go to Germany journalists will certainly ask you various questions that you are very familiar with – about press freedom, human rights and democracy. Already now in Germany newspapers are constantly demanding that Ms Merkel herself put these questions to you. Can you please tell us whether you are not tired answering all of this?
Vladimir Putin: No, I am used to this. Moreover, I consider that we do not explain the true state of affairs in these fields in Russia enough.
For example, many said, argued and even accused Russia of concentrating political power in Moscow. Various sources did so. And in Germany they have now adopted a law on redistributing powers between the Landers and the federal centre. And significant changes were also made to the powers of the upper chamber of parliament, the Bundesrat. Many rights were withdrawn from the Landers and given to Berlin. And what did they give the Landers in return? The right to determine the opening and closing hours of shops, and isn’t that great! And in Russia it is the municipal authorities that have this right. But of course we are not saying that we have seen some kind of antidemocratic process in Germany or that power has been excessively concentrated in Berlin.
Remark: I think that now Ms. Merkel is already noticing that federalism in Germany, in particular with respect to her plans concerning healthcare reform, goes against positions of the leaders of a number of Landers governments.
Vladimir Putin: You know, I also wanted to add that it is very hard to understand and get the feel of just what is expedient and what is superfluous for a given country. But at the same time I want to tell you clearly that we have no desire whatsoever to go back to the Soviet system with complete centralization and totalitarianism. We are simply looking for an internal mechanism that would ensure our citizens’ freedom, would guarantee their rights to govern and resolve certain problems and, at the same time, allow the government to function more effectively and to better serve our citizens.
Let us look at the map of Russia. It is a huge territory, the largest in the world, and the home of hundreds of ethnic groups. Many republics and regions of the Russian Federation have special rights. This is a very complex state formation. And there exist no perfect solutions, no matter how good they might sound or seem, that can be automatically implemented in this country. But we are going to do everything to observe the principles of the modern civilised world, the principles of democracy and ensure that we protect the rights and freedoms of our citizens.
Question: Vladimir Vladimirovich, I believe that in Dresden you will meet with Ms Merkel for the fifth time. You worked in Dresden in the Soviet intelligence services. Ms Merkel herself comes from the German Democratic Republic. Do you consider that all of this complicates your relationship with the present government as opposed to what it was with Mr Schroeder’s government?
And another question. Cooperation between the leaders of our countries has developed over twenty years. First it was between Gorbachev and Kohl and then between Yeltsin and Kohl. Then there was the friendship between Chancellor Schroeder and yourself.
However, today these ties are not as close as they once were. For example, the Interior Minister in the present government, Mr Schaeuble, says that Russian and German relations have no special value. Is it not painful for you to hear such things, such words about a strategic partnership, and not about friendship as it was before?
Vladimir Putin: No. And to be honest I didn’t really understand the thrust of your question. I love Germany and don’t hide this. I speak German worse and worse. But I love German language and I love German culture. I consider that it is a huge part of world civilization. Russia has always had close ties with Germany. I am deeply convinced that Ekaterina II was one of the most successful tsarinas of Russia. And she was of German origin – she was German.
And as to the change of government in Germany than, thank God, this has not affected relations between the two states. And Ms Merkel is very attentive to developing interstate relations, acts very carefully and is very interested in them; she pays a great deal of attention to this. She speaks Russian.
Remark: Well?
Vladimir Putin: Yes, well. To tell you the truth, I was quite surprised. Of course one’s vocabulary diminishes if you do not speak every day, the same way one must practice a musical instrument. But if she is in a Russian-speaking environment than she will start speaking again quickly.
But this is not quite the issue here. I think that the basic political forces in Russia and in Germany – in any case this is how I understand it –understand the meaning of Russian-German relations for the people of our countries. And not only for our peoples but for all of Europe, for the whole world. More than 50 percent of our volume of trade takes place with Europe and 10 percent of this trade is destined for Germany.
I think that the signal that you are talking about is not as much directed at Russia as it is directed across the ocean. I know the German Interior Minister, I think that he can have his point of view, and I respect that point of view. But I shall repeat once again that both the Russian political class and the German political class are perfectly aware of the value of Russian-German relations.
And therefore of course it is natural that personal relations play a significant role here. But I want to tell you that, to put it mildly, Mr Schroeder and Mr Kohl did not always have the very best relations. I have very good, friendly relations with Mr Schroeder. But I regularly met with Mr Kohl in Moscow, both at my house and here in the Kremlin, throughout all these years and I continue to do so today. This is a great honour for me. I consider that he is one of the world’s major politicians today.
And in spite of the fact that Gerhard Schroeder is no longer in power I continue to have friendly relations with him and intend to continue to do so in the future. But this does not hinder the development of my personal relations with Ms Merkel. Private relations, good private relations, always help our work and we now have very good friendly relations. And the fact that she used to live in the German Democratic Republic does not hinder our relations. On the contrary, I think that it helps them since people’s mentalities in eastern Europe often are very similar.
The present government wishes to somehow strengthen transatlantic relations. And would we prevent this? We have no say in this at all. Problems had arisen concerning Iraq, with respect to Iraq, but this was Germany’s position, Schroeder’s government’s position. And we never influenced this position, we had no relation whatsoever to this. On the contrary, when being honest I must say that it was other partners that tried to influence our position.
For that reason Germany’s relations with other partners, including with respect to transatlantic solidarity, have no relation whatsoever to us. We did not influence them, we do not influence them, and we are not preparing to start doing so. And those reasons relations cannot be a factor in Russian-German relations.
Question: Germany is assuming the EU presidency and the G8 presidency. These are also important institutions for Russia. What are your concrete expectations with respect to how relations with Russia will develop under Ms Merkel?
Vladimir Putin: Relations with Germany are important for us both on the bilateral level and with respect to our contacts within international organisations –first of all with the European Union and also with NATO.
We discussed future work with Ms Merkel as G8 chairperson. Germany will only finalise its goals for its presidency later on. But I hope that there will be a certain continuity with the work that was done in St Petersburg. Because during this year and finally in July we discussed what all are aware of and what is important for all: energy security, the struggle against infectious diseases and education.
And as to the European Union, Germany is one of our major partners with respect to developing our relations with a united Europe. In 2007 the agreement between Russia and the European Union comes to an end and we must produce a new document. We have major tasks that stand before us with respect to creating the four common spaces. These consist in the economic space, the common space in external security, in internal security and in the spheres of culture and education.
Representatives of the European Commission put forward an initiative about establishing a free trade zone between Russia and the European Union. If my memory does not deceive me, than Mr Mandelson made this proposition in Sochi at the Russia-EU summit. It is a serious, important task and we feel very positively about this initiative. This is a huge joint effort. We are convinced that if we were to do this then it would undoubtedly have a very positive influence on our economic cooperation, help us enter the markets of third countries, and help us stabilise certain branches of our economy. But we think that Germany could pay more attention to this during its presidency.
Relations in the cultural and educational spheres have an important value. Germany was one of the first countries with which we concluded agreements about simplifying the visa regime. This has acted as a good example for other governments and, as an end result, we also concluded such an agreement with the European Union. For that reason I think that Germany can easily maintain its leading role with respect to developing relations with Russia.
Question: Another question is about trade and economic relations. There are certain contradictions here. You speak about a free trade zone between Russia and the European Union and, as is well-known, Ms Merkel speaks more about creating a free trade zone between the European Union and the USA. From your point of view, what can Russia offer? What is Russia’s appeal for the European Union?
Vladimir Putin: As I have said from the very beginning, this was not our idea, it was the European Union’s idea to establish a free-trade zone between Russia and the EU. And as I already said, it was the trade commissioner Mr Mandelson who did so. Therefore what you just said illustrates a normal problem in the European Union. The European Union needs to come to an internal agreement about what things are the most important and should have priority. But, actually, it seems to me that one does not exclude the other.
I am not an expert on relations between the EU and the USA. And if the free trade zone can help resolve various trade disputes in the field of agriculture or in steel and other things then, my God, this will only help stabilise the world economy. We would only welcome this. But it does not concern us directly. And we are not planning to enter any competition. Therefore since they suggested to us to establish such a zone then, I repeat, we reacted positively. We are ready for teamwork.
I see really good prospects here to make our economy more competitive within the international economy as a whole.
Let us begin with energy. We have huge resources. All of Europe needs our energy resources. And we need to remove all fears, all anxieties and establish stability, reliability and predictability. Is it possible to do this within a free trade zone? It is possible.
The high-tech sphere. Here I would include the aviation industry. If we unite the forces of the European Aeronautic Defence and Space Company and our growing industry then we will become a strong contender in the world market.
And during joint efforts we can be equal partners. Can there be such a harmonious partnership between producers of aviation technology in Europe and the United States? I don’t know. Today it seems to me that this is unlikely. And there are other spheres in which cooperation is increasingly possible and has very good prospects. We just established the largest aluminum corporation in the world. I repeat that there are many different fields in Russia and they are very interesting. But we are not rushing into anything. Rather we must carefully evaluate all this and let our experts examine it.
 Question: But the door to Europe is not always open, is it? Looking at EADS, for example, we have heard in both France and Germany that, “we don’t want Russian influence there”. Do you have the feeling that Russia is not welcome?
Vladimir Putin: I don’t have this impression. What I’ve noticed is that there is insufficient information on our position. This is our fault. I spoke about this at the meeting in Paris and I can repeat what I said then now.
As is well known, EADS saw its share price fall. Our financial institutions made use of this opportunity and acquired a five-percent stake. But we do not intend to use our financial possibilities to interfere in the work of any industrial organisations in Europe.
Moreover, we are ready to cooperate with EADS on a partnership basis, on an industrial basis, only if we first reach an agreement with our partners. Only in this case could the stake acquired by our bank end up in the hands of the emerging Russian aviation corporation. But if we do not reach such an agreement, the bank will simply continue work on the stock market with its securities and we will not have involvement in the production side of things at all. If the share price rises, the bank will sell its stake and make a profit. In other words, it will do what any other bank would.
But the fact of the matter is that EADS already holds a stake in one of our aviation corporations, Irkut. We do not view EADS as an ideal corporation. If we take part in this work, we will need to discuss with our partners how the corporation should be organised and on what principles it should function. It should be a market organisation and not an organisation where the state decides everything in advance and years ahead, thereby undermining its market status and effectiveness. We therefore do not have any desire to enter this corporation at any cost. If we do not reach an agreement, we will simply work alone or look for other partners and we will find other ways of cooperating with EADS. In other words, there is nothing at all to fear here. You can be absolutely sure that this will be cooperation based on an open partnership and that there will not be any hostile takeover. We have no interest in working that way with our European partners.
Question: Looking at the aircraft building industry, if we take cooperation with Airbus, aircraft building is a sector that, it seems, has not flourished in Russia over recent years.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, of course, but at the same time, we know what possibilities we have in this sector. We have a very good school, good specialists and good companies overall. We need to work out with our potential partners what should be produced and where. Wide-fuselage aircraft, for example, could be built under one set of conditions, medium-haul aircraft – an area in which we have very good possibilities – could be built under another, and military aircraft, where I think we are by far and away the world leaders, under a third.
There are special fire-fighting aircraft and then there are also helicopters, and these are areas where we also have a clearly leading position. Then there is also spare parts production. In other words, we have plenty to discuss.
Question: As I understand it, five percent is not very much. But talking about bigger stakes, about acquiring a stake of 25 percent, say, which would make it possible to block decisions and use the right of veto, would you be interested in increasing your stake?
Vladimir Putin: We have not made a decision in this respect yet, and neither have our European partners. An increase in our stake from five percent to ten percent or more, if it were to happen, would result in self-imposed restrictions for us in production and work on markets. This would create serious limitations for our producers in the future. Some say that we should not take this path, while others say we should because it would raise the technological level overall and help make the united corporation more competitive on world markets.
Personally, I think this course is possible, but we have not made any final decision as yet. A decision can be made only through the negotiation process, only at expert level, as Ms Merkel, Mr Chirac and I agreed at our meeting in Paris.
Question: Mr President, Russia’s image as an energy supplier was tarnished somewhat after the Ukrainian crisis at the beginning of the year. Did you manage to restore confidence during the G8 summit in St Petersburg?
Vladimir Putin: I think this was quite simply a deliberate attack on Russia. No one obliges Germany, for example, to sell its goods at prices lower than world prices. Why does everyone expect Russia to sell its goods at reduced prices? We have never restricted energy supplies to our consumers in Europe, and nor do we ever intend to.
Life itself, our cooperation and the work that we undertake prove that Russia has always been and always will be a reliable partner, and we have no need to waste money on propaganda campaigns in the press to prove this. We currently deliver around 40 billion cubic metres of gas to Germany. If we build the North European Gas Pipeline, and this work is already going ahead, then by 2010 we will be able to deliver an additional 27.5 billion cubic metres to Germany, and in another two or three years, we will increase this total by a further 27.5 billion cubic metres. In other words, we will add 55 billion cubic metres to today’s 40 billion cubic metres. In this way, Germany will not only be able to cover in full its own increasing demands, but will also become a major centre for distributing gas to other European countries. At the moment, Germany is a final consumer for our gas, but once this project is complete, Germany will receive gas that it will then send onwards to other European countries.
Question: Will all this gas come from Russia’s neighbours in the Caucasus?
Vladimir Putin: It will all come from the north.
Question: So you will be drawing only on Russia’s own reserves?
Vladimir Putin: Yes, the Caucasus has nothing to do with it. We planned that all of this gas would come from the Yuzhnorussky Deposit in Russia’s northwest region. BASF will be taking part in developing this field, and perhaps also E.ON, with whom we are currently in negotiations.
There is also the vast Shtokman Deposit in the Barents Sea. Its gas reserves are estimated at 3.7 trillion and perhaps even 4 trillion cubic metres. This is one of the biggest gas deposits in the world and has reserves to last for 50–60 years of operation. Gazprom announced today that it would send some of the gas from precisely this deposit through the North European Gas Pipeline to Germany.
Response: But Gazprom also announced today that it would develop the deposit on its own and did not need any foreign help.
Vladimir Putin: No, this is not the case. Let me explain. Gazprom launched a tender for the development of this deposit, and at the current stage five companies took part. Gazprom set the condition that the participants in the project and partial owners of these gas resources would have to offer Gazprom assets in exchange, not money, but assets. Raising money for a highly liquid project such as this is easy on the world financial markets. What is needed is not money but assets. But no one was able to offer assets equivalent to these huge reserves of gas – 3.7 trillion cubic metres.
So, what is Gazprom doing now? Gazprom said that since it has received no suitable offers from anyone, it is cancelling the tender. Previously, we planned to transform all of the gas from this deposit into liquefied gas and send it by tanker to the world markets, above all in North America. Now we have changed our decision and part of this gas will be sent through the pipeline to Germany, while part will be liquefied and sent to the world markets. We have not decided yet on the actual proportions.
But we have not abandoned the idea of bringing in partners to take part in the actual extraction, transportation and liquefying operations. The resource user, the owner of the resources, however, will be Gazprom alone.
Incidentally, Ms Merkel raised this question during one of her first visits to Moscow. Right here in this hall she said, “Could you look at the possibility of sending at least a portion of the gas from this deposit to Europe and to Germany?”
Question: Do you understand the debate going on in Germany about how we have become too dependent on Russian gas?
Vladimir Putin: No, I don’t understand this discussion and I think it is being artificially politicised. This is being done by people who are artificially exaggerating the problem and doing so out of political considerations, aware that this is quite simply provocation. The alternative is that the people doing this are just a bit stupid. This sounds a little rude, perhaps, but this is the reality of the situation.
Let me explain why. If we are linked together by a pipeline system into which we are sending gas, and we have no other pipeline, then we are just as dependent on you as you are on us. It is precisely this mutual dependence that creates stability and predictability.
But of course, if we are constantly hearing that you have too great a dependence on us and need to find other suppliers, then we cannot but begin to wonder if someone is going to start restricting our supplies, and then, of course, we begin to look for other markets.
Response: In the east.
Vladimir Putin: This is indeed the case. We are building a strategic partnership, but the West still has the same prejudices as it did 50 years ago. I do have the impression that the West does not react well when Russia begins to behave, shall we say, in capitalist fashion.
I don’t think we should huff and puff and feel offended in this respect. I think we simply need time and we need to build up a positive experience of cooperation.
Bavarian companies are making their contribution to building up this cooperation. Of the 2,500 German companies working in Russia, half are Bavarian. Our trade with Germany will most likely reach a figure of $40 billion this year, and trade with Bavaria accounts for 15 percent of this figure.
Response: Stoiber is a good partner.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, he is a reliable partner.
Question: Today is a special day, Mr President, and we are very grateful that you have given us so much time. Allow me to ask you the following question: North Korea announced today that it has conducted a nuclear weapons test. In your opinion, how should the international community react to this news?
Vladimir Putin: It is not enough to simply say we are disappointed. We condemn this test, above all because it deals a serious blow to the nuclear weapons non-proliferation process. But I will tell you now not only how we should react but also how we should organise international relations in such a way as to ensure that this does not happen again.
Above all, we must strive to ensure that international law reigns supreme in international relations and that all countries, whether big or small, feel safe and that there be a system of absolute international guarantees to ensure this security. This way, small countries would not have the desire to acquire the most advanced weapons in order to ensure their security.
Second, we need to ensure that all countries have equal and non-discriminatory access to the latest technology, including to nuclear technology, for peaceful purposes, of course.
Third, we need to toughen the non-proliferation regime, but this would be fair only if we first ensure the first two points I mentioned.
As for the current situation with North Korea, like the situation with Iran, I think that we need to act using political and diplomatic means and that our reaction should be in keeping with the events taking place.
Question: How can we ensure unity among the great powers with regard to Iran? After all, nothing has really been achieved so far. Do you think that imposing sanctions on Iran is a possibility?
Vladimir Putin: We are now discussing all possible options. I think that we do have different options. We must not drive the problem into a dead end, because then we could find ourselves stuck without a way back out again. I do not want to say what these decisions could be in advance now, but I think that if we have the will to look for compromise solutions, such a solution can be found. These solutions do exist. Practice over the last years shows that we can resolve issues of this kind only by working together. The most important thing in resolving complex issues like this is to ensure unity. But we can do this only if all the participants in the process are willing to compromise without trying to impose their views on all the other participants.
There are no negotiations with North Korea at the moment. They were interrupted a year ago.
Response: Looking back to Bill Clinton’s years, the Americans were more progress-oriented then than now.
Vladimir Putin: More progress or not, the fact remains that the negotiations ended a year ago. I am not going to go into the reasons now. But negotiations should never be cut off. It is important to maintain the negotiating process at whatever cost in order to ensure that there is always at least some kind of light at the end of the tunnel.
Question: Mr President, in response to the arrest of four Russian officers in Georgia, Russia has cut off all communications with this country. Do you want to destroy Georgia economically because it has a very pro-American president?
Vladimir Putin: Of course not. This is the Georgian people’s choice and we will always respect their choice because we have close, centuries-old ties to this people.
Georgia in its time asked to become a part of the Russian Empire. This was the people’s desire. The Georgians are a very proud, freedom-loving and talented people. Like the Russians, they are Orthodox Christians. Even in as sensitive an area as military affairs, our two peoples have written many vivid pages together.
Many Georgians live in Russia and it makes us very proud that they have chosen our country as their second homeland. They have made a great contribution to the development of our country and our culture.
But the problem in this region is far more complex. Do you and your readers know, for example, that the Ossetians believe that ethnic cleansing has been carried out twice in their lands in recent times, first in the 1920s and then at the end of the 1980s? They say that this is genocide carried out by Georgia. This is where the root of the problem lies.
The same goes for Abkhazia. Whether our Georgian colleagues like it or not, they are seen in this region as a sort of regional mini-empire.
This concerns us directly because, in the case of the Ossetians, for example, during the Soviet era, Ossetia was simply divided in two, with part of the people on one side of the mountain range, in the North Caucasus – today this is a region within the Russian Federation, the Republic of North Ossetia-Alania – and the other part transferred to Georgia, where it is today known as South Ossetia. The Ossetians are a divided people today, just as was the case for the Germans when the country was divided into the Federal Republic of Germany and the former GDR. That division was a result of World War II, while the division of the Ossetians was a result of the collapse of the Soviet Union. The Ossetian people find themselves today in the same situation as were the German people after World War II.
We are willing to help Georgia restore its territorial integrity, but our position is that this can be done only based on the desire of the Ossetian people themselves. No one has the right to force them to do this. What is needed is to act carefully using diplomatic and humanitarian means, especially keeping in mind earlier historic problems. We have spoken about this many times with the Georgian leadership and they agree and say that yes, of course this is what we need to do. But in reality they are doing everything to resolve this problem through war: they are arming themselves beyond all limits, violating all the previous agreements and constantly carrying out provocative acts in the conflict zone.
To speak frankly, I have said these same words to the Georgian leadership and said that this concerns Russia directly because part of the Ossetian people lives in Russia.
As for Abkhazia, it is the same situation. There are many peoples in the Russian North Caucasus who consider themselves ethnically very close to the Abkhaz people. Here too, there is a need to act using humanitarian, political and diplomatic means.
But the current Georgian leadership for some reason thinks that if relations between Russia and Georgia worsen, this will help them to resolve the problem of restoring their territorial integrity. At the same time, we have almost one million Georgians living permanently in Russia, working here and sending money back home to support their families, a total of around $1 billion every year. There are very close ties between our peoples, between our industries. Every country has the right to its sovereignty and the right to choose its partners and advisers, but this should not lead a country into taking aggressive action. In this situation, we have no choice but to react.
As for the anti-Russian rhetoric, we tolerated it, but when the Georgians began taking provocative action and arrested our officers, we had no choice but to start reacting. We had reached an agreement with Georgia, at their request, that we withdraw our troops who were still stationed there after the collapse of the Soviet Union, and we are doing this as agreed and according to schedule.
Our officers were arrested just before municipal elections took place in Georgia. I don’t know if this is just coincidence or not, but I think it is unacceptable to resolve domestic political problems by whipping up anti-Russian hysteria and military tension.
Question: My final question, Mr President: according to Russian legislation, you cannot run for re-election after 2008? This isn’t possible?
Vladimir Putin: I do not have the right to stand for office three times in a row.
Question: But I recall that in Hanover, in a very small circle, you said that it was theoretically possible to take a break and then come back. Of course it was said to be heard by wider circle of people. But my question now is, what do want to achieve, as President, in the time left until 2008, and what do want the people of your country to remember you for after your time in office ends?
Vladimir Putin: We have a number of development plans. The most important thing for us is to develop our economy. Over these last years we have ensured a consistently high rate of economic growth – around 7 percent annually over the last four years. When I became President, our foreign currency and gold reserves stood at $12 billion, and now they have increased by $80 billion over the first half of this year alone and currently come to a total of around $270 billion. Added to this are the Government’s reserve funds, which come to $70 billion. Furthermore, we have paid off our debts in full.
We have now become a grain-exporting country, something that was not the case not only in the 1990s, but also in the Soviet period. Last year we sold 13 million tons of grain abroad, and this year we will be able to export around 10 million tons.
But none of this has any sense if it does not bring change to people’s lives. Over these last years, average incomes have been rising by about 9 percent a year, and wages by a little over 10 percent a year. Pensions have been rising by around 8.5 percent a year. These are all figures in real terms.
We are keeping to our main macroeconomic targets. So far, we have not managed to reduce inflation by as much as we wanted, but the downward trend is clear and inflation is getting lower with every passing year. Unemployment is now at its lowest level in recent years.
Our main task is to diversify our economy and strengthen ownership rights. We have set ourselves the objective of bringing order to our legislation in this respect. This concerns corporate law, strengthening the judicial system and improving securities regulations.
We have taken serious steps towards improving our country’s defence capability. Starting from January 1, 2007, compulsory military service will be one year instead of two. A large part of the Armed Forces will be manned by contract servicemen, that is, people who will be paid to serve. We have considerably strengthened and modernised our nuclear deterrent forces in the air, at sea and on land.
We are working on modernising our social sphere. In order to concentrate administrative and financial resources in areas where they are needed to give a boost to the development of specific areas, we have packaged a number of problems together in what we have called the national projects – priority projects in healthcare, education, agriculture and affordable housing. Work is proceeding more rapidly in some areas and slower in others, but we are seeing development in practically all areas. We are putting resources we could previously only dream about into these projects and I hope that our people are already seeing the results and will soon have confirmation that we are on the right road ahead.
I have proposed a whole programme of support for families with children, and in particular, support for women with two or more children. This programme aims at improving the demographic situation and encompasses several elements, namely, encouraging people to have children, bringing down the death rate, and implementing a clear immigration policy.
But this is all work that will take more than just a year or two or even four to carry out. I very much hope that work will continue in all these areas after 2008. The initiatives I mentioned all have broad public support and whoever find themselves at the head of the country after 2008 will inevitably have to take public opinion into account and, whether this person wants to or not, will have to carry out these plans. I find it hard to imagine that the future head of state would try to change these decisions aimed at resolving the main social, economic and defence problems the country faces.
As for what I would like the public to say about me when I come to the end of my term in office in 2008, I am not a natural-born politician and was never previously involved in politics. Strange though it may sound, I do not feel like a politician even today. I am not expecting any particular gratitude. I think that I have worked honestly , indeed putting all my strength and effort into the job. I think that the fact that the Russian people have entrusted me with this high office and entrusted me to be the head of the Russian state is in itself a gift life has given me, and for this alone I should thank the Russian people.
Question: Will it be enough for you after this simply to have the respect of the people, or would you like the Russian public to love you?
Vladimir Putin: I would be happy to answer your question if it wasn’t for the fact that you said your previous question was the last.
(Laughter).
Response: My most sincere thanks, Mr President, and I wish you an excellent visit to Germany.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 10, 2006, 15:19
Text versionEvents
Joint Press Conference with Federal Chancellor of Germany Angela Merkel
October 10, 2006
20:27
Dresden
Angela Merkel: Ladies and Gentlemen,
Following the successful signature of cooperation agreements that are a sign of our very intensive relations, we now begin this press conference.
We have just had our first discussion with each other and we will continue this discussion this evening after visiting the Petersburg Dialogue Forum.
During our dinner this evening we will focus particularly on international issues and will make them the subject of intense discussion. Just now we have taken a close look at the whole range of our bilateral relations and, naturally, have also given time to the reason for which we are here in Dresden. We will be visiting the Petersburg Dialogue Forum. I think that this forum is a very important sign of the broad-based cooperation between our countries that encompasses not only close political cooperation but also science and research issues and cooperation between civil society in Germany and Russia. I am also very pleased that following our visit to the Petersburg Dialogue Forum, we will be meeting with young people from both countries. We need to deepen and develop our relations, especially relations between people, above all, between the young people in our countries. Of course, this has also played an important part in the work of the Petersburg Dialogue Forum.
We spoke about civil society, about the fact that I was shocked by the murder of the journalist Anna Politkovskaya, and about the fact that we consider freedom of the press to be an integral part of democratic development. The Russian President stressed once again that everything would be done to investigate this murder. I think that this is very important and that this is a necessary sign to make it clear that the freedom of those who write and report is a very important attribute for a country developing along democratic lines.
We also discussed economic cooperation and a number of bilateral contacts between our countries. Germany will take over the presidency of the G8 from Russia, and we agreed that the priority subjects under the Russian presidency, education, the fight against infectious diseases and energy policy, for example, would be pursued further under the German presidency. This will ensure a high level of continuation in the G8 presidency.
Germany will be presiding over the European Union in the first half of 2007, and a summit between Russia and the EU will be organised during this time. This will be a dialogue between Russia and the EU. We will then travel to Russia, where we have planned a meeting next May, and we are very pleased at the prospect of this meeting. Of course, German-Russian intergovernmental consultations will also take place, in the second half of 2007. We think that these consultations will probably take place in Wiesbaden.
As you can see, we are meeting all the time, and I haven’t even mentioned yet that President Putin will come to Finland during the EU meeting next week and that the EU and Russia are carrying out very close cooperation in the area of bilateral relations.
We discussed cooperation between civil society in our two countries. I can also tell you that we have very close economic ties, ties which are continuing to grow. Germany is Russia’s biggest trading partner, or practically the biggest, and we of course talked about expanding these relations in the future.
We will establish a strategic working group to work in the aeronautics area. We have very close cooperation in the area of space exploration, and we wish to continue this cooperation.
Furthermore, over the coming years we will develop our cooperation in the areas of science and education, and our ties in these areas will undoubtedly grow stronger.
I think it is important and natural that we exchange views on international issues. Several weeks ago, we had an exchange of views together with the French President when we met in Paris. We are all equally shocked by the nuclear test carried out by North Korea and we all condemn this test. The international community must take a united stand in this regard, just as with the Iranian nuclear issue. In this area we have very intensive cooperation with the Russian President.
I am very pleased that we have been able to meet here in Dresden. Later we will see the unveiling of the monument to Dostoyevsky. Here, beneath the Green Domes, we can see just how close the ties were between Russia and Germany in past centuries. We can see it, for example, in the cup that was given to Emperor Augustus the Strong, or in the fact that Dostoyevsky wrote one of his most important works here. Today then, we are witnessing the continuation of this centuries-old cooperation between Russia and Germany.
Thank you for your attention.
Vladimir Putin: Ladies and Gentlemen,
First of all, I would like to thank the Federal Chancellor for the invitation. This is our fifth meeting this year. The intensity of these contacts at the highest level is easy to explain, given the increasing cooperation between our countries.
We discussed the successful implementation of our previous agreements during our meeting today, including the agreements reached at the intergovernmental consultations in Tomsk in Siberia. Work is going ahead confidently on energy, transport, aviation industry, automobile industry and infrastructure projects.
I particularly note the increasing cooperation between Russian and German companies in the energy sector. Judging by the whole situation, this cooperation could expand much further and see Germany develop from a final consumer of Russian oil and gas into a major centre for distributing these products in Europe. This is our serious and significant contribution to ensuring Europe’s energy security.
Today we signed a number of documents on cultural and humanitarian cooperation and on credit and finance relations. An intergovernmental agreement on diplomatic property issues will be signed tomorrow in Berlin. Under this agreement, Russia will open a general consulate in Frankfurt-on-Main and a new general consulate building in Munich.
I would like to make particular note of the fact that the remainder of the Russian Federation’s foreign debt to Germany, or rather, the former Soviet Union’s debt, was paid off ahead of schedule in August this year. We are sending 1.125 billion euros to Berlin. This is eloquent proof that our economy is developing well and that Russia is a reliable partner for our main counteragents in Europe.
I would like to say a few words about Russia’s and Germany’s foreign policy positions. The Federal Chancellor just mentioned some of the most urgent issues on the international agenda. I can say that our views on the majority of these issues are very close. This is very important in the context of Germany’s upcoming presidency in the G8 and the European Union.
I am sure that the handover of the G8 presidency from Russia to Germany will be successful and we hope not only for continuation but also for fruitful cooperation on the broad spectrum of issues on the G8’s agenda, and especially on the areas Russia identified as priorities – energy security, education and the fight against infectious diseases.
The Federal Chancellor and I also discussed the issue of strategic relations between Russia and the European Union. We agreed to work closely on furthering our progress in this area, with the main focus being on implementing the ‘roadmap’ and establishing the four ‘common spaces’. We want to take a most constructive and active part in drawing up a new strategy for relations between Russia and the EU.
Of course we also discussed problems in the Balkans, the Middle East, Afghanistan and, of course, the Iranian nuclear issue and the latest developments on the Korean Peninsula, the North Korean nuclear test, and we will discuss these issues in more detail this evening.
Visits to Germany always involve a very busy schedule. After this press conference, as the Federal Chancellor said, we will be taking part in the work of the Russian-German Petersburg Dialogue Forum.
Incidentally, the fact that the forum was today awarded the prestigious European Culture Prize in the ‘Politics’ category is deserved recognition of its considerable contribution to developing ties between civil society in our two countries.
This evening we will be meeting with the participants in the Russian-German Youth Forum. It is a priority both for the Federal Chancellor and for me to intensify and diversify youth exchanges between our countries. In this respect, I want to note that we have already adopted the relevant intergovernmental agreement and set up national coordinating bureaus in Moscow and Hamburg. We have approved the organisational principles and made sure the funding is available for these cooperation plans. Today we can speak of a big step forward in this very important area of bilateral cooperation.
Tomorrow in Munich I have meetings planned with Bavarian Prime Minister Edmund Stoiber and with representatives of business and scientific circles. It is logical that the main theme of these meetings will be strengthening our trade and economic ties, including at inter-regional level.
Of course, I have not mentioned all the subjects discussed during these talks. I will try to give them more attention this evening. We still have plenty of time ahead for our work together.
In conclusion, I would like to congratulate all the residents of Dresden on the 800th anniversary of this wonderful and beautiful city. This is a city where you always feel friendliness and openness. The heartfelt hospitality we have received has undoubtedly added warmth to the friendly atmosphere that always characterises our summit meetings with the German leadership.
Thank you for your attention.
Question: Ms Federal Chancellor, I would like to come back to the murder of Anna Politkovskaya. Does the federal government share our view that this was a politically motivated murder and that it signals a new stage in events concerning freedom of the press? Is this a new dimension? We have the impression that Mr Putin shares your concern. Has anyone raised the idea of an independent investigation into this murder?
Angela Merkel: I already said that this murder came as a great shock to us all and that it must be investigated because it is quite symbolic with regards to freedom of the press. The President promised me that there would be an investigation, and so I assume that every effort will be made to investigate this murder, because it also concerns, of course, the value placed on freedom of the press in Russia. I have learned about this now and I think that everything will be done to ensure that this dreadful murder is investigated.
Vladimir Putin: I would like to say a few words on this subject. First of all, I would like to say that no matter who committed this crime and no matter what the motives behind it, it was a horribly cruel crime and it cannot go unpunished. There could have been a number of different motives. This journalist was indeed a fierce critic of the current authorities in Russia. But, as the experts know, and as journalists should realise, I think, her impact on Russian political life was only very slight. She was well known in the media community, in human rights circles and in the West, but her influence on political life within Russia was very minimal. The murder of someone like her, the brutal murder of a woman and mother, was in itself an act directed against our country and against the Russian authorities. This murder deals a far greater blow to the authorities in Russia, and in Chechnya, to which she devoted much of her recent professional work, than did any of her publications. This is very clear to everyone in Russia. But, as I said, no matter what the motives behind the perpetrators’ actions, they are criminals and they must be identified, caught and punished. We will do everything necessary to ensure that this is done.
Question: You said you discussed in detail the issues of energy security and energy cooperation, issues very much at the top of the agenda at the moment. Is it possible to say that Germany is Russia’s number one partner in Europe in the area of energy security? That is a question for both leaders.
Mr Putin, could you please comment on Gazprom’s decision to develop the Shtokman Deposit on its own?
I would also like to hear both leaders’ views on the North European Gas Pipeline because there is renewed criticism now for the project and environmentalists are making objections. Is there the possibility that this project might be closed down, or will it go ahead, and is this the final decision?
Vladimir Putin: Regarding who is our main partner and who is secondary in this area, what I would say is that Germany is the main consumer of our energy resources and this fact alone puts us in a certain position with regard to each other in energy cooperation. If you take natural gas, we currently deliver around 40 billion cubic metres to Germany which, as I said, is our biggest final consumer. If we carry out the project you mentioned just now, part of the Shtokman Deposit’s enormous gas reserves – and it has total reserves of 3.7 trillion and perhaps even 4 trillion cubic metres that can be developed over at least 50–60 years – will be sent to Europe, above all to Germany, as the Federal Chancellor requested during one of our first meetings in Moscow. This would mean that in addition to the 40 billion cubic metres it currently receives, Germany would receive around 50 billion – 55 billion cubic metres of gas a year throughout this entire long period, enabling it to be not just a consumer but to become a major centre for distributing Russian gas in Europe. In this sense, this project would change Germany’s energy profile and give it a greater role in European energy affairs. We have chosen this course deliberately, based on the fact that Germany is our biggest energy resource consumer.
Of course we are paying very close attention to the implementation of the North European Gas Pipeline project because if it does not go ahead, we will be unable to realise these plans. But we, and I am sure that this goes for the German economy too, have an interest in carrying out these plans. We do not intend to pursue our goals at the cost of the environment, however. We will cooperate with environmental organisations, carry out very stringent studies and comply with all their demands in order to ensure that we meet all the environmental standards.
Angela Merkel: My position is that the North European Gas Pipeline project will be carried out and that this work is already going ahead well now. As I see it, we need to consistently make it clear that this project is not directed against anyone. If the project arouses criticism, we need to provide explanations to make it clear that we are not acting against anyone. Our plans are absolutely transparent.
Concerning the supply volumes, I can only point to what the Russian President has just said. Our position in Germany is that this project will become reality.
Question: My question concerns economic matters. Did you discuss Russia’s wish to participate in specific German companies? Gazprom, for example, want to participate in EADS. To what extent are you, Mr Putin, facing obstacles in investing in Europe, and are you, Ms Federal Chancellor, not a little frightened of Russian investment in Europe?
And a question for Mr Putin: do you feel at home here in Dresden? What memories do you have of this city?
Angela Merkel: As far as my feelings go, I can say that Germany is a confident country with a strong economy and we are always open to cooperation with our partners. This is part of what the market economy is all about. This is also in keeping with the spirit and idea of the European internal market. This is a free, open and liberal economy. Of course, this kind of cooperation should be based on clear and reliable contracts that play a very important part once we go beyond our borders.
I can also say that I understand the interests of Russian companies seeking to create a situation in which both sides benefit. I think that the kind of cooperation Russian companies have with Ruhrgas and BASF are very successful examples of cooperation. They are important in order for us to be able to work and cooperate based on the same set of principles, and this is why we often talk about the Energy Charter, which we consider an important document that will ensure the necessary stability. This has been the subject of a lot of discussion between Russia and the EU, but as far as the principle is concerned, there is no reason at all to fence ourselves off from Russia. I understand very well that Russia and Russian companies want to make a name for themselves here in Europe. If this were not the case, all our declarations about a free economy would be no more than empty words. Companies draw up independent agreements amongst themselves and we are present only for the signature of these agreements, but I can say that the German economy and German companies are acting in complete independence.
Vladimir Putin: Regarding our investment activity, either I heard wrong or you made a mistake, but Gazprom has never had any plans to buy EADS. Its business is in a completely different area. One of our banks, however, did indeed acquire a five-percent stake in this company. As I said during the meeting in Compiegne in France, we have absolutely no hostile takeover plans. This is a very sensitive business. Our bank’s action in acquiring this five-percent stake was the result solely of its work on the financial markets and securities markets. The company’s share price fell and our bank seized the opportunity and bought this stake in the hope of later being able to make a profit. We want to cooperate with our European partners and we want to diversify our relations. This, by the way, would most certainly benefit both the Russian and European economies in every respect.
The aerospace sector is one of our priorities and one of the most promising sectors for cooperation. Areas for cooperation in this sector today include the creation of new piloted apparatus, robotic technology and other important, interesting and mutually complementary projects, all of which would require hundreds of millions of dollars and euros.
As for EADS, we are indeed willing to undertake substantial work with this company, but we agreed with the Chancellor and President Chirac that an expert group would first work out in what areas and to what extent Russian cooperation is desirable for our European partners. We, for our part, will then have to say whether this approach satisfies us. If we succeed in finding solutions at the expert level, solutions that the experts think will benefit the aerospace industry’s development in Europe and in Russia, then we would make a decision on transferring our five-percent stake, or perhaps a larger stake, to the aerospace corporation we are developing. If this does not happen, the bank will simply work with these shares on the securities market, and that is all there is to it.
Personally, I think that in order to make the aviation industry in Europe and Russia more competitive, we need to consider joining forces. There are areas in which we can work together. In Russia’s case, this would not be wide-fuselage aircraft, for example, but transport aircraft, special-purpose aircraft, helicopters and so on. The experts have to decide where their interests lie. There are advantages and disadvantages on both sides. The greater our participation, the less freedom we would have on world markets, and we have to take this into account too. We will need to study all the aspects of this issue and only then make a decision.
As for Dresden, I do indeed like this city very much. I lived here for almost five years and one of my children was born here. When I first arrived in Dresden I began to speak more or less decent German, so that my friends and colleagues could understand me. Now I am here in the Green Dome and I have seen that many of the exhibits are the same as I remember from the past and have simply been moved from the old building. These are factors that cannot but have a positive impact on my meetings with the Federal Chancellor and I am very grateful to her for organising this meeting here.
Question: Mr President, Ms Chancellor, how do you assess the current situation in the Middle East and Israel’s relations with the neighbouring Arab countries? How great is the likelihood of a resumption of hostilities? Mr Putin, a question to you: why has Russia not made its engineering battalion part of the UN peacekeeping contingent, and what is behind the unusual decision of having units from Chechnya take care of its security?
Vladimir Putin: We think that this form of participation is the best option for Russia. We think it makes a considerable contribution to the international community’s efforts to rebuild Lebanon. We know the reaction of some political forces to what the international community is doing and we are aware of the criticism of the United Nations. As a member of the UN Security Council, Russia shares full responsibility for everything the UN is doing and I want to assure you that the UN is doing everything it can to resolve the Middle East problem in a fair and optimum way for the people living in that part of the world. Russia decided to act independently. We hope that this form of participation in Lebanon’s reconstruction will receive the support of all the political groups in Lebanon. This is very important for us.
As for the units that will be ensuring the construction battalion’s security, they are indeed two Russian Armed Forces units from Chechnya, ‘Vostok’ and ‘Zapad’. We made this decision because they are mostly Muslims, for a start, and so it will be easier for them to make contact with the local population. Second, they are people who have gone through very difficult conditions, and they will provide reliable protection for our servicemen in Lebanon.
Angela Merkel: As far as Germany’s participation goes, it is part of the UN mission, UNIFIL. We think that this UN mission is a good guarantee that no further military force will be used in this region, and we think that the mission will be able to ensure that the peace holds. But this can be ensured in the long term only when the Middle East peace process once again picks up and we manage to get decisions from the two states – the Palestinian National Authority and Israel. At the same time, the issues between Israel and Lebanon also need to be settled. If they are not on the agenda and resolved by political means, the UN mission will not succeed, that is, it will not succeed if there is no political process conducted in parallel. We see this UN mission as giving us the chance to gain time. We have a small window of time and we must be sure not to let it slip because there are still certain risks. We do not want these dangers to come to the surface. We hope to see a political process go ahead and we would like to see the ‘Quartet’ play an important part in settling the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Germany has its part to play in this and Russia also has its part to play. When Germany holds the EU presidency, we will make a consistent effort to make progress on this issue together with our partners in the Quartet.
Question: Mr Putin, you did not comment on Gazprom’s decision not to work together with foreign partners in developing the Shtokman Deposit.
Vladimir Putin: Gazprom analysed the offers made by foreign partners, but the thing to remember is that our company was interested not in raising financial resources but in an exchange of assets. None of the bids made by foreign companies offered a volume of assets that would be commensurate to their participation in developing the Shtokman Deposit. As I said before, this is a unique deposit in world terms, with reserves of almost 4 trillion cubic metres. Gazprom has therefore decided to develop the deposit independently. It will be the sole resource user and owner. But it does not rule out bringing in foreign companies to take part in development or in liquefying gas or developing markets in third countries.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 10, 2006, 20:27
Text version