Events
Speech at Presentation of Letters of Credentials Ceremony
February 3, 2006
20:29
Grand Kremlin Palace, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, dear friends and colleagues,
I sincerely welcome you to the Kremlin and congratulate you on the beginning of your missions in Russia.
You are beginning your work in Moscow at a very significant stage in our country’s development. The consistent implementation of internal transformations is enabling Russia to pursue increasingly ambitious foreign policy goals. We will use this potential to facilitate the formation of a constructive international relations agenda and to take a more active and full part in global processes.
This is reflected in the priorities for our presidency this year of the G8. I am referring here to energy security, combating epidemics and raising education standards.
We are consistently committed to using diplomatic and political means and methods and to a search for compromise and consensus in the resolution of all, even the most serious issues in world affairs.
It is precisely in this spirit that we recently put forward the proposal to create multilateral centres that would provide nuclear fuel cycle services. The aim of these centres is to give all interested countries equal and non-discriminatory access to modern nuclear energy development work. At the same time, our position is firmly founded on the need for strict compliance with the nuclear weapons non-proliferation regime and we are open to broad-based international cooperation.
Dear colleagues,
We value the interest shown by the leadership of the Republic of Panama in strengthening its friendship and cooperation with Russia. We also think that we have all the possibilities before us to take our relations to a higher level. Russia will strive to develop cooperation with your country, Mr Ambassador.
We are happy to see that our relations with Romania have been developing positively since the signature of the founding agreement in 2003. Our political dialogue has become more active and our intergovernmental commission is working well. We see this as confirmation of a mutual desire to continue developing our cooperation in a diverse range of areas.
Russia values its friendship and cooperation with the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela. Our trade and economic cooperation has intensified over recent years. We hope to further enrich our relations with new initiatives, scientific and technology projects and humanitarian contacts and there are good prospects before us in this respect.
Russia’s traditionally friendly ties with Greece go back into the depths of time. The unchanging sympathy our peoples have for each other and the common spiritual and cultural heritage that we share form a solid foundation for our trust and cooperation.
We consider Greece an important partner in the work to strengthen peace and stability in Europe. We also have an interest in expanding our economic ties, including in the energy sector.
We cannot call the current state and general direction of our recent relations with the Republic of Moldova satisfactory, but the state of our relations today does not reflect the spirit of trust and friendship that has characterised the multifaceted ties between our two peoples over the decades.
I am convinced that only through an honest and constructive dialogue based on consideration and respect for each other’s interests can we transform our bilateral cooperation into a genuine mutually beneficial partnership. Russia is ready to undertake this work and we hope that our partners will respond with the same readiness.
Our relations with the Czech Republic are also founded on longstanding historic traditions. Our relations are now undergoing new development with the expansion of economic and investment cooperation and more active cultural and educational ties. I hope that my upcoming visit to your country will give our multifaceted cooperation a new development impulse.
We are committed to an active dialogue and good-neighbourly relations with the Republic of Estonia. We want to build our relations on the foundation of mutual respect, territorial integrity, respect for basic human rights and freedoms and consideration of each other’s lawful interests. I am sure that the events of the past, events that are now a part of history, cannot and should not become a pretext for mutual claims against each other and a hindrance to the consistent development of cooperation between our countries and peoples.
There is much potential we can draw on to intensify our bilateral cooperation with the Democratic Republic of Congo. The successful organisation of the referendum on the constitution in December 2005 opens up new possibilities in this respect. We will continue to facilitate the normalisation process in your country and in the Great Lakes region in general.
Russia’s relations with the Republic of Zimbabwe are undergoing positive development. We have built up good political, trade and economic and cultural and education ties. I am sure that we should look for new opportunities to develop our relations, for we have good potential for cooperation and we should now look for new ways to develop this potential more fully.
Dear colleagues,
You are beginning your work in Moscow at an interesting but complicated time.
Many of you have yet to discover Russia for yourselves and provide your respective leaderships with a picture of our country’s present day life and foreign policy.
It is very important that your capitals know that Russia is ready to develop equal and mutually beneficial relations with our partners on all continents.
Of course, your Russian colleagues will always be ready to provide you with any necessary help, attention and assistance in carrying out your missions. I am sure that your cooperation with them will be productive and useful.
I would like to wish you all happiness during your time in Russia.
Thank you very much for your attention.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: February 3, 2006, 20:29
Text versionEvents
Excerpts from Speech at the Session of the Collegium of the Prosecutor General’s Office
February 3, 2006
00:00
Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: The Prosecutor General’s Office has many areas of work and one of the key areas is to coordinate the law enforcement agencies in the fight against crime. The situation in this area is, unfortunately, still far from good. The number of particularly serious crimes increased in 2005. What is more, every second serious crime remains unsolved. According to some estimates, last year alone more than five thousand people who committed murder were not brought to justice.
The law enforcement agencies fail to elucidate the fate of the more than 70,000 people – a terrible figure to even name – who disappear every year. This is an indirect sign of the high level of latent crime, including serious crime, in our society.
Such shameful phenomena as upsurges of crime motivated by xenophobia and ethnic and racial intolerance arouse just indignation among the public.
It is our duty to reduce the crime level.
<…>
Turning to another serious issue: we still find ourselves confronting the genuinely mediaeval crimes of kidnapping and human trafficking. This problem is particularly acute in Chechnya and a number of other regions in the North Caucasus.
I call on the Prosecutor General’s Office to work specifically on this issue. I know that you are working on this, but I ask you to give it more attention and examine in detail each specific case, each appeal or complaint. The criminals must be punished. And, as I have said on many past occasions, they must be punished no matter what their guiding motives and no matter what position they hold.
<…>
It has been said before that effective work to guarantee citizens’ safety, to fight corruption and restore the public’s confidence in the law being upheld is a key condition for the social and economic development of our country.
I would like to come back to the North Caucasus. This region receives large-scale federal aid. Targeted programmes are being carried out in this region to develop infrastructure, create new jobs and establish conditions for small business development. We need to reliably protect this constructive work from all manner of criminals and every kind of corruption.
You need to be able to not only identify cases where the laws have been violated but also try to identify the trends, forecast developments and take advance action on order to prevent any negative consequences for the country, its economy and social sphere.
<…>
The practice of criminal bankruptcies has become a factor seriously destabilising the business environment and investment climate in general. Of course, the Prosecutor’s Office and the other law enforcement agencies should not intervene in civil law disputes between companies. Such disputes should be resolved in the courts through open proceedings.
But honest business practice and property rights must have reliable protection. They must be protected by the law and by clear application and enforcement of the law and court decisions.
I believe the Prosecutor’s Office should react rapidly to cases where business people’s rights are violated, and of course, it must act objectively and without bias.
Furthermore, attempts at getting hold of assets by criminal means should not be allowed to replace honest competition. In this respect there is cause to examine the gaps in the law and consider improving the legislation in this area. This is a problem that not only our country faces, but it is a problem of considerable importance for us.
The problem of protecting intellectual property rights also remains a serious issue for our country. Experts estimate that pirate videos account for almost 70 percent of the video market in our country and pirate software for almost 90 percent of the software market. Almost all software in our country is pirated.
We also have a very negative situation on the pharmaceuticals market. The trade in counterfeit medicines is a real threat to our nation’s health and the distribution of counterfeit products without a doubt discredits Russia as a reliable business partner.
Action is needed to improve the quality of the Prosecutor’s Office’s work in the area of international cooperation. International cooperation has been developing quite well over recent years and the Prosecutor General’s Office has established good contacts with its colleagues in many countries. Procedures for the extradition of criminals and requests for legal assistance within the framework of international agreements demand from us further thorough and flawless work in carrying out the objectives and tasks before us in this area.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: February 3, 2006, 00:00
Text version