Events
Speech at Ceremony celebrating the 75th Anniversary of TV Broadcasting in Russia
November 27, 2006
00:00
State Kremlin Palace, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, dear friends,
Greetings!
We are here to celebrate the 75th anniversary of television broadcasting in Russia. I congratulate you on this occasion and address my first and warmest words today to those who were at the origins of television in our country – the veterans of our broadcasting industry. At the dawn of the television era they began with experimental black and white television stations, laid the wonderful traditions of Russian television and established its creative school.
Representatives of various television channels and various professions related to television are gathered here today as one big family. Just like in any family, everything can happen, and you compete against each other, quite fiercely too of late. But at the same time you are all united by your vocation, your devotion to your beloved work and your kinship as part of the one big family of television. Of course, you are also united by your understanding of the importance of your profession and the particular role it plays in society.
Television today forms the outlook, tastes and preferences of its viewers (millions of people around the world, and not only in our country), and sets the rhythm and style of life. These immense possibilities go hand in hand with immense responsibility.
***
When the first television signal was broadcast, the world entered what without any exaggeration can be called an absolutely new era. Television has obliged the world to develop according to new laws in politics, the economy and culture. It has brought great change to people’s lives, giving them entertainment, vivid colours, enormous flows of information and a feeling of being a part of events no matter where they take place in the world.
It is a source of pride that our compatriots Vladimir Kozmich Zvorykin and Vyacheslav Ivanovich Arkhangelsky were at the origins of the wonder that is television. History will always preserve the fact, too, that it was our TV cameras that first showed the Earth from in orbit and showed the first man to walk in space.
***
Russian television has always been distinguished not only by technical innovation but also by its creative identity and spirit of respect for its viewers. Humanity, artistic taste and the authentic Russian traditions of enlightenment are the visiting card of Russian television throughout the world.
The words and civic stand of TV journalists played a huge part in successful democratic transformation at the start of the 1990s. This was a time when every bold TV programme and report, every vivid TV commentary, helped expand the boundaries of freedom and bring down barriers and dogma.
Today, too, the development of our state and society is unthinkable without independent media, without the possibility of listening to different points of view, without television.
More than 14,000 electronic media outlets were registered in Russia at the beginning of this year, and this is far from the limit. Cable, satellite and interactive television are all developing very rapidly.
It is symbolic that our country is beginning the practical work for a transition to digital format in this jubilee year.
I am sure that no matter what the technical methods of broadcasting, you will preserve the great traditions I have mentioned, the traditions that were laid down by your predecessors, namely, the affirmation of spirituality, civic spirit and good artistic taste.
***
In conclusion, I would like once again to congratulate you on this anniversary. I remind you, too, that any anniversary is an excellent occasion for launching new projects and new ambitious work. I am sure that the best and most interesting programmes are yet to come. For now, they are still in the thoughts and plans of the true professionals, the talented people who have always worked in television and always will.
I signed a Decree today on awarding state decorations to industry veterans, people who worked both on the creative and technical side and whose work laid the foundation of our television industry and made it the successfully developing sector that it is today.
From all my heart I wish you creative success, inspiration and luck.
I congratulate you on this anniversary.
Thank you for your attention.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 27, 2006, 00:00
Text versionEvents
Beginning of Meeting with President of the International Association of Athletics Federations and member of the International Olympic Committee Lamine Diack
November 27, 2006
19:13
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Mr President,
It is a great pleasure for me to make your personal acquaintance.
This year, Moscow hosted the World Indoor Athletics Championship. Our athletes put on a very successful performance and I am certain that Moscow could also host the World Outdoor Athletics Championship. I hope that the International Association of Athletics Federations will keep this in mind.
Athletics is very popular in Russia in general. We have around 300,000 children and young people involved in athletics in children’s sports schools alone.
Our country has adopted a federal government programme for supporting physical culture and sport that will be implemented over several years. Our objective is to triple the number of Russians practising physical culture and sports activities over the coming years.
You know of our ambitions, our healthy ambitions for the city of Sochi. We would like Sochi to host the 2014 Winter Olympics. We recently adopted a programme to develop Sochi and the surrounding region as a sports and recreation zone. Whether or not Sochi is chosen to host the 2014 games, the government will invest considerable funds in the region and attract private investors. Whatever happens, the country will develop this region for the benefit of our own citizens.
But we do hope, of course, that the IOC members will take all of this into account when making their decisions regarding the 2014 Olympic Games.
I am very pleased to have this opportunity to receive you in Moscow. I am sure that your visit to our country will help to develop sport and strengthen our direct contacts with the IOC and with international sports organisations, including the IAAF.
Lamine Diack: Thank you very much, Mr President.
It is a great honour and joy for me to have this opportunity to meet with you today. The World Indoor Athletic Championship took place here in March and many members of our council came to Russia to attend the event. We were very sorry that your busy schedule prevented you from attending in person. Our members are very pleased to have the chance to meet with you today to discuss sports issues, and also to thank you for all the efforts you are making to develop sport, considering that Russia is one of the great sporting nations.
There are approximately four million diploma-holding athletes in our federation, and 400,000 of them are from Russia, ten percent of the total, in other words. Russia therefore has every hope of organising the World Championship.
The World Indoor Athletics Championship was organised very well. I met the day before yesterday with Mayor of Moscow Yury Luzhkov and he told me about the plans to build athletics stadiums in Moscow. We had already discussed these plans with him on past occasions and I am pleased to see that this project is now beginning to take shape.
Cities such as Oslo and Zurich play host to these kinds of world championship events, and I think that Moscow should also host a major competition of this kind.
We had meetings yesterday and the day before with 29 countries taking part, six from Asia and 23 from Europe, and they all spoke Russian. We discovered that we even have a group of Russian-speaking participants with whom we have been working for 15 years already, and we will continue our work in this direction.
We greatly value Russia’s efforts in this area. We know about the programmes your government is carrying out and I know that various companies and businesses are also providing sponsorship support for sport.
I have been coming to Russia for 40 years now and it was 40 years ago that I heard of Sochi. This is one of the most popular resorts in Russia. I have looked at the dossier presented for Sochi’s bid. I am not a specialist in winter sports, but I think that the Olympic Games create an excellent opportunity for making increased efforts to develop sports in this region, and so I take note of your appeal and will do everything I can.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 27, 2006, 19:13
Text version