Events
Press Statements following Meeting with Federal Chancellor of Germany Angela Merkel
April 26, 2006
23:13
Tomsk
President Vladimir Putin: Ladies and Gentlemen,
We would like to briefly inform you that we have already begun working. This really is the case, as our first conversation was very intensive and very substantial indeed. We looked at practically every area in which we cooperate and, for the moment, have not yet discussed probably only international issues. What I particularly wish to note is that we had a very candid and open discussion. For my part, I can say that I heard everything on which our German colleagues have had questions or sought clarification, and our position has been clearly explained on all issues of mutual interest. As you saw, we have just had a very good meeting with the graduates and interns who studied in Germany as part of the programme for training managers. You saw what a hospitable reception was given to the Federal Chancellor. These words apply to everyone who is receiving our German friends here in Tomsk, in Siberia. I am sure that our meetings tomorrow will be just as substantial and productive in terms of the results we hope to achieve.
Federal Chancellor of Germany Angela Merkel (translated from German through Russian): We have just held our first meeting. As the President said, this first round of talks addressed a very large number of different subjects. We discussed economic cooperation, financial cooperation, energy sector cooperation and, very importantly, we also discussed cooperation in the areas of scientific research, innovation and in youth and cultural exchanges. We examined many issues and the number of these issues shows just how broad a base our cooperation has today. I think that the bilateral talks between the different ministers will highlight this fact even more. I would like to stress that our conversation was very intensive and very open in spirit. This shows that both sides want to cooperate and that both sides want to expand and intensify this cooperation. It also demonstrates the strategic character of our partnership.
We did not talk about foreign policy issues. We will do that later tonight. I would like to take this opportunity to thank everyone for the very hospitable reception here in Tomsk. I also very much enjoyed talking with the grant recipients and the interns who shared their experiences with us and whose stories reflect the vitality of our relations. We will be very happy to see you all tomorrow at the press conference.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 26, 2006, 23:13
Text versionEvents
Concluding Remarks at Meeting on Social and Economic Development in the Siberian Federal District
April 26, 2006
22:03
Tomsk
President Vladimir Putin: Dear colleagues, I propose that we round up our discussions now. Everyone has spoken in considerable detail on all the problems facing the region. I will not repeat generalities about the importance of Siberia and the Far East – much has already been said on this today. Everything has been said and we must now concentrate our efforts on other matters. We must now work together to draw up a system of measures that will enable us to develop as fully as possible the region’s competitive advantages. These advantages are real and they are truly immense. In this work we need to balance three main development vectors: innovation, raw materials and infrastructure development.
I would like to see us give increasing attention to the first of these vectors. But, as Governor [of Kemerovo Region] Tuleyev said today, even in the regions in Siberia and the Far East that have based their development over these last decades primarily on raw materials, our colleagues are already beginning to introduce new methods for developing these resources and developing their regions as a whole. This is because modern raw materials production and refining methods are directly linked to advanced technology. Without question we must make use of the possibilities this technology offers for our country as a whole and for the regions of Siberia and the Far East.
Another important subject that was mentioned today is infrastructure. Neither the transport minister nor the chairman of Russian Railways were given the floor today, but work in the areas they are involved in is undoubtedly one of the priorities for Siberia and the Far East. If we do not resolve these issues, and I am referring here also to water transport, sea and river transport, Siberia will not be able to develop effectively.
A lot was said about pipeline transport today. What Semyon Mikhailovich [Vainshtok] reported on and what the regional governors and representatives of the Academy of Sciences said in this respect does not exhaust the subject. Pipeline transport in the region is not limited to the major pipeline system being built from Siberia to the Pacific Ocean and the Chinese border. If we want to develop the resources of Eastern Siberia we must also help the oil companies, together with Transneft, to carry out their large-scale projects of connecting their pipeline systems to the main pipeline that Transneft will build.
In this respect I would like to say the following words. This project is unprecedented in scale even for our country. It is important for the country in general and for the regions of Siberia and the Far East. The construction work must go ahead. I agree with Leonid Vasilyevich Potapov [President of Buryatia], with our colleagues and with Nikolai Pavlovich Laverov [Vice President of Russian Academy of Sciences] that this work must not be stopped. The construction work should continue and, what’s more, it should proceed according to the previously agreed timetable.
This project’s implementation will create completely new infrastructure opportunities for developing Eastern Siberia. This is all the more important as we know that Eastern Siberia’s reserves are underestimated. If we don’t take the pipeline into this region we will never be able to open up its true potential – everything will just remain on paper.
Aside from anything else, this project will give Russia new opportunities for entering promising new energy resource export markets. At the same time, we need to start planning ahead and think about building oil refineries in the country, plants and companies, so that our economy and our citizens will be able to gain maximum benefit from our export opportunities. According to the Economic Development and Trade Ministry’s preliminary estimates, it would cost around 60 billion-80 billion roubles to build an oil refinery at the border. I think that Rosneft, for example, could begin construction next year already and I ask the government to develop a system of support measures for these projects.
As for the most sensitive issue – the pipeline system’s proposed route, I want to first of all express my thanks to the regional governors here today and to Transneft for the immense work they have done in this area. I also want to thank the scientists and the public figures for the attention they have given this issue. I believe that carrying out this project will help to improve the environmental situation in the region, and I mean improve because, as we heard today from the governor of Irkutsk Region and the chairman of Russian Railways, transport by rail is not less but a lot more dangerous, and this kind of transport is already going on today.
The construction of the pipeline should improve the environmental situation in the region, including around Lake Baikal. I believe that the technical solutions proposed have been carefully studied and worked through. Nonetheless, I also believe that we must listen to those who express concerns regarding this project, above all to the specialists from the Russian Academy of Sciences. If there is even a miniscule chance, even the tiniest risk that Lake Baikal could be polluted, we must think about future generations and do everything we can to not simply minimise this risk but exclude it altogether. This means that the pipeline system we are discussing should be built north of the Lake Baikal basin area.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 26, 2006, 22:03
Text versionEvents
Opening Remarks at a Meeting on Social and Economic Development in the Siberian Federal District
April 26, 2006
18:44
Tomsk
President Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, dear colleagues,
Not only do we have a busy international agenda for our meetings here in Tomsk but also a busy domestic agenda. One of the items on our domestic agenda is the current social and economic situation in the Siberian Federal District.
As you know, the Development Strategy for Siberia was adopted in 2002. We must admit, however, that it has not brought about the substantial growth in the region that we had hoped for.
Despite its natural competitive advantages, the Siberian Federal District remains dependent on federal assistance. Federal assistance accounts for an average share of 19 percent in the Siberian Federal District regional budgets’ general expenditure, and in some regions in the district it accounts for more than 50 percent.
Gross regional product has been growing on average in Russia, but the per capita gross regional product in the Siberian Federal District has decreased for the second year in a row.
Development is very uneven from region to region within the district itself with basic socio-economic development indicators varying very widely.
The demographic issue remains high on the agenda. This is a problem for our country in general but it is particularly acute in Siberia. It is clear what is causing people to leave the region. Socio-economic factors are behind this outflow of population. Real incomes in the district come to 85 percent of the national average, but the cost of living here is higher than on average in Russia. Dozens of ministerial and regional programmes are being implemented in the district, but they often simply lead to funds being dispersed and achieve only fragmented and insignificant results. This is another general problem. We need to learn to concentrate our resources on the key development issues.
It is clear that we need to find solutions that will cardinally change the situation – innovative solutions. The development of Siberia and our country’s other eastern regions must be based on their effective integration into the Russian economy and world markets.
What we need to do is analyse very carefully the promising plans for developing sectors and regions and get rid of duplication of effort and insufficient focus on the key issues. In this respect I would like to mention the following priorities.
First, we need to make more effective use of the district’s natural resources. These resources constitute a real competitive advantage and are the key to resolving the region’s energy problems.
Until now, the region’s export sectors have developed based on cheap and accessible raw materials. But the lack of infrastructure to access new deposits means that this advantage is gradually being lost. Investment, both foreign and Russian, is starting to move to other countries and other regions. I ask you to look at this issue in more detail today.
Second, we need to make more active use of the innovative environment – and quite developed it is – that already exists in the district, and get scientific centres involved.
Many new ideas, as you know, are not developed in practice because of lack of resources. But it is precisely your task, the task of the local, regional and federal authorities, to make these areas attractive for investment. I hope that we will discuss this point in detail today.
Third, industrially developed regions of the district must work to achieve a noticeable increase in the number of processing facilities. Today they account for only 20 percent of our industry.
I remind you that at the beginning of April at the meeting in Syktyvkar we talked in detail about primary timber processing. This subject is also relevant in Siberia, which has more than 40 percent of Russia’s wood resources. But this is just one example. In reality there are many more areas for development work.
Finally, one other important issue – that of improving the transport infrastructure in Siberia. It has been noted in the past that this region is crossed by international trans-continental transport corridors. This enables Siberia to act not just as one of the links in the transport chain connecting European Russia to the Far East, but also gives it the real possibility of playing a much greater part as a bridge linking Europe – via Russia – to the Asia-Pacific Region. We must not forget that the Asia-Pacific Region is probably the fastest-growing region in the world and this creates huge opportunities for Russia to open up new markets and make use of its national advantages.
We also need to develop more actively communications along the Trans-Siberian route, increase the amount of passenger and freight traffic and not by rail but also by air and by water.
We need to modernise roads effectively and on time. Finally, we need to re-establish active use of the Northern Sea Route. We must not forget that this will do a lot to make the population more mobile, will open up new horizons for business activity in the district and ultimately help raise living standards for the people who live here.
In conclusion, I would like to note particular significance of cross-border and inter-regional cooperation in the Siberian Federal District. This is a powerful growth resource for all of Siberia. I ask you to speed up work on modernising the border infrastructure and on improving the legal foundation for inter-regional cooperation.
These are the points I wanted to make. Now let us begin work.
<…>
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 26, 2006, 18:44
Text version