Events
Beginning of Meeting with acting Prime Minister of Thailand Thaksin Shinawat
April 25, 2006
20:59
Novo-Ogaryovo
President Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister,
Allow me to wish you a warm welcome. I am very happy to see you here in Moscow.
We know that political events in your country are developing at a rapid pace, but I would like to express the hope that whatever happens in Thailand, the foundation that we have laid over these last years in our economic, inter-governmental and other ties will continue to serve the interests of our peoples in the immediate, medium and long-term future.
I would like to thank you for accepting this invitation. Today we have the opportunity to discuss our bilateral relations and the situation in the region in general.
Thaksin Shinawat: Thank you, Mr President, for giving me this opportunity to meet with you. Thank you very much for the warm reception you have given me.
I would like to express my gratitude and admiration for the way in which you have successfully facilitated your country’s economic and political development over these last years.
Although this visit and my last visit were both very brief, I can see a lot of change taking place in Moscow. It is noticeable how much construction is underway in the city and this indicates that the economy of Moscow and its surrounding region is developing fast.
I hope that the relations that you and I have established will contribute to the development of economic ties between our countries. I hope that once the political situation in Thailand is settled, we will be able pursue to a firm course towards carrying out all our plans for developing the economic relations between Russia and Thailand.
Why have I come here today? First of all, because I wanted to explain to you the situation in Thailand. I also wanted to assure you that that Thailand’s commitment to democracy remains unchanged. We will do all we can to defend democratic freedom in Thailand. Moreover, our foreign policy also remains unchanged.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 25, 2006, 20:59
Text versionEvents
Speech at Ceremony Awarding State Decorations to Participants in Cleanup Operation at the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant
April 25, 2006
15:34
Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon dear friends,
Tomorrow, April 26, marks 20 years since the accident at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant. This accident was one of the greatest technological disasters of the last century. Its severe consequences are known not just in our country but throughout the entire world, and are still making their harsh repercussions felt in nature and in people.
Not only did you see the full scale of this disaster, and not only did you provide help and support to people struck by real tragedy, but you were also among those who courageously fought this disaster. You fought in exceptionally difficult conditions and at immense risk for your own lives. Many lost their lives. And today we recognise that the personal risk you faced, the consequences for those taking part in the cleanup operation were not fully known.
Moreover, with no experience of dealing with disasters of this kind, you and your colleagues had to come up with action strategies literally on the go and take urgent decisions sometimes with only your knowledge and professionalism to guide you.
I just watched documentary footage about this tragedy. I watched how Academician Legasov arrived to see what exactly was happening there. I watched how people worked directly on the site, within the 30-kilometre zone. And of course those who were working there did not think of themselves but simply understood that the accident had to be cleaned up, cleaned up at any cost.
Your selflessness, your ability to stay calm and collected in an extreme situation and your immense sense of responsibility saved a great number of human lives.
Today I would like to award you these state decorations. They are awarded to you as recognition of your services and as a sign of great respect and gratitude.
Congratulations!
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 25, 2006, 15:34
Text version