Events
Beginning of the Meeting with King Juan Carlos I of Spain
August 24, 2006
16:52
Bocharov Ruchei, Sochi
President Vladimir Putin: Welcome to Russia, Your Majesty! I am very glad you have accepted my invitation to come.
I am sure that today's visit will allow us to discuss bilateral relations and exchange opinions on international problems, and I am certain it will further relations between our countries. All my colleagues and I have noticed that despite the change of government in Spain, relations between our countries have remained very good. We believe, and I am positive, that this is to a large extent due to your attitude towards Russia, Your Majesty.
Juan Carlos I: First of all, I want to thank you for your warm welcome and for the hospitability I am enjoying in Russia. I say this not just as the King of Spain, but also as a friend of Russia and your personal friend and comrade.
In this mournful time for Russia, on behalf of the royal family, the Spanish government and all Spanish people, I want to express our deep sympathy and condolences on the crash of the Russian airliner. The loss of human lives, the most precious thing in the world, is irretrievable. We share the pain and suffering of those who lost their loved ones in the crash.
Once again, I thank you for the warm and hospitable reception. My visit here is a great opportunity to exchange opinions, both on the state of bilateral Spanish-Russian relations and on international problems, in a warm and friendly atmosphere.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you, Your Majesty, for your sympathy and condolences on the airplane crash and the human deaths.
You are absolutely right, the most terrible thing is human death, and the feeling of powerlessness because it cannot be undone. In such cases, we should remember the dead and think what we can do to help their relatives and loved ones.
Quite recently, your country also witnessed a transport – a railway – tragedy. And I also sent you my condolences and sympathy.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: August 24, 2006, 16:52
Text version