Events
Opening Address at the Meeting on the Development of the Aviation Industry
December 19, 2006
22:27
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Dear colleagues!
We are meeting to discuss the ways to help improve the Russian aviation industry and other issues linked to this sector.
For decades our country has been counted among the world’s major aircraft producers. Russian aircraft of all classes and types were the pride of both the national and international aviation industries. Many of them are still on a par with their best foreign counterparts.
However, this earlier developed resource is not limitless. We both know and understand this perfectly. Aviation products manufactured mainly in the 1970s and 1980s are quickly growing older. Furthermore, in the last ten years Russian companies have only produced slightly more than 50 new civil airplanes.
In the past few years a range of measures designed to improve the situation in the aviation industry have been adopted. A programme for the development of civil aviation equipment and a state weapons programme have started to be implemented. In November 2006 a United Aircraft Manufacturing Corporation was established. This corporation’s main task is to gather together and concentrate all available resources towards really promising projects. In practice, a kind of launching pad that should help aircraft manufacturers produce modern, competitive products is now available.
However, along with this, we must still do a great deal to ensure the future development of the aviation industry. In connection with this I would like to draw your attention to several key points.
The first. Both the aviation industry and its parts suppliers must modernise the technology they use. It is obvious that this could be done through a balanced approach towards purchasing advanced technology of foreign origin as well as producing our own technology in Russia. Along with this a system of financing that would allow our domestic aviation companies to keep functioning at full capacity must be determined.
Priority tasks include large-scale personnel training to enable employees to work with new technology, in a new technological environment. This concerns all categories of aircraft manufacturers: workers, technicians, engineers and, no less important, production managers and managers in general. And we must pay special attention to ensuring that young graduates benefit from high-quality training. The future of Russian aircraft manufacturing depends on them.
Second. As Russia is literally just a step away from acceding to the World Trade Organisation we will continue to work on this issue and, as before, we will be guided by our national interests. In connection with this we need to protect domestic producers of aviation technology by using various contemporary methods and means that are accepted in the world economy.
We see how rigidly and consistently foreign aviation corporations defend their interests. We have acquired a lot of experience from cooperation with our partners. And we must have our own strategy, plan for development, and defend our own interests.
Third. Developing cooperation has a key value. I am referring to both cooperation between Russian aviation companies, manufacturers and their parts suppliers, as well as strengthening the ties between Russian companies and their foreign partners.
It is well-known that technological and industrial cooperation is the main way to preserve our production levels, level of technology, stage of development, and also reduce the expense of producing aviation equipment. In addition to this, partnership with foreign aircraft manufacturers will provide us with additional opportunities to enter the market of third countries.
Another priority task consists in increasing the level of aviation security. Nothing is or will be done halfway in this sphere. It is impossible to scrimp on fuel, on the preparation of flight personnel, on the quality of equipment. It is the question of our citizens’ lives, the lives of crews and passengers.
The system designed to ensure flight security also requires improvements. It is necessary to continue modernising airfield infrastructure. And in Russia, quite a lot of financial means have been allocated towards developing infrastructure – including aviation and airfield infrastructure – within various national programmes. We must also devote more efforts towards improving air navigation and meteorological equipment.
In conclusion I would like to emphasise that Russia was, is, and certainly remains a major power in the aviation industry. The efforts of several generations of our citizens have resulted in a strong tradition of aircraft manufacturing. And we need to use all available opportunities to ensure that the national aviation industry rises to meet the challenge of the 21st century and the requirements of today’s world.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 19, 2006, 22:27
Text versionEvents
Beginning of the Meeting with Syrian President Bashar Assad
December 19, 2006
17:03
The Kremlin, Moscow
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: I am very glad to see you Mr President.
I must say that since your last visit to Russia our bilateral relations have grown considerably. We are satisfied to see that virtually all the agreements we reached during your previous visit are being implemented.
Unfortunately, the situation in the region remains very tense. We see that in the region one conflict is more or less developing into another. Of course this worries us. Syria always has played, plays and, I am confident, will continue to play a very important role in determining developments in the region.
I am grateful that you found the time to come to Moscow and accepted our invitation. We will have the opportunity to talk about the whole range of our bilateral relations and the situation in the region.
Welcome!
President of Syria Bashar Assad: Your Excellency, I would like to express how happy I am to have the opportunity to visit your country, to visit Russia. I consider that this visit will help us reinforce the results of my previous one and ensure that they translate into real affairs and projects.
In recent times our cooperation has become much stronger. And one of the goals of my visit today consists in expanding this cooperation, especially considering that your international role has considerably increased over the past few years.
As you know, Syria is now playing a more effective role. We have many economic, political and other issues in which we are presently cooperating. And we are contributing to maintaining stability using all the resources at our disposition. Are we are going to encourage others to do so as well.
I would like to thank you once again for finding time for this visit at this very sensitive moment.
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Mr President, you know that I had the opportunity to exchange opinions with the Israeli Prime Minister who was recently in Moscow, with the head of the Lebanese government, and with other colleagues both from the region and from other countries. We are continuing to participate as actively as possible in the process of finding a Middle Eastern peace settlement, while remaining in permanent contact with all the political forces in Palestine. With regards to the dramatic developments in the Palestinian territories in the last few days, I would be very interested and find it very useful to hear your opinion on the situation’s prospects. And of course we will talk about Iraq. The situation in Iraq is not improving. But we must do everything we can to help it improve, and do so all together, independently of our different approaches to the beginning and development of events. We must do everything possible to improve the situation in Iraq and do so for the well-being of the Iraqi nation.
We have a huge number of issues that we can and should discuss today. In connection with this I would like to once again welcome you to Moscow.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 19, 2006, 17:03
Text version