Events
Statements after the meeting with the President of the United States George W. Bush
November 19, 2006
18:22
Hanoi
U.S. PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH (translated from Russian): Today I am very happy to say that after very long period of negotiations Minister Gref and Ambassador Schwab have signed the agreements. These agreements are very good for Russia as well as for the United States. So, we support Russia’s accession to the World Trade Organization. I would like to congratulate you, thank you for all your work and all your efforts. I believe that this agreement is a step forward for both the United States and Russia. It is also a positive factor for the entire global trade and business community. Thank you very much, Vladimir, for all your efforts because the dialog that has taken place between us was very important. In particular, we talked on many other issues, on how to resolve issues that our countries and the whole world community have to face — the issues of North Korea and Iran. Thank you for investing so much of your time and effort in that.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: On my part, I would say that the work has been complicated and protracted. We worked very hard for five years to complete the protocol on Russia’s accession to the World Trade Organization. Today this work has finished successfully. I would like to highlight that it would not have been possible if both Russian and American experts had not demonstrated goodwill, professionalism, and businesslike — in the best sense of this word — approach to the negotiations. And, of course, it would not have been possible without political will on the part of the U.S. President. I agree with you, George, that we have created a good background for further relations between us in all areas, including our joint efforts to address major international challenges. This sets the stage for stronger trade and economic ties between partners in the United States and Russia, and on a broader international basis.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 19, 2006, 18:22
Text versionEvents
Beginning of Meeting with President of the Republic of Korea Roh Moo-hyun
November 19, 2006
12:34
Hanoi, National Congress Center
Vladimir Putin: Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen!
I am very pleased to note that our meetings take place on a regular basis, and our interaction is expanding beyond an exclusive focus on problems and challenges. Trade is also growing, expected to reach nearly nine billion [dollars] this year. Our trade and economic ties are diversifying, notably across high-technology sectors, such as our plans to cooperate in space technology.
I am very pleased to say that the legal base of treaties underlying our cooperation is also strengthening. And, of course, international cooperation and crisis management are very important to us as well.
I hope that our today’s meeting will add momentum to the development of our diversified cooperation. Investment cooperation could, I believe, be the most promising area.
I am very happy to see you.
Roh Moo-Hyun (translated from Russian): This is our fifth meeting.
As you have just said, bilateral investment and trade are consistently on the rise. Our interaction is actively developing in many areas, including energy, defense, and manufacturing industries. I would also like to highlight our space cooperation. I place great hopes on the development of our trade with the Russian Federation.
Unfortunately, because of the unresolved North Korean nuclear problem, transport links between the North and the South are not very good, which causes certain problems. However, as soon as a permanent transport links between the Koreas is in place, this will hopefully further our cooperation with Russia, too.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 19, 2006, 12:34
Text version