Events
Beginning of the Meeting with President of Pakistan Pervez Musharraf
June 15, 2006
20:53
Shanghai
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, I am very glad to meet with you once again.
Our relations, and especially our political relations, are developing quite well. As we pointed out, we must both do a great deal to remedy our weak economic cooperation and to bring our relations to an entirely new level.
Along with this there are some unnoticed yet very important shifts that reflect increased trust in our relations. I am referring to our cooperation in the working group to combat terrorism and other contemporary threats.
There are a lot of sectors of the economy in which we cooperate. They include metallurgy, gas, transportation, energy and the high-tech field, including space exploration. The first steps that have been taken are truly positive ones.
If we pay constant attention to developing our relations then I am convinced that they will develop at a much faster rate that they have until now.
President of Pakistan Pervez Musharraf: It is my great pleasure and honour to meet with you once again. I well remember my visit to Moscow during which we discussed many issues in detail arrived at satisfying results.
In the first instance I would like to note the special help that Russia has provided us during Pakistan’s earthquake and, secondly, Russia’s support for giving Pakistan observer status in the Shanghai Cooperation Organization. At this moment I would ask that you support Pakistan’s candidature to become a permanent member of the SCO.
I have read the SCO Charter and I want to assure you that Pakistan can play a very important role in the SCO’s activities. Basically the SCO’s Charter maintains that we will all fight terrorism, separatism and extremism and that we will engage in trade and economic cooperation.
I want to assure you that we are going to work together and provide each other with all necessary assistance while obtaining common goals. And I would especially like to emphasize that Pakistan would very much like to have strong, close relations with the Russian Federation.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 15, 2006, 20:53
Text versionEvents
Answers to the Questions of Media Representatives Following the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation Summit
June 15, 2006
23:41
Shanghai
P.Rovnov (ROSSIA TELEVISION COMPANY): This was an anniversary summit for the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation and a perhaps a historic event. In your view, was this summit more about celebrations or about work, and what results have come out of it?
President Vladimir Putin: In content it was a purely working meeting. In terms of positive new developments I would note that we have expanded the scope of our cooperation. Our work together on security issues and our cooperation in this area continue to be a priority. I think that our organisation’s work in this area is one of the main things attracting interest from other countries that would like to participate in one way or another in our work, including as observers in the organisation.
We have also expanded our cooperation in other areas, above all in the economy. The important development in this respect is that business circles in the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation’s member states have created their own cooperation bodies, both in business in the broader sense and, separately, in the area of finance, and I think these are extremely important developments.
I think that this and the organisation’s growing influence in general are very significant because the organisation is playing an ever greater role in resolving the crucial task of stabilising the situation in this vast part of the world. This is especially important for us because we know how sensitive we are to problems in the countries east and south of our borders. There can be no doubt that work in this direction is one of our biggest priorities.
M.Petrov (ITAR-TASS): You have just held talks with the President of China and you said that our cooperation is developing quite well. What new steps were taken at this meeting and did you discuss any new projects?
Vladimir Putin: Our contacts with our Chinese partners take place on a regular basis and at the very highest level. I will soon have the opportunity to meet again with the President of the People’s Republic of China in St Petersburg during the G8 summit.
At today’s meeting we took stock of what has been done since my visit to Beijing. We have confirmed that earlier agreements are being implemented. Our trade is on the rise and I would like to note that over the first quarter of this year it was up 53 percent compared to the same period last year. These are very good results for our trade growth. We discussed the need to expand opportunities for Russia to export civilian machinery and technology to the People’s Republic of China. I will say in a moment what I am referring to here specifically. We also talked, of course, about improving our military-technical cooperation. We are dealing with big figures in this area, cooperation that is worth billions of dollars, and we want to maintain this level.
Regarding the goods for civilian use that I mentioned, you were present for the signature of agreements between Russian and Chinese banking institutions. These agreements are for a value of $500 million and will see China take its participation in joint projects within the framework of inter-bank agreements up to $1 billion, and they represent absolutely concrete industrial production plans. The sectors concerned include glass manufacturing, the pulp and paper industry, increased supplies of aviation equipment to China and a number of other high-technology goods.
All of this gives me reason to consider that today’s meeting was very successful.
F.Mayer (ASSOCIATED PRESS): Could you please comment on the results of the brief bilateral meetings you held, above all with the Iranian President? Did the Iranians make a response to the package of proposals on the nuclear issue?
Vladimir Putin: I think the results of the bilateral meetings that took place are useful for our delegation. This concerns, for example, pursuing our contacts with our colleagues from Mongolia. Mongolia is one of our longstanding partners and we have extensive cooperation. We are very much interested in expanding and raising the level of our trade and economic cooperation.
We have good relations with Pakistan, and I would say, indeed, that our relations have reached a new level, but there is still a lot to do to increase our economic cooperation. We discussed this at quite some length today with the President of Pakistan. So, both of these meetings were without a doubt very useful.
Regarding Iran, I see the meeting with the President of Iran as having been very positive. There are three important points I would note.
First, the Iranians have reacted positively to the proposals put forward by the six countries for ending the current crisis.
Second, our Iranian partners are ready to begin negotiations.
Third, I hope that the Iranians will formulate their position regarding the timeframe for the start of these negotiations in the nearest future.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 15, 2006, 23:41
Text versionEvents
Speech at the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation Council of Heads of State
June 15, 2006
07:48
Shanghai
Vladimir Putin: Dear heads of state of SCO member and observer countries!
Dear ladies and gentlemen!
First of all I want to congratulate us once again on the SCO’s anniversary. We made the decision to found the organisation about five years ago in Shanghai and I think that everyone will agree that history has confirmed the timeliness and strategic importance of the decision we made.
As it celebrates its anniversary the SCO has become a mature international organisation. An organisation that is able to effectively resolve issues with respect to stability, security and development on the territory of its member states.
It is not by chance that the interest in our organisation is growing. We are thankful to all the leaders of the SCO observer countries, the President of Afghanistan, and the representatives of international organisations who are in this hall for their interest in our organisation.
I shall also note that the SCO was and will remain open to cooperation. For all interested states and associations the SCO is a responsible and promising partner.
Dear session participants!
I am pleased that the heads of the SCO member countries have a shared understanding of how our future cooperation will develop. And today’s agenda directly reflects the key priority areas, both long-term and short-term ones, where we must concentrate our joint efforts.
First of all, within the SCO we have developed relations based on a truly equal partnership. And I would like to emphasize this: on an absolutely equal footing. And our significant, positive experience in working together, similar priorities with respect to development, and a common responsibility for our region’s destiny is the basis on which our relations will be built. For that reason it is important to strengthen these relations by concluding a multilateral agreement.
I am convinced that by establishing a system of measures and mechanisms to react jointly and effectively to the threats that face the region such an agreement would increase the SCO’s potential for cooperation even more.
We must increase our organisation’s potential to fight against terrorism and extremism. Our defense ministries must be actively involved in planning counterterrorism operations — I agree with what my colleagues said about this – and operate according to the guidelines that the SCO defense ministries laid out at the meeting in April.
I am referring to implementing the provisions contained in the organisation’s Charter. The SCO is also ready to engage in close cooperation with other countries and integration associations.
An important task involves intensifying the SCO’s range of ties with other international organisations. First and foremost the UN, ASEAN, the CIS, the CSTO, and EurAsEC.
Implementing the Agreement on Combating Illegal Drug Trafficking more rigorously is in all of our interests. The SCO must seriously enhance international efforts to combat drug trafficking. I will note that this issue is included in the agenda of the SCO-Afghanistan contact group.
It is possible to coordinate mechanisms to fight against drug trafficking within SCO member countries. All the interested ministries could agree about this in the very near future.
The theme of international information security is a new one for the SCO. Today the international community is paying more attention to this subject. I believe that the agreements reflected in the Statement will produce tangible results and that they will interest observer countries.
One crucial theme for the SCO is providing assistance in eradicating poverty, unemployment, and expanding access to educational and cultural facilities. Steps in this direction do more than simply help coordinate development in Central Asian countries — something we talked about when meeting in a restricted format — they are steps towards resolving major common tasks and increasing the well-being of our states’ citizens.
Undoubtedly, establishing an SCO Business Council and Inter-Bank Association creates new opportunities for economic cooperation between member countries. We expect significant results when our experts from academic and business circles meet in a forum.
We see interesting prospects in developing interparliamentary ties. In connection with this the results of the first meeting between heads of parliament of SCO member countries that took place in Moscow were positive ones.
I shall point out that the SCO has a sufficient organizational and legal infrastructure to actively engage in promising economic projects.
I consider that the proposal to create an SCO Energy Club is a topical one, as well as expanding cooperation in transport and communications. Along with this Russia is considering the possibility of providing credit to separate economic projects.
We give special value to tightening our partnership in the spheres of culture and education. Today it is important to increase the opportunities available to our countries’ citizens, first and foremost our countries’ youth, to increase the level of education and the development of academic, cultural and athletic contacts. We are ready to consider building several educational institutions in Central Asia to help achieve this goal. We are also ready to expand cooperation between universities, in particular by applying modern methods available for distance learning. You know that a number of steps to develop ties between youth have been taken. The logical next step would be to create an SCO Youth Association. I think that this could be a promising and interesting direction to take.
We must pay close attention to cooperation in the field of health care. One of the most important areas in this respect concerns preventing and treating epidemics and infectious diseases. This will lower the probability of an outbreak of an epidemic. And on the whole it will improve our citizens’ quality of life.
Dear colleagues!
During their SCO presidency our Chinese partners have really done their utmost so that our organisation celebrates its five year anniversary both festively and with emphasis on results.
Now Kyrgyzstan will assume the SCO presidency. I have no doubt that our Kyrgyz colleagues will do as much as they can to ensure that the organisation’s mechanisms work actively and effectively.
I would like to thank Mr Zhang Deguang who worked very productively towards establishing the secretariat. I believe that the best aspects of his work will be continued and developed by the representative from Kazakhstan Mr Bolat Nurgaliev who will act as Secretary General from 1 January 2007. I will also point out that the director of the executive committee of the SCO Regional Antiterrorist Structure, Mr Kasymov, has made an important contribution to the organisation’s development.
Dear colleagues!
Over the last five years we have done a great deal so that a successful and fruitful partnership could develop within our organisation. I am confident that the decisions we are making today will help further promote the SCO’s overall objective, that is to ensure stability, security and dynamic development in our states and in the region as a whole.
Thank you for your attention.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 15, 2006, 07:48
Text versionEvents
Press Statement following the Shanghai Cooperation Organization Council of Heads of State Session
June 15, 2006
09:58
Shanghai
Vladimir Putin: Dear ladies and gentlemen!
I agree with what was said to our Chinese friends and Chairman Hu Jintao regarding the extraordinarily warm welcome and the meeting’s interesting programme. The anniversary session of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization Council of Heads of State was perfectly organized and very productive.
We highly value the summit’s results. The decisions made during the meeting do more than define our future priorities. They establish concrete tasks in key areas of cooperation for the six SCO member states and observer countries.
Today we spoke a great deal about the significant results of our cooperation over the past five years. It is really true that since we made the Shanghai Declaration our organization has gained both political power and authority. And it has become a powerful factor in ensuring stability and security in Eurasia.
Today the attention that both states and regional associations are paying to the SCO’s activities is steadily increasing. This interest is proof that the member states have adopted a constructive and open position, and that our equal rights and mutually advantageous partnership is attractive to others. The documents that we adopted today will allow us to work effectively towards further strengthening and developing our organisation.
During the summit we confirmed how the organisation will establish creative cooperation between the various structures operating in the Asia-Pacific region.
We have acquired a lot of experience in independent, open and constructive cooperation and for that reason we are against duplicating activities, unnecessary competition, or creating closed clubs, barriers and divisiveness in the region.
One of the summit’s central themes was developing business cooperation within the SCO.
There are many ways in which our countries’ economies complement each other. For that reason we have a huge range of possibilities for cooperation in energy, developing natural resources, modernizing transport infrastructure and in other sectors. And not only through state structures but also by creating associations of entrepreneurs and financial experts within the SCO. As you know the SCO Inter-Bank Association started operating recently. And yesterday the first session of the organisation's Business Council took place. In general an effective and equal rights partnership can draw our citizens’ living standards closer together and transform Central Asia into one of the world economy’s most dynamic regions.
We also agreed to actively increase cooperation in the spheres of culture and education. Today the SCO member states act as an example of open and mutually advantageous dialogue. It is in our mutual interests to actively expand our ties in education, culture, sport and youth exchanges. Undoubtedly SCO members have things to share. Especially since our peoples established rich spiritual traditions and have made huge contributions to the world’s cultural heritage and civilization.
We also approved the idea of increasing contacts between the parliaments of SCO member states. The purpose of these contacts is to provide a strong legal basis for increasing cooperation.
When discussing regional issues we noted that the SCO will enrich cooperation with observer countries – India, Pakistan, Iran and Mongolia – and also with Afghanistan in many practical ways. Indeed, we formed a contact group with Afghanistan.
In connection with this I hope that if necessary, and especially in crisis situations, the SCO mechanisms can prove useful in resolving crises. And I expect that all our friends will help resolve the problem of our diplomats who have been taken hostage in Iraq. We are dealing with this problem constantly together with representatives from the international coalition who are responsible for their safety, Iraqi leaders, and our friends in neighbouring states. Today I will take advantage of the opportunity to discuss this problem when meeting one-on-one with my colleagues.
And in conclusion I would like to emphasize once again that the Shanghai spirit has become a reality in relations between our countries, relations based on respecting mutual interests as well as business, spiritual and cultural traditions. This is the guarantee for the SCO’s further successful development and is in the interests of peace and stability in the region.
Thank you very much for your attention.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 15, 2006, 09:58
Text version