Events
Answer to a Question at the Press Conference Following the EurAsEC and CSTO sessions
June 23, 2006
23:43
Minsk
Question: It seems that the CSTO and the EurAsEC have already accumulated a substantial amount of work experience. What results would you like to see? And another question. These days certain decisions were made, decisions that we wouldn’t have been able to imagine five or six years go. Russia is paying back the Soviet Union’s debts to the Parisian Club in advance payments. How would you evaluate this?
Vladimir Putin: The EurAsEC believes in free movement of capital, goods and people. These flows are the basis of the integration process. Of course none of this is possible unless our security is guaranteed. And in this respect cooperation between the EurAsEC and the CSTO is extremely important. In order to achieve these goals we are first going to create a customs union. And we will continue to deepen our cooperation, so that our integration is even more profound. On this account I am in complete agreement with my colleague, Nursultan Nazarbaev.
As to your second question, I can say that in the middle and at the end of the 1980s the Soviet Union really did incur significant external debts. These financial resources were allocated primarily towards resolving social problems, so that the state could fulfill its social obligations towards the citizens of the Soviet Union.
Today Russia does not require foreign loans to resolve such issues. First and foremost we use the increasing possibilities offered by our national economy to resolve these problems.
It is true that the government of the Russian Federation made the decision to repay the debts of the former Soviet Union ahead of schedule. The main reason for this decision by the Russian government is economic considerations, because it no longer wanted debts with such strict conditions. Repaying these debts ahead of schedule means that we do not have to pay interest on them.
According to experts the total savings amount to more then seven billion USD. And only this year the savings will amount to more than one billion USD.
With respect to these loans, of course we should thank our partners for the help they gave the Soviet Union at the time. And we confirm that we are ready to further cooperate in financial and economic issues in the international arena with all countries and all international organisations on an equal basis.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 23, 2006, 23:43
Text versionEvents
Speech at the Inter-State Council of the Eurasian Economic Community Session
June 23, 2006
19:42
Minsk
Vladimir Putin: Dear Aleksandr Grigorievich!
Dear colleagues, dear friends!
This summit’s agenda includes a number of extremely important issues connected with our present work and the further development of our Community.
I am not exaggerating when I say that today the Eurasian Economic Community is developing extremely dynamically. As a matter of fact, it is the main force behind economic integration in the CIS.
All the national economies of the Community’s member states have steady growth rates. And this positive tendency is proof of our steady progress – from a free trade regime and customs union to a common economic space.
Merging the Eurasian Economic Community and the Central Asian Cooperation Organisation will undoubtedly have a positive effect. Uniting the potential of the two organisations eliminates unnecessary overlap and helps ensure sufficient coordination within a common space.
The fact that Uzbekistan joined the Community marks a significant step forward in the Community’s development. It will help us accomplish many varied tasks in Central Asia.
I think that in light of the Eurasian Economic Community’s expansion, increasing the organisation’s effectiveness is key.
First and foremost, I am referring to creating a customs union with common regulation for foreign trade. This will take place within the larger process of forming a common economic space within the Community. I shall emphasize that we consider forming a customs union to be absolutely crucial and are bent on quickly completing this union.
I am convinced that the effectiveness of the Eurasian Development Bank must act as a determining and stimulating factor that will help strengthen our cooperation.
Establishing this bank created ample opportunities for investments and real mechanisms that will enable us create concrete large-scale projects to develop the infrastructure of the Eurasian Economic Community. First and foremost this concerns energy, water, transport systems and the high-tech field. Within the organisation we are also planning joint work in information technology, biotechnology, medicine, the environment and also in important industries such as mining, metallurgy and petrochemistry.
I shall remind you that this bank was created by the Russian Federation and by Kazakhstan. The nominal capital is quite large, we invested decent money – Russia invested one billion USD and Kazakhstan 500 million USD. We have completed all the procedures and we can now think about how to best use this instrument.
I want to emphasize cooperation between the Eurasian Economic Community and the Collective Security Treaty Organisation. It is not by chance that these two summits, whose participants are similar, are being held on the same day. They are determinant factors in ensuring integration and security on the territory of the former Soviet Union. They act as examples of effective models of cooperation between states that have common interests and goals.
I am convinced that today steady economic development is impossible without sufficient security. In connection with this, closer cooperation between the Eurasian Economic Community and the Collective Security Treaty Organisation is one of the most pressing tasks that will help protect integration from various threats. And today during a discussion in a restricted format it was perfectly visible how closely connected our economic, integration and security interests really are.
The Concept for Eurasian Economic Community’s International Activities will also help accomplish these goals. Confirming this document will represent an important step in deepening partner relations both within the Community and with other international organisations, including the CIS and the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation.
I hope that the decisions made today will have a positive effect on integration within the Community. They will open new opportunities for the development of our national economies. And this means that they will directly work in the interests of our citizens and their well-being.
And in conclusion, as I take on the torch, the presidency of the EurAsEC – we also talked about this today – I would like to thank Aleksandr Grigorievich Lukashenko on behalf of all my colleagues for the work he has done and the important contribution he has made towards developing integration in Eurasia.
Thank you very much for your attention.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 23, 2006, 19:42
Text versionEvents
Speech at the Collective Security Treaty Organization Council for Collective Security
June 23, 2006
22:05
Minsk
Vladimir Putin:
Many thanks, Aleksandr Grigorievich!
I would like to tell you, distinguished colleagues, that in a restricted format we had a very detailed and frank discussion that covered all the most important and delicate questions. We discussed key questions with respect to the development of the Collective Security Treaty Organisation in detail, as well as its gradual transformation into a multifaceted international organisation. I am confident that our work in an extended format will be just as successful.
We have to adopt a number of important conceptual documents that will define our common view of the CSTO’s further activities.
The joint struggle against the things that threaten global and regional security are issues on today’s agenda.
We must coordinate our programmes with respect to eliminating the illegal trade of weapons of mass destruction and the channels by which they can be obtained, and eradicate illegal small arms trade.
The efficiency of our states’ law enforcement agencies and special services are crucial in this respect. When meeting in a restricted format we talked about this in detail. We must examine and further improve the CSTOs rapid deployment forces in the Central Asian region. The corresponding document has been formulated.
We will soon celebrate the 15 th anniversary of our organisation. Over the years the CSTO has become a crucial instrument in ensuring security on the territory of its member states.
. The CSTO has become a powerful factor in improving the efficiency of integration in the CIS and an active partner of the Eurasian Economic Community.
The forthcoming anniversary must represent an important stage in furthering strengthening our coalition’s security system. Such a system would guarantee peace and stability in our countries, a favourable economic environment, and increase our citizens’ well-being. I consider that we should think about these issues today.
I would like to express my gratitude to Nikolai Nikolaevich Bordyuzha for his work and to the CSTO member states for supporting the proposal to prolong his position as Secretary General of the CSTO.
Dear colleagues!
I talked about the fact that we are soon getting ready to celebrate our 15 th anniversary and in connection with this I wanted to inform you that during our meeting in a restricted format we saw and noted with satisfaction the message from our partners from Uzbekistan that they are lifting their moratorium on active work within our organisation.
Thank you for your attention.
I am grateful to Aleksandr Grigorievich Lukashenko for the warm welcome and for the excellent organisation of our session today. And according to our Council’s provisions I suggest that the President of the Republic of Belarus assume the position of head of the Council for Collective Security. And in connection with what I just said, that our colleagues from Uzbekistan have lifted their moratorium on work within the organisation, then we will consider that as of this moment Uzbekistan is a full member of our organisation and a full participant in our work today.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 23, 2006, 22:05
Text version