Events
Beginning of the Russian-German Economic Forum
April 27, 2006
19:22
Tomsk
President Vladimir Putin: Mrs Federal Chancellor,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
It has already become a fine tradition that along with our regular Russian-German intergovernmental consultations our business communities also hold meetings together. I am very happy to have the opportunity to speak at such a representative forum of businesspeople today.
I would like to note that the growing interest business circles are showing in the strategic plans discussed at intergovernmental level, and the ideas and proposals you put forward, are an important reference for our governments.
The results of our bilateral cooperation over these last years show that this practice is justified. In 2005 alone trade between our countries rose by almost 38 percent and came to almost $33 billion by our estimates, and to an even higher figure — 39 billion euros – by German estimates.
This increase in trade was not just due to energy prices. Exports and imports of industrial and agricultural goods, production and scientific and technical cooperation have been rising from year to year.
German investment in Russia increased last year by two thirds – to 3 billion.
We plan to approve a number of major investment projects over the course of this summit. The Joint High-Level Working Group on Strategic Economic and Financial Cooperation Issues is working on their preparation.
I note that Russia is successfully demonstrating its industrial potential at exhibition venues throughout Europe, including in Germany. At this very moment a major international fair is taking place in Hanover, where Russia is showcasing the opportunities it offers.
Our aviation companies are preparing now for the ILA-2006 international air show in Berlin, all the more so as Russia has been invited to be the principal partner country for this event.
Cooperation in the strategic energy sector is also reaching a new level. Russia is a reliable supplier of energy to many European countries, including Germany. You know that Russia is presiding over the G8 this year and has made energy one of its priorities. I hope that the ongoing energy dialogue will enable us to launch promising new joint projects in the interests of sustainable global progress and economic and social development in Europe and throughout the world.
Expanding long-term and equal cooperation with Germany and other international partners is one of the Russian Federation’s foreign policy priorities. It is pleasing to see that the stable and consistent improvement in our country’s economic situation creates ever new opportunities for this work.
The Russian economy has been showing high economic growth for the last five years. The economy grew by 6.4 percent in 2005 and per capita GDP has more than tripled since 1999.
Our gold and foreign currency reserves have reached a figure of $212 billion. This year our country will launch a new mechanism for providing state support to investment projects – the investment fund. Almost 1.7 trillion roubles (roughly $60 billion) have been accumulated in the government’s Stabilisation Fund. This makes it possible for Russia to repay its foreign debt ahead of schedule.
In August 2005 Russia repaid a significant portion of its debt to the Paris Club of creditors. The total sum came to $15 billion of which our German partners, you, ladies and gentlemen, received around $6 billion. I imagine that this has strengthened the German business community’s trust in its Russian partners. This year we plan to settle in full our debts to the Paris Club. I hope that Germany, along with other countries, will be able to make use of our proposals.
It is our aim to integrate the Russian economy into the world economy as fully as possible and take into account the global trends underway in the world today. We place particular focus on diversifying energy exports and building up our transport potential.
We are working consistently to improve legislation in the area of business. We have liberalised our currency regulations and reformed the legal base for land use.
I would like to mention the entry into force of the laws “On Special Economic Zones” and “On Concession Agreements”. These laws offer investors considerable tax and customs breaks and particularly favourable administrative and land use conditions.
The law “On Consolidated Financial Reporting” is currently going through the adoption process. Its provisions will make it compulsory for companies to use international financial reporting standards and this will make Russian companies more transparent for foreign investors.
Russia’s credit ratings are also on the rise. Russia’s stock market index increased by almost 84 percent last year, and in this our country was the absolute world leader. This is confirmation of a better investment climate in our country today. Gazprom, a company that has long been a partner now for many of you here today, took another step forward yesterday, becoming the second company in its sector after Exxon Mobil to reach a threshold of $260 billion, making it the fourth company in the world in terms of capitalisation.
We hope that our German partners will react well to these positive trends, to put it modestly, and will choose to be more visible on the Russian market.
I would like to emphasise that here in Russia we value highly the experience and entrepreneurial talent of German businesspeople. The Federal Chancellor and I spoke a lot about cooperation between our countries yesterday and I fully agree that while supporting our ‘national business champions’, we must also focus on developing small and medium-sized businesses and create the necessary conditions for this sector of the economy to grow and expand. Only this sector can provide a solid foundation for stable growth and we are all well aware of this. I hope that we will find ways to work together in this area.
Once again I would like, in this respect, to express our gratitude for the help that Germany has provided and continues to provide in training young Russian managers. Many of our specialists who have done internships in Germany as part of the Presidential Programme are now working in companies focused on cooperation with German partners. The continuation of this programme and training for young people to work in joint ventures and multinational corporations in general is a significant resource that can fuel the growth of bilateral business ties.
Along with support for education, we in Russia have also begun work on major national projects in the areas of medicine, housing and agriculture. This does not mean that we were not working on these areas earlier, rather, it means that we have now decided to give them priority attention and significance. We have simply decided to focus on a certain number of areas to show where the state’s priorities lie. We know that our German partners have shown an interest in working with us in these areas and cooperation is already going ahead. I am sure that this work will bring mutual benefits.
Developing contacts between the regions is also of great importance. We can see how important this is through the numerous examples of projects between the Siberian Federal District and partners in Germany. We hope that the district’s presentation in Germany in 2007 will give a new impulse to these relations.
But the Siberian regions have immeasurably greater potential. Their proximity to natural resources, developed scientific base and innovative environment and their highly qualified workforce are all factors making them attractive for investment.
I would like to cite a few facts about Tomsk to support my words. Tomsk has the highest share of workers with higher and middle education in the general workforce in all of Russia – 110 people for every 10,000 residents, I think. Only Japan has a higher figure. The Tomsk Region is home to 270 companies working on innovative technology. This creates good conditions for developing cooperation and introducing new and effective ways of working together in science and education.
The region produces 15 million tons of oil and 21 billion cubic metres of gas. It has more than a billion tons in known reserves. This all represents entirely realistic projects that can be carried out.
In conclusion I would like to stress once more that we welcome new partners from Germany to the Russian market. At state level we are ready to provide support for promising initiatives. In particular, Mrs Angela Merkel and I have already agreed that this year we will set up a new mechanism in our bilateral relations – the German-Russian Foreign Trade Chamber. I know that this initiative exists and I for one would support it.
I wish the forum’s participants interesting discussions and success in your business.
Thank you for your attention.
Angela Merkel: Good afternoon Mr President, Ladies and Gentlemen,
I am happy that we are all here today. The German-Russian Economic Forum is continuing its fine tradition. Economic consultations have always been at the centre of attention in our intergovernmental consultations. The presence here of most of our Cabinet of Ministers shows just what importance we give this matter.
As has been said, economic relations between our countries are developing very well. Our bilateral trade increased by 24 percent and has now reached 39 billion euros. Germany thus remains Russia’s main foreign economic partner.
Innovative technology-based equipment is enjoying particularly high demand. This is a sign not only that German goods are very competitive but also that the Russian economy is engaged in a process of consistent modernisation. We all have an interest in seeing this process continue.
Regarding imports from Russia, energy resources continue to have the priority here. We spoke about our relations in the energy sector during our bilateral talks yesterday. These relations have been good and reliable for more than 50 years now and we expect this to remain the case. We will continue to expand this partnership.
Regarding energy production, production distribution and its effectiveness are issues of increasing importance all around the world. This autumn we would like to hold a joint German-Russian forum on energy issues. This issue is also very important in the G8’s work.
Our cooperation goes far beyond the energy sector. The business community representatives here today represent all the areas in which we work together. I must say that we should try to expand our cooperation to an increasing number of different areas. This could include such sectors as logistics, infrastructure, the aviation industry, medical technology and the banking sector – these are all key sectors.
I am grateful to the President for also raising the issue of small and medium-sized business, because the development of our partnership depends a lot on this sector, which provides 70 percent of the jobs in Germany. Small and medium-sized business needs a reliable base and infrastructure to support it and I think that in this respect the plan to create the joint foreign trade chamber is a very important step that will help businesses in this sector to find their way forward and find partners to work with.
We have come to Siberia to show our people back home that Russia is more than just Moscow. I am pleased that Siberia will be at the centre of our attention and our cooperation next year and that we will have the opportunity to learn more about its economy.
The German Economy Eastern Commission and the relevant partners on your side have agreed to give particular attention to this region.
I would like to conclude these few words by saying thank you to everyone who is involved in our economic partnership and who speaks out about both the positive aspects and the problems. I am looking forward to hearing what the business representatives have to say.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 27, 2006, 19:22
Text versionEvents
Press Conference following Russian-German Intergovernmental Consultations
April 27, 2006
23:50
Tomsk
President Vladimir Putin: Mrs Federal Chancellor,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
This round of Russian-German intergovernmental consultations has just ended. It has been the most representative round so far in the eight-year history of our meetings in this format.
Here in Tomsk we held what amounted to an away session of our two countries’ governments. The heads of 13 Russian ministries and agencies took part in the consultations, as did 10 members of Germany’s new government.
Our decision to hold these intergovernmental consultations in Siberia does not just broaden the geography of our meetings but also signifies the practical development of the regional component of the partnership between Russia and Germany. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Tomsk Region authorities and all the people of Tomsk for their warm welcome and hospitality.
First of all, I would like to say how highly I assess these two days of talks with the Federal Chancellor. I think it is of principle importance that we have reaffirmed our mutual commitment to deepening the strategic partnership between our countries. We are talking here not just of continuing and building on what has already been achieved over the last decades in our bilateral relations, but of taking active steps to move ahead and enrich the multilayered fabric of Russian-German cooperation.
During our intergovernmental consultations we discussed in detail the implementation of agreements reached during previous consultations and also examined our plans for the future. We noted that our bilateral trade rose by almost 38 percent in 2005 and reached a new record level. Russian statistics put the figure achieved at $33 billion, while German estimates are even higher and put it at 39 billion euros.
The inflow of German investment to Russia made itself felt in 2005 and showed an overall increase of 73 percent, which is a very good growth rate.
The major investment projects approved during these consultations aim at building on this trend. These projects concern above all sectors such as energy, transport, communications, aviation and space. The High Level Working Group on Strategic Economic and Financial Cooperation Issues is currently working on the details.
We place a lot of importance on making the Russian market more attractive for investment and on promoting Russian goods on European markets. The important banking sector agreements we have reached today will certainly be of help in this, in particular, the cooperation agreement between Vnesheconombank and Deutsche Bank on support for joint projects within the framework of a public-private partnership. The agreements concluded with the Russian Development Bank will also make a positive contribution. We approved the initiative to establish a Russian-German Foreign Trade Chamber in Moscow and have agreed to complete all the necessary procedures for setting up this institution by the end of the year.
The energy sector remains a priority area for our bilateral cooperation. Our countries have an interest in ensuring general European and global energy security as a foundation for the national and global economies. I would like to highlight the agreement signed between Gazprom and BASF on exchange of assets as part of the project to develop the Yuzhnorussky gas field. This is an ambitious project, a serious project, and one that will be carried out over many years. Annual gas production at the field could come to up to 25 billion cubic metres, and production will continue for 30 years.
I am very pleased to see that the quality of our cooperation is changing for the better and that our relations are not simply that of a partnership, but are now genuinely strategic in nature. I note also that this autumn we plan to hold an energy forum bringing together leading Russian and German companies. This forum’s objective is to help take the energy dialogue further and search for new and more effective forms and mechanisms of energy cooperation.
Among the projects we discussed that encompass Europe in general and Eurasia in scope, cooperation in the transport sector has a particularly important place, especially the plans of Russian Railways and Deutsche Bahn to speed up the transit of goods between Europe and the Far East. Active talks are underway with Siemens on building high-speed trains in Russia and creating the corresponding infrastructure and service base.
I also note the agreements on joint work between Russian and German partners in construction and in the housing and utilities sector. In particular, the German experience will be useful to Russia in carrying out its priority national project, Affordable and Comfortable Housing.
We have agreed to work more actively on developing programmes to make use of the possibilities of Russia’s Emergency Situations Ministry and Germany’s Interior Ministry and Defence Ministry in dealing with emergency situations in Europe and in other parts of the world.
We see good prospects for our cooperation in the aviation sector in general. The successful launch of the Salis project to lease An-124–100 planes for strategic air transport by European Union countries and NATO is a significant event in my view.
Humanitarian partnership plays an important part in consolidating the friendly ties between our peoples. We think it is essential to develop dialogue between civil society in both countries and to develop education and youth exchanges. The establishment in Moscow and Hamburg of a new youth cooperation body – the national youth exchange coordination offices – pursues precisely this objective.
The Petersburg Dialogue forum is also working energetically and productively in this area. The forum will hold its next session this autumn in Dresden.
During our consultations we exchanged views on a wide range of European and international issues, including settling the Iranian nuclear programme issue and the situation in the Middle East and Kosovo.
I note the productive work done by the bilateral High-Level Working Group on Security Issues. This working group has become an important mechanism for coordinating our foreign policy issue positions on the international arena, above all in the areas of strategic stability, the fight against terrorism, drugs trafficking and organised crime and the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
We are focused on continued close cooperation to ensure the handover of the G8 presidency from Russia to Germany in 2007. We have also agreed to develop our cooperation in forming a new quality of relations between Russia and the European Union, above all in creating the four common spaces on the basis of the relevant roadmaps.
In conclusion, I would like to say once more that Russia is ready to continue building an authentic long-term partnership with Germany. What is important for us is to see that Mrs Angela Merkel, the members of the German government, the German public and German business share this aim.
Thank you for your attention.
Federal Chancellor of Germany Angela Merkel: Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to thank our hosts, the Russian President, the members of the government, and above all, the Tomsk City Administration. Tomsk is not the biggest city in Russia and it had to prepare to hold this event here.
We have all very much enjoyed ourselves here. I am pleased that this morning we had the chance to look around a bit. I was very impressed by how intensive the relations were between Germany and Siberia in past centuries. The rector of Tomsk University showed us around the library and noted that the university’s professors used to travel every year to Humboldt University, and this was perfectly normal.
I can say today that we are on the right road to intensifying our relations and turning our dialogue into a strategic dialogue. We discussed a large number of issues at bilateral level. We spoke about the signature of agreements, which is a positive event and shows how intensive our contacts are now and what potential they have.
I spent four hours discussing all the different domestic and foreign policy issues, as well as bilateral matters, with the President. I think we can say that this was an open and intensive discussion and our views coincided on many points. But even at those moments when opinions diverged, we were also able to discuss this intensively and in a spirit of partnership.
We spoke about cooperation in the energy sector and this was also part of the public discussion. I was very pleased that, as the President also said, it has been forty years now that Germany and Russia have been working together in the energy sector. Both the politicians and the economists said often that this should continue and that our contacts should become even more intensive. I think that this is in our common interest.
Today a broad discussion is underway in Germany and in Europe about the need for natural resources to ensure energy supplies for our global world. It is good therefore that Germany and Russia have signed a number of agreements between companies in this sector, for example, the agreement between Gazprom and BASF.
I think it is very important that we make small and medium-sized businesses more involved in our economic relations. This sector provides 75 percent of the jobs in Germany. In this respect, the establishment of the Russian-German Foreign Trade Chamber in Moscow is a very important step that will help German small and medium-sized businesses get access to the Russian market.
We also discussed other projects in detail, cooperation on the financial markets, increased scientific exchanges and youth exchanges, for example. The President and I are taking upon ourselves patronage of youth exchanges in order to intensify contacts between young people in both countries. Yesterday we met with scholarship recipients and had a chance to see that these kinds of exchanges create intensive contacts that can last for many years.
In the area of cultural cooperation, I am pleased that the problem of returning cultural heritage that was displaced during World War II is going to be resolved.
Regarding foreign policy, we discussed, of course, the situation in the Middle East and the situation with the Iranian nuclear programme. We share the view that we must do everything we can to ensure that the international community acts in unity. We also agreed to continue our close contacts in the future.
Overall, I can only say a sincere thank you to you all. These consultations mark another step towards a deeper strategic partnership. We held excellent talks in a very friendly atmosphere. I think we have achieved a level of cooperation we can be proud of and can develop further. Thank you.
Question : The nuclear energy issue is very important in the context of the upcoming G8 summit. Mrs Merkel, as I understand it, Germany is cutting back its number of nuclear power plants. What will you do to replace this nuclear energy? And a question for the Russian President: we have just commemorated the twentieth anniversary of the accident at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant. How do you view the development of nuclear energy?
Finally, a more personal question: I know that you spent three hours at a restaurant yesterday. Could you say something about this?
Vladimir Putin: You were following us, no doubt.
Angela Merkel: It was not so long really, but we did have a good talk with each other.
Regarding the question of cutting back nuclear energy, there is a plan that calls for all the existing nuclear power plants in Germany to be closed down by 2020. Of course, this is the subject of continued political debate. As for what plans we have for replacing this energy, I can tell you that a very intensive dialogue is underway with the country’s business community. We have already launched this dialogue and we need to work out together how to work most effectively in the energy sector, how to make best use of our resources. We also need to ask ourselves how we intend to comply with our international commitments regarding carbon dioxide emissions. I am referring to the Kyoto Protocol here. This is the subject of intensive discussion in Germany. In any case, there is increasing awareness of the issues and I think that this is very good. This is about making people realise that energy and electricity do not just come out of a socket in the wall, and making people think about how energy is produced and how electricity is generated. You should continue following this discussion because there will be a lot of interesting aspects raised.
Vladimir Putin: I will begin with the most pleasurable part of your question, the restaurant. We did indeed spend quite a long time there and, as far as I could tell, the Federal Chancellor did enjoy the Siberian cuisine. She’s hinting that she even tried bear’s meat.
But this gave us the chance to discuss practically all the international issues on the agenda. We gave a lot of time and attention to the most acute issues of the moment: the Iranian nuclear programme, the Middle East, other regions of the world that are of interest in terms of ensuring global security and our own security. That is what we were busy doing for three hours yesterday evening.
Regarding nuclear energy, I spoke with President of Ukraine Viktor Yushchenko yesterday and we discussed precisely this issue and remembered this tragic anniversary, the anniversary of the Chernobyl accident. Incidentally, I want to note that despite the international community’s numerous promises to help Ukraine, practically nothing is being done in this area. Knowing as we do the scale of the tragedy and the scale of the problems that Ukraine is still encountering today, we agreed on what we can do together, on a bilateral basis, to help Ukraine in this area. But despite this tragedy, Russia realises that nuclear energy will continue to play an important part in the world’s energy sector in the future. The question is not whether to have nuclear energy or not, but how to make it safe. Modern technology, modern developments, make this possible. You know about the plans that different countries have in this area. The clear leader in nuclear energy in Europe is France, and in the world overall it is the United States. Both these countries have very ambitious plans for building new units. Of course, these projects are very capital-intensive to start with, but later they produce cheap energy and if properly operated, nuclear power plants are the cheapest and most environmentally friendly energy source, paradoxical though this may sound. I note that the G8 summit in St Petersburg plans to discuss energy in general and will also discuss nuclear energy with regards to supplies and to energy security overall. I think that everyone realises that ensuring the safety of nuclear energy is in the interests of all countries, whether or not they have nuclear energy programmes of their own. No one is indifferent to what their neighbours are doing in this sector because the Chernobyl tragedy shows that nuclear energy is global in nature no matter where it is being developed, and when it comes to the issue of nuclear safety, we all need to take part and we all need to think about this issue together.
Question: I have a question about Iran. The IAEA is due to present its report at the end of the week and it looks as though Mr El Baradei’s report will not be particularly positive. How will the situation develop from here? I know that you and the Chancellor want to pursue a diplomatic situation, but perhaps the time has come to consider the option of sanctions?
And a second question regarding energy security: before your meeting with the Chancellor yesterday, you said that Europe is using any pretext to put restrictions on Russia developing its nuclear energy sector, but today we have seen that a major agreement has just been signed in this area. What did you mean when you said that Russia is not being allowed to expand its influence in the energy sector?
Angela Merkel: Regarding Iran, it is certainly true that after Mr El Baradei presents his report at the end of the week, as you said, we will need to think about what to do next, and we will need to be clear on the steps we can take together in the future. There could be discussions in this respect concerning the IAEA and the UN Security Council. The political directors will be meeting at the end of May, as will the five permanent members of the Security Council and the ministers representing the European Troika. I do not want to look ahead now, but I want to say that as far as Germany’s position is concerned, we want the international community to continue working in unity, as has been the case so far, and to show Iran that we really do seek a diplomatic solution, but that Iran must abide by the commitments it has made. The issue is not to prohibit Iran from developing a civil nuclear energy programme, but is about the need to comply with agreements and obligations. The report will probably make this very clear once again. I cannot say anything for certain now, but we need a coordinated response that reflects the unity of the international community on this issue.
Vladimir Putin: You mentioned a diplomatic solution to the problem, but a diplomatic solution can involve a number of different possible responses. We will discuss this with our partners, with our European partners, with the United States and with the entire international community. It is our view that the IAEA should continue to play a key role and that it should not shift the responsibility for resolving problems of this kind to the United Nations Security Council, but this issue is already being discussed in the Security Council. As I said, we will continue to work together with all our partners. It is too early today to say exactly what decisions we will reach together. I think the main thing is for us to ensure that whatever decisions are reached, they must be coordinated and approved. The principle issue for us, and our position is very clear in this regard, is that we oppose the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, including in Iran. But we believe that Iran should have the opportunity to develop modern technology and nuclear energy for civil use. Ensuring that Iran has this opportunity while at the same time removing the international community’s concerns regarding its nuclear programme – this what we will decide through the negotiations with our partners and with Iran itself.
The second part of your question addressed our concerns about energy cooperation with Europe. As the Federal Chancellor just pointed out, energy cooperation between Russia and Europe dates back not just a couple of years but has been going on for decades now. My colleague and I discussed this in considerable detail yesterday. Even during the Cold War and the confrontation between two different systems that had the world balanced on the brink of nuclear war, Russia, the Soviet Union at that time, unfailingly fulfilled all its obligations under the terms of its commercial contracts with its European partners, to the exact day and hour. So, today we have to ask ourselves what fears we are talking about? Why is this fear of excessive dependence on Russia being whipped up when the world has changed so radically? We are always hearing about excessive dependence on Russia and about how steps should be taken to limit Russia’s access to the European energy market.
But why don’t you try to see things from our point of view. What do you expect us to do when we are always hearing the same thing day in, day out. We start to look for other markets. This does not mean that we plan to cut back our cooperation with Europe, because Europe is a natural partner for us, the most convenient partner for us, and so far it has always been a reliable partner. But when we keep hearing the same thing, we begin to see it as a threat that our access to markets could be restricted and so we begin to look for other options elsewhere. I don’t think anyone has any interest in seeing this happen.
Just to take the latest example, Gazprom did not even have plans yet to buy the Centrica company in Britain, but a leak in the press suggested that Gazprom was considering this acquisition. And what was the reaction? British politicians and business representatives immediately began saying that a separate law should be passed to limit the expansion of Russian energy companies into the European market. But what kind of reaction is this? What happened to globalisation and free market relations? What is going on here? In other words, if others come to us, that is investment and globalisation, but if we come to others, that is the expansion of Russian companies.
We need to reach some kind of agreement on general rules of behaviour. I was very pleased to hear that the British Prime Minister, I think, said that this kind of behaviour is unacceptable and that he will support any investors, including Russian investors, if they decide to participate in this or that company. I think that if we follow a partnership approach such as this we will be able to resolve even the most complex problems. We will be able to find solutions to even the most difficult issues.
Question: Germany and Russia are cooperating actively in Afghanistan, but there is still no end in sight for this campaign. Mr Putin, I would like to know what solutions you propose to combat the increasing drugs trafficking problem? I also have a question for the Chancellor: Germany plans to increase its contingent in Afghanistan from 1,600 to 3,000 people. Are you not afraid of the consequences? And a second question: I would like to clarify your position regarding the exchange of assets between gas companies and I would like to know your views on Gazprom’s attempts to acquire assets in Europe. Taking into consideration the situation with Centrica, can we talk of genuine economic integration in this context?
Vladimir Putin: Don’t go frightening our German partners with Afghanistan. Who will fight drugs trafficking, us? They have come to deal with these problems and we need to help them do this. We have taken an unprecedented step in recent history and have given Germany transit rights via our territory, something we have never done before. This is a sign of trust, this decision to allow the transit of military equipment and servicemen to Afghanistan practically without any restrictions. We see this as our contribution as a partner in the common effort to bring order to Afghanistan. The situation there is very complicated and I do not envy our partners.
We know all about Afghanistan. Russia now has to help its partners carry out this difficult and important mission that they have taken on, and we shall do this.
Angela Merkel: We think there is great interest in ensuring that Afghanistan develops in the right direction, becomes a stable country and that the suffering it has gone through finally comes to an end. This is a difficult process and it is one that will take a certain time. But along with the military presence in Afghanistan we are seeing progress of a different sort. The country now has a government and elections have taken place there. Knowing the history of this country we can say that such events in cases like this are very rare and that these are positive developments. We know that this mission is not easy but Germany has taken on this responsibility. We take decisions on sending the Bundeswehr to certain countries through discussions in our parliament, in the Bundestag, discussions in which the members of parliament take part. I think that Germany has made the right decision in making its contribution to bringing stability to Afghanistan.
Regarding the agreement signed between Gazprom and BASF, I am very pleased that we have managed to take this real step forward and that these two companies have reached agreements with each other. I also want to say that the issue of who can bid to cooperate with Germany is an economic development issue. This is our principle. We know, for example, that even in the central European Union countries, even when we are talking about countries that are both members of the EU, there is often debate concerning these kinds of economic deals, especially in the energy sector, because it is a sector that has traditionally been state-dominated and in many EU countries it is quite an emotional issue.
But the same rules apply here as apply to international trade in general and we cannot afford to take a protectionist line. This discussion is going on within the EU too. I spoke about this yesterday with the President and said that these issues are raised even between EU countries, and not just when Russia is involved.
Vladimir Putin: I already mentioned this issue. Regarding the deal between Gazprom and BASF, as I said, we welcome it. I think it is the best example to show that the Russian Federation and Russian companies seek far-reaching and intensive cooperation with partners in Europe, including with our German partners. This is the first such deal of its kind — a historical precedent — in that we are giving foreign partners access to gas production, giving them access to a major deposit that will be operated for decades to come.
But what is more important is that we see the same commitment to establishing a partnership relation from the German side. An independent evaluation of assets was conducted and an exchange of assets has been carried out. BASF has given Gazprom important opportunities to participate in gas distribution and transport assets in Germany. This has all been done on the basis of mutual interests. We will certainly respond just as positively to partners who wish to work with us in this way.
Question: My question is for the Federal Chancellor. The development of economic relations between Germany and Russia also means economic benefits for one country, in this case Germany. Economic indicators are on the rise in Germany and the ‘wise men group’ today issued its forecast for 2008 and predicted economic growth of 1.6 percent rather than 1.4 percent. Is this a sign of hope for economic growth?
Angela Merkel: When you look at how the Russian economy is growing, even Germany’s adjusted figures make us well aware that there are countries in the world growing a lot faster than we are. Good figures are figures that represent good news. The unemployment statistics have not been published yet, but we can guess that they will be better than they were before. I think this is a good sign and we can build on it, but we must not forget that we need change, reform and further development. All of this must take place as a stable and long-term process. We know too that forecasts can change and we are determined to continue our work and make the necessary changes, and in this we are moving in the right direction.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 27, 2006, 23:50
Text versionEvents
Beginning of Plenary Session of Russian-German Intergovernmental Consultations
April 27, 2006
20:14
Tomsk
President Vladimir Putin: Mrs Federal Chancellor,
Distinguished participants,
Today we are opening this new round of Russian-German intergovernmental consultations. Members of the new German government headed by Mrs Merkel are taking part in this work for the first time. I stress that this well-oiled bilateral cooperation mechanism that was created eight years ago continues to function well today and we all, myself included, see this as yet another sign of the solidity and continuation in Russian-German relations.
It was not by chance, of course, that we chose to hold these consultations in Tomsk, one of the business, cultural and scientific centres of Siberia. The Siberian region has great importance not only for Russia. It is endowed with immense natural resources and significant scientific and production potential. It is also a region crossed by the main transport routes linking the east and west of our broad European continent.
This all provides an excellent foundation for launching genuinely large-scale and long-term international projects. We just spoke about this at the meeting with the business community representatives.
Cooperation has been developing actively in practically all areas since the last round of consultations took place. The Federal Chancellor and I have already had the chance to discuss a broad range of bilateral and international issues. We share the view that Russia and Germany now have every possibility for setting and achieving new goals, more complex and large-scale goals, based on the level of partnership we have already attained.
I propose that we hold our exchange of views today in the light of this strategy. I will begin by briefly analysing what we have already achieved together and by outlining our plans for the future.
First of all I would like to say a few words about the economic aspect of our partnership. We have reached a record level in bilateral trade. Russian estimates put our trade turnover at close to 33 billion euros, while German estimates are a lot higher and put it at more than 39 billion euros. German investment in the Russian economy has increased by more than two thirds. We have laid the foundations for ambitious new joint projects in the energy and production sectors.
There are excellent prospects ahead for intensifying our cooperation in the high-tech and science-intensive sectors that will determine the future of progress in the world. This concerns the aviation and space sectors in particular. It is a noteworthy sign in this respect that Russia has been invited to be the principal partner country in the international ILA-2006 air show near Berlin.
Cooperation in the energy sector is of principle importance in our eyes. This includes cooperation on the North European Gas Pipeline project that got underway last December.
I note that a Russian exhibition, “Industry and Energy in Russia”, opened a few days ago as part of the annual Hanover Fair. The exhibition’s aim is to showcase our country’s immense potential as a reliable supplier of energy resources and technology. Furthermore, the exhibition also aims at drawing public attention to the question of global energy security, which is one of the main themes proposed by Russia during its presidency of the G8.
One of the tasks facing us today is to move away from the traditional, principally trade-based forms of bilateral ties and turn instead to large-scale scientific and industrial cooperation between our countries. The Strategic Economic and Financial Working Group can play a considerable part in this respect and I hope that the group’s co-chairmen will report in more detail on this and other areas of activity.
Dear colleagues, among the strategic priorities of both Russia and Germany, ensuring European and international security holds an important place.
Recently, we have taken steps to cooperate more closely on preventing new threats and challenges, including in as important an area as the fight against terrorism.
It is in our common interest to strengthen and develop this trend, and I ask our foreign ministers to give this issue their attention in their presentations and report on the results achieved over the last year by the Joint High-Level Working Group on Security.
Germany is one of the recognised driving forces of European integration and we hope for the assistance of our German partners in creating the four common spaces in which Europe and Russia will participate together. As you know, this is one of the key items on the agenda for the upcoming Russia-European Union summit in May. We also hope for continued close cooperation within the G8, where Russia will be handing the presidency over to Germany in 2007.
It is pleasing to see that humanitarian ties between our countries are growing stronger all the time. I would like to note the increasingly significant contribution made by the Petersburg Dialogue public forum in developing these ties.
The youth exchange national coordination offices that have been set up this year will give new impetus to contacts between young people in both our countries.
In conclusion I would like to say that the heads of the ministries and agencies have carried out very thorough preparatory work. I hope that they will report in detail on the current situation in their areas of responsibility, focusing on the main problems we face and ways to resolve them.
I welcome all of our German colleagues to Russia and it is my pleasure to now give the floor to the Federal Chancellor, Angela Merkel.
Angela Merkel (translated from German through Russian): Thank you very much, Mr President.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
President Putin has just spoken about the whole range of areas in which we work together. I would just like to add a few words. I think that the presence here of the different ministers is a clear sign that our strategic cooperation is based on a very broad foundation. Yesterday evening, along with our bilateral talks, we also spoke about scientific and marketing programmes with our partners and saw that it is precisely these programmes that have won a lot of approval, the DAAD academic programmes, for example. We also heard what the Humboldt scholars and others had to say. I am very pleased to see that our strategic partnership will continue in the areas of innovation, scientific research and education. The federal minister, Annette Schawan, will tell us about this in more detail.
I think that the economic forum also showed that our economy ministers have opened a large number of doors in the area of energy cooperation, and that we are looking to the future in our desire to improve cooperation in the different sectors. First of all, we want to and can give small businesses access to the Russian market, because 70 percent of our companies are small and medium-sized businesses. We also want to establish a bilateral Russian-German Foreign Trade Chamber.
Regarding foreign policy, our foreign ministers will speak first, as they will then have to leave for Sofia, and they will tell us about what is happening in this area. They are in constant contact with each other. I think they will soon be speaking with each other and holding consultations every day.
We have a great amount of common work. There are still some problems that need to be resolved. For example, we spoke yesterday about the steps we need to take in the area of culture with regard to returning cultural heritage that was displaced during World War II. I think that the message of these consultations is that we will hold a lot of discussions in our daily bilateral work and consult with each other on all that we have spoken about and make it part of our agenda and our work programme.
I would like to thank everyone for giving us the opportunity to come here to Siberia, to Tomsk. Looking back into the past and seeing how relations between Germany and Russia developed in past centuries, the library’s director said, for example, that many students who studied law at Tomsk University, and also their professors, often went to Berlin, to Humboldt University, and this was considered something perfectly normal. We need to try to come back today to that level of intensiveness in our relations.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 27, 2006, 20:14
Text version