Events
Speech at the National Awards Ceremony
March 23, 2006
20:21
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, dear friends!
Gathered here in the Kremlin today, in Catherine Hall, are people who have influenced and continue to influence national science, production, culture and education. People who have made a great contribution towards strengthening Russia's security and defensibility.
It is far from everyone who manages to attain such creative and professional heights. Achieving these heights requires — along with talent and competences beyond the norm — regular work and a high degree of civic responsibility,
Both society and the state recognize your personal victories. They act as examples for many people and inspire them in their creation, in their creative quest.
Today the highest rank of Russia, that of Hero of the Russian Federation, is being awarded to the test pilot Colonel Radik Bariev. He has risked his life more than once but his personal courage and high-level of professionalism helped him find the only safe exit from the most difficult situations.
Gathered here are people from the submarine fleet that is celebrating its 100th year anniversary this year. I am referring to first rank Captain Sergei Nikolaevich Klizhenko as well as Aleksei Ivanovich Malkin, Viacheslav Ignatevich Kanetskii and Vladimir Aleksandrovich Kuznetsov, who are all involved in building and renovating our war submarines.
Among the people receiving awards there is a whole group we refer to as our country's creative elite. They are really the idols of our society. The force and brightness of their talent is not only a source of admiration, they force people to think, reflect and help a great deal in making the right life choices.
For many of our country's citizens Nonna Viktorovna Mordiukova is more than just their favourite actress. They rightly consider her a truly national treasure and really unique.
I am sincerely glad to see film director and soldier Petr Efimovich Todorovskii here. The illustrious opera star Tamara Ilinichna Siniavskaia has conquered demanding audiences in both Russia and the world. I would like to especially point out the educational mission associated with her concerts abroad.
The songs of the excellent composer Oskar Borisovich Feltsman have won the hearts of millions of people. They can be heard not only on stage or in concert halls but in almost every Russian home.
Dear friends!
I have named only some of those outstanding people present in this hall, but Russia is proud of each person who could reach such a level in the area to which they have devoted their lives.
Your successes help reinforce our country's authority and provide a strong basis for the nation's spiritual, intellectual and business potential.
With all my heart I congratulate you on these honourable national awards and I thank you for your diligent inspirational work, for your military courage and selfless service to the Fatherland.
I wish you new victories, accomplishments and, of course, health and happiness.
Thank you very much for your attention.
* * * *
Dear friends!
Allow me to warmly congratulate you once again. You know this already without me having to tell you but I still would like to repeat: millions of people in our country watch our athlete's victories with admiration, take pleasure from and enjoy the work of our artists, use the fruits of our science, education, and watch, with special attention and awe, how our servicemen work in difficult conditions.
I would like to wish you new successes. I would like our athletes to jump higher, further, run faster, and swim better then anyone. I would like our artists to continue to give us pleasure and amaze us with their work, I would like us to feel protected by our servicemen, as if we were standing behind a stone wall. And if this is the case then our country will be invincible, prosperous, friendly, flourishing and successful. Our country will be one in which each citizen of the Russian Federation will feel comfortable and in which each citizen will feel proud of our great Motherland.
Thank you very much!
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: March 23, 2006, 20:21
Text version