Events
Russia – EU partnership crucial for united, prosperous Europe
November 23, 2006
15:02
Article by President Vladimir Putin
Before the next summit meeting on 24 November 2006 in Helsinki I would like to share my point of view with respect to relations between Russia and the European Union. And in the first instance I will address core, strategic issues.
Both by spirit and by historical and cultural traditions, Russia is a natural member of the European family. We have not set ourselves the task of joining the European Union. But when reflecting on the long-term prospects for our relations, I see no areas that should remain off-limits for an equitable strategic partnership, a partnership based on common aspirations and values.
It is obvious that when we speak about common values, it is necessary to take into account the historical development of a multifaceted yet united European civilization. It would be short-sighted and deeply erroneous to impose any mediocre, artificial template here. I wish to emphasise that we are open to the experience of other countries. However, Russia – a state with more than a thousand-year old history – has things to share with European partners. Including a unique experience in which various religions, ethnic groups and cultures coexist and mutually enrich one another.
In the past few years, the EU and Russia have become important political and economic partners. Such co-operation should not be used to the detriment of relations with other countries and regions. I personally believe this policy will benefit everyone, including the EU.
Our relations are becoming mature and well structured. Cooperation between our industries is gathering momentum, and our justice and interior ministries are participating energetically in dialogue. We are promoting scientific, cultural and humanitarian contacts in a streamlined and systematic manner with the goal of establishing four areas of common interest: economic issues and the environment; issues of freedom, security and justice; external security, including crisis management and non-proliferation; and research and education, including cultural aspects.
We also have similar approaches to issues of international security. Russia and the EU stand for strengthening universal regimes, primarily the non-proliferation regime. In spite of tactical differences, we have a common desire to find a fair solution to the most complicated international problems, such as the Middle East conflict or the issue of the Iranian “nuclear dossier.”
Russia is closely watching the EU’s evolution, not least because the pace of development of our relations and their future depend largely on changes in the EU. The Union could remain a predominantly intergovernmental association or acquire supranational functions. Russia wants its largest neighbour to be stable and predictable, and hopes that changes and expansion will not erode the EU’s uniform legal framework, primarily in the sphere of ensuring equal rights to all EU people irrespective of country of origin, nationality and religion.
We are developing relations with the EU with a view to the future, not the present day. I firmly believe that dialogue should not be limited merely to technical or “industrial” issues such as quotas, tariffs and anti-dumping and technical standards, although these are important and should be addressed jointly. Rather, I think we should first decide what we want from each other over the next several decades and what we can do for our people.
Russia’s approach to the future of European integration is well known. Our main objective is to create a common economic space and guarantee freedom of movement for our people, as advocated by our business, cultural and scientific communities. A long and complicated road leads to the fulfilment of these objectives, which are nevertheless quite feasible. Many partners in the EU share this approach.
We will soon start working together on a new accord to replace the partnership and co-operation agreement expiring in 2007. We hope the EU-Russia summit in November will give a boost to the negotiations. Our dialogue so far shows that we see eye-to-eye on many provisions of the future agreement. Russia thinks it should be a compact but politically significant document geared toward the future and stipulating clearly defined goals and mechanisms for equal co-operation.
I hope that joint work on this document will bring Russia and the EU closer together. Future talks should not deteriorate into an exchange of complaints. We will not be able to turn a new leaf in the history of our co-operation if we succumb to fear of growing interdependence.
Those who warn of the danger of Europe becoming dependent on Russia see Russia-EU relations in black and white and try to fit them into the obsolete mould of “friend or foe”. Such stereotypes have little in common with reality, but their persistent influence on political thinking and practice runs the risk of creating fresh divisions in Europe.
The past must not be used to divide us, because we cannot rewrite history. Our current goal is to join forces so that Russia and the EU can build a common future as partners and allies. Russia is prepared to work for this and I hope a constructive approach will also prevail in the EU.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 23, 2006, 15:02
Text versionEvents
Joint Press Conference with President of Finland Tarja Halonen following Russian-Finnish Talks
November 23, 2006
14:38
Helsinki
President of Finland Tarja Halonen: Good evening, ladies and gentlemen,
President Putin noted during our talks today that this is our fourth meeting already this year. I don’t know why, perhaps because we always have so many issues to discuss, or perhaps because we discuss all these issues at quite some length, but we never have enough time. Nonetheless, it is always useful and productive to discuss the questions of interest to both countries.
We concentrated mainly on bilateral issues this evening. As you know, our two countries have excellent relations and this is not news. Our trade and economic ties are growing fast and our bilateral trade is now in the double figures. We also have close and active cooperation in other areas.
We also discussed practical matters today. We spoke about transport, border and customs cooperation and about how we can make our common border operate more efficiently in order to handle the growing amount of traffic. I am very pleased that our respective ministers and the heads and officials from our border and customs services have made good progress on these issues.
I am not saying that there is any simple solution to these problems, but we noted that both sides share similar views on how we can go about resolving these issues, including through organising road traffic flows and improving cooperation between the different agencies.
As has already been said, we will continue our talks this evening, and so we have not yet discussed all the issues on our agenda. It will be a pleasure for us to continue this dialogue.
President Vladimir Putin: First of all, I would like to thank my Finnish colleagues for this invitation. In terms of the people taking part, our meeting today was more like intergovernmental consultations.
Finland remains one of Russia’s most important partners within the European Union.
Over these last six years, our bilateral trade has grown steadily and this year will see it increase by around 15–17 percent.
We did indeed pay considerable attention to the question of developing the border infrastructure between our two countries and to trade in general. The fact of the matter is that trade volumes and traffic flows are growing at such a pace that the existing infrastructure can no longer keep up. Resolving this issue requires a comprehensive approach that includes re-channelling freight traffic through different border crossing points and making more active use of rail and sea links. It also calls for us to simplify and automate customs procedures and exchange information on freight traffic flows. Our respective prime ministers will hold a meeting in Moscow at the end of November and will examine all of these issues in detail. But we are already taking measures now to respond rapidly and improve the situation on the border.
We greatly appreciate Finland’s role, as the country currently holding the EU presidency, in developing relations between Russia and the European Union. We have worked consistently on implementing the roadmaps for the four common spaces.
Finland has also played an important part in developing cooperation within the framework of the Northern Dimension.
We will have the chance during the second part of our meeting today to discuss other bilateral matters and talk about issues on the international agenda.
I would like to thank Mrs Halonen for the very friendly spirit of today’s meeting and for the results our talks have produced. Thank you.
Question: This is a question for both presidents. You spoke about the prospects for developing cooperation but said practically nothing about the energy sector. What bilateral plans are there in this sector? And how do you assess the overall mood and spirit of Russian-Finnish relations?
Vladimir Putin: Finland is also one of our main partners in the area of energy cooperation. Approximately 90 percent of Finland’s gas comes from Russia. Supplies of crude oil and oil products are also increasing. We are interested in working with our Finnish partners in a number of other areas in the energy sector, above all in high technology. I must say that Russia and Finland have proven themselves to be reliable partners in their relations. We have plans to develop these relations and increase volumes in practically all areas, and at state level we will do everything necessary to support this cooperation.
Tarja Halonen: I would just like to say briefly that energy issues are of interest not only in terms of our bilateral relations. They will most likely also come up for discussion at the Russia-EU summit tomorrow. They are of interest to the entire European Union in the sense that Russia supplies more than a quarter of all the energy consumed in the European Union.
Energy issues were on the agenda at the G8 summit in St Petersburg last July, and at the informal Russia-EU summit in Lahti in November. The discussions were positive in the sense that both sides share a common view on the main development principles and vectors.
During its presidency of the European Union, Finland has sought to step up the energy dialogue between the European Union and the Russian Federation. I think that everyone is happy that this issue is receiving such attention.
As far as trade and economic relations between Finland and Russia are concerned, everyone knows that Russia is our biggest energy supplier. But I want to add that cooperation in the high-technology sector is set to be one of the main areas for our work together in the future. I also want to note that although Russia has vast energy resources of its own, it is pleasing to see that both Russia and Finland have signed the Kyoto Protocol and place great importance on energy conservation.
Question: Poland is obstructing the start of talks on a new Russia-EU partnership agreement because of disputes over meat supplies. Now there is talk that Russia plans to introduce a ban on agricultural goods, including meat, from the entire European Union. If this is indeed the case, why are the current disputes with Poland now being extended to the entire European Union?
Vladimir Putin: The disputes with Poland are not being extended to the entire European Union. What’s more, we have no problems with the quality of Polish products, including agricultural produce. We are perfectly satisfied with the quality of Poland’s goods.
The problem is that the Polish authorities are not properly controlling the meat products from other countries, including countries whose meat imports have been banned in EU countries and in Russia, and these meat products are finding their way onto the Russian market.
This negligence on the part of the Polish authorities is dealing a blow to Poland’s own producers. It is this situation that explains why we have had to impose this ban on meat products. But we do not see any insurmountable problems here. Many countries unfortunately encounter customs regulations violations, including Russia itself. We have a good number of similar problems. The way to settle issues of this kind is to sit down at the negotiating table, come to an agreement and look for acceptable solutions. In this situation it’s important to protect not the swindlers and schemers involved in smuggling, but the interests of one’s own producers.
As for the question of meat from the rest of the European Union, this is a separate issue and is linked to the accession of two new countries, Romania and Bulgaria. Unfortunately, during these countries’ accession process, our colleagues from the European Union did not hold preliminary consultations with us on a number of problems of mutual interest. To be more precise, I am referring to officials from the European Commission and not to the European Union member states.
The problem is that we have food safety issues with these countries and this creates a dilemma for us because meat products from these countries will benefit from the same rules as goods from all the other EU countries and will end up on our market, but we have certain issues regarding these products that must first be resolved.
So, there is no political motive behind this issue. It is a matter for practical negotiations. I think that we will all have the chance to discuss these questions tomorrow and we will certainly examine these matters. This is why I have come here.
Question: I would like to come back to Russian-Finnish relations and put two questions to both presidents. Why is Finnish investment in the Russian economy growing so slowly? This is more an exceptional situation today than the rule.
And second, the Finnish media write a lot about the situation of the Finno-Ugric peoples in Russia. Do Russia and Finland have any plans to do something to improve the situation of the Finno-Ugric peoples?
Tarja Halonen: I will answer this question in Finnish since it is about our bilateral relations. Regarding Finnish investment in Russia, our investment is growing quite fast but probably not as fast as Russia would like. There are several reasons for this. One is that the goods we export to Russia can be produced here in Finland, and so there is no need to build production facilities in Russia itself.
I already congratulated President Putin on the good progress made in negotiations for Russia’s accession to the World Trade Organisation. I think that once this process is complete and settled, Finnish businesses and companies will invest more in the Russian economy. I am not given to boasting, but I would like to point out nevertheless that even as things stand today, Finnish companies provide employment for around 30,000 Russians. Furthermore, Finnish companies are showing an ever increasing interest in investing in the Russian economy, and I am happy to see that our discussions also touched on the issue of making greater use of our common scientific and technological potential. We also discussed logging industry issues.
Overall, I am sure that Finnish investment in Russia will grow at a faster pace in the future, and we have already achieved some good results today.
Vladimir Putin: I agree. There could be more investment. Investment in 2004 came to around $600 million, and now it is a bit more than $700 million – around $740 million.
There are two important factors here. The first is Finnish companies’ possibilities for investment, and the second is the conditions that we in Russia create for investment. I can talk only about the second factor. I do not think that investment conditions in Russia have always been optimal, although they have improved from year to year. We have now passed a whole series of laws that protect property rights, including intellectual property rights and rights on the securities market. Ms Halonen just mentioned our cooperation in the logging industry. As you know, we are in the process of passing the new Forest Code. This will give businesses working in this sector the opportunity to take out long-term rent of large tracts of forest for rational use. This is also a means of creating good conditions for encouraging bigger investment flows. We have taken a good number of decisions of this kind in Russia recently. You know, too, that we are creating zones with special administrative and customs rules, above all, zones for working in high technology and developing the tourism industry. We have also passed a law on concessions.
I hope that all of these measures and decisions will create better conditions for investment in Russia. I have no doubt that we will soon begin to see the results. We will also encourage Russian companies wanting to invest in the Finnish economy, and I hope that Finland will also create the necessary conditions for Russian investment.
Tarja Halonen: President Putin and I have discussed the situation of the Finno-Ugric peoples on many occasions. I think he is clearly aware of the situation of these peoples in Russia today. I am interested by the life and the situation of all the people in Russia, but I can be frank in saying that the life of the Finno-Ugric peoples, of course, interests me most of all. President Putin has already invited me to come to Russia and see for myself how these peoples live today, and I think that a visit of this sort will be organised.
Vladimir Putin: Finland has traditionally shown particular interest in cooperating with the neighbouring regions in Russia. This is understandable, because contacts are most intensive precisely in these regions.
As for Finland’s interest in the Finno-Ugric peoples in Russia, this is also completely understandable. We fully support this interest and see it as another of the threads that bind our two countries together. I thank the President for accepting my invitation to come to Russia next summer and visit some of the areas where Finno-Ugric peoples live.
Question: I would like to ask my question in Finnish. When will urgent measures be taken to remove the barriers and obstacles in the way of trade and investment and resolve the problems we have in crossing the border?
Vladimir Putin: I already outlined our views of these problems in my opening remarks. It is hard to ignore these problems when we see the huge queues building up at the border. This is linked to the fact that large amounts of freight traffic, including from outside Europe, come through Finnish ports and then enter our territory. Our trade with Asian countries is increasing all the time and the Russian-Finnish customs infrastructure is simply not able to keep up with this increasing volume.
This situation is also due to the fact that some of our neighbours have introduced additional rules for freight crossing their territory, and this also redirects freight flows to the Finnish border. And then trade between Russia and Finland and between Russia and the European Union in general is also growing. Last year, six million people, two million cars and 700,000 buses crossed the Russian-Finnish border. Of course, neither the road network nor the border crossing point customs infrastructure can handle this kind of increase in volume.
What then is the solution? Of course, we need to redistribute the flows between different types of transport and different crossing points. We in Russia need to better organise our customs procedures along the entire length of our border so that the people sending the freight wouldn’t need to haul their goods across the entire world to Finland and from there into Russian territory. We need to simplify our customs and border procedures, remove from the crossing points the various organisations that have nothing to do with customs clearance of freight, and introduce an automated freight inventory system. We need to sign intergovernmental agreements on exchange of electronic data on freight crossing the border and work together on combating smuggling. These measures have all been planned and will all be implemented. Some of them are already being implemented. We discussed some of them today and will discuss others tomorrow together with the European Union. And, of course, we need to put money into this work. We need to build new crossing points, new roads and passes.
Of course, this cannot all be accomplished overnight, but we won’t be able to resolve this problem without serious investment in infrastructure development. We will carry out this work.
Tarja Halonen: I would like to sum up what has been said today. During our talks today we discussed many measures that can improve the situation. We discussed the working hours of the border crossing points and agreed that they ought to work around the clock. We also discussed the need to increase the number of personnel working at the border, the need to improve traffic management and cooperation between the different agencies. These are all measures that we can start implementing in the short term.
We also discussed the measures we can implement in the long term. Whether these measures are implemented on a bilateral basis or within the framework of the European Union is not so important. What is most important is that both the Russian and Finnish authorities share similar views on how to settle these issues. We spent a considerable amount of time today discussing precisely these matters. I can assure you therefore, that these issues will get all the attention they require, including during contacts between our prime ministers.
I would just like to add that the ministers responsible for the issues in both countries are present here today. I hope that they will be available to answer your questions following this press conference. Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 23, 2006, 14:38
Text versionEvents
Written Interview for Russkaya Mysl Newspaper
November 23, 2006
07:46
Question: The European Union will undergo another enlargement next year. What impact do you think past and future EU enlargements have had and will have on relations between the EU and Russia? What is your vision of the problems in interaction between the EU and Russia, and what do you expect from the upcoming summit?
Answer: European Union enlargement inevitably has an impact on our relations. The main thing is to avoid problems and find constructive solutions to any problems that do arise. This is the approach to which we are committed.
Regarding Bulgaria and Romania, we hope that their entry into the EU will not damage the ties that we have built up over many years with these countries, both of which are among our traditional economic partners.
As for the results of the enlargement in 2004, which saw the EU take in 10 new member states, I remind you that at that time the Joint Declaration on EU Enlargement and Russia-EU Relations was drafted and adopted. In particular, it set out each side’s commitments in a number of areas such as trade and economic cooperation, transit to and from Kaliningrad Region and the rights of ethnic minorities.
Most of the economic issues have already been settled. Over these last two-and-a-half years we have put in place passenger and freight transit schemes for Kaliningrad Region that have made it possible to organise the transport flows to and from this region in general. There are just a few details that remain to be fine-tuned. We hope that the upcoming entry of Poland and Lithuania into the Schengen zone will not restrict freedom of movement for the people of Kaliningrad Region and that the current transit scheme will continue to operate effectively.
I must note, however, that Russia is seriously concerned about the lack of real progress in the situation for the Russian-speaking population in Latvia and Estonia. These countries are now EU member states and this makes the problem of the ‘non-citizens’ in these countries an issue for the entire European Union. This is an issue of the rights and freedoms of a considerable number of people living on EU territory. We plan to raise the question of fulfilling the relevant commitments of the Joint Declaration at the upcoming summit in Helsinki.
I want to stress what I think is an important point, and that is that relations between Russia and the EU are not just about certain economic sectors or about certain political issues such the ‘frozen’ conflicts in the post-Soviet area. Our cooperation is far broader and concerns almost every area of our peoples’ lives. We need to focus on new positive goals and constantly open up new avenues of cooperation for all Europeans, create new opportunities for their joint business and humanitarian initiatives and projects.
We have agreed to begin talks on drafting a new document to replace the 1997 Russia-EU Partnership and Cooperation Agreement that is in many ways outdated now. The European Commission has requested a mandate to hold talks with Russia on the content and scope of the future agreement, and we expect the Commission to receive this mandate very soon.
It is my conviction that we need to talk about creating the legal foundation for long-term strategic partnership and cooperation. At the upcoming summit in Helsinki we will discuss a range of issues related to creating precisely this kind of legal foundation for our relations. Overall, we are committed to a businesslike and constructive dialogue on all areas of relations between Russia and the EU.
Question: Immigration has become a pressing issue not just for Western countries over recent years, but for Russia too. How open will the Russian labour market be to foreign workers, and what is the impact of the brain drain from Russia to other countries?
Answer: I agree with you that developing an effective immigration policy is equally important today for Russia and for the other countries of Europe, and I note the common approach that our countries share to resolving the problems that arise in this area.
Our goal is to radically improve our legislation in this area in order to bring immigration into the open and make it legal. We are focusing particularly on integrating foreign workers into Russian society based on the principles of respect for the laws and respect for our cultural, historical and religious traditions and customs.
Various estimates put the number of foreign workers in Russia at between 10 million and 15 million people, but only 500,000 of them are working legally. This is the root cause of many problems, including poor working conditions and low pay for immigrants working illegally, violations of their rights, and criminalisation of unlawful employment.
A number of legislative initiatives have already been passed which, on the one hand, make it easier for foreign workers to register, and on the other hand, toughen the penalties for breaking the immigration rules and unlawfully using foreign labour. We also intend to encourage immigration to the parts of the country and the economic sectors that are important for Russia’s development and that face labour shortages.
As for the problem of the brain drain from Russia, this is something affecting many European countries. This is the reality of today’s global economy and global scientific community. With regard to Russia in particular, the brain drain was also provoked by the economic instability of the 1990s.
In an open and democratic society, factors such as high living standards, stability, security, and opportunities for professional and creative self-realisation all have an impact on the choice of where to work. In this respect, the situation in Russia has undergone great change.
Russia’s fast-growing economy, its high-technology sectors and companies are all becoming more attractive in terms of the opportunities they offer for good high-paid work. We have been working hard to ensure decent conditions for research activity in Russia. Wages in the academy have risen and we are focusing especially on raising the wages of young scientists. We are implementing programmes to create technology incubation zones, technology parks and develop an innovative environment. I note that many professionals and academics who left the country are now considering returning to Russia. I am certain that as the country continues to grow and become stronger, there will be more and more reason for them to decide to come back home.
Question: The second World Congress of Russians Abroad was held in St Petersburg in October this year. What are the priorities for the government programme for work with Russians abroad? What influence do you think Russian-language publications abroad can have on forming the image of Russia abroad and helping to unite the Russian diaspora?
Answer: I would first like to say a few words about the scale of the issue. The Russian diaspora comes to around 30 million people, with 10 million of them living in Europe alone. This is one of the biggest diasporas in the world. There are countries where Russians account for more than 20 percent of the population.
It is only natural that we feel concern for the fate of people with whom we are bound by uninterrupted cultural, historical and spiritual ties.
What is important to us is that our compatriots abroad have the possibility of preserving their ethnic and cultural identity, be able to protect their lawful rights and interests and, if they wish, return to their homeland.
The main elements of our support for Russians living abroad are legal protection, organisation of holidays for children, medical assistance for veterans, supplying teaching materials, providing support to Russian-language theatres and training for teachers.
We have a federal programme, Russian Language, aimed at strengthening the position of the Russian language abroad. As for those of our compatriots who wish to resettle in Russia, the state helps them to move here and settle in, including by helping them to go through the necessary legal formalities, obtain employment, and receive pension and education entitlements.
Twelve Russian regions are looking to take in compatriots abroad wishing to resettle in Russia, and they have already presented their proposals on employment and social support to the government. The first stage of implementing the programme to assist voluntary resettlement will begin in 2007. A total of 4.6 billion roubles has already been allocated in the federal budget for this purpose.
The main objective of another document, the 2006–2008 Programme for Work with Russians Abroad, is to help consolidate the different organisations set up by Russians abroad so that they will be better able to defend their lawful rights and interests, including their ethnic and cultural, economic and political interests. I think that the organisation of global and regional conferences and the creation of a special print publication and corresponding Internet portal for Russians abroad will help to unite the diaspora. What is particularly important is that we are also supporting regional and country-based publications for the Russian communities abroad.
In Europe alone there is already a whole range of media aimed at a Russian-speaking audience. We can now speak of the formation of a Russian-language media space in Europe. These are newspapers and magazines living according to the laws of the European information market, and therefore a part of the European continent’s common information space. We must not forget Russian television, too, which offers European viewers the international versions of its programmes: Channel One, Rossia, NTV, and Russia Today.
Many Europeans, especially young people, study Russian and read the Russian-language press. The diverse and accurate information about the country and the not always straightforward processes underway here that they receive helps to create an image of the real Russia and break down old stereotypes. As I said in my address to the World Congress of Russians Abroad in St Petersburg, maintaining the Russian-language space is one of the priorities for our work with our compatriots abroad, with those for whom Russia has always been and will always remain a centre of attraction for their diverse interests. Europe’s Russian-language press can make a useful contribution to uniting this ‘Russian world’ – a world of science and learning, a world rich in history and traditions.
Question: There are those who say that Russia is taking a new road to development, a road that differs from that of either the West or the Asian countries. Do you agree with the assertion that Russia is following its own road, and what is your vision of this road?
Answer: Let me begin by saying that in today’s interdependent world, it is really only by convention that we still speak of a ‘Western’ or ‘Asian’ development path.
Russia is building its statehood on the foundation of democratic values and freedoms and is working consistently to strengthen the institutions of its civil society. The goals of our policies are to make market relations more efficient, to develop opportunities for our citizens to realise their business and creative initiatives, and to provide better social guarantees for our people. We are perfectly happy to draw on the positive experience of our partners in Europe and in other parts of the world. At the same time, we strive to make the fullest use of our own truly inexhaustible potential, our unique culture and the traditions and historical experience of our peoples.
Russia, like any other country, is unique. Only we can travel our road, and it is up to us to make it a success.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 23, 2006, 07:46
Text version