Events
At the Beginning of the Meeting with Leaders of Islamic Organizations of Russia
January 10, 2006
20:10
The Kremlin, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon dear friends!
Our meeting is taking place during one of the most important Muslim holidays – Kurban Bairam (Eid al-Adha). At the beginning of our meeting I would like to give my best wishes to you and to all Russian Muslims celebrating this holiday, and wish all the Muslims of our country happiness and well-being.
I know that in your prayers, sermons and dialogues with people you always return to Islam's very fundamentals and Islam, like all peaceful religions, is based on kindness, on faith in kindness. I am absolutely convinced that our common faith in kindness, in justice and in our unity is the very best way to strengthen our country.
I would like to thank you for this. I would like once again to congratulate you and to wish you all the best. I wish you happiness and well-being!
Talgat Tadzhuddin: We transmitted and read your greeting to believing Muslims. And millions and millions of devout Muslims convey to you their kindest greetings and wishes. The New Year, Christmas and Kurban Bairam almost coincide; they are very close together and have formed a real 'holy trinity'.
Ravil Gainutdin: For our part we would also like to wish you all the best on the holidays, and a Happy New Year and Merry Christmas. Today this great Islamic holiday is celebrated by all of our peoples and I consider it our shared holiday. They are watching us on television. Our fellow citizens understand us. All our addresses are undoubtedly made so that Russian citizens understand what we want to say. And we want to say that Islam, our religion, is a peaceful and kind religion. In your speeches you draw a great deal of attention to Islam and the fact that Russia is a friend of Muslim states. Your words are listened to with great attention say and there is hope that Russia will strengthen its ties with the Islamic world. As a part of the Islamic world, we remain citizens, love our country and want to live in peace and harmony as the neighbours of our Christian and Jewish brothers. And by the grace of God we are able to do so. We have lived in harmony for centuries. Today we cooperate so that there is peace, stability and serenity in this country. Such as when you spoke in Chechnya and said that for Muslim countries Russia always acted as a guarantor of stability on our continent.
We all value very highly the fact that today Russian is developing friendly ties with our brotherly republics of the former Soviet Union. Both with Azerbaijan and with Kazakhstan, where we know you are planning a trip. Today we also sent greeting to Nursultan Abishevich Nazarbaev and through you we would like to transmit to him our best wishes on behalf of all Russian Muslims and our wishes for his success, just we would like to transmit our wishes to you, Mr President. May Allah give you health, may Allah give you success. And you know that as Muslims we support all your efforts designed to keep peace, friendship, stability and cooperation between our peoples and our religions.
We thank you for paying attention to our problems and that you are ready to solve them with together with us. Many thanks for today's reception and greeting.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Ismail Berdiev: The situation in the Caucasus is now quieter, more stable. Thank you for having chosen the right policies. In mosques when people pray they already have started to ask, to pray for the President, to pray that everything works out for him. So that, by Allah, everything works out, everything is good.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much.
Today we said that our holidays coincided. In any case New Year, Christmas and today's holiday, Kurban Bairam, are very close in time. I know that Islamic clerics attended Christmas services. I know that Orthodox priests attended the events celebrating Islamic holidays. I talked to the Patriarch Aleksei II literally the other day. I know that he has excellent relations with his Muslim brothers. And this is very good.
However, there remains a serious issue that we discussed today at the meeting with Cabinet Members, namely the return of pilgrims who were in Mecca. There are problems linked with infectious diseases, with avian flu, and with intergovernmental communications. Some countries have closed their borders. And we must resolve the problem of the safe, timely, trouble-free return of our citizens to the Russian Federation, to their homes. We must make sure that this takes place as comfortably as possible for them and without any problems. The Government is taking necessary measures through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And I hope that this will be done in contact with you so that no problems arise. We must help these people return home.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: January 10, 2006, 20:10
Text versionEvents
Excerpts from the Transcript of the Meeting with Cabinet Members
January 10, 2006
19:10
The Kremlin, Moscow
ABOUT THE PROBLEM OF THE SPREAD OF AVIAN FLU
President Vladimir Putin: I asked the head of the 
Federal Service on Supervision in the Sphere of Protecting Consumer Rights and Human Prosperity, Gennadii Grigorevich Onishchenko, to come to the meeting today. Please tell us about the situation in Russia concerning the problem of the spread of avian flu, a problem that faces a great many countries.
Gennadii Onishchenko: In the first ten days of 2006 the situation was normal and there was no increase in the number of cases of normal flu. The present situation is connected with the fact people in the Turkish Republic have been infected with the new H5N1 strain of avian flu. According to the World Health Organization and the Turkish Health Ministry, fourteen cases have been recorded and three of them proved fatal.
We have strengthened surveillance at the borders, first and foremost at the air border. All aircraft arriving from the Turkish Republic are examined by medical and sanitary inspection services at the airports. The land border represents a special concern for us, and in the territory of the Republic of North Ossetia at two border posts—Lars and Nizhnii Zaramak—people are being examined in an increasingly stringent way. In the direction of Dagestan we are concerned about places such as Iarak, Kazmaliar and Tagirkent. Here measures are being taken to detect infected people. In connection with this, pilgrims who will start to return from holy places on January 19 represent a special group at risk. This group is composed of 4400 people who travelled by car through Iran, Turkey, Jordan and Saudi Arabia. This is a high-risk group since their route runs through Turkey's affected regions.
We are now conducting negotiations with the Hadj Committee in Saudi Arabia. All organized groups of pilgrims have medical support. They have doctors and intermediate-level medical workers. And probably through diplomatic channels and through the Foreign Ministry we will raise the issue of modifying the route these groups shall take. This is important seeing as, according to our data, Jordan has closed its border with Turkey and the pilgrims are therefore faced with an insurmountable obstacle. We are making active efforts on this issue right now.
In addition, we have offered Turkey our help. We offered epidemiologists, doctors and specialists who have experience in situations like the one in Russia faced in August and September of last year.
We are ready to offer diagnostic equipment to the Turkish Republic and to help their specialists learn to use it so that they can do their work in a more qualified way.
We are very worried about the expected increase of normal flu which we predict will take place at the end of January. Instructions have been given to the country's medical services to once again take all necessary measures, and first and foremost to enhance laboratory diagnostic equipment so as to not miss avian flu that could have entered our country.
We are also worried about spring, when birds that are now nesting in the territory of the Turkish Republic, other southern countries and in Crimea will come back to Russia. Together with the Ministry of Agriculture we have developed additional measures. Your decision to allocate the cost of vaccinating the population against the flu from the federal budget as part of a national project was very felicitous. It will enable us to be more prepared for possible complications, should they arise.
Today the situation is under control.
Vladimir Putin: Do we have any centres of avian flu in the Russian Federation?
Gennadii Onishchenko: Today there are no centres of avian flu among birds. We are absolutely sure of this. And naturally, no people have been infected.
Vladimir Putin: I consider that we must already start thinking about what is in store for us in the spring regarding bird migration. Pay attention: states which have faced this problem are on all sides of our borders. States such as the People's Republic of China, Turkey, Ukraine and Romania. And of course we should already think about doing all we can to prevent this problem from surfacing in our country. First and foremost, there are food markets. The highest degree of sanitary measures must be taken, but they must be taken in the most careful way, so as not to harm the consumer market. There is also the question of transportation by railway, air and car. The border in the very widest sense of this word.
And finally, there are preventative measures. We must provide the people who work in the field all necessary numbers of reagents, means of defence and preventative measures in advance. We must accomplish all organizational measures right now. If additional financial resources are needed, then the Government must quickly allocate these resources. And I ask the Prime Minister to pay very close attention to this and to report to me on the plan for measures to be taken in this area.
Mikhail Fradkov: We shall prepare the plan, Vladimir Vladimirovich, and we shall present it to you.
ON THE RESULTS OF THE FOREIGN MINISTRY DELEGATION'S TRIP TO IRAN
Vladimir Putin: Our delegation from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was in Iran. What were the results of the trip?
Sergei Lavrov: According to your order on the necessity of helping resolve the Iranian nuclear problem by using political and diplomatic methods, simultaneously respecting the nuclear non-proliferation regime, and taking into account Russia's trade and economic interests, the next series of consultations between deputy foreign ministers and deputy security council secretaries took place in Tehran. They discussed the practical aspects of the Russian offer to enrich uranium for Iran's nuclear power requirements on Russian territory, that is proceeding under scrutiny by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). This offer is supported by all interested parties including European states, the United States, China and other states. And the result of our consultations was that the Iranian party agreed to continue talks on this theme. There is an agreement whereby a delegation of Iranian experts will come to Moscow in February to continue this discussion.
At the same time we are concerned by the latest information that Iran declared its intention to resume a number of projects connected with enriching uranium contrary to the moratorium that Iran and European countries agreed to, a moratorium that was taken into account in the decisions by the IAEA. We are making active efforts in our relations with Iran so that the moratorium is observed during the period of talks and we are coordinating our actions with our European partners – with Germany, Great Britain and France.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: January 10, 2006, 19:10
Text version