I would like to express my thanks to the country’s regions and to you, dear colleagues, for your active participation in realising this project and, of course, for your own regional initiatives and the additional funds you are contributing.
I will repeat once again the priority tasks in this sector.
First of all, all our citizens should have access to education of the best national and international standards. This is our most fundamental objective.
We also need to establish principally new evaluation criteria for education quality, criteria based on the needs of society, the economy, employers and the labour market.
Second, we need to introduce new management methods and financial mechanisms to our education sector.
The regions and the education community itself can and should be more bold and active today in introducing targeted funding based on specific student numbers. Funding should go towards the education of concrete individuals – students, pupils. After all, in education it is the final result that is important and not faceless accounts of an establishment’s functioning.
The government should allocate the necessary funds to assist the regional authorities in developing and introducing these new funding systems in schools. The objective is to make sure that budget spending is used more effectively, raise the quality of education, better protect children’s health and promote educational work.
I know that this work is already successfully underway in some regions, while many other regions are ready to begin it, and I ask you, dear colleagues, and the government, to provide the funding needed to support this work and to make it available this year already.
Third, the education system must be genuinely responsible for the results of educational work, for the all-round education of the individual. In this respect, the position of parents and civil society is extremely important, but teachers, who spend so much time in close contact with their pupils, should also take a direct interest in successful educational work.
The priority national project in the education sector also aims at giving teachers greater incentives to pursue this kind of all-round educational work. Teachers who receive decent wages are able to put more time and energy precisely into this kind of work rather than simply trying to put in as many teaching hours as possible.
Our task, I repeat, is to get the education system working on principles that match the needs of the times. How we will live tomorrow depends to a great extent on how we learn and study today.
The modern education system requires modern professionals to work in it. Qualified teachers are the real strength and driving force for quality change in our schools and higher education establishments.
People with the proper training and skills, qualified young people, are needed in the education system. They must bring with them new methods, new approaches and all the benefits of higher education learning. In this respect I think that the special support for innovative development programmes in a number of universities and other higher education establishments is fully justified.
Our country needs education centres that will serve as a yardstick for improving higher education and developing science in Russia. I hope that the considerable funds allocated to innovative work in higher education as part of the national education project will have a positive impact. I think and I hope that the Education and Science Ministry will prepare as thoroughly as it can to select higher education establishments that are genuinely pursuing innovative work and merit state support.
Now a few words on primary and secondary vocational education: today, training in professional and vocational schools has become just an interim step towards entering university. Sometimes the whole purpose of vocational and professional education at this level seems to have been lost, and yet its original purpose was to train qualified specialists for various sectors of our industry, the agri-business sector and the services sector.
We need today to analyse the content and direction of these professional and vocational education programmes and refocus them on the demands of our country’s business community and specific segments of the labour market. We also need to take into account specific demand for different types of specialists from one region to another. In this context the federal and regional authorities must work together and this is an area for our joint efforts.
We also need to continue transferring primary and secondary professional and vocational education establishments to the regional authorities. In the cases where this has already been done we have seen real practical results.
Dear colleagues,
Our country is taking an increasingly active part in international education processes. But the integration of education markets is possible only if people have access to global information systems and sources and only if education standards are compatible.Events
Closing Remarks at the State Council Meeting on the Development of Education in the Russian Federation
March 24, 2006
23:11
The Kremlin, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: Dear colleagues!
Education is undoubtedly one of the state's most important priorities. We recently proposed implementing an additional target program — a priority national project in the field of education. This is more than just a way to resolve pressing problems or problems whose resolution is long overdue. It is a way to once again concentrate the government's and society's efforts and attention on problems concerning education, a way to encourage all of us to look for the most effective ways to develop this field, and a way to provide us with the courage to take necessary but much-needed decisions.
Today we spoke about pre-schools, primary and secondary education, vocational training, and higher education. The State Council working group has done a huge amount of work. Sergei Leonidovich Katanandov started working on this theme several years ago. I consider that proposals made by the heads of regions can act as a basis for practical actions that will improve our country's education system.
Pre-schools and kindergartens are a separate matter and, of course, closely connected with demographic problems. This issue must be considered separately and requires our special attention
One of the problems concerning primary schools is that there are a great many schools with very low number of students in Russia. It is obvious that here there are several issues that the working group must pay special attention to.
First. Maintaining such schools is very expensive and the education that students receive remains mediocre. At the same time I agree with those who consider that, while resolving these difficult questions, we must take the particular characteristics of each region, territory and municipality into account.
Almost all those who spoke today said that it is necessary to apply new methods and new approaches towards modernizing the education system. Almost all proposed expanding the system of per capita financing for schools.
Along with this, per capita financing is not possible without defining its so-called base requirements. This means that financing must be determined according to objective criteria. It is necessary to know in advance what will happen to the base requirements in the process of implementation so that they don’t degrade and so that any attempts by authorities to cut financing could be prevented.
It is necessary to know the amounts and sources of financing presently received by municipalities, regions, and given establishments before changing to the new system of financing that the working group proposed.
The proposed changes should improve the education system — not worsen it. This means that we must operate very carefully: gradually expanding the experiment, extending it to different regions and, first and foremost, to those regions that wish to introduce this system and which are ready to introduce it.
We are still talking about an experiment but, naturally, it should have a legal basis and this means that all legal restrictions should be eliminated.
And finally, the last point. The principle of free secondary education must be preserved unconditionally.
We spoke a great deal about universities and about their innovative programs. This is a very important part of university education. Of course, the state must first and foremost support those institutes of higher education who are able to effectively use the financial resources the government has allocated for this purpose.
This year we have allocated five billion rubles and next year we will allocate fifteen billion rubles for these purposes. Also, there is no reason to always look to the Government's Stabilization Fund. At the beginning it is necessary to use available financial resources, while the state, the Cabinet and Ministry of Education and Science must develop objective criteria to determine how ready universities are. Their readiness must be determined not according to their long-standing reputations or titles, but rather based on their actual readiness to implement innovative programs.
The level of government support, the universities’ real future status as higher learning institutions, their attractiveness for applicants will depend to a large degree from the way they use financial resources allocated for this purpose
Today's meeting is only one stage in the large-scale systematic work towards perfecting the Russian Federation's education system. As usual, following today's meeting I will formulate the necessary orders for the government. I expect harmonious and effective work from the federal and regional authorities in this field.
Thank you very much for your attention. All the best.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: March 24, 2006, 23:11
Text version