Events
Opening Address at the Second Summit of the Conference on Interaction and Confidence-Building Measures in Asia (CICA)
June 17, 2006
13:32
Almaty
Vladimir Putin: Dear Mr Chairman,
Dear heads of states,
Dear friends!
First of all I would like to express my gratitude to the President of the Republic Kazakhstan, Nursultan Abishevich Nazarbaev, for his kindness and hospitality. The fact that this meeting is taking place in Almaty is in large part due to his energy and initiative.
The Conference on Interaction and Confidence-Building Measures in Asia (CICA) is a unique forum. Representatives from states of the former Soviet Union, Southeast Asia, the Middle East and North Africa have gathered for our round table.
As you remember, the first session of the CICA took place in 2002 right here, in Almaty. At the time leaders from fourteen countries participated in that meeting. They were united by a common goal: to develop a shared vision of the region’s problems, challenges and threats and to begin a collective search for adequate solutions to these problems. They also wanted to start a multifaceted process to increase trust, friendship and cooperation in Asia.
Today, four years on, we can see that the CICA has proved both viable and necessary, and acts as proof of the advantages of dialogue over disagreements. One of the CICA’s obvious advantages is that member countries cooperate in various formats. This allows us to accomplish the tasks that stand in front of us through various channels and to do so flexibly and promptly.
We have already taken a number of concrete measures to help accomplish our declared goals. They include steps to resolve conflicts and to decrease tension in the region’s hot spots. Within the Conference and with the assistance of Conference organizers representatives from different countries have had direct contacts, even countries who hold opposing points of view.
Developing confidence-building measures and implementing them is our forum’s main task. Confidence-building measures are the fundamental principles that inform interaction between member states and are contained in the political Declaration and List of Confidence-Building measures that we adopted.
It is not by chance that the fight against new threats and challenges held a central place in these documents. Only if we cooperate can we fight effectively against manifestations of terrorism and extremism. And only in such conditions can we win against transnational crime and drug trafficking, and cooperate to lower the rates of outbreak of deadly diseases such as AIDS, avian flu and others.
One more important area in which we cooperate is the social and economic sphere which involves creating advanced methods of transportation and energy infrastructure. I am convinced that by joining our efforts we can accomplish the goals that we set out in the Almaty Act in 2002. And the most important goal consists in forming a shared, indivisible space in Asia in which the peace, stability and development of various countries supplements, supports and strengthens each others’ growth.
I have no doubts that the Conference has assumed its position among the various multilateral associations in Asia. The forum’s work continues to attract substantial interest. I am pleased that our ranks are growing.
Two years ago at the SCO summit in Tashkent we discussed the idea of creating a partner network of multilateral organisations in the Asia-Pacific region. I am convinced that the CICA’s potential to implement this initiative can produce positive results for all member countries.
Certainly, the opportunities presented by our forum have not been fully developed. And we have extensive prospects for cooperation in the economic, environmental, humanitarian and other spheres.
It is important that the Conference’s process develops, avoids duplication and too much bureaucracy, and that it be based on principles such as consensus, voluntary participation and step-by-step development that we have agreed on.
For its part, Russia intends to support strengthening cooperation within the CICA in every possible way.
Dear colleagues!
Today the CICA is taking important steps to achieve the goals it has set for itself. The Declaration we will adopt on the occasion of the second CICA summit will undoubtedly provide a new stimulus to multilateral cooperation.
We are also establishing a Conference Secretariat that we would like to see as one of the forum’s effective instruments and one that facilitates precise coordination between member countries.
I shall emphasize once again that the threats and challenges that stand today before member countries do not allow us to be idle. We still have much to accomplish together. And the Russian party is ready to participate in the Conference in the most active way.
Thank you for your attention.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 17, 2006, 13:32
Text versionEvents
Press Statement Following Russian-Kazakhstan Talks
June 17, 2006
21:18
Almaty
Vladimir Putin: Dear Nursultan Abishevich!
Dear ladies and gentlemen!
The President of Kazakhstan and I already had the opportunity to discuss our bilateral relations when we met in the People’s Republic of China and today the results of the intergovernmental commission were of primary importance to us.
We think that, as a whole, the commission’s results are positive ones. We are directing our governments to continue working actively in the key areas in which we cooperate.
We never forget about cooperation in the energy sector, the development of hydrocarbon resources, or the natural resources of the Caspian Sea. Yet, of course, today a different topic, namely cooperation in the space sector at Baikonur, was the focus of our attention.
We also discussed the development of the whole range of our economic and trade relations. Let me point out that we are both convinced that this year we can reach a volume of trade that amounts to 10 billion USD.
Cooperation along our borders is an important part of our relations. And the President of Kazakhstan and I agreed that we will take part in the Forum of Border Regions that will take place in Kazakhstan in October 2006.
Today we signed a number of documents designed to improve the legal foundations of Russian-Kazakhstan cooperation.
First and foremost I will draw your attention to our Joint Statement on deepening cooperation in space exploration. Cooperation in this promising, high-tech field is producing concrete results that benefit both states. As you know, Kazakhstan’s first satellite, Kazsat, will be launched tomorrow. Undoubtedly, this is a very significant event.
But our cooperation is not limited launching a communications satellite. We will also embark on a large joint programme in space exploration. This will implicate joint research, personnel training, as well as creating the corresponding communication systems and management resources.
An agreement was signed between the Ministry of Information Technology and Communications of the Russian Federation and the Agency of Information and Communications of the Republic of Kazakhstan. It will allow us to resolve a number of technical issues with respect to telecommunications.
We consider that the Eurasian Development Bank has an important role to play in implementing integration projects. Let me remind you that the President of Kazakhstan put forward this idea two years ago during our meeting in Tajikistan. I actively supported this idea. I am very happy that today we are in the last stages of implementing these plans.
All procedures regarding the entry into force of the agreement on establishing the bank have been completed. Now we must turn to practical affairs. Russia and Kazakhstan have allocated significant financial means – let me remind you that these sums amount to one billion USD and 500 million USD respectively – of authorized capital that will enable us to attract an important amount of financial resources to accomplish various integration tasks.
I am convinced that the Bank’s work will be successful and I think that the agreement on the conditions whereby the Bank can operate on Kazakhstan’s territory will facilitate the Bank’s work.
In conclusion I would like to once again thank our friends and partners in Kazakhstan for their excellent organisation of the international CICA summit meeting.
Thank you very much for your attention.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 17, 2006, 21:18
Text version