Events
Beginning of Russian-Mongolian Talks in Enlarged Format
December 8, 2006
18:45
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Mr President,
Colleagues and friends,
Allow me once again to welcome you to the Russian capital.
We don’t need interpreters? That’s excellent. It’s further confirmation that there are no barriers in our work together. We are very pleased to see that not only have relations between our countries been restored, but that they are expanding very actively. Unfortunately, as the President and I noted during our talks one-on-one, we have not yet reached the level we had in the late 1980s-early 1990s, though the prospects for achieving this goal are clear ahead.
At the same time, we are very satisfied with the way our political contacts are developing and with our consultations on the international stage.
I want to repeat that the main thing for us is to develop our economic ties. We have good prospects, good projects in the form of large joint ventures, and we have plans for work together. I think that if we show the necessary will and administrative efficiency, we will not only take our bilateral trade back up to the levels we had in the late 80s-early 90s, but will go even further.
We are very pleased to see you and we are sure that your visit, Mr President, along with such a solid delegation of our Mongolian friends, will be a good impetus for all of our agencies to step up their cooperation in the areas of interest to us.
President of Mongolia Nambaryn Enkhbayar (speaking in Russian): Thank you, Mr President.
I would like to begin by thanking you for the very warm reception and hospitality that we have received right from our first day in Russia. Our journey here took quite some time as we went via Buryatia, Ulan-Ude, Novosibirsk and Elista. We saw just what a unique country Russia is and what diversity of cultures it possesses. But one thing that we all have in common is that all these different peoples here are as well-disposed towards us as we are towards them. We found friendship and warm feelings everywhere we went, and this made it very easy to find a common language. We discussed all manner of issues without any difficulties. There were no easy and hard questions, just normal business matters that we need to settle in order to take our relations to a new level.
And today, during my talks with you, Vladimir Vladimirovich, I think we had complete mutual understanding and I am very pleased with the one-on-one meeting we had.
Taking opportunity of the fact that we are meeting here in Moscow in the year marking the 85th anniversary of diplomatic relations between our two countries – 85 years over which we did indeed live together in many ways and laid the foundations and opened up the prospects that we can successfully build on today – I would like to note that your visit to Mongolia in autumn 2000, gave a great boost to our cooperation. It is no secret that our relations underwent a decline during the years when immense changes were taking place both here in Russia and in our country, in Mongolia, but your visit in 2000 helped us turn that decline around and encouraged new activity in the all areas in which we cooperate.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 8, 2006, 18:45
Text versionEvents
Beginning of Meeting with President of Mongolia Nambaryn Enkhbayar
December 8, 2006
18:42
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Mr President,
It is a sincere pleasure for me to welcome you to Moscow. This is not our first meeting. I would like to note that relations between our two countries have been developing well over these last years. Our bilateral trade has increased and our political contacts have also intensified considerably.
But at the same time we still have problems, problems that we are both aware of. They concern the need to diversify our ties and correct a certain imbalance in our trade relations. I do not think, however, that the solution lies in cutting back imports or exports from one or the other country, but in looking for ways to achieve a better trade balance and open markets up to goods.
Overall, I am very pleased that you are here today in Moscow and that we will have the opportunity to discuss the full range of our relations.
President of Mongolia Nambaryn Enkhbayar (speaking in Russian): Thank you, Mr President.
It was with pleasure that I accepted your invitation to make this visit to Russia. I have brought with me quite a large delegation that covers all the different areas of our cooperation. This visit is taking place as we celebrate 85 years since diplomatic relations were established between Russia and Mongolia.
I would like to take this opportunity to note that your visit to Mongolia in 2000 gave impetus to and, you could say, even marked the start of a more active period in our relations. As you rightly noted, our political contacts have intensified convincingly over recent years and we have seen a rise in economic cooperation and bilateral trade.
I think that this visit will also provide a boost to our cooperation. Mongolia has always had very good and friendly relations with Russia. This is something that we and our people value. Various surveys show that around 70 percent of people in Mongolia think that Russia is the most reliable and promising partner for our country and our people. You could say that this idea sits comfortably in the minds of our people and I think that this is important because the friendly relations between our peoples help the leaders of our countries and help our ministers and those responsible for developing our relations to work with greater confidence and with a broader vision of the path this development should take.
Once again, thank you very much for this invitation and we are very happy to be here.
Vladimir Putin: We also need to live up to the expectations of our citizens. I said that our bilateral trade is growing, but it is still only half of what it was in the late 1980s-early 1990s.
True, Mongolia’s exports to Russia are increasing at a very rapid rate. Our exports to your country rose by 8 percent last year, but Mongolia’s exports to our country increased by 80 percent. This is a good trend, in any event.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 8, 2006, 18:42
Text versionEvents
Press Statements following Russian-Mongolian Talks
December 8, 2006
21:45
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Ladies and gentlemen,
Today’s Russian-Mongolian summit meeting was useful and productive. It is a significant event in the traditionally friendly dialogue between our two countries.
One of the main outcomes is the Moscow Declaration that we signed today. This declaration reflects the close positions that Russia and Mongolia share on the main issues affecting us today. It reaffirms that the relations between our countries are growing steadily and will continue to develop in a spirit of partnership, mutual benefit and mutual trust.
Trade and economic cooperation was at the centre of our attention today. Our bilateral trade has been showing stable growth over these last years. Russian companies are ready to work in Mongolia and make considerable investment in its economy. This includes investment in projects in the mining industry, electricity, construction and transport infrastructure development.
It is important to raise the efficiency of our two countries’ leading joint ventures – Erdenet, Mongolprostsvetmet and the Ulan Bator Railway – above all through modernising and upgrading. Experts have calculated that this will require investment of more than $2 billion over the period through to 2015. This is a serious undertaking but I think it is an entirely realistic task for our economies. If we put in place the right conditions for developing investment – and this was something that we discussed at length today – the investment figures we are looking at could reach $5 billion over the next few years.
Both Russia and Mongolia have an active interest in developing ties between our respective border regions and between our regions in general. This was made convincingly clear during the Mongolian President’s recent visits to Novosibirsk Region, Buryatia and Kalmykia. In this respect I note the importance of the new agreement on the Russian-Mongolian border rules and procedures that we signed today. This document seeks to reduce to a minimum the barriers in the way of business cooperation. I am sure that the Russian-Mongolian border will remain a border of peace, partnership and good-neighbourly feelings.
We consider it very important to deepen the humanitarian contacts between our two countries. Russia will continue to help Mongolia in training specialists for its various needs and will continue to develop cooperation in science, culture and tourism.
I recall that on Mongolia’s initiative, visa-free travel between our two countries ended in 1992. During our talks today, the Mongolian President raised the issue of simplifying the visa requirements and reintroducing visa-free travel. Russia is ready to examine this issue and give a positive response. I hope that our subsequent consultations will result in a solution that satisfies both sides.
I note that use of the Russian language is widespread in Mongolia. All of our discussions today took place in Russian and without interpreters. We greatly value the attention Mongolia’s leadership gives to developing humanitarian ties with Russia and developing the Russian language. We intend to make our contribution by establishing Russian language classes and programmes and organising competitions for schoolchildren and students. We are ready to take this work further, in particular, by extending the federal targeted programme Russian Language to Mongolia and implementing the measures it provides for. We think that this will create much broader opportunities for people in Mongolia, especially young people, to become familiar with Russia’s information space, study in Russian higher education institutions and develop cultural and scientific ties.
During our talks we also discussed the main issues on the regional and global agenda. Our countries have longstanding and solid traditions of working together on international issues. Our talks today reaffirmed the similarity in our positions on the main international issues, and this is important. During today’s consultations we reiterated our common desire to create conditions for the stable and progressive development of all the countries in the region.
In conclusion, I would like to thank the President of Mongolia for his open and businesslike approach to today’s talks and for the substantial discussion we had. I hope that the agreements reached today will give the strategic partnership between our countries a new pace and quality.
President of Mongolia Nambaryn Enkhbayar: Vladimir Vladimirovich, ladies and gentlemen, friends,
I would like to say how deeply satisfied I am with my visit to the Russian Federation, and especially with the results of the meeting and talks with the Russian President. As I have already said today, this visit coincides with the 85th anniversary of diplomatic relations between our two countries. This anniversary obliges us not only to think about the close relations we have had in our past, but also to build just such relations in the future, because this is in the interests of both the Russian and Mongolian peoples.
I have also said already today that President Putin’s visit to Mongolia in 2000 was a significant event because before this visit took place, as is well known, the economic relations between our two countries had been undergoing a decline. But after Mr Putin came to Mongolia in 2000, there was a dramatic upturn in our relations. Today, our bilateral trade comes to $460 million-$500 million. This is not a bad result, but we are not going to stop there. I think we can soon increase our bilateral trade to $1 billion, and that is not the limit either. The investment that Vladimir Vladimirovich mentioned, the cooperation that we have committed ourselves to developing following this meeting and everything that is reflected in the Moscow Declaration, all give us grounds for pointing to even higher future volumes of trade between our countries.
Of course, not only the federal authorities in Russia and Mongolia work together, but our respective regions are also developing ties between themselves, and inter-regional ties account for around 60–70 percent of our bilateral trade. Our Russian friends received us in Buryatia, Novosibirsk and Kalmykia, and everywhere we went we were welcomed with much warmth and hospitality. During these visits to the regions we discussed how to increase our trade and develop our cooperation. We know that large Russian companies and businesses seek to invest in the Mongolian economy, and we know that this will bring to our economy not only large sums of money but also good technology and development. We agreed therefore that investment should be of a comprehensive nature, that it should encompass the mining industry, infrastructure and the social sector. We also discussed the need and possibility of developing joint ventures. These joint ventures should be above all efficient and competitive on the international stage, and this will require the active help of both sides, as was expressed at today’s talks.
Mongolia and Russia have always shared common positions on the main international issues, and this was reaffirmed at our talks today. We are pleased that Russia is supporting us in our international activities and we will continue to work actively and closely together, coordinating our work and efforts. We are pleased that Russia is prepared to examine and settle the issue of visa-free travel for Russian and Mongolian citizens between our two countries. I think that this will also help to develop our bilateral cooperation.
Studying in Russian higher education institutions is a very important part of our cooperation. As I said to Vladimir Vladimirovich today, I myself studied in Moscow in my time. We would like Mongolian citizens to study at prestigious Russian universities to become engineers and other highly skilled specialists. We see this as very important for our cooperation and for our country’s development.
In my capacity of President of Mongolia, I have invited President Putin to make an official visit to our country. I hope that this visit will take place soon and that it will take our cooperation to an even higher level. We need now to visit each other more frequently and intensify our contacts. We need to work faster, be quicker to exchange information, work faster on carrying out projects and obtaining good results.
Once again, I thank President Putin, all of our Russian friends and colleagues, the ministers, members of parliament and other officials for the warmth and hospitality we have received here. This visit has made a very good impression on us. A large delegation of Mongolian businesspeople accompanied us on this visit and they are having a good meeting today with their Russian business partners. I hope that they have found plenty of good projects and mutual interests. All of this enables us to hope and believe that after this visit, in the spirit of the Moscow Declaration, our relations will develop even more intensively for the good of our peoples.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 8, 2006, 21:45
Text version