Events
Extracts from the Meeting with World War II Veterans – Heroes of the Soviet Union, Heroes of Russia and Full Holders of the Order of Glory
May 8, 2006
16:50
The Kremlin, Moscow
Opening Remarks
President Vladimir Putin:
Good afternoon, dear veterans!
Over recent years it has become a tradition for us to meet on the eve of Victory Day, and I am very pleased to have this opportunity today to congratulate you personally on the great national holiday that we will celebrate on May 9.
At meetings like this we always remember the heroic years of the Great Patriotic War and the people who defended our homeland, and we always pay tribute to those who did not live to see this day, to those who are no longer with us. All of you here today also endured many trials. Gathered here are people of different generations, those who fought on the frontlines and those who toiled in the rear, and together you all forged Victory.
I said that people of different generations are present here today, and I think that this is very fitting and symbolic because at all times in its history our country has always needed people who are ready to rise to its defence. We have always had such people, and always will have.
I would like to thank you all once more for the attention you give the state, especially through your involvement in educating young people. There are 5,500 veterans’ organisations in the Armed Forces alone and more than 90,000 organisations throughout the country as a whole. This represents a large and active group of people with an immense sense of patriotism and who are of great help to our country.
For our part, we are also trying to do all we can to support veterans and their organisations. As you know, things do not always go completely smoothly, but we have achieved at least part of our social objectives. We will continue our determined and active work to resolve healthcare, transport and housing issues for veterans. You have probably already heard that a law will soon come into force that provides for additional cash payments to Heroes of Socialist Labour and full holders of the Order of Labour Glory. They and their families will also continue to be entitled to certain non-cash benefits.
I am sure that you will also support our decision to accord a special status not just to the hero cities but also to other towns and cities in the Russian Federation that not only resisted the advancing forces of the enemy but also demonstrated great heroism in the defence of our country. There are quite a number of such places in our country and their heroic achievements make an additional reserve that we can draw on today in the education of our young people.
I would like once again to congratulate you on the approaching Victory Day holiday. I think that we should also remember that this year marks another symbolic date as well, a sad and tragic date, but one that we cannot forget. This year marks 65 years since the war began. All of this is reason to say that thanks to your achievements we have all the tools we need today to organise our education work with young people on a very long-term basis, because the foundation that you laid, dear veterans, is the greatest legacy that the past has handed down to us. This foundation is the ability to love one’s country and to spare nothing, not even one’s own life, for its development and prosperity.
I offer you my warmest congratulations on the upcoming holiday and wish you all the very best.
***
Concluding Remarks
President Vladimir Putin: I would like to respond to a few points that were made here today. Concerning religious conviction, the state does not have the right to impose any convictions, and this also applies to religious convictions, on its citizens, including those serving in the Armed Forces. At the same time, however, the state must provide the conditions for people to be able to fulfil their religious needs and be able to worship. In this respect, we can certainly make use of the experience in other countries and can also make use of Russia’s own experience, for our country also had a good system that worked effectively in this area.
Regarding the concerns expressed by some veterans over the state of the Russian Armed Forces today, I understand these concerns. Of course, the lessons learned from past conflicts, and all the more so the lessons of the Great Patriotic War, show us what we must do to ensure our country’s security today and in the future. I think that we will have the opportunity to discuss this subject in more depth.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 8, 2006, 16:50
Text version