Events
Speech at the Opening Ceremony for the Year of Russia in China
March 21, 2006
20:38
Beijing
Vladimir Putin: Dear Mr Hu Jintao, dear friend!
Ladies and gentlemen!
We are celebrating the beginning of the Year of Russia in the People's Republic of China. I am convinced that this is more than just a celebration – it is a significant event in all senses of the word. It reflects the positive spirit and dynamic character of our relations.
With no undue exaggeration, today Russian-Chinese relations act as examples of mutual respect and of good relations between neighbours. They are contributing towards increasing the role and influence that Russia and China have in the world, and towards modernizing our own countries.
When President Hu Jintao and I made the decision to carry out the years of Russia and China over a two-year period in our respective countries, we had more in mind than just presenting our countries' recent achievements. These events must help us attain a new level of cooperation. We see them as significant, large-scale projects that are capable of having a powerful resonance, and significantly increasing friendship and mutual understanding between the peoples of Russia and China.
We have planned over 260 events in connection with the Year of Russia in China and several dozen of them have already taken place. This comprehensive programme covers all the areas in which we cooperate: the very widest range of business partnerships as well as ties in the cultural and educational spheres.
The authorities, business and artistic communities, and normal citizens of our countries have actively supported carrying out this multifaceted event. An unprecedented number of participants is involved in implementing this event. The Russian regions have also been very active and made almost a half of the proposals with regards to organizing the Year of Russia in the People's Republic of China. Presentations of the Russian federal regions and days devoted to Moscow and St Petersburg will take place in China. We hope that the Year of Russia will be really interesting and informative and that our Chinese friends will remember it for a long time.
Dear friends!
Despite some difficult episodes in history the peoples of Russia and China have done more than just keep their good relations. Today we understand better than ever the strategic advantages of our close bilateral contacts and intend to expand them for the benefits of both our peoples.
In connection with this we have already achieved a real breakthrough in our bilateral political ties.
Russia and China are two of the largest powers in the world and our relations are more than just a factor in geopolitical stability. They are an example of an open international partnership that is not directed against any third country and that helps develop a better and more just world order.
We actively cooperate in the international arena, in leading international organizations, and we are establishing new associations.
The ascent that Russia and China are experiencing today has first and foremost resulted in the good dynamics our economic cooperation has taken on. We are presenting our achievements in this area at exhibitions in Harbin, Shenzhen and Shanghai, and we shall discuss the tasks and problems that exist in this sphere at the Russian-Chinese economic forum that will open tomorrow.
A number of events of the Year of Russia in China are designed to diversify trade and expand our partnership, also with respect to investment and regional cooperation. The Russian National Exhibition that will be held in November in Beijing will play a key role in this. I hope that all of this will help deepen the dialogue between our countries with respect to practical matters.
Today millions of people are involved in Russian-Chinese cooperation – the business and academic communities, youth and public associations are united in this effort.
These ties result in quite a large number of initiatives and new forms of cooperation such as the possibility of joint universities and postgraduate schools. We have planned a number of major events this year connected with education, something that is in such demand today both in Russia and in China. We have also planned a number of interesting projects in the fields of sport and the media.
Our cultural ties are growing. Today in Russia there are more and more people who are studying the Chinese language and who are interested in your culture. I hope that the Festival of Russian Culture will occasion just as much interest in China and I feel sure that the Festival will enrich this year.
All of this opens new possibilities and prospects for the dialogue between our peoples. And I am confident that the Year of the Russian Federation in the People's Republic of China will be one more essential stage in drawing closer together.
Thank you for your attention.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: March 21, 2006, 20:38
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Russian Journalists Following the Ceremonial Signing of Russian-Chinese Documents
March 21, 2006
19:24
Beijing
Question: Vladimir Vladimirovich please tell us whether you are happy with the beginning of the visit? What do you expect from this visit? What are its priorities?
Vladimir Putin: The Russian delegation is happy with the beginning of the visit. Happy not only with the spirit and the atmosphere which reigns during the talks, but also happy with the results we have already achieved. As a starting point, let me draw your attention to the fact that such a representative Russian delegation has not visited China in a very long time. Our delegation is composed of a thousand people. And this does not include the actors who are going to perform in a theatre today. A thousand people. And they all – I would like to emphasize this – they all are engaged in something concrete. First of all, this bears witness to the fact that Russia and China have achieved a very high level of interaction which leads to further expanding our cooperation.
As you know, 29 different documents have been signed. Of those 29 only one refers to general politics – it is the one I signed with my colleague, the President of the People's Republic of China, Mr Hu Jintao. And I consider it the most important document because it establishes a good political base for further developing our cooperation. All other documents are exclusively practical and designed to help us attain concrete goals, first and foremost in the sphere of the economy. I am confident that all of them will be implemented. There are billion dollar contracts behind them.
Question: Today you signed an agreement concerning gas. For the first time ever, Gazprom will start delivering gas to China. Have the volumes and schedule for the deliveries been determined? And perhaps the most interesting thing would be to know where the gas will come from? From eastern Siberia, southern Siberia, the Shtokmanovskoye deposit?
Vladimir Putin: I wish to draw your attention to the fact that cooperation in the energy sector between the Russian Federation and the People's Republic of China is not limited to deliveries of raw energy. Our cooperation includes deliveries of Russian energy equipment. This refers to nuclear energy and the fact that Russia will continue to participate in establishing new nuclear energy capacities for China. This also refers to cooperation in the electricity sector; the corresponding documents were signed today. And, finally, this refers to deliveries of raw energy, both gas and oil. There are agreements concerning developing infrastructure, including both gas and oil pipelines.
Regarding direct deliveries of gas, the partners agreed that it will be done through two routes, both through eastern and western Siberia.
Concerning eastern Siberia, it does not seem to me that there are any problems here. This is the second stage of cooperation in this sector. Deliveries from western Siberia seem to be easier to carry out and faster. To facilitate them we are considering establishing a new pipeline system, provisionally called Altai, through the western border that the Chinese People's Republic shares with the Russian Federation.
We have a clear idea about the volumes that could be delivered to the Chinese People's Republic on both routes. In both cases it is possible to deliver about 30 to 40 billion cubic metres of gas per year. There are sufficient resources in both western and eastern Siberia to do this. Along with this I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Russian party will categorically execute its obligations contained in the agreements we have already reached with both our Asian and our European partners. With regards to the Asian market, we intend to diversify our export opportunities and enter new and sustainable commodity markets.
Question: As we pointed out, you attended a photography exhibition in the Russian Information Centre. You looked at a great deal of photographs. What did you find most impressive? What did you like best of all? And why?
Vladimir Putin: I think that it is a very interesting exhibition, a visual representation of the way Russian-Chinese relations have developed recently. It is an interesting documentary confirmation of the fact that Russia and China are looking to further develop their cooperation and multifaceted relations. As you pointed out, the exhibition concerns cooperation in economics, politics and culture. It also shows us the prospects for development in the military and technological spheres. One photograph which struck my attention depicts one of our most recent areas of cooperation – in the military sector. I found the way a Russian officer carefully fixes equipment on his Chinese colleague both intriguing and suggestive.
Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: March 21, 2006, 19:24
Text version