Events
Beginning of the Working Meeting with the Head of the Republic of Karelia, Sergei Katanandov
November 1, 2006
23:08
The Kremlin, Moscow
Head of The Republic of Karelia Sergei Katanandov: Vladimir Vladimirovich, in accordance with your order I would like to inform you on the state of affairs in Karelia following the events in Kondopoga. After your hotline we were able to work quickly and following the State Council meeting on 8 October, the first Council session was then held on 23 October. The acting head of the Kondopoga region has been appointed. This is a very important event because in August the previous head of the region went on vacation and then disgracefully retired, and in practice there were no authorities in the region.
We held consultations and as of yesterday we appointed a new chief of police because the previous one had also been suspended from duty. Today we appointed a new public prosecutor to replace the old one who had also been suspended from duty. I hope that in the near future all the remaining leaders will also be appointed and that the administration will continue to be formed.
When I returned I met at once with Kondopoga public representatives and with the women who had asked you questions. I informed them of our work and discussed the state of affairs in quite a bit of detail. I was once again confirmed in my sense that many problems arise in the region and in the city because of the authorities’ inadequate work. One of the problems involves work by the law enforcement agencies and we talked about this.
Already today order is returning.
President Vladimir Putin: Sergei Leonidovich, in my experience during all my years of work here this is the first time I could not reach the head of a region. This is the first time, but this is not the issue at stake. You have apologized and one might consider that the question is settled. The issue at hand is that it was only after we started speaking about this all over the country during the hotline – the one you mentioned just now – that you started to work actively again.
Sergei Leonidovich, serious tragic events that have resonance throughout the country have taken place. Moreover, before accomplishing this major task – forming the regional authorities – you went on vacation. Of course, Portugal is warmer but Kondopoga is more important for us. And it is good that you have now got down to work. But I think that what happened should act as a good lesson to you and to the other heads of regions. We must all take very seriously what is happening in Russia and in the regions of the Russian Federation.
Sergei Katanandov: Vladimir Vladimirovich, I myself held no less than 50 meetings in Kondopoga and these meetings were very serious — we began with youth. We held assemblies of parents and in two months we have accomplished a great deal of work there. We held a congress of women of Karelia at which I spoke. The women of Kondopoga have formed a large group of negotiators because there was a certain situation when a portion of Chechen women left. I would like to once again confirm that I share your evaluation of the situation but nevertheless, in practice, my arrival on 3 September extinguished the conflict. Along with this we came to the conclusion that the local authorities had not worked effectively. This is the main problem. If they had reacted in time it is possible that these tragic events would not have taken place.
Vladimir Putin: And then they were no local authorities at all, and you left.
Sergei Katanandov: I appointed my representative…Actually, you are right – your evaluation is very harsh and I certainly made a mistake. I will make all due corrections.
Vladimir Putin: What is the general situation in the Republic today?
Sergei Katanandov: The situation is difficult. One of the main problems is that ours is a northern territory. As a whole the economy is growing. Last year we had a better result, still growth now is around two percent. We have made serious plans and adopted a programme until 2010. I already spoke before the legislative assembly on the subject of this programme. This programme provides that about 9,000 new jobs will be created. This will ensure stable development in the region. Our budget is growing and we are coping with the task of supporting those who receive salaries from budget funds. In particular, as of 1 October we made the decision to change the way we pay salaries and we now have a sixth category as minimal. In other words, we have no state employees who receive a salary that is less then the subsistence wage. We receive grants from the federal centre on a regular basis. They are not big, about 18 percent, but this also ensures that we have quite good prospects. We have held consultations with respect to next year’s budget. We have certain difficulties due to the fact that we incurred quite substantial obligations within the national projects. We support these projects because they are very important for the north, especially projects connected with health and housing construction.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 1, 2006, 23:08
Text versionEvents
Beginning of Meeting with Foreign Minister of the Republic of Korea Ban Ki-moon
November 1, 2006
21:34
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Mr Minister, dear colleagues,
Allow me to wish you a warm welcome.
It is a great pleasure for us to receive you in Moscow in the double capacity of minister of your country, a country with which our relations have been developing well over recent years, and as Secretary General-elect of the United Nations.
I would like to begin by saying that we are happy with the development of relations between Russia and the Republic of Korea. We know that you have made a considerable personal contribution to this development. Our bilateral trade is now approaching the $10-billion mark and we have regular political contacts.
I remember my visit to your country and the great amount of work that it achieved. I hope to meet with the President of South Korea very soon during the APEC summit in Vietnam.
Mr Minister,
I would like to thank our Korean colleagues for taking part in the rescue of our seamen in the Far East from the vessel ‘Sinegorye’. This is just the way good neighbours should act and you should have no doubt that if we are ever able to do anything for you in a similar situation, you can count on our help and support.
We are following developments on the Korean Peninsula very attentively, including the situation with the North Korean nuclear programme.
Finally, we have always worked fruitfully together within the UN framework and we supported the election of an Asian secretary general of the organisation right from the start.
It will be my pleasure to exchange views with you on the prospects for our cooperation in the international organisation framework.
Ban Ki-Moon (Translated from Russian): First of all, I would like to thank you for finding the time to meet with me despite your busy schedule, and I would also like to thank you for your personal message of congratulations.
Russia supported an Asian candidate for the post of secretary general right from the outset. You also supported my election to the post of UN secretary general, and I would like once again to thank you for this.
As UN secretary general, I will work closely with Russia on strengthening the UN secretariat and the organisation as a whole.
The President of the Republic of Korea, Mr Roh Moo Hyun, considers relations and contacts between Russia and Korea to be of great importance. Our relations have been developing with particular success since your visit to Korea. Our President is happy with this and hopes that our relations will reach a new level of cooperation and partnership.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 1, 2006, 21:34
Text versionEvents
Opening Remarks at a Meeting on Developing Russia’s Shipbuilding Industry
November 1, 2006
18:21
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, dear colleagues,
As we agreed, we are here today to discuss the decisions needed to develop Russia’s shipbuilding industry.
This sector is underpinned by an extensive production and development base, genuinely cutting-edge technology and strong positions in certain segments, especially in military shipbuilding. But even so, this is far from sufficient to make the sector truly competitive over the coming years. We need to take action to help Russia’s shipbuilding industry enter new market niches. The Government recently discussed a development strategy for the industry for the period through to 2030, but the final decisions have yet to be taken.
The state is naturally interested in ensuring that the state arms procurement programme is completed in full, but from the point of view of our economic growth, it is no less important to develop the civilian shipbuilding sector and international cooperation.
Looking here at information I received from the Government, from the Industry and Energy Ministry, if we take the total tonnage of all the civilian ships built for Russian ship owners over the last ten years, 94.4 percent were built at foreign shipyards and only 5.6 percent at Russian shipyards. According to the ministry, Russia’s shipyards could have built 28 percent of this total at the very least. Why was this not the case? It was not the case because we have not put in place the necessary conditions for the industry’s development and did not react in time to events taking place in the Russian and world economies. Though, as I said, the industry does have a good base upon which to work and there are good examples of effective work.
One such example, an example of projects already underway, is the construction of platforms for developing off-shore oil and gas fields, and the construction of certain types of tanker. Given the growth prospects for the Russian energy sector, these sorts of projects could become key directions for the sector’s work and our manufacturers could occupy these and other niches. We have already talked about these possible niches – specialised vessels, ice-breaking vessels and so on – areas in which we have already got good work underway and have clear competitive advantages.
Competition on the world markets is extremely intense and we have practically no time left now for making decisions. I propose that we identify our strategy in at least two main areas today. First, we need to outline our policy principles, including on the formation of integrated structures that would be able to implement the state development strategy. Second, and just as important, we need to outline the structural state measures – tax procedures and tax measures – that we can use and that some countries are still making use of today. This also includes measures such as subsidies and loans, healthy protectionism, the sort of protective measures that would not undermine market mechanisms and competition in the sector, but would enable our shipbuilders to take the needed first steps towards strengthening their positions.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 1, 2006, 18:21
Text version