Events
From the Opening Address at the Meeting with the Armed Forces’ Command Staff
November 16, 2006
21:00
Defense Ministry, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon dear comrades!
Our customary meeting is devoted to summarising the results of military training exercises and analysing current and future problems linked to modernising the Armed Forces.
The themes that you are discussing have repercussions far beyond the department. The condition of the Army and the Navy represents a fundamental issue with respect to ensuring Russia’s national interests and defending Russia’s sovereignty. External security is the precondition for successfully resolving social, economic, demographic and political problems. Without ensuring Russia’s external security, none of these tasks can effectively be accomplished.
And it is not by chance that such a large portion of this year’s Address [to the Federal Assembly], that outlined Russia’s long-term national interests, was devoted precisely to modernising the military.
The period of merely putting out fires and ensuring elementary survival has ended. The Army and the Navy have once again found power, strength and self-confidence. And the most important thing is that people in the Armed Forces once again understand their importance and usefulness for the nation. Accordingly, their perception of work and service is undergoing qualitative changes for the better.
Today the Armed Forces are fully able to ensure strategic deterrence and to actively carry out peace-making activities.
Operative and strategic training exercises as well as long-range sea campaigns are becoming the rule rather than the exception. Therefore Southern Shield exercises became the most important ones in post-Soviet history.
But I draw your attention to the fact that engaging such a large amount of resources and means must produce an adequate result and qualitative improvements in troops’ levels of preparedness.
In practice, we have completed forming the regional command East. This represents a serious step towards establishing multipurpose regional groups of forces in major strategic areas. I ask that you continue to consistently work towards introducing a modern structure and management system in the Armed Forces.
The Army and Navy have already entered the crucially important stage of technological reequipment. In this year alone we spent one and a half more times on purchasing weapons than we did last year. In connection with this I will note that we are seeing progress with respect to establishing a unified system of rear maintenance. It should ensure that the financial resources that the state has allocated for reequipment will be judiciously spent.
One month ago I approved a National Weapons Programme calculated until 2015. Almost five trillion rubles are allocated for the implementation of this project. Along with this I shall put special emphasis on the fact that around 80 percent of these funds will be used precisely for modernizing the Armed Forces and for buying modern types of weapons and technical equipment.
The closest attention should be given to promising research, especially in the area of strategic weapons, aviation, investigation systems and air space control.
I am convinced that we need to allocate more resources for the Army and the Navy’s technological development. We must literally saturate these organisations with precision weapons, modern communication facilities and radioelectronic controls.
And troops themselves must increasingly be able to work with new generations of technical equipment and weapons. When taking into consideration the reduction of the conscription service term, I consider that this issue is especially topical.
As of 1 January 2008, service time will be reduced to 12 months. This will ensure that young people are not removed from civil life for a long time.
But this compressed period should be used as productively as possible. And therefore it is important to correctly plan and carry out military studies in a modern way.
Dear comrades!
This year an additional 19 formations and military units were transferred to a new contract-based staffing principle. By 2008 already 70 percent of servicemen, including officers and chief master seargeants, will serve under contract. And we are well aware of how important it is to create worthy social and material guarantees for them.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 16, 2006, 21:00
Text versionEvents
Closing Address at the Meeting of the Armed Forces’ Command Staff
November 16, 2006
21:43
Defense Ministry, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: Dear comrades!
As we conclude this portion of our work I would like to draw your attention to what the Defense Minister and Deputy Prime Minister [Sergei Ivanov] said about the need to establish a unified system of defense orders.
I want to draw your attention to the fact that this is not a technical issue, and neither is it a financial issue or even an organisational issue. Without any undue exaggeration, this is a political issue. Why? Because together we certainly need to ensure the implementation of plans to establish fundamentally new strategic weapons systems, something which would undoubtedly ensure the balance of power in the world.
What does ensuring the balance of power in the world mean for us today? It means that we are not going to proceed as we did in previous years and decades and only engage in comparing the amounts of strategic forces that nuclear powers have. Even though this still retains a certain importance today. In today’s world something else is important: it is not the number of weapons and nuclear warheads that is important, it is the quality of weapons that is important.
For us, this idea of maintaining the strategic balance will mean that our strategic deterrence forces must be capable of destroying any potential aggressor, no matter what modern weapons system this aggressor possesses. Only the guaranteed possibility of destroying such an aggressor can ensure Russia’s strategic security in a long-term perspective. However, strategic deterrence forces are not enough for the country. Without effective general purpose forces we will not be able to prevent and effectively fight against local conflicts, in the event that we should need to do so. General purpose forces should be constructed, equipped and trained with a view to resolving today’s problems.
I am in constant communication with servicemen from various troops. I am perfectly aware of how our servicemen perform their duties in ‘hot spots’. And I well remember how our soldiers carried out their military tasks in the mountains in regular type of boots. And they keep doing it in the same kind of boots until today. And is this modern equipment adequate for resolving today’s tasks? Of course not. It was for this reason that I ordered the Defense Ministry and the General Staff to think about and to equip new divisions – mountain brigades – and to expose them in the region that is the most dangerous for us with respect to local conflicts.
But of all of this – both the nuclear deterrence forces and the general purpose forces as we understand them today – requires huge financial and material resources. Our country does not have endless such resources, but we do have some. And while we have a peaceful foreign policy – and we carry out such a policy and intend to continue doing so in the future – we also have enough means and resources available to resolve all of these problems.
We only need to work together to ensure that national money is spent judiciously. And we are in the position to do so. You are in the position to do so. I very much expect that this will take place and I wish you success.
Thank you very much.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 16, 2006, 21:43
Text versionEvents
Speech at the Ceremony during which Ambassadors from Foreign States Presented their Letters of Credentials
November 16, 2006
19:41
The Grand Kremlin Palace, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon dear gentlemen!
I am glad to welcome you to the Kremlin and to congratulate you on the beginning of your diplomatic missions to Russia.
You are beginning your activities in Moscow at a very interesting time. More than ever before, today’s Russia shows proof of steady economic growth and accomplishes large-scale social tasks designed to increase the people of Russia’s well-being.
It is no exaggeration to say that our state is confidently entering the twenty-first century as a stable and reliable partner. And this is true not only with respect to foreign policy, but in sectors such as trade, investment, and industrial and technological cooperation as well.
Along with the growth of Russia’s own investment appeal, Russian business is increasingly participating in the implementation of major economic and financial projects outside of Russia. We are pleased that along with our neighbours as well as our traditional European and American partners, more and more states from Asia and Africa are showing increasing interest in inflows of Russian capital.
We intend to continue to use the creative potential of international diplomacy to develop multifaceted, mutually advantageous cooperation and to search for new and promising partners to implement joint initiatives and projects. And of course Russia is going to continue to participate in collective work towards fighting against common challenges and threats.
I consider that consolidating the possibilities that various states possess in order to work towards a common goal, namely making the world a safer, more stable and more predictable place, is one of today’s most crucial tasks. I am confident that today the very widest field for active and committed work in Russia is available to you. We sincerely wish you success in this crucially important field.
Dear colleagues!
We are pleased that we have established a meaningful dialogue with Macedonia on fundamental international and regional issues. We are disposed to strengthen our dialogue by developing our trade and investment partnership.
A traditional friendship links Russia with the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. Next year our countries will celebrate the 50 th anniversary of our diplomatic relations. And I am convinced that the solid experience of cooperation that we have accumulated over these years establishes the conditions for further deepening our cooperation in all areas.
We are interested in expanding our political and business contacts with the Republic of Burundi. We are also ready to work actively together to resolve the acute problems on the African continent.
A spirit of mutual respect and trust has always distinguished Russian-Icelandic relations. I am confident that this approach will continue in the future.
A common historical and cultural heritage connect Russia and Belarus. We are in favour of truly deepening mutually advantageous economic integration and adopting a gradual approach to issues with respect to establishing a union. The high amount of our cooperation in all areas points to the necessity of very active daily practical cooperation in the interests of Russia and Belarus.
The traditionally friendly relations between Russia and the Union of Myanmar have good prospects. We sincerely wish the leaders and the people of your country success in accomplishing various tasks linked to state and economic development.
We support Albania’s desire to deepen bilateral relations and develop trade and economic ties. We recognize that expanding Russian and Albanian cooperation will be beneficial for our countries as well as for stability in the Balkans.
We give great value to deepening our close cooperation with Canada. Canada is our arctic neighbour and we have successful contacts in international affairs and with respect to ensuring global security. We also have sound prospects for strengthening our partnership relations.
In conclusion, I would like to once again wish all of you a successful mission to Russia. I believe that your well-directed efforts will allow us to discover additional reserves for potential cooperation, reserves that will be used for the multifaceted development of ties between our countries. I am convinced that your work in Moscow will be useful and interesting both for you and for your family members.
Thank you for your attention.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 16, 2006, 19:41
Text version