Events
Opening Remarks at Meeting with the Leadership of National Political Party United Russia
November 17, 2006
21:34
Novo-Ogaryovo
President Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, dear colleagues.
Just recently, on October 8, elections took place in a number of regions across the country. Nine regions elected new regional legislative assemblies and the majority of voters in these elections gave their votes to candidates from your party, who received from 40–50 percent of the vote. Now, independently or together with their allies, members of your party form the majority in these regional parliaments. This is further confirmation that United Russia is indeed the most influential political force in the country.
I know that you have drafted a number of initiatives that United Russia plans to discuss at its party congress on December 2, and I hope that today’s conversation will give us the chance to look at their main ideas and discuss ways to implement them.
Last year, legal instruments were put in place giving the party obtaining the majority in regional elections the right to propose to the President the candidate for regional governor.
Resolving the party’s practical objectives requires closer cooperation with other institutions of civil society. On United Russia’s initiative, the federal budget is allocating considerable funds to supporting public organisations. But along with providing financial support, it is important to organise joint work in the areas where party bodies and public organisations can complement each other in their work. One positive example of this kind of cooperation is the way that United Russia and the Public Council have both become involved in work to resolve the situation with people cheated out of their deposits by pyramid schemes in the construction sector. This problem exists in Moscow and there are people facing similar problems in 35 other Russian cities. As we know, these problems arose out of the lack of legal regulation in the early 1990s. It is a problem that we have inherited and we need to work together with public organisations and with our citizens to resolve it. We need to take ongoing and consistent steps in this area so as to settle all these problems.
Another area of importance today where the party and public organisations could work together is that of strengthening interethnic peace and harmony and educating people to be tolerant towards members of other ethnic groups or religions. This is an area where it is important to make fuller use of the party’s information, education and intellectual resources and its public influence.
Russia is interested in attracting workers and specialists from abroad to work in economic sectors and regions that face labour shortages. We will work consistently to put in place a civilised system of labour migration relations. This means helping the people who come to work and live in our country in their social and cultural adaptation. We need to help them integrate comfortably into Russian society and in so doing remove the soil for interethnic and inter-religious conflicts. Of course, in attracting labour from abroad, we also must take into consideration, above all, Russian citizens’ interests on the labour market. I have spoken about this issue on many occasions. It is something that we are discussing almost all the time.
I support the changes to immigration and administrative legislation that were passed on the party’s initiative. On the one hand, these new rules simplify registration procedures for immigrants, and on the other hand they set strict penalties for violations of the immigration and labour rules. We currently estimate that of 10 million foreigners working in Russia, only 500,000 are registered. I gave the figure of 10 million, but this is not a definitive figure and, according to some data, the real figure could be as much as 15 million people. Other countries where the labour market is quite attractive also face this problem, and on just as big a scale. The number of illegal immigrants in Europe is in the millions, and some estimates put it at eight million or even ten million. I just met with my U.S. counterpart recently, and they also face this problem in the United States, with 10 million-12 million illegal immigrants.
I would like to note the principled support that United Russia has given to the draft law on regulating the gambling business. This draft law was passed by the State Duma in the first reading a few days ago.
I hope that this law will be passed before the end of this year. This will create the legal foundation for radical decriminilisation of this sector. According to the Interior Ministry, gambling establishments generated total revenue of around 134 billion roubles last year, 80 percent of which came from one-armed bandits. But inspections have shown that most of these one-armed bandits were not registered and were not paying the taxes required by law. I am fully aware of how many attempts will be made to lobby this or that decision in this area. I call on the leadership of United Russia not to give into the lobbyists. I know what the State Duma proposes, and you know my views on the subject. I think that we should concentrate this business in four specially selected zones, and this is enough. There is no need to expand this number.
I note in particular the draft law giving additional support to families with children. This is the draft law on the maternity or family capital. It has now been passed in its first reading. It is important to get this law through the Federal Assembly before the end of the current session so that its provisions can be implemented in practice starting from the beginning of 2007. This all has to be taken into account in the 2007 budget. We can’t allow any failures here, because any problems will mean that we will not be able to begin making payments. I hope that there will not be any problems.
You are also to examine the draft law regulating the activities of retail markets. The draft law gives, for the first time, strict legal definitions of retail and produce trade, and regulates the large number of issues regarding the rights and obligations of everyone involved in this sector. It is important to set common procedures for markets’ activities by law so as to enable retail trade to be conducted according to clear and transparent rules. Currently, we have a situation, unfortunately, where there is no legal basis at federal level for markets’ activities, and only 13 of our regions have passed local laws regulating their activities. And even these laws contain many unclear and imprecise provisions, and there are many legal problems and unregulated situations. I think this law is much needed now to protect our local goods producers. It should create legally-based and healthy competition in this sector and encourage the development of produce markets as the main channel through which farmers can sell what they grow. If sales develop and increase, this should lead in turn to increased production, create new jobs and become a real means of support for rural areas.
The draft law regulating issues in the nuclear energy industry is also of great importance for the country. Passing and implementing this law will enable us to make the nuclear energy industry machine-building sector more competitive both at home and abroad, help our nuclear energy specialists in their work, ensure balanced and stable development of the country’s energy sector and make it possible to maintain and develop advanced technology.
Finally, I would like to say a few words about legislative measures to increase liability for violating traffic rules. This is an important social issue and it has remained a serious problem despite increased attention given to the issue. Whether through the irresponsible behaviour of people on the roads or the lack of regulation and lack of attention from the Interior Ministry and the authorities in general, terrible tragedies are taking place on our roads. It is absolutely inadmissible that people should be able to drive when drunk, and we need to make sure that the legislation in this area works and is effective.
Dear colleagues, I have already spoken about the party’s growing influence today. But there is another important aspect to take into account, and that is the party’s international activities. United Russia’s increasing influence inside the country opens up new opportunities for developing ties with parliaments and parties abroad. Your cooperation with the most influential political forces in other countries will make it possible to inform the public more fully on Russia’s domestic policies, give a multidimensional nature to foreign affairs, and create new forums for political and economic ties. These are all serious levers for promoting Russia’s interests abroad, and so I would like to hear about your plans for expanding international ties and contacts.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 17, 2006, 21:34
Text versionEvents
APEC – Russia’s choice of principle in the Asia-Pacific region
By President of the Russian Federation Vladimir V.Putin
November 17, 2006
12:36
Our country has been a full member of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Forum since 1998. On the eve of this year’s APEC summit in Hanoi, I would like to share my views about the road this multilateral grouping has travelled so far and about the future prospects for our cooperation.
Over the 17 years since the forum was established, it has become one of the most representative and influential integration organisations in the Asia-Pacific region. The economic area represented by APEC is the world’s fastest-growing region today and our experts forecast that the forum will continue to consolidate its position as a leading organisation over the coming years.
As a Eurasian power, Russia closely links its own social and economic development plans, especially in Siberia and the Far East, to active participation in regional integration. This is a natural choice for us and a matter of strategic principle.
The experience APEC has built up in jointly formulating trade and economic rules and developing investment cooperation are of particular importance to us. Cooperation in this area is based mainly on the criteria set by the World Trade Organisation, of which Russia is not yet a member. But we nonetheless follow this work with interest and take part where possible, including in areas such as lowering transaction costs, removing excessive state regulation in the economy and improving national economic legislation.
We share and understand APEC’s objectives of strengthening the foundations of the market economy and creating active public-private partnerships aimed at boosting small and medium businesses and resolving social development issues. The creation and functioning of various free trade zones within the APEC region is something of great interest to our country. We make detailed analysis of the models our partners offer for improving the domestic investment climate and we study their experience in fighting corruption. All of this has a practical impact on our reforms, which aim to develop and diversify Russia’s foreign economic ties.
We share fully the economic and social aspirations that bind all the forum’s members together. In this respect, a positive assessment of Russia’s individual action plan in APEC is important to us.
At the Hanoi summit, we will discuss the action plan to implement the already approved roadmap for reaching the Bogor objectives. We have high hopes of this document and we hope that it will play an important part in building a system of free and open trade and investment activity in the region.
At the same time, however, it is clear that reaching the goals that were set is not as easy as it seemed at the moment the Bogor Declaration and the Osaka Action Plan were adopted. We see clearly the political and economic changes taking place in the world and the rise of new threats that jeopardise international security and stability and pose a danger to normal economic development in some parts of the world. The APEC forum and its member countries must take these changes into account. I think that we need to try to avoid a situation where the organisation’s guidelines, as set firmly in the Bogor Declaration, could end up in contradiction with the logic of global development and the real possibilities of the APEC economies.
The APEC forum was created as a multilateral mechanism primarily concerned with economic matters. But life itself obliges it to include international and regional policy issues on its agenda.
One of the key tasks before us today is to counter international terrorism. The Asia-Pacific countries, including the APEC member countries, have differing development levels, and it is no secret that terrorists seek ‘temporary shelter’ in a number of the economically less prosperous regions. This is why, as well as taking measures to liquidate hotbeds of terrorism, we need to work consistently to eradicate the ‘social roots’ of terrorism, that is, poverty, hunger and chronic unemployment. And overall, we must work to reduce the social and economic gap between countries and peoples.
I believe that APEC offers considerable possibilities for achieving these goals. Our work to encourage public-private partnerships, investment and economic activeness, should take into account questions such as providing assistance to help boost growth in the poorest countries, above all through the use of APEC’s funds and the funds that international organisations and financial institutions can make available upon targeted requests from the forum.
The humanitarian and ideological aspect of fighting terrorism is just as important. In this respect, the APEC initiative to develop a dialogue between cultures and religions is particularly significant. It is important that the Asia-Pacific region, with its rich diversity of cultures and ethnic groups, build up solid immunity to the ideology of a so-called ‘clash of civilisations’, nationalism and extremism. I am sure that APEC’s inherent spirit of trust, tolerance and partnership forms a good foundation for reaching this goal. And I think it is deeply symbolic that the main countries behind this initiative include Indonesia and Russia – both countries with populations unique in the diversity of their ethnic and religious makeup.
We must continue work to cut off the funds that feed terrorism. APEC has formulated this objective quite clearly, and this is further proof of the forum’s ability to adapt to today’s realities. I want to stress that Russia is ready to cooperate most actively with its partners in this area.
We are also ready to take part in intensifying cooperation within APEC on combating organised crime, drugs trafficking and arms smuggling. I am sure that our countries’ law enforcement agencies have the capacity not only to organise exchanges of relevant information, but to take the agenda further and plan and carry out coordinated action against those who violate the law.
Transport and information security are areas we consider to be of great importance, for they form one of the main conditions that enable the functioning of the trade and telecommunications arteries so vital to the vast Asia-Pacific region. State authorities and business circles have an equal interest in ensuring that these arteries function normally and are reliably protected against any criminal intent and act. Russia’s concrete contribution to cooperation in this area is the initiative to create a system for protecting key energy infrastructure facilities, including through rapid reaction to emerging threats, which was proposed recently in the APEC Special Group on Combating Terrorism.
International energy security plays a crucial part in economic development. We recognise that the rise in world oil prices makes this issue particularly important for many APEC countries today.
As one of the leading energy resources suppliers on the world market, Russia is ready to cooperate in this area. It is our conviction that we need to develop a partnership in this area based on conditions that are favourable to all involved, conditions based on mutual responsibility of the energy producers and consumers, a fair distribution of the risks between them and an exchange of energy sector assets. I note in this respect that the action plan adopted by the G8 summit in St Petersburg sets out measures to increase transparency, predictability and stability on the energy markets and improve the investment climate in general. Along with these measures, we also need to develop energy conservation technology, diversify our energy sources and also diversify transport routes. Considerable practical steps need to be taken in areas such as ensuring energy infrastructure security, combating energy poverty and resolving environmental problems.
The growing demand for the creation of a new and more reliable energy configuration in the Asia-Pacific region makes all of these issues even more relevant. Russia is ready to work actively on implementing this far-reaching initiative. Furthermore, we intend to propose and carry out a number of specific infrastructure projects, namely, the construction of oil and gas pipelines to take energy resources from the eastern part of our country to the Asia-Pacific region. It is my view that APEC’s mechanisms can help resolve more effectively the task of ensuring reliable energy supplies to the region.
Cooperation in APEC also opens up new opportunities in the fight against infectious diseases. It is in our common interest to create an effective system of information exchange and take coordinated decisions when epidemics and pandemics arise. We also give our full support to the development of the partnership between the APEC members in the area of early warning of emergency situations in the region, and joint cleanup and rescue efforts.
The experience that APEC has accumulated in cooperation in the innovation sector, particularly in developing nanotechnology and exchanging knowledge in high technology areas such as computer and information science and biotechnology is of exceptional importance. Russia supports more active cooperation in these and other areas that will shape scientific and technological progress over the coming years. It is also important to further develop cooperation in the education sector, and the APEC members should give this objective their full attention.
* * *
In conclusion, I would like to reiterate that we are optimistic about APEC’s future. It is within our power to overcome new challenges and continue our progress towards our common development goals. The central theme of the upcoming summit in Vietnam, ‘Towards a Dynamic Community for Sustainable Development and Prosperity’ clearly illustrates the direction the forum is taking today.
In keeping with our important choice of principle in the Asia-Pacific region, Russia will work actively with its partners to help reach the forum’s goals.
I am sure that the APEC forum, which has achieved a lot already, has the capacity to do much more still for the good of our countries and peoples and in the interest of peace, stability and progress in the region that we share.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 17, 2006, 12:36
Text versionEvents
Written Interview by President of the Russian Federation Vladimir V.Putin on the APEC Summit
Published in Vietnamese Weekly “The World and Vietnam Report”
November 17, 2006
13:06
Question: What is Your opinion of the development of the APEC process and the integration of the Russian Federation in the APEC community?
Answer: I think that almost the two decade-long history of APEC’s development more than convincingly attests to the relevancy of the Forum. It has indeed become an authoritative dialogue ground and integrating structure where commonly accepted rules are elaborated for trade and economic cooperation on the huge space of the Asia-Pacific region. And, even more importantly, APEC’s work serves the interests of regional security and stability, and consolidation of principles of multilateral cooperation in international affairs.
The Bogor Goals Mid-Term Stocktake undertaken last year provided plenty of food for thought. On the one hand, APEC gives opportunities that promote trade and investment facilitation in the region and, by and large, enhance the formation here of a favorable business climate. On the other hand, equally obvious is the need to modify the program tasks of APEC, to rejuvenate the Forum adapting it to the realities of today’s world.
It is evident that, given the dynamic evolution of economic situation in the world and the region, the Bogor Goals of open and free trade and investment while preserving their fundamental importance can no longer be seen as something static. Otherwise we risk to face a situation where the rigidly fixed timeframes will be at variance with both the logic of development and the real capacities of APEC member economies. But any step in the context of APEC reform must be well-balanced and gradual in nature and taken only after a thorough analysis of each and every member’s recommendations.
We also believe that APEC reform process has to preserve the principles of consensus and voluntarism as the main pillars of APEC’s work. It is basically thanks to these principles that we have at our disposal a flexible regional mechanism which enables us to discuss and jointly seek responses to the most serious challenges.
Russia most actively participates in APEC’s projects and activities backing up this line with practical deeds. Let me mention, for instance, the satisfactory results of APEC TPT-WG meeting in Vladivostok in 2005 and the APEC EWG meeting earlier this month in Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk.
We realize well that the implementation of the plans of socio-economic development of Russia is inconceivable without our full-scale participation in the regional integration. Constructive involvement in these processes is our strategic choice and a major task both in on-going activities and for the future.
Question: The main theme of the Vietnamese Presidency in APEC in 2006 is “Towards a Dynamic Community for Sustainable Development and Prosperity”, among its priorities is achieving secure and favorable business environment. How would you comment and how you evaluate the participation of Russian economy in the APEC Year – Vietnam 2006?
Answer: The theme declared by Vietnam indeed allows us to consider a very broad range of issues relating to bringing up trade and investment activities, economic and technological cooperation in the region.
It is important that the Vietnamese partners propose focusing on achieving a secure and favorable business environment. This problem, I am confident, calls for an integrated approach. And it cannot be solved if today’s most dangerous challenges are not neutralized. Above all, I am referring to terrorism and such related kinds of crime as drug trafficking and arms smuggling. Wherever these evils occur, economic and social progress is hampered, business activity is stopped and whole regions are plunged into chronic depression. It is our common task to provide adequate and timely response to such threats to lives of our citizens and to economic prosperity in the Asia Pacific region.
We appreciate the APEC’s activities to curb financial support of terrorism and secure trade and transportation lines and information systems. In our opinion, to make these efforts more effective it is necessary to enhance mechanisms of interaction within APEC and other international institutions, particularly the G-8 and SCO. Increasingly relevant, too, is a sustained public-private partnership in countering terrorism.
We attach great significance to the APEC Initiative on Inter-Cultural and Faith Dialogue. I wish to point out that Russia most actively participated in the elaboration of this initiative. We realize how important it is for the Asia-Pacific region with its unique cultural and ethnic diversity to develop a durable immunity against the ideology of intercivilizational splits, intolerance and nationalism. APEC’s intrinsic spirit of confidence, tolerance and partnership provides a favorable ground for the addressing of this task.
Question: What are other aspects of the APEC’s activities that you feel are important?
Answer: A number of issues in the APEC’s agenda are consonant with the priorities of Russia’s presidency in the G8 and – in a broader dimension – with Russia’s approaches to the key problems of world politics and economy.
First of all, it is about ensuring international energy security. We deem it important in this respect to establish mutually beneficial conditions for partnership based on mutual responsibility of producers and consumers of energy resources and a just distribution of risks among them, and exchange of assets in the energy sector. The G8 Plan of Action adopted at the summit in St. Petersburg envisages efforts to increase transparency, predictability and stability of the global energy markets, and improve the investment climate. Besides, it is important to promote energy efficiency and energy saving, diversify energy sources and routes of their transportation. Serious practical steps are needed as well to ensure energy infrastructure safety, reduction of energy poverty and solution of ecological problems.
All these issues are particularly topical in light of the growing need for creating a new and reliable energy configuration in the Asia-Pacific region. Russia is ready to directly participate in the implementation of this indeed global initiative. Moreover, Russia is offering and realizing a number of infrastructural projects. I am referring to the construction of oil and gas pipelines to supply carbohydrates to Asia Pacific from the eastern part of our country. The work in this direction on a bilateral level is already underway and will actively continue. We believe the APEC mechanisms can effectively facilitate the implementation of the task of ensuring uninterrupted energy supply to the region.
APEC is able as well to considerably increase its contribution to the enhancement of international capacity to monitor and respond to outbreaks of infectious diseases. It is in our common interests to seek the establishment of an effective system of information sharing and working out coordinated decisions in cases when such problems arise. We also fully support the efforts to develop partnership within APEC in the area of early warning about emergency situations in the region and joint relief efforts.
In our view, there are good prospects, too, for cooperation in the areas of combating corruption, IPR protection, development of small and medium business, information and biotechnologies. Russia has experience of research and practical interaction in these and other fields, which we are sharing with our partners on the basis of reciprocity and mutual benefit.
I believe APEC should not lose sight of such direction of activity as cooperation in the field of education aimed at improving competitiveness of national educational programs and mutual recognition of qualifications. The more so since the above aspects are inseparable from the issues of human resources and innovations, which are already on the APEC’s agenda.
Question: What is your assessment of cooperation between Russia and 
Vietnam?
Answer: I would like to stress that development of relations with the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is invariably among the priorities of Russia’s foreign policy in the Asia-Pacific region. This political line has stood the test of time and is not subject to short-term expediency considerations. And we are interested in further expansion of mutually beneficial cooperation in all spheres. I would like to specifically note that the good foundation for our effective partnership at global and regional levels is laid by the proximity of the two countries’ positions on major issues of international agenda.
The Russian-Vietnamese relations are based on the principles of the Declaration for Strategic Partnership, which marks its fifth anniversary this year. Over this time we have managed to significantly enrich our interaction while sustaining the high level of mutual respect and trust.
We consider that one of the most important tasks in our bilateral relations is to increase trade and economic, scientific and technological as well as investment cooperation. In 2005, trade turnover between Russia and Vietnam exceeded the record high of USD 1 billion. It has tripled, compared with the year 2000. At the same time, the reserves we have allow us to anticipate a more dynamic growth of bilateral trade in the nearest future.
I would also like to note effective development of cooperation in fuel and energy complex. Joint venture “Vietsovpetro” is acting well in oil production. Considering the success of this enterprise, we believe that it would be useful and mutually beneficial to maintain it even after the expiry of the present Agreement, of course, taking into account realities and opportunities. Undoubtedly, another interesting area of cooperation is joint exploration of hydrocarbon resources in other parts of Vietnam’s shelf.
Russian companies also take an active part in modernization and construction of energy sites in Vietnam, including “Uongbi” Thermal Station, “Sesan-3” and “Pleikrong” Hydroelectric Power Plants. They are ready to join the implementation of such large-scale Vietnamese power industry projects as the “Sonla” Hydroelectric Power Plant and the first nuclear power station.
There are also good prospects for bilateral cooperation in automobile assembly, first of all of the Russian truck brands with good reputation in your country, such as “Kamaz”, as well as in mineral deposits development, metallurgy, agriculture, transportation and communications, banking and finance. We are satisfied with strengthening of business contacts between the regions of our two countries and the increase in tourist exchanges. Traditionally important in our bilateral ties remains the sphere of military and technical cooperation aimed at contributing to the consolidation of Vietnam’s defense potential.
In general, the dynamics of the Russian-Vietnamese relations’ development allow us to optimistically look into the future. We are confident of that because of the high level of trust and mutual understanding between the leadership of the two countries, the growing economic potentials of the Russian Federation and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, their constructive commitment to mutually beneficial interaction. Therefore, I have no doubt that the coming visit of the Russian delegation to Vietnam this November will bring about evident practical results.
In conclusion, I would like to take this opportunity to express sincere feelings of respect for the Vietnamese people and to wish your country peace and prosperity.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 17, 2006, 13:06
Text version