In our opinion, we need a number of measures to ensure the stability and predictability of the supplies of electrical energy, nuclear energy and raw materials such as oil and gas for world markets. Unfortunately, today these markets are subject to serious political, technical and ecological risks.
One of the most important tasks is increasing energy supplies and their effectiveness, developing alternative sources of energy, and the struggle with the so-called energy poverty of developing countries.
Forming a favourable investment climate and stable transparent rules in the global energy sector has a serious role to play in energy security. In Russia we are already working on such rules and are ready to discuss them with our partners.
Another fundamental direction is developing a constructive dialogue between basic producers and consumers of energy resources. In our opinion, that dialogue must be supported by developing coordinated collective measures aimed at stabilizing markets, especially in crisis situations. Therefore when we speak about collective measures we must not forget that market mechanisms play the key role. And the task of the G8 and other international forums is to create the conditions for them to be able to work in an uninterrupted way.
The G8 may not stay away from the topical problem of the spread of infectious diseases. These illnesses are responsible for a third of all the deaths that occur in the world. We believe that we should pay very close attention to strengthening the global network that allows us to gain information and monitor infectious diseases, including those that are reappearing today.
Such a system must react to new threats in an operative way so as to minimize both the human and economic losses from epidemics.
In addition we suggest adopting a G8 action plan concerning the struggle against the avian flu and preventing a possible pandemic of flu among humans, and also developing a number of measures to prevent natural catastrophes from resulting in epidemics.
In connection with this I highly value the results of January's conference on avian flu that took place in Beijing and following which donors took upon themselves the responsibility for allocating 1,9 billion USD to finance measures in the struggle against this disease.
We also welcome proposals from finance ministers on how to analyse the financial and economic consequences of a possible flu pandemic. I believe that in addition to being able to make an accurate forecast it is important to develop concrete coordinated steps to minimize the potential losses for the global economy.
Certainly during the Russian presidency we shall look at how previous decisions by the G8 regarding eradicating polio, the struggle against HIV infections, AIDS and tuberculosis are being implemented.
It is obvious that problems in the field of education are global in nature. Today improving the quality and effectiveness of national education systems is an absolute must. Humankind's general progress and, especially, the prospects for developing a dialogue between civilizations and cultures, and counteracting extremist ideology that uses violence, intolerance, and the threat of terror directly depend on this.
By raising the issue of education we shall also discuss systematic problems such as innovative policies, demography, language and the social and cultural acclimatization of migrants.
Dear colleagues!
2005 was a successful year for the global economy and the rates of growth exceeded four percent. However, despite good predictions for growth in 2006 there are a number of occasions for concern. The global economic and financial architecture can prove unstable. We are also going to touch on this problem during the St Petersburg summit. Of course I would like to hear your opinions on this issue during today's meeting.
In this context I would also like to touch on the theme of preventing money laundering and terrorist financing. We suggest that G8 members share their experience in this issue and further strengthen the potential for other countries to be effective in this field. It is important to expand the geographical aspect of the said tasks and pay special attention to Central Asia. We consider that the G8 countries could participate in a more active way in the activities of the Eurasian countries along the lines of the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) to combat money laundering and terrorist financing. In particular by sending experts together with Russian specialists to carry out training sessions in these countries.
Certainly, during the Russian presidency we are going to bring up a number of questions concerning so-called development assistance. In the past few years we have paid constant attention to these issues and Russia plans to increase its participation in international efforts in this direction. Literally just the other day we made fundamental decisions about participating in the IMF's programmes for providing financial assistance to poor countries suffering from all kinds of external shocks-technical, financial and economic ones. Between 2006 and 2010 a voluntary payment of 30 million special loan rights, equivalent to approximately 43,5 million USD, will be allocated for this purpose.Events
Beginning of the Meeting with US Treasury Secretary John Snow
February 11, 2006
14:37
The Kremlin, Moscow
Russian President Vladimir Putin:
Dear Mr Minister! Dear colleagues!
Allow me to welcome you once again.
I am very glad to have the opportunity to meet with you in Moscow and this time to talk about our bilateral relations since we have already had the opportunity to discuss issues pertaining to the G8 with our colleagues.
As a whole we are satisfied with Russian-American relations that are developing in an active way. And we agree with our American partners regarding our partnership's strategic character.
Our trade and economic ties are growing from year to year at very high rates, more than 40 percent a year. And this is the case in practically all sectors, including in the energy sector.
The share of Russian energy resources on the American market has increased from the twelfth to the eighth largest share.
I think that in the next three or four years it is entirely possible that we reach a situation whereby Russian energy resources will occupy the third or fourth place in the American market.
However this is not the only significant element in our relations. Our cooperation is far richer than this. And therefore I very much expect that our negotiators will be able to finish the negotiating process concerning Russia's accession to the WTO. This would create even better preconditions for the development of trade and economic relations, including in the investment sphere.
US Treasury Secretary John Snow (back translation):
Many thanks Mr President. I want to pass on the greetings and best wishes from Mr Bush and all of your many friends in the United States.
Russian Finance Minister Mr Kudrin has set the bar high during the meeting of the G8 finance ministers. Both the carefulness with which the meeting was prepared and its full agenda made this meeting incomparable with any other meeting I have had the honour to take part in. He really made us work.
In addition, last night we had a very enjoyable opportunity; we were given a concert by young people whose talent can be measured on a global scale.
Regarding your accession to the WTO, let me assure you that we firmly believe that this document will be signed soon.
Only several unresolved questions remain between us and, as I understand it, one of these questions lies within my sphere of competence and that of Finance Minister Mr Kudrin. As you are well aware, the issue is opening financial markets. It seems to me that we discussed this issue in quite a bit of detail last night. I think that we significantly reduced the difference between our positions and that we are very close to finding a solution to this problem.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: February 11, 2006, 14:37
Text versionEvents
Beginning of the Meeting with British Finance Minister Gordon Brown
February 11, 2006
13:36
The Kremllin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin:
Good afternoon dear Mr Minister, dear colleagues!
I am very glad to welcome you to Moscow. Not only because you are one of the architects of an economic model that has helped your country develop successfully, but also because you personally supported the basic directions of the discussion that will take place this year in St Petersburg.
I would like to assure you and ask you to tell Mr Prime Minister that we are going to keep the continuity of the themes that our colleagues consider priority ones during the summit in St Petersburg .
This concerns improving the level of education in developing countries, and especially providing education free of charge and education in the poorest countries of the world. This concerns debt relief for the poorest countries of the world, and we can talk about the details and about our respective proposals. I know that you are familiar with and support our ideas.
Finally there is the issue of ensuring stability on the world energy markets.
I hope that all these themes were addressed during your discussion today with our Finance Minister [Aleksei Kudrin] and with other colleagues. But we shall still have the opportunity to discuss these problems.
And of course I would like to point out that our bilateral relations are developing intensively. The volume of trade is growing by something like 50 percent.
Welcome! I am very happy to see you!
British Finance Minister Gordon Brown (back translation):
Mr President, first of all I want to say that it is a very great privilege, a great honour to have the opportunity to meet with you. I thank you for the hospitality that you have shown here in the Kremlin.
I would like to thank you for the large amount of work that you have already done in preparing for the Russian presidency of the G8 in 2006.
The meeting that took place this morning in Moscow between finance ministers was, in my opinion, very successful. I know that you have very big plans for your G8 presidency, plans that are supported both by us and by all the G8 member states.
You talked about our economic policy in a very kindly way and I want to congratulate you on successfully carrying out Russia's economic policy. The fact that you have achieved six percent growth, even six and a half, should act as an example to us all.
I am looking forward to the further development of trade relations and relations in other areas between Great Britain and Russia.
Naturally we are interested in the work that you are going to lead within the G8 concerning energy security. I want to congratulate you for having chosen that topic as a topic for discussion.
Today at a meeting headed by Mr Kudrin I consider that we were already able to make significant progress towards defining the themes that will be the focus of our attention during the St Petersburg summit.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: February 11, 2006, 13:36
Text version