Events
Beginning of Meeting with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
November 18, 2006
17:23
Hanoi
Vladimir Putin: Prime Minister, I am very happy to meet with you in your new capacity.
Shinzo Abe (Translated from Russian): I am also very happy to meet with you in this new capacity, now that I am prime minister.
As Deputy Secretary General of the Cabinet, I attended the summit meeting when Mr. Mori was prime minister. I also participated in a meeting with Mr. President under Mr. Koizumi’s premiership, when the Action Plan was adopted.
And I am very happy to meet with you in this new capacity, now that I am prime minister.
Vladimir Putin: We are well aware of the enormous contribution that your father, as Foreign Minister, made to the development of Soviet-Japanese relations. I hope that you will follow your family tradition, furthering relations between Russia and Japan.
Our assessments of our political relations are the same. [The relations] are on a high level, and, in fact, we have kept in touch on all issues on our bilateral and broader international agenda. Our dialog on a peace treaty is continuing, and on our part, we intend to cooperate with you further on this, seeking acceptable solutions.
Trade between our countries is increasing, humanitarian cooperation is on the rise, and investment is growing as largest Japanese companies are coming into Russia’s engineering as well as energy sector. We will continue our efforts in creating a necessary environment for further development of our cooperation in all these areas.
I am very pleased to have an opportunity here in Vietnam to share our views on all topics on our agenda.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 18, 2006, 17:23
Text versionEvents
Beginning of Meeting with President of the People’s Republic of China Hu Jintao
November 18, 2006
17:20
Hanoi
Hu Jintao (translated from Russian): Mr President! I am very pleased to see you again here in Hanoi. This is our fifth meeting. I think each of our meetings has been productive and amicable; on previous occasions we focused on leadership and coordination, which proved very important to our relations.
This year marks a decade since the beginning of the partnership and strategic cooperation between China and Russia. Our ties have made great progress since that time. Indeed, they have made historic progress, successfully meeting the challenges presented by the complicated and volatile international situation.
Mutual political trust between our countries is strengthening consistently, and trade and economic cooperation have achieved impressive results. Our strategic relationship is also on the rise. Setting the stage for the development of both countries, friendly relations between China and Russia have also served as important factors of peace and security in the whole world as well as in the region.
Mr President, I am ready, together with you, to invest more effort in the development of the Sino-Russian partnership and strategic relationship.
And now I would like to pass the floor to you.
Vladimir Putin: Mr. Chairman, I am also very happy to meet with you again. We have met regularly, officially and unofficially, one absolutely informal example being our recent meeting in Kazakhstan.
Like you, we find that the relations between our countries are on a very high level. This is largely due to your position and to the attention you and your colleagues have paid to the development of the Russian-Chinese relations. Indeed, our relations are developing in all areas, and these relations are profound and truly strategic. This is of great value to us as well as to you, and we will put all our efforts in their further development.
As the Year of Russia in the People's Republic of China is coming to an end, I would like to thank all our Chinese friends for their skill in organizing this year-long joint event. Many in the People's Republic of China had an opportunity to view Russia’s achievements in various fields, which, I hope, will now help make the ordinary people of our two nations more interested in one another.
Importantly, despite our frequent meetings, we have found useful topics for discussion each time.
And we are very pleased to be meeting with you today.
   Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 18, 2006, 17:20
Text version