Events
Extracts from the Transcript of the Meeting with Cabinet Members
May 29, 2006
23:50
The Kremlin, Moscow
Prime Minister Mikhail Fradkov on the Merger between the European Steel Company Arcelor and Russia’s Severstal:
Yes, literally a few days ago – on May 25 to be precise – these two companies signed a merger agreement. One might say that in our recent economic history, this merger is one of a number of classic examples of mergers and consolidations. We should note that this is a friendly merger because these companies have already been cooperating for a long time. As a matter of fact, it is a strategic partnership.
Two joint enterprises have already been established. One of these enterprises is designed to produce zinc-plated steel sheets which can be used within the automobile industry. Arcelor is the second largest steel company in the world and excels in using new technologies and high-quality steel. In other words, the opportunities Severstal will receive by gaining access to these technologies and management skills will allow our business to really enter the metallurgical industry’s international market. And as might be expected, the leadership of Severstal will be represented within the new management.
The process to coordinate this agreement is now under way. We hope that by mid-July this transaction will be complete. It will require coordinating both European and Russian antitrust departments. There is still a great deal of work to be done here. And it is important to do this quickly because the market is highly competitive. There are other companies who would like to purchase companies such as Severstal and Arcelor. Therefore our agencies are involved in this work and we are providing all necessary support to help resolve any persisting problems.
It is important to note that Severstal’s subdivisions on Russian territory shall remain part of the company. They will continue to pay both federal and local taxes. However, the expansion of our metallurgical industry – and I consider that this expansion deserves our support – will help them enter new markets, increase budgetary income because of an increase in taxes and create new jobs within the automobile industry. And perhaps other sectors that require high-quality metallurgical products with a special coating will also benefit from the advantages resulting from this transaction.
Vladimir Putin: In other words, you know this agreement and you support it?
Mikhail Fradkov: Yes, we support it.
* * *
Deputy Prime Minister and Defense Minister Sergei Ivanov on the Forthcoming Session of the government’s Military Industrial Commission:
On 2 June 2006 at the session of the government’s Military Industrial Commission we will examine the state weapons programme for 2007–2015. All power agencies and departments, the Trade and Economic Development Ministry, the Finance Ministry, the Industry and Energy Ministry and three Russian agencies – Roskosmos, Rosatom, and Rosprom – have already agreed to this programme.
Of course it was mainly the Defense Ministry that drew up this programme and we started from the fundamentals of military technological policy, from the plan for developing the Armed Forces which you confirmed as Commander in Chief, and the various programmes for military and technological cooperation.
This nine-year programme has one special feature – while the current programme is basically concerned with research and development to help provide the Armed Forces with new weapons and equipment, the new programme is even more oriented towards purchasing large quantities of weapons. Over 63 percent of all the financial means allocated to this programme will be used for purchasing weapons and technical equipment. We will keep what I see as a normal equilibrium between the necessary task of maintaining and developing our strategic nuclear forces and our conventional forces. This will allow us – actually we have already begun this year but in 2007 this tendency will be even more pronounced – to switch to a new regime whereby we do not purchase any one sample of military equipment but namely ensure the comprehensive reequipment of separate sectors and divisions, whether it be squadrons, artillery batteries, or land battalions. And as of 2007 the planned reequipment of the Armed Forces will take place. This is the most visible tendency.
In addition to this I would like to point out another tendency. If this programme is adopted, then already in 2007 we will be able to start the fiscal year by buying weapons according to the new programme and at the same time adopt the new federal target programme to reform the military industrial complex. This will be possible since this programme, which directly concerns the industry, will allow it to switch to producing the necessary high-tech weapons. In this respect the priority will be given to the companies of the military industrial complex that are able to produce just what the Defense Ministry needs and with the most up-to-date technologies. Excuse me, in other words we will buy not what industry would like to give us but to just what the Armed Forces and other power agencies require.
And the last thing concerns the programme’s financial and economic indicators. In total over the next nine years we are proposing to allocate slightly less than five trillion rubles for the state weapons programme. To be more precise, the amount consists in 4,939 billion rubles and slightly more than four trillion will be allocated to the Defense Ministry’s direct needs. And the other trillion will, roughly speaking, go to the other power agencies. This is the programme that we are going to examine.
* * *
Deputy Prime Minister and Defense Minister Sergei Ivanov on the Results of the Government’s Interdepartmental Commission on Export Controls:
Last week I held the session of the government’s interdepartmental Commission on Export Controls in which we examined issues concerning the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and tightening up our system of export controls.
The Foreign Ministry participated actively in this session since we examined Russia’s participation in implementing the UN Security Council Resolution 1540 that was made in 2004. This resolution was taken at Russia’s initiative and concerns a number of issues linked with non-proliferation. Everything is satisfactory in this respect.
We also examined Russia’s plan of action within the group of nuclear suppliers. And this was also connected with our plans to develop cooperation with India in nuclear energy for peaceful means and, of course, the difficult situation surrounding the Iranian nuclear dossier.
In addition, we also looked at offers concerning the preconditions for Russia to become a member of the Australia Group. This is a unique international organization that specializes in issues linked to non-proliferation of weapons, including chemical and biological ones.
We also considered the report by Energomash, a major company in the space sector. This company exports approximately 30 billion rubles per year of dual-purpose products linked with missile technologies. The company’s director reported on establishing export controls within the company – this is a modern version of export controls and we decided that in the future we will listen to other directors of major companies to better understand if export controls within a major company are more effective than state export controls.
And the last thing. Tomorrow evening I am planning to fly to Baku to participate in the 50th meeting of the Council of Defense Ministers of the CIS member states. We will consider issues of cooperation between military departments in the sphere of antiaircraft defense, communications, as well as operational and combat training. And as per usual there will be bilateral meetings, including with my Ukrainian partner, on issues concerning bilateral cooperation.
<…>
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 29, 2006, 23:50
Text versionEvents
Meeting with the Chief Executive Officer of Volkswagen, Bernd Pischetsrieder
May 29, 2006
23:59
The Kremlin, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: Allow me to congratulate you on completing a substantial amount of organizational work. Our German partners have shown themselves to be very reliable, interested in every detail, and inclined to carefully study each issue before making a decision. I am especially pleased that you were able to reach an agreement with the government of the Russian Federation so that part of the production cycle will take place on Russian territory. This so-called geographical problem has been resolved in complete harmony with Russian legislation and we have established clear and comprehensible conditions for other, similar cooperation.
I hope that your activities will be successful. I am very glad that a large and respected company such as Volkswagen is entering the Russian market.
Bernd Pischetsrieder (translation from German through Russian): Many thanks Mr President. You must certainly know the Russian proverb that says: what takes a long time comes to a good end. It is true that our company discussed the possibility of producing in Russia for a very long time and we took a long time weighing the pros and cons associated with working in Russia. And finally we made this decision.
Vladimir Putin: There is another good German proverb on this topic that says: all’s well that end’s well.
Bernd Pischetsrieder: I consider that we received excellent support from the Minister of Economic Development and Trade, Mr Gref. The Governor of the Kaluga region also supported our decision and we are very grateful to him. Already next year we would like to start producing Volkswagen and Skoda automobiles here on Russian territory. And by 2009 we want this production to be a hundred percent Russian — right up to assembling and producing auto bodies here. We are also happy that our decision to choose the place of production was not delayed. And we are glad that we could sign that agreement at the same time as the investment contract and start producing the model that we have developed and would like to produce in Russia.
Today journalists who were at the press conference asked me what our goals are and what percentage of our production will take place in Russia.
Vladimir Putin: How much?
Bernd Pischetsrieder: 20 percent.
<…>
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 29, 2006, 23:59
Text versionEvents
Beginning of Meeting with President of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly (PACE) Rene van der Linden
May 29, 2006
23:11
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Mr President, Colleagues,
Allow me to welcome you to the Kremlin. It gives me great pleasure today to receive you, the President of one the biggest and most unique parliamentary assemblies, in Moscow. The Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly represents people of a very diverse range of views and political convictions. Russia has not been working in the PACE for such a long time, but we will try to do all we can to consistently develop our cooperation. We will use this opportunity and we will also use our presidency in the Council of Foreign Ministers to achieve these aims. We see your visit, Mr President, as a step that will help strengthen our ties with the Parliamentary Assembly.
Rene Van Der Linden (Translated from Russian): Thank you very much, Mr President.
It is a great honour for me and also an excellent opportunity to meet with you in order to thank you for the cooperation that we have developed, including through the Russian delegation in the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly and through our cooperation with the Russian Federation’s foreign minister.
As President of the Assembly I will strive to strengthen our relations and in particular to create a good atmosphere of trust in our relations. My own experience, first as a member of the PACE, then as chairman of the European People’s Party group and finally, as President of the Assembly, has shown me that meetings with members of the Russian delegation have always been very useful, both for improving mutual understanding and for strengthening my own commitment to consolidating our relations.
Your country’s presidency in the Council of Europe is both an opportunity and a very important incentive. As far as I know, this is the first time that Russia holds the presidency of this European organisation.
We would like to congratulate you on Russia’s first decade of membership in the Council of Europe and to say how highly we assess the progress that has been made over these ten years.
<…>
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 29, 2006, 23:11
Text version