Events
Opening Address at the Meeting with the Heads of Parliament of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization Member States
May 30, 2006
11:49
The Kremlin, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon dear friends and colleagues.
I am very glad to be able to welcome the participants of the first meeting of the heads of parliament of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization member states. And I am confident that the heads of state will support this initiative at the forthcoming summit in Shanghai.
This initiative really opens a new and important area of cooperation for our organization. Establishing a system of interparliamentary relations on the eve of the fifth anniversary of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) is yet more proof that the organization is developing in a dynamic way. And we expect that cooperation between our parliaments will significantly enrich our countries’ partnership.
I share the opinions and tasks contained in the declaration you made today. I am convinced that if the legislative organs engage in harmonious work to provide a legal base for cooperation within the organization then this will increase its effectiveness. Of course, first and foremost this concerns harmonizing national legislations and speeding up ratification procedures. Increasing parliamentary contacts expands the SCO’s political and social base. It will enable the organization to use its full potential as a unique platform for a respectful, constructive dialogue between cultures and civilizations. I am referring not only to our six countries but the SCO’s largest arena which also includes observers such as India, Pakistan, Iran and Mongolia.
I will emphasize that the Russian Federation always considers active participation in all aspects of the SCO’s activities an essential part of its foreign policy. We are going to continue to try and increase the SCO’s role and opportunities. Let me remind you that our organization was established at the end of a long process of increasing mutual trust. So it is no surprise that after such preparation, in only five years the SCO quickly became a full player in international affairs and an influential regional organization.
Today it solves serious tasks with respect to political and economic relations, counterterrorism and, I must say, acts as a good example of an equal partnership based on a shared interest in participating in effective joint actions. Capable integration that includes respect for each other’s sovereignty and originality results in real advantages. In its own way this is the SCO’s business card. There are precise and clear principles at the foundations of our organization, principles such as mutual trust, discussing any problems in a constructive way, consulting one another. In practice, these priorities contribute to the SCO’s positive image among the international community. International interest in the SCO is increasing — we see this and are pleased with it.
We also see certain attempts to compete with our organization in the international arena. But I do not think that it is necessary to start competing with anyone. Rather, we should continue to engage in positive constructive work just as we have done in previous years.
I am convinced that it is in our mutual interests that the SCO develops as the effective guarantor of stability and security in Eurasia. To do so it is necessary to improve the quality of work done within the organization and attain practical results that strengthen consolidation within the SCO. It is in this field that our countries’ members of parliament can make an appreciable and significant contribution. I am confident that all of our colleagues who are gathered in Moscow today will be able to do this.
For its part Russia will make all necessary efforts to support your initiatives.
Thank you very much for your attention.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 30, 2006, 11:49
Text versionEvents
Beginning of the Meeting with the Chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress of China, Wu Bangguo
May 30, 2006
20:45
The Kremlin, Moscow
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Dear Mr Chairman, dear colleagues!
Allow me to welcome you once again. I am glad to be able to welcome a delegation from the Chinese parliament to Moscow. And we see with satisfaction that members of parliament are increasingly making an important contribution to the development of intergovernmental relations. Mr Hu Jintao and I are trying to keep up with you. This year we will meet at least four more times. And I hope that our next meeting in mid-June in Shanghai will allow us not only to develop the Shanghai Cooperation Organization but will give us the opportunity to analyze the state of our bilateral relations and to plan how they will develop in the future.
We highly value the level of Russian-Chinese economic and political relations as well as the cooperation between our law enforcement agencies and defense ministries. In connection with this, supporting our members of parliament is extremely important for ensuring that we will be able to implement all of our high-level agreements in a successful and timely way.
I hope that both today’s and yesterday’s meeting were successful. I will gladly listen to your opinions on how work in this direction is proceeding.
chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People’S Congress of China Wu Bangguo: Thank you, Mr President, for your warm welcome.
And thank you very much for finding the time to meet with me and my colleagues today. I am very happy to be able to meet with you once again in Moscow. First of all, allow me to transmit a warm greeting from President Hu Jintao. As yourself, he is waiting impatiently to meet with you in Shanghai in June. I was in Moscow in May two years ago. Two years have gone by and I am once again here on a visit. I will tell you honestly that the huge changes that have taken place in your city made a very strong impression on me. We know that Russia’s economy is developing very quickly. And very big improvements are visible in Moscow. I saw four construction sites along the road between the airport and the hotel. I also visited the construction site for the Federation tower. I was told that it will be the tallest building in Europe.
The population’s living standards have also significantly increased. We see social stability and unity in your country. Russia’s role in the international arena is growing. Of course, as Russia’s friend, China is sincerely pleased for its success. We highly value the path you have chosen for Russia’s development, a path that takes into account Russia’s national characteristics. This includes both Russia’s political and economic development. I think that Russia has achieved huge successes, since your country removed all barriers and is decisively continuing to develop according to the wishes of the Russian people.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 30, 2006, 20:45
Text version