Events
Beginning of Meeting with Prime Minister of Israel Ehud Olmert
October 18, 2006
17:31
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister,
I would like to start by saying how pleased we are to see you here on precisely this day – the day that marks 15 years since the re-establishment of diplomatic relations between Israel and Russia. Relations between the Russian Federation and Israel have reached a completely new level over recent years. They have become more trusting. We have fundamentally changed our attitudes toward our compatriots. We consider those who left Russia and the former Soviet republics to take up permanent residence in Israel as our compatriots. Today we think, not without reason, that they are a major resource in further improving the relations between our two countries.
Our bilateral trade is increasing and now approaches a figure of $2 billion. We are in constant contact on political issues and our cooperation has expanded to include even as sensitive an area as military-technical cooperation, including in markets in third countries. Our colleagues on both sides will soon be meeting when the Russian-Israeli Intergovernmental Commission holds its session. The legal foundation for our cooperation is also being strengthened.
Your predecessor, Mr Sharon, with whom I and many of my colleagues had very good working and personal relations, played a huge part in taking our relations to this new level. We are all very upset by what has happened to him and we hope that our relations with the new Israeli leadership will be just as businesslike, warm and productive. Of course, we hope to exchange views with you on the situation unfolding in the region. Russia is ready to do everything within its power to make its contribution to resolving the situation. I recall very well our meeting a year-and-a-half ago in Tel Aviv. The months since then have been filled with quite dramatic events.
We are very happy, Mr Prime Minister, that you have accepted our invitation to come to Moscow. Welcome!
Prime Minister of Israel Ehud Olmert:
Thank you very much, Mr President,
I am very grateful to you for inviting me to this meeting. On this day, as we celebrate the re-establishment of diplomatic relations between our countries, we can say with confidence that over the years that you have been in office as President of Russia, relations between our two countries have taken a new direction. This is thanks to your own efforts as President and also thanks, of course, to the close links that you forged with Ariel Sharon. He valued very highly the relation he had with you.
I remember the last meeting when you met with Mr Sharon. I was present at the dinner that the Israeli Prime Minister held in your honour. I remember the important things that you said to us then about the nature of relations between Russia and Israel and about your personal commitment to ensuring that Russia’s relations with the countries of the Middle East would never again be one-sided. I very much value your position on this issue and I think that we can continue to build on the foundation that exists now, the foundation that you and Prime Minister Sharon created.
Over these last years I have done a lot to promote cooperation together with my friend, Mr Reiman, in order to expand the cooperation between our countries in all different areas. I am very pleased that this cooperation is now also expanding into security issues.
Russia has an influential and very important role in the world. I have no doubts that we will exchange views and analyse the situation regarding issues of vital importance for the Middle East. Russia’s influence, the influence it has both today and in the future, is important in helping to bring stability to all the areas of concern to us, in particular the Iranian problem. This is an issue of concern and it is, of course, an especially sensitive issue for us.
Once more, I would like to thank you for your attitude and for the particular sensitivity you have shown towards the representatives of my people living here in Russia. And those who lived here and now live in Israel, they know it is their country and they will make a big contribution to making Israel stronger.
I am very grateful for this invitation to come to Moscow and for the hospitality with which you have received me.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 18, 2006, 17:31
Text versionEvents
Press Statements following Russian-Israeli Talks
October 18, 2006
21:58
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Ladies and Gentlemen,
First of all, I would like to rate very highly these talks with Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert. I note also that today’s visit has an important historical context and marks exactly 15 years since the re-establishment of diplomatic relations between Israel and our country.
Through our common efforts, we have come a lot closer to each other over these years. The relations between our two countries are growing fast and expanding to ever-new areas of cooperation: political, cultural, economic and humanitarian ties. We remember well how much Ariel Sharon contributed to developing these ties and we are pleased to see that the new Israeli leadership is continuing this policy of developing relations with Russia.
We examined the prospects for cooperation between our two countries in detail today at our talks. This concerns economic cooperation and work to strengthen the legal foundation for this cooperation. This also concerns our cooperation in the energy sector and in infrastructure development. And when the Prime Minister spoke about the need to double our bilateral trade figure, I fully agree with him and we will do everything necessary for this.
We have the possibility of carrying out plans in the high-technology sector, including in outer space exploration. We will, of course, also do everything to make it easier for our citizens to travel between our two countries (a considerable number of people in Israel came originally from our country).
We have high expectations for the work of the Russian Science and Culture Centre in Israel. Preparations for its opening are already nearing completion.
There can be no doubt that stable bilateral relations are in the long-term interests of both Russia and Israel, and that strengthening these relations will contribute to ensuring regional and international stability.
Our countries are united in their desire to combat the threats of the twenty-first century, threats such as terrorism, extremism, ethnic intolerance and local conflicts.
Naturally, our talks today also focused on the situation in the Middle East. This is a situation that calls for great responsibility and restraint on all sides. Only a fair and all-encompassing settlement adopted by all the region’s peoples can provide a reliable and long-term solution. The only way to break out of the vicious circle of violence is to end mutual accusations, free the hostages and resume peaceful negotiations. It is extremely important to protect the civilian population of Israel and its neighbours from terror.
As a participant in the Middle East Quartet, Russia is committed to continuing to work towards stabilising the situation as rapidly as possible and resuming negotiations.
In conclusion I would like to thank the Prime Minister and all of our colleagues for a constructive and businesslike approach to the talks. I am sure that the results of this meeting will help to further develop the huge potential of the partnership between our two countries.
Thank you for your attention.
Ehud Olmert: Mr President,
I would like to thank you for this invitation to visit your country and for the lengthy and substantial talks that took place between our two delegations. Once again, I was able to see your deep and friendly attitude towards Israel and your strong commitment to Israel’s security. Today we are celebrating a historical milestone – 15 years since the re-establishment of diplomatic relations between Russia and Israel. Over this period, relations between our countries have developed in a whole number of areas, including in politics, the economy, science and technology and even sport. I value highly, Mr President, the fact that in sports, Russia has not shown its superiority over our country, its decisive superiority over our country in football.
You have made a particularly important contribution to developing our relations. I am firmly convinced, Mr President, that with your participation, this process can go ahead even more rapidly. Trade between our countries has already reached a figure of more than $1 billion in value terms. I fully agree with you that it would be easy to double this figure over a short space of time. The potential is great. We will do everything we can to develop our trade, business and other ties.
Of course, our talks also examined the issues on the agenda for developing relations between our two countries and the entire international community.
In my talks with President Putin, I emphasised once again that the Iranian issue is at the cornerstone in this respect. This issue is of great concern for Israel. We do not have the privilege of being able to afford to let a country like Iran possess non-conventional weapons. Israel will never accept such a situation. If the leader of a country like Iran says publicly that he seeks to annihilate our country, we cannot prepare a response scenario but must prevent this from ever happening. I heard from President Putin a far-reaching and all-round analysis of all the issues linked to the Iranian problem today and I am sure that after our talks, President Putin has gained an even deeper understanding of all the aspects concerning how we view this issue.
Of course, we also discussed the situation in Palestine, including the action taken by President of the Palestinian Authority Mahmoud Abbas. I explained to President Putin that I am interested in meeting with President Abbas as soon as possible. I also explained that our representatives are in constant, almost daily contact with Mr Abbas’ representatives. We are committed to continuing our work in this direction and will not suspend our efforts under any circumstances.
There can be no doubt that the key to advancing the peace process in the whole Middle East region is to implement all of the conditions drawn up by the international Quartet – conditions based on recognition of the State of Israel, a recognition that must be absolutely unambiguous and clear.
Also essential is full commitment to implementing all the agreements previously reached between Israel and the Palestinian Authority, and also a complete halt to all terrorist activity. As one of the parties in the international Quartet, which plays an important part in this work, Russia can play a key role in this situation given its particular position on the international stage. I would also mention in this respect the particular role that a world-recognised leader such as President Putin can play.
President Putin and I also discussed the situation in Lebanon and the importance of resolution 1701, passed by the UN Security Council with Russia’s active support. We consider that key components of this resolution’s implementation are the embargo on arms supplies to Lebanon, according to the terms of the resolution, and successful consolidation of all forces in Lebanon to ensure that Hezbollah does not resume its activities. Also important is to strengthen and stabilise the Lebanese government given the undermining activities undertaken by Hezbollah internally and Syria externally.
In conclusion, I would like to thank President Putin for this invitation and for the moving personal hospitality and the way we have been received. I am sure that this is also moving for many people in Israel, who view Russia in their own special way, given their particular ties with this country.
I would like to thank you, Mr President, for the efforts you have made, and I hope will continue to make, to free our abducted soldiers, Gelad Shalit, who was abducted by Hamas, and also Ehud Goldwasser and Eldad Regev, who were abducted by Hezbollah. I am sure, Mr President, that together we will make every effort to strengthen relations between Russia and Israel in order to bring greater stability and security to our region.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 18, 2006, 21:58
Text version