Events
Beginning of Meeting with Prime Minister of Slovenia Janez Jansa
May 31, 2006
16:50
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister, dear colleagues,
It gives me great pleasure to welcome you to Moscow.
I am very pleased, Mr Prime Minister, that you are here in our country at the invitation of the Russian Prime Minister. And I am even more pleased that your visit will result in the signature of a large number of different documents that, I believe, will help us develop our bilateral ties in industry, agriculture, sport, and all the different areas in which we work together.
Our bilateral trade turnover came to close to $1 billion last year. This may seem a small figure in absolute terms for Russia, but I am happy to note that in per capita terms, this is our best bilateral trade result in Europe.
We still also have a number of problems to resolve, however. We know that we need to work together to diversify our trade. I am sure that your visit to Russia will help achieve this goal.
Welcome.
Prime Minister of Slovenia Janez Jansa (Translated from Russian): Mr President, thank you very much for this honour you have given me, for your hospitality and for this opportunity to meet with you.
Next month will mark five years since our last meeting when you visited Slovenia. Seeing what great strides Russia has made over this short time I can but congratulate you on these achievements.
I am very pleased that our bilateral relations have made progress over this time. You mentioned that Russia has a very high level of bilateral trade with Slovenia. We would like, of course, to also expand our investment cooperation. Significant steps have been taken during this visit, during our delegation’s stay here. I was accompanied on this visit to Moscow by a delegation of unprecedented size – a first on such visits – and this, of course, illustrates the kind of reciprocal interest that exists between us.
Several new projects in the energy sector have got underway recently. These are projects involving cooperation between companies, businesspeople, and the Slovenian Government is doing everything it can to ensure that this cooperation will bring maximum success. I am very pleased that, as you mentioned, this visit will see us draw up a certain legal framework for our cooperation. We will sign a whole series of agreements that will facilitate our work in many different sectors.
I am very pleased that our ties are growing stronger in other areas too, not just in the economy but also in culture. We consider this to be of great importance in Slovenia. We are very glad that both Russian state and church representatives take an active part in our annual celebrations at the Russian Chapel.
These celebrations have provided the occasion to weave many ties that help us to develop our work together in other areas too. I would like to thank you for the fact that a large delegation from Russia takes part every year. This year, a delegation led by Speaker of the Federation Council Mr Mironov will be taking part. I have also been informed that you have authorised some members of your Presidential Regiment to take part, and this is very good news. It will give this event greater significance.
This visit is taking place at a time when we have no unresolved issues between our countries, and this shows that we have succeeded in adding a further solid layer to our relations.
Vladimir Putin: I fully agree with you that both our countries can take greater steps forward in the area of investment cooperation. Members of your country’s business community are working in fifty different Russian regions. We very much hope that Russian business will find interesting opportunities to invest its energy and capital and to take part in your privatisation programme, which, as far I know, runs through to 2010. The economic possibilities of our country and our companies make it possible today to make serious investment both at home and abroad. We hope that the conditions offered will be no worse than the conditions your country offers companies from other countries.
Janez Jansa: Of course, all roads to Slovenia are open for Russian companies. Our Government has recently adopted a whole number of measures to encourage foreign investment.
<…>
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 31, 2006, 16:50
Text versionEvents
Extracts from Opening Remarks at Meeting of the Council for Physical Culture and Sport
May 31, 2006
18:01
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: I would like to note straight away that the new economic possibilities we have and the concerted work by the ministries and the regions have resulted in some positive change. I say this very cautiously, because this change still has to gain ground, but we are beginning to see some positive trends emerging. We are gradually building up our sports infrastructure. More than 23,000 sports facilities have been built over the last five years and we now have more than 220,000 sports facilities around the country as a whole. More than 6,000 new swimming pools, gymnasiums and stadiums have been built over the last two years alone.
In accordance with the federal targeted programme, there are plans to build 1,000 sports and health centres by 2015. Work has begun on the construction of 74 such centres in 36 different regions this year. But even at this opening phase of the project we are already seeing a tendency for work to lag behind. What’s more, the pace of construction differs considerably from one region to another. Analysis shows that it is not so much budget constraints that are to blame as insufficient will in these regions to actively address these issues and to make maximum use of their own resources and potential.
I remind you that 17 million people regularly play sport in our country and thus keep themselves fit, and this is 3.5 million more than three years ago. If the number of people playing sport increases by 1 million every year, this will have a real impact on the situation. At the moment what we are seeing is just a trend. As things stand, the number of people playing sport in our country comes to a little over 12 percent of the total population.
<…>
We need the Russian business community to become more involved in developing mass sport and building up the sports infrastructure. This is especially true for children’s and young people’s sport and for building sports facilities for disabled people. I can mention one programme, “Gazprom — for Children”, but I know that other companies are also working in this area. We need to give this kind of work our every support.
<…>
I think that the Council should also pay attention to work to support the promotion of Sochi as the host city for the 2014 Winter Olympics. Of course, Sochi should become a modern national development centre, and not just a leisure centre but also a sports centre catering for both professionals and the general public. It is no exaggeration to say that we need a health and sports centre like Sochi above all for our own people. From a climate and infrastructure point of view there is no other such place in Russia. Of course we need to compete to promote Sochi as the 2014 Olympics city, but let’s make it clear that this is not just a battle to host the Olympics, it is also a battle to develop sport and recreation for Russian citizens at home and to develop this unique location in our country.
Of course, we also need to lobby the inclusion of our traditional sports in the Olympics programme. And finally, we still need to work on the problem of financial support for our sportspeople. Regional and local budgets have been allocating more money for these ends over recent years and a support fund for Olympic athletes has been set up. I think that we should continue and develop this work and not forget, too, about sports veterans and about those who help our sportspeople achieve their results, namely, the trainers, the specialists I mentioned, and also the physical education teachers in schools.
<…>
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 31, 2006, 18:01
Text version