Events
Speech in the Mayor's Office of Madrid at the Ceremony for receiving the Golden Key of Madrid
February 8, 2006
12:53
Vladimir Putin: Dear Mr Mayor!
Ladies and gentlemen!
I am very glad to be able to spend these days in Spain and especially in Madrid.
Madrid has had the honoured status of capital city for over four hundred years. And through its enormous contribution to all spheres of the country's life, Madrid has proved more than once that it is the heart and business centre of Spain.
I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate all inhabitants of Madrid on this occasion and to wish all Spanish people well-being and prosperity.
Madrid's anniversary as the capital of Spain is, undoubtedly, a mark in world history. This is because Madrid has been at the centre of key global events more than once. Madrid incorporated and accumulated the traditions of extremely varied religions and cultures.
It is hard to disagree with those who say that 'Madrid is inexhaustible, unlike a human being', that it has 'thousands of facets' and that it 'holds a thousand cities within it'.
Madrid's anniversary as the capital of Spain is a truly European event. Millions of people in the world know about your city and dream of seeing it with their own eyes. And they do not only dream about treasures such as El Pardo or this hall, which is in itself a work of art.
Throughout the centuries, Madrid's special romantic atmosphere has truly inspired artists, poets and musicians. Our outstanding composer Mikhail Glinka wrote a well-known piece called Summer Night in Madrid. I must say that you have a winter night just like we have a summer one.
Dear ladies and gentlemen!
Today Madrid is a dynamic city that is looking towards the future. It is difficult not to notice its impressive successes. Mr Mayor has just spoken about the tremendous rates of development that exceed the European average rate by 17 times. It is very pleasant for us that Madrid is making a significant contribution to the development of relations between Spain and Russia. This especially concerns ties between regions.
I am confident that the economic, scientific, educational and cultural potential of your city shall grow from year to year and play a significant role in Russian-Spanish relations.
I see this key of the city, the key of Madrid, as a sign of our cooperation and partnership. And not only as a symbol of trust and respect, but also of the fact that we aspire to have the closest possible relations.
I am convinced that the doors of our cities will always be open to one another.
Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: February 8, 2006, 12:53
Text versionEvents
Speech at the State Reception given by King of Spain Juan Carlos I
February 8, 2006
16:41
Madrid
President Vladimir Putin: Your Majesty, Your Royal Highness, Ladies and gentlemen!
Please allow me to thank you, Your Majesty, and all our Spanish friends for the warm welcome. It has been more than simply official protocol, it has been a real display of friendship and warmth.
I would like to assure you that these feelings are mutual. They are a product of the fact that the Russian people greatly appreciate and are interested in Spain. I would say that they have a truly romantic image of the country of Cervantes, Lope de Vega and Picasso. This follows from the ingenious works your compatriots have produced. And at the same time that there is the same appreciation and understanding of modern Spain and its recent social, economic and cultural achievements.
The history of Russian-Spanish relations goes back more than a century. And I believe that today we should recollect the leaders of our countries: Emperor Carlos V and Grand Duke Vasilii III. They exchanged letters that referred to 'a sincere friendship and alliance' almost four centuries ago.
For Russian citizens Spain always was and will remain among the most respected and attractive states in the world. At the junction between Europe and Africa, Spain has been a historical crossroads for the religions, customs and traditions of different peoples. And it has united this variety into its own unique culture.
The influence that Spain has had on Europe's destiny and on the development of our civilization is well known. The Great Age of Discovery took place under Spanish banners. And in many respects it is thanks to art and the fearlessness of Spanish sailors that humanity crossed the ocean and pushed back the barriers of the known world.
In antiquity Spain was called the country of the evening star and is really inexhaustible and generous concerning its talents. And I would suggest that the wonderful talents of your people are found, first of all, in Spaniards' original character. In their life values, the basis of which is fidelity to origins and customs, a respectful attitude to one's national heritage and to its spiritual and cultural values. But in practice the most important thing is fully identifying one's private destiny with the destiny of one's country.
Strong spirited freedom-loving Spaniards have a powerful feeling of natural advantage, true nationalism. And these laudable qualities helped your people overcome their most dramatic trials with honour.
They helped withstand the severe times of the Reconquista. They helped during the fighting with Napoleon's armies, armies that first learned about the force of national resistance here, in Spain.
And we are proud of the long-lasting strong ties between our peoples, and the multifaceted and successful cooperation between our two states. And we see you as reliable partners, open to dialogue and ready for new things. We believe in our cooperation's prospects and its rich potential. And, of course, we expect that this visit will contribute towards strengthening our common ability for fruitful work and opening new areas for cooperation.
In fact all of this is absolutely equitable to the interests of our countries and peoples. To the interests of our common house, to the interests of safety, justice and a social conscience in Europe.
I propose a toast:
To the health of the Spanish royal family!
To the health of all those present!
To strengthening friendship and cooperation between Spain and Russia!
To peace and well-being for the peoples of our states!
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: February 8, 2006, 16:41
Text version