Events
Extracts from Transcript of Meeting with the Government Cabinet
July 3, 2006
18:48
The Kremlin, Moscow
Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister Sergei Ivanov on the strategy for developing the rocket and space sector
Sergei Ivanov: The subject of the rocket and space sector was mentioned in your Address [to the Federal Assembly] and it was mentioned at the last Security Council meeting when [Prime Minister] Mikhail Yefimovich [Fradkov] spoke about it with regard to a technology gap. But since the rocket and space sector is an area in which the Russian Federation has traditionally had a number of advantages, we are paying this issue a lot of attention and it is for this reason that the Government is to examine a development strategy for the sector through to 2015.
The strategy aims at raising the quality of our technology in this area, the technology of the rockets themselves and of the satellites we launch, and at determining how many we need exactly, so that we will be able to use the satellites we build in the interests of the national economy and of national defence. The operation of the modern satellites we already have in orbit shows that the most effective kind of space activity is a dual-purpose approach that serves national defence interests while at the same time contributing to overall economic development. This will make a considerable contribution to developing the telecommunications sector in Russia, expanding TV broadcasting, and helping us maintain a common information space. There was an incident recently when one of the satellites broke down and problems arose with TV broadcasting to the Far East. [First Deputy Prime Minister] Dmitry Anatolyevich [Medvedev] even held a meeting about this.
Of course, the defence aspect is also important because without it we cannot ensure effective command of the troops, especially at the tactical level, that is, at company and battalion level, and the development strategy for the sector addresses these issues, of course, and also the question of developing a network of Russian space launch centres.
The GLONASS programme is dealt with as a separate component of the strategy. You are well informed on the programme. Incidentally, the approvals and documents needed to speed up the extension of the GLONASS system to the entire territory of the Russian Federation by the end of 2007 have already been approved by the ministries and this programme is also now to be examined by the Government.
That is a brief overview of the main elements of this strategy which, I think, will help us to maintain our objective technological advantages in this sector and develop them further.
President Vladimir Putin: Quality and service life are very important indicators whatever the case, but quantity is also extremely important. We cannot push for quantity at the expense of quality and service life, but we do need to ensure the necessary quantity within a certain time in order to create full-fledged programmes. The GLONASS system that you mentioned, for example, will start working only once the necessary quantity of apparatus is in orbit…
Sergei Ivanov: Twenty-four …
Vladimir Putin: Precisely, the necessary number of satellites. We must ensure we meet these quantity requirements.
Sergei Ivanov: That goes without saying. We need to have a total quantity of more than 100 satellites in our orbital group.
Vladimir Putin: Excellent, now we only need to ensure that this will always be the case.
<…>
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 3, 2006, 18:48
Text versionEvents
Opening Address at the World Summit of Religious Leaders
July 3, 2006
19:39
President Hotel, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much, your Holiness.
Dear participants and guests of the summit!
It is a great honour for me to have the opportunity to meet with you and speak to you today.
First of all I would like to warmly welcome the heads and representatives of the world’s largest religious associations to Russia. I am happy that you supported the proposal of Patriarch Aleksei II and the Russian Interreligious Council to meet in such a format.
You are well aware that it was almost a quarter of a century ago that an international summit with such a wide range of unique participants took place. I am referring to the Moscow Peace Conference of Religious Leaders. Without any undue exaggeration we can consider that this summit represented an important step in overcoming international tensions and ending the Cold War.
However, today’s world is faced with new threats. There are attempts to divide our planet along religious or ethnic lines and, first and foremost, to drive a wedge between Christian and Muslim communities. The clash of civilisations idea is being imposed upon the world community today, and we must fully realise the catastrophic potential of such a conflict.
We are well aware of just how powerful a unifying force religion can be, but we also see the dangers that the words of extremist leaders and ideologues who cynically exploit people’s religious beliefs represent. We see just what a fine line there is between on the one hand peace and, on the other, war and violence, and we must prevent this development by engaging in an extensive dialogue between religions.
I am convinced that those who preach confrontation have nothing in common with the valid goals of religious associations. Every world religion has kindness, justice, peacefulness and mercy as its fundamental values. And because they are universal, religions and churches can act as important factors of integration between societies.
It is true that different people’s historical, religious and cultural traditions have resulted in different political and legal systems, and for that reason it is important to engage in constructive work to bring our positions on life’s key questions closer together. Our goal cannot be limited to mechanical, heartless unification or, pardon me, what sometimes amounts to pointless and destructive standardisation. The goal of our teamwork must consist in harmonizing our points of view to conserve all of our cultural variety. That is why it is so important to engage in the widest possible dialogue between religions.
I am convinced that your summit represents an important step in accomplishing this goal because your summit is not confined to discussing narrow, theological issues but rather is planning to discuss vital issues on the international agenda, issues that affect each and every one of the earth’s inhabitants, independently of their religious beliefs.
One of the most topical issues includes preventing international terrorism and extremism. At their root is intolerance towards people who hold different views and a lack of respect for different traditions. Terrorism’s ideologues are exploiting crucial social problems, and also a lack of religious culture, separatist and patriotic moods. Ignorance of fundamental religious culture results in a situation wherein people, especially young men, fall prey to dangerous extremist tendencies. And the lack of morality in a society is a significant factor in producing xenophobia and racial tensions.
This is why the mission of spiritual leaders to help people separate true beliefs from attempts to manipulate those beliefs is so important. Such an education creates a tolerant social environment which condemns religious and national hostility. Any attempt to abuse the feelings of believers and defile religious relics is considered inadmissible by society itself. And a spiritual, moral and humanitarian education is a joint task to be accomplished both by the state and by religious associations. I shall emphasize that such measures will allow us to anticipate ethnic and religious conflicts and also overcome other social ills that confront today’s world.
Dear session participants!
I consider your initiative to hold such an important summit in our capital, in Moscow, is yet more recognition for Russia’s historical role and lengthy experience in engaging in a dialogue between civilizations. It is here, on the huge Eurasian continent, that a unique variety of religions and nationalities have developed. Cooperation between them has played a systematic role in developing and strengthening Russian statehood.
And in today’s Russia tolerance and acceptance constitute the basis of social harmony and play important roles in society’s development. Of course we too face all of the ulcers of the modern world, all of its problems. Meanwhile, relations between the state and religious associations in our country are based on principles of freedom of conscience, freedom of worship and of belief, and the equality of all religious associations before the law and the non-interference of the state in their activities. This is the basic principle according to which the state interacts with various religious creeds. Such relations enable us to accomplish crucial, nation-wide tasks. And we deeply value the social, educational, peace-making activities of the Russian clergy and we support the dialogue between various religions and faiths in every possible way. And in this the Russian Interreligious Council that unites representatives from Christianity, Islam, Judaism and Buddhism plays an important role.
We consider that such a constructive dialogue is also necessary at the international level. Russia already cooperates actively with the Organisation of the Islamic Conference and the Interparliamentary Assembly of Orthodoxy. We also support Turkey and Spain’s initiative to create a large coalition against extremists and we hope that such an alliance between civilizations will act as an effective mechanism of cooperation between Islamic and Christian communities.
Of course, each religious community has its own experience of such cooperation and it is extremely important to use that experience to enhance dialogue between civilizations for the benefit of our countries and peoples. I have no doubt that you are well aware of your responsibility and the fact that each word you say influences millions of people, both their convictions and their moral values. And in this way, as representatives of the spiritual community, you benefit from an advantage that politicians do not have since what you say is not confined by state or terrestrial boundaries but, like religions themselves, addresses all humanity.
I wish you fruitful discussions, pleasant impressions and good visit to Russia. Thank you very much for your attention.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 3, 2006, 19:39
Text version