Events
Press Conference Following the G8 Summit
July 17, 2006
19:12
Strelna, St Petersburg
President Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen,
As you know, Russia is hosting the G8 summit for the first time and we understandably placed a lot of importance on this meeting. Intensive work took place over many months, including at the highest expert level. We are pleased that our partners have reacted with understanding to the ideas and proposals Russia put forward for this summit. It is clear that Russia’s growing economic potential is enabling it to play an increasingly important role in global development and we are ready to participate actively in carrying out all the initiatives put forward. I would like to take this opportunity to thank our G8 colleagues for the interest they have shown and for the work that has been done together. This has enabled us to achieve some very good results. I note also that the G8 continues to become more democratic and open, as can be seen by the fruitful participation of the leaders of Brazil, India, China, Mexico and South Africa, and by the international organisations, including the CIS and the African Union, in our work together.
Furthermore, our discussions took into account recommendations made by two very important forums that took place in Moscow at the beginning of July – the World Summit of Religious Leaders and the International Forum of Non-Governmental Organisations, the Civil G8 2006. These two forums were organised on the Russian presidency’s initiative. The summit’s discussions resulted in the substantial outcome of a whole range of agreements that are reflected in the corresponding documents.
First, we have worked out a common approach to ensuring global energy security. Our joint strategy is based on the common understanding that humanity shares a common energy future and that we all bear collective responsibility for this future. The decisions taken will enable us to ensure long-term improvement to the global energy security system. What is important is that practically all aspects are covered – making energy infrastructure more reliable, diversifying production and supply, and developing energy saving technology and alternative energy sources. This will also enable us to make energy markets more transparent and predictable and give them a foundation that takes into account the interests of all the participants in the global energy chain.
I am convinced that these measures will lead to the formation of a stable and favourable trade and investment environment in the global energy sector. I think that the fact that we have succeeded in agreeing on a formula for the development of nuclear energy that has been accepted by everyone is also one of the summit’s indisputable achievements. Moreover, we have also held in-depth discussions on assistance measures for countries that are vulnerable in energy terms. Of course, there are no simple solutions in this area and a lot more time and effort are still required from all of us to resolve effectively the energy problems in the developing countries and the poorest countries.
Environmental protection and reducing the effects of climate change are also important aspects of global energy security. In this respect I note the G8’s readiness to fulfil all previous environmental commitments and to work out new, effective steps to protect the environment.
One of the summit’s priority subjects was improving the quality of education. It is absolutely clear that knowledge is the main growth resource in the modern world, fuelling not just the development of national economies but social progress in general. Education forms the foundation for the development of all modern culture in the world. Ultimately, the kind of world we live in tomorrow and its degree of growth capacity, tolerance and stability will depend on the kind of education people receive.
But education is increasingly lagging behind the demands of the global economy. To address this issue we have agreed on coordinated and substantial work in three key areas:
First, we need to adapt education to the demands of the innovation-based economy, which not by chance is called the knowledge economy. The possibility for life-long learning and training is of key importance in this respect.
Second, we need to step up efforts to implement the Education for All Programme. If we do not ensure universal basic literacy, especially in the developing countries, we will not be able to achieve scientific and technical progress in the world.
Third, education programmes are a key to resolving the serious problems arising from the expansion of migratory flows in the world. Education is an effective tool in helping immigrants adapt to their new countries and in preventing conflicts that arise from ignorance and lack of tolerance for the traditions and values of other peoples.
The formation of a new global labour market requires us to address urgently the issue of mutual recognition of professional qualifications, ensure access to world information markets, increase mobility of teachers and students and develop contacts between education organisations. These measures should all make the education systems in different countries more open and more ready for integration.
Significant decisions were taken in the area of fighting infectious diseases. We intend to work intensively on developing international efforts to prevent and stem the spread of epidemics. These decisions carry on from earlier work in this area and set the outlines for future G8 strategy on preventing widespread diseases. It is important in this area to strengthen multilateral mechanisms for the early detection of and rapid reaction to epidemics and to provide support for the development of new means of diagnosing, preventing and treating infectious diseases.
The G8 countries have reiterated their funding commitments to the global fund to fight AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria. We will also continue to finance work to fight bird flu and support measures to prevent a possible pandemic of human flu.
I am certain that by combining our efforts we can completely eradicate poliomyelitis. We will coordinate our work in this area with the World Health Organisation and the relevant international organisations.
Following on from the agreements of previous summits we examined other important international issues. They include developing world trade, assisting social and economic development in the poorest countries and fighting corruption and intellectual piracy. Statements have been adopted on all these issues.
We had an exchange of views on the issues facing Africa and our statement on this subject reflects the state of progress with the G8’s fulfilment of its commitments to support Africa over the period since Gleneagles. We have also set out a blueprint for further work in this area.
We have reached agreements on issues of strategic and regional stability. We are ready to continue coordinating our work on the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. In this respect I note that the G8 countries share a common position regarding the need to resolve the Iranian and North Korean nuclear issues through exclusively peaceful and diplomatic means.
We have made notable progress in counter-terrorism. Our statement emphasises the improvement of the legal base for counter-terrorism work, measures to prevent the financing and propagandising of terrorism, and calls for resolute punishment of all involved in terrorist activity.
We have reaffirmed the unique role of the United Nations in consolidating efforts in the fight against terrorism and have set out concrete steps for making this fight more effective, including through helping to develop the counter-terrorist capacity in third countries.
The settlement of regional crises occupied an important place in our discussions. Given the flare up in the situation there, we paid particular attention to the Middle East. The main thing now is to stop the violence and the growing contradictions and prevent the region from sliding into chaos and setting off a broader conflict. What is needed now is to end the suffering of innocent people and give priority to political and diplomatic settlement methods with the United Nations playing a central mediating role.
The G8’s common position on all of these issues is reflected in the final statement of the president.
Finally, the G8 leaders have welcomed the proposal of Federal Chancellor of Germany Angela Merkel to hold the next summit in the Federal Republic of Germany. We now hand on the baton and wish our German friends success.
In conclusion, I would once more like to thank all our colleagues for their constructive work during the St Petersburg summit. Now it is time to begin working hard on implementing all the decisions that have been taken.
  Q: (Yaroslav Alexandrovich, MTV Russia): Mr. Putin, I am sorry about the delay, I am just very nervous.
Putin: No problem. We have plenty of time and there is no hurry. I was also anxious as the G8 [summit] was being organized. It is only natural.
Q: The G8 decisions will affect everyone and doubtless young people as well, the same generation as the Junior G8 participants here. What can we expect?
Putin: You should expect only good things. One should always expect good things to happen, and then we will overcome all the difficulties we might encounter.
Q: Thank you.
Q: (Phoenix TV, China): Mr. Putin, which key issues will you discuss with President Hu Jintao? Also, many Chinese people send you their greetings and thanks. You are a real hero for us.
Putin: Thank you very much. This is unexpected and very nice to hear. It is always nice to hear such things when you don’t expect them. Please convey my best and warmest wishes to the friendly Chinese nation. I say this in all sincerity.
We have been on exceptionally good terms with China, especially in the past years. I think that in the long years of our common history, such a level of dialogue and confidence had never been reached before. This is what we are going to discuss with President Hu Jintao. I would like to add that he has made a very important contribution to today’s debate on all issues that were on the agenda.
Incidentally, I must tell you what I have already told other G8 leaders. Our work was very tough yesterday, especially the Declaration on the Middle East – that issue, as well as others, caused some controversy. Today’s debates were also intense, particularly on global trade, but all my counterparts agreed that it was even more productive in the broader format than exclusively within the G8. This just goes to show that you cannot effectively resolve modern development issues, far less global economic and financial issues, without such countries as India and China. We are very happy about this. I thank President Hu Jintao for accepting the invitation and coming to St. Petersburg.
Today we will talk about bilateral relations, and we will also come back to some issues on the international agenda that cause some concern. Of course we will discuss our shared position on the Middle East, on North Korea and some other issues.
Question: (Oleg Osipov, RIA Novosti): Mr. Putin, my question relates to the recent events, including in Lebanon and other places, which have shown that considerable conflict potential has been amassed across the globe in the past year or two. Hundreds of people are killed every day – you can see it all on TV, and everything is perfectly clear. Old conflicts seem to disappear but the problem persists and new conflicts break out. This creates an impression that the existing decision-making and conflict prevention system does not work – I mean, globally. What is more, the international relations architecture seems to be staggering. I think the conclusion is – unless all you watch is MTV – that soon it will become dangerous for young people to go outside. Thank you.
Putin: We have talked about it many times, and you have repeated it time after time in broadcast and printed media: the demise of the bipolar world has not unfortunately made this planet a safer place. In those times, mankind was repeatedly on the verge of a global catastrophe. The good news is that we are not on that verge any more, like we were during the Cuban Crisis, for example. However, on the whole the world has not become safe. It has become less predictable. The entire international system had been built for decades to support the bipolar world, and right now we are still short of tools to address today’s threats and challenges. In effect, the entire mankind, including the Group of Eight, my counterparts and myself, are now working on a future architecture of international relations.
Yesterday when the Middle East was under discussion it was no coincidence that the Russian delegation insisted on highlighting the role of the United Nations, because we have no other cross-functional organization like the UN. After the demise of the bipolar world, many questioned UN effectiveness, especially ahead of and during the Iraqi crisis. On this count, I can only reiterate what I have said before: I disagree. If the UN had faltered at that point, bowing to the interests of one particular country, one particular international player, no one would need it any longer. The UN is still in place because it had taken a firm stand. And we must do everything in our power to let it remain in place.
The number of smaller conflicts is rising, I agree with you on that. Unfortunately, that is true. I will not go through the full list because we know them well enough: Darfur in Africa, and elsewhere – Afghanistan, Iraq, the recent tension around Iran and the People’s Democratic Republic of Korea, and so on and so forth. This is true. But the only way out we have got is to look for joint solutions.
Question: Mr. President, many African representatives thought as we were on our way to the summit that now is the worst time and no one was going to listen to Africa. So we were greatly impressed as you spent over two hours with our Civil G8 representatives. I told my colleagues: “Cheer up! President Putin talked about Africa.” Now you say that this work will continue, and we have had a chance to set out our position. Thank you for that.
Putin: As we prepared the St. Petersburg meeting, we wanted to have consistency. The baseline being that all the past decisions must be implemented, we admitted that we have not always done this in full and within the approved timeframe. However, as we again openly admitted that yesterday and earlier today, we agreed for the future to seek to honor all our past commitments.
African representatives – President Mbeki and the Chairman of the African Union – have talked a great deal about Africa’s problems and drew considerable attention to them. This included both education (especially the education of girls and women) and health services. There was a heated debate about international trade rules, an intense discussion with the president of Brazil, who is always very tough and demanding toward developed economies. I am positive that all this will promote African development greatly.
There are many problems, problems which President Chirac and Prime Minister Blair in particular take very seriously. Britain has not only developed the Gleneagles plan of action but continues to promote those ideas now very actively. Clearly, we will go on working with our African colleagues in the future.
Question (BBC Radio) (translation): Mr. President, what do you think was the main achievement of this summit? What do you think the summit has done for Russia’s image abroad?
Putin: Russia’s image abroad will depend on people like you. We have strived to perform our duties of G8 hosts as well as we could. We chose what we thought were key issues on the international agenda, and now we can see that we made the right choice. The main result is that we were able to find common approaches to how these problems should be solved.
One example I already mentioned yesterday is the document on energy security, which we worded in such a way as to include in its definition the security of delivery and sales, as well as the security of energy consumption and supply. We raised those issues for the first time and found our partners’ understanding on the need to provide the security of energy infrastructure. All of this, plus the decisions on additional efforts to fight infectious diseases, [is the main result].
It is very important for this country and the entire region that we establish two institutes in Russia: a laboratory for research on virus strains, which is very important, and an AIDS medication production center for Central Asia. This has particular importance to us because Central Asian nations are our neighbors and closest partners, especially since they are all CIS members.
The discussion on world trade was also very important for global development; Mr. ElBaradei made a useful contribution to today’s energy debate; in other words, we think this was a good summit.
Question: Mr. President, first of all, I would like to thank you on behalf of all journalists here for those oilskins that we have been given because the summit seems to have been split along the sunny/rainy line. I would like to ask you this question because I specialize in America. If your relationship with President Bush – which as we have seen during this summit is on a very high level – can be used as a benchmark, how would you assess the Russian-U.S. relations against it? Is there a gap, and if so, how do you explain it? What efforts do you make to overcome it?
Putin: It is true, there is a gap. This is explained by the fact that not all the people in our countries are ready and able to look into the future. Unfortunately, there are structures and forces guided by past ideas, of the 20th, rather than 21st century, of the times of the third confrontation. Unfortunately this is true, and we often see this and encounter this.
But, as President Bush has repeatedly emphasized – and I fully agree with him – our relations have changed dramatically. We have not only stopped being enemies – we no longer consider each other opponents. And, incidentally, the debates we had yesterday and today have shown that our positions are similar in many respects. We must simply strive to be straightforward and professional in our efforts. Moreover, while protecting our own national interests, we can always find a solution, which will generate compromise rather than confrontation.
 Question: (Natalia Kirilova, St. Petersburg, independent media agency Volny Ostrov): My question relates to Russian-German relations. How do you assess the prospects of setting up a Russia-Germany TV channel discussed as far back as 2003 during the St. Petersburg dialogue? Thank you.
Putin: To be honest, I do not know how far they have moved forward in establishing the Russia-Germany channel. Personally, I do not quite understand what kind of a channel this could be. A state-run channel? But I know RTL is already working with a Moscow-based company, and there is a prospect for a merger that will broaden its scope. As far as I understand, part of the capital there is German. However, what is likely to happen is that it will be a private company. I will be very pleased for them if their plans become reality.
Question (Alexandra Kasharnitskaya, Television Channel RUSSIA TODAY): Vladimir Vladimirovich, my first question is about North Korea. Could you give some more detail on the agreements reached on North Korea. Regarding Iran, Russia has agreed in principle to imposing political and economic sanctions if Iran fails to fulfil the resolution. Is the same thing possible with regard to North Korea? And a second question regarding the energy charter: yesterday you said that Russia agrees with the main principles of the energy charter, so what is stopping the signature from going ahead?
Vladimir Putin: First of all, it is too early to speak of sanctions with regard to Iran. I don’t know, perhaps [Foreign Minister Sergei] Lavrov said something about sanctions. We have not reached that point yet. What we would like is for the Iranian leadership to react as soon as possible to the proposal made by the six countries and for negotiations on the basis of this proposal to begin. I remember well my meeting with President of Iran Ahmadinejad, and he said to me that they would make their response within a month. A month has already gone by but the negotiations have still not begun. Now we hear that the deadline is for August. Our position is based on the hope that negotiations will begin. As for sanctions, I would not even raise the issue right now because even just raising the issue could create unfavourable conditions for beginning the negotiating process. That is to answer your first question.
Now what was your second question?
Alexandra Kasharnitskaya: About North Korea.
Vladimir Putin: A resolution was just adopted on North Korea and adopted unanimously what’s more. President [of China] Hu Jintao told us about the results of the talks the Chinese deputy premier held in North Korea and expressed cautious optimism that the North Korean issue can be resolved through political and diplomatic means. The objective is to create conditions for establishing a nuclear-free zone in the Korean Peninsula and reach an agreement on the missile issue. We will work hard on these objectives. The matter now is how to return as soon as possible to the negotiating table.
Finally, the energy charter. First, the energy charter implies access, mutual access, to energy production and transport infrastructure. Of course, we can give our partners access to both production and transport infrastructure, but the question arises as to what they will give us access to in return. Where is their production and where is their transport infrastructure? And we are not just talking about separate pipeline systems here, but, looking at what we ourselves have, about mainline pipeline systems, which our partners simply do not have. We are not against the idea of working on these principles, but we need to know first what we will get in return.
Second, the energy sector is the heart of our economy today, and we would like our partners to understand this and to also let us into the heart of their economies. Unfortunately, the restrictions that applied under the COCOM lists have been lifted only in word and in practice we still face considerable restrictions on high-technology transfers to Russia. We would like to see at least gradual change in this area. The sooner the better.
Finally, the charter and the additional protocol still contain some completely unresolved issues. And I would advise you and European journalists here to take a closer look at what is written in the charter. If you look closely you will see that the document contains internal contradictions. Our European partners agree to the principle of working based on long-term contracts, but at the same time they insist that certain sections of pipeline transport systems could be sold and rented out. But how can we then ensure energy supplies on a long-term basis for our consumers in western Europe? We would not know in this case how to calculate the final price. We could calculate it for a year ahead, but after that we would have to start incorporating the risks into the price and the price that you pay would start to rise. Once this is clearly understood I think that the tone of negotiations on this issue will change completely.
And one last point: we do not oppose the ideas set out in the charter. What’s more, we are putting them into practice. We do open our market, our production sector, to our western partners and they give us access to their transport systems. The best example of this are the contracts between Gazprom and German partners such as BASF. I think that talks with E.ON will also end soon. We have given them access to one of our biggest deposits, have valued their assets using market methods and have taken part of their transport assets in Germany. We also have agreements now with other partners. We could take a share in assets in Central Europe in exchange for access to our deposits. Overall, I want to point out that we only have two large oil and gas companies with state participation. The rest are all private, and we have more than 20 large companies. Most of them have foreign capital and some companies, such as BP, are seeing their reserves growing in large part because the Russian government opens access to these reserves. And I think that our partners are satisfied with this joint work.
Question (KOMMERSANT Newspaper): According to some western sources, it is possible that not only Hezbollah but entire countries, Syria, for example, are behind the abduction of the Israeli soldiers. Do you think that the release of the Israeli soldiers can stop this conflict, or has the situation already got out of control?
Vladimir Putin: I do not think the situation has got out of control but nor am I certain that the release of the soldiers will end the conflict. The situation is under control, that is certain. That is about all I can say. But we very much want for the people who were abducted to be released as soon as possible and for the bloodshed to end.
Question (Vyacheslav Terekhov, INTERFAX): This is an important question. Yesterday [UN Secretary General] Kofi Annan said that an international stabilisation force should be deployed in Lebanon. [British Prime Minister] Tony Blair said more specifically that it is not possible in general to stop these conflicts without deploying troops and that they cannot be separated. Will Russia consider participating in such a stabilisation force if the Security Council adopts the corresponding resolution? And will this concern only Lebanon or Palestine too and the Palestinian-Israeli border also?
Vladimir Putin: Russia takes part on an ongoing basis in peacekeeping operations and we will continue to take part in these kinds of operations in the future. Looking at this specific situation, what we are talking about is that the G8 has addressed a request to the UN Security Council to examine the possibility of sending international forces to Lebanon in order to maintain peace. But only the UN Security Council can take this decision in accordance with international law and the procedures that exist for this kind of case in the UN Charter. Aside from anything else this would also require the agreement of all the parties involved in the conflict. I hope that the Security Council will carry out this work and take a coordinated decision. At this point there has not yet been any decision to send in international forces. We will decide whether to take part or not once a decision has been made.
Question (EL PAIS newspaper, Spain): Good afternoon, I am from Spain. You said yesterday that there was an intensive discussion on the Middle East. Could you explain what made this discussion so intensive? And second, what impact do you hope the global energy security programme will have on oil markets?
Vladimir Putin: The situation in the world is already having an impact on global energy markets, including for oil. How much does a barrel cost now? It already costs more than $70, and if things continue this way it will soon cost $80. The greater the instability in the regions where large amounts of energy resources are produced, the higher the prices. This has always been the case and always will be, and we are seeing an example of this with the escalating conflict in the Middle East.
As for our discussions yesterday on the Middle East, as I already explained, the statement on this issue had not been prepared by our experts earlier and we had to react to events as they happened. We were not able to hand this work on and place it in the hands of our experts, and so we had to invite our experts to join us and work together with them directly on the statement, and of course there were different approaches to some of the issues involved.
For example, your colleague asked just now about a possible peacekeeping force. One of the proposals for the wording on this point was “prepare a plan or propose that the Security Council send a contingent”. It is my view that we cannot propose that the Security Council do something, but can address it a request to examine this issue.
In another example, referring to the two previous Security Council resolutions on Lebanon concerning the militias and so on, one of our colleagues proposed wording that, in our view, substituted itself for the Security Council. Our position is that we cannot do this because it is not within our powers, and we therefore approved wording that also received the approval today of the United Nations Secretary General. In principle he agreed with us. This really was pure drafting work that we were carrying out.
But what I want to stress is that we were not coming from completely different or diametrically opposed points of view. We all shared absolutely the same goals. The question was simply one of finding the right wording for our proposals and ensuring that everything was in accordance with international law.
Question (CNN television): Vladimir Vladimirovich, continuing with the subject of the international force in Lebanon, your position is very important given that Russia is a member of the UN Security Council. First of all, I would like to ask what discussions took place on how this contingent should look, how big it should be, where it should be located, what functions it would have, military functions or purely observer functions? What were the discussions between the G8 leaders today on this point? And what is Russia’s position, what is Russia’s vision as a member of the Security Council? Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: It’s too early to say yet. I cannot answer your question at this point because I do not have sufficient grounds for doing so as yet. Answering your colleague’s question, I said that we mentioned the two Security Council resolutions on Lebanon, and at the end, one drafting proposal was that we propose an implementation plan for these Security Council resolutions. But the G8 cannot propose such plans for implementing Security Council resolutions. This is why we changed the wording slightly and wrote instead that we “address an urgent request to the Security Council to draw up such a plan”. And we will do everything we can to facilitate its implementation. That is the proper way of putting it.
The same concerns the international force. When the Security Council begins its work, we will, of course, participate most actively, and then it will become clear just what is being proposed.
As I said, we still have to obtain the agreement of the parties involved in the conflict, and the kind of force and the functions it will have will also depend a lot on this. We will have to conduct a dialogue with them. But this dialogue is essential if we want any peacekeeping mission to be successful.
Question (Mikhail Petrov, ITAR-TASS): Vladimir Vladimirovich, you have spoken about the summit’s achievements, but it would also be interesting to know if there are, in your views, any issues on which not as much progress was made as you had hoped. Also, talking about the results of the summit, the final documents do not contain many references to Iraq, despite the fact that the situation there is far from normal. Can you comment?
Vladimir Putin: I cannot say that we feel any disappointment regarding any of the issues that we discussed. We reached all the goals we set. There was not a single issue on which we were unable to agree.
As for Iraq, Iraq and the problems there did come up, and our discussions and the documents reflect this. But understandably, everything was eclipsed by the tragic events in the Middle East involving Lebanon, the Gaza Strip and Israel. We were therefore forced to react to the events that were unfolding. This is the only explanation and nothing more than this.
Question (POST SCRIPTUM PROGRAMME, TV-CENTRE): My question is more about the atmosphere the summit took place in, the attitude towards Russia. As far as I know, when [U.S. President] George Bush arrived, he met with representatives of non-governmental organisations. Earlier, two aides to the U.S. secretary of state attended the opposition forum “A Different Russia”. What is your view of these facts?
Vladimir Putin: I also met with representatives of non-governmental organisations. I met with them in Moscow and he met with them in St Petersburg. This is good. The more we work with civil society the better.
As for the participation of representatives of certain foreign governments in the activities of our opposition groups, I do not think this is entirely proper, but nor do I see any problem with it. On the contrary, it is another sign that democratic processes are developing normally here and that we have a functioning opposition. As is the role of the opposition, it criticises the authorities. There is always reason to criticise the authorities. If some countries’ representatives think it fitting and proper to support our opposition’s efforts in this area this is their choice and I see no problem here. This is often common diplomatic practice for some countries. I do not see any problem, anything that could harm us in the opposition forum’s work. On the contrary, if the opposition says some constructive things, it is really our duty, in my view, to take these opinions into account.
I’m simply not going to be able to answer all your questions and President of China Hu Jintao is waiting for me, so let’s make this the last question.
Question (Natalya Tverdokhlebova, Internet publication ITALY NEWS): My question is as follows: the Russian character is such that we never do things by halves. In general, we always put our all into everything we do. But if we do something not out of duty but out of friendship, our effort goes up ten-fold and the effect is simply fantastic. Could you please say what progress you have made in your personal relations with your colleagues, because we know that this can have a big impact on politics? Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: These kinds of meetings strengthen personal contacts and personal relationships. Each meeting of this kind helps. This is the case in life in general, in any work, and in politics too. You get more information about each other. In one way or another people open up during formal and informal contacts and you begin to get a better understanding of what motivates their behaviour and this makes for more accurate feedback and reactions. This is always beneficial.
I am happy with the businesslike and also very friendly atmosphere that surrounded all of our work. On your behalf and on behalf of my colleagues I would like to thank the residents of St Petersburg and Strelna for being so understanding about our descent on their city and on Strelna.
I would also like to say a separate thanks to the press. We have tried to make your working conditions as comfortable as possible not in order to buy you so that you will write good things about us, but simply because we know that it’s not just politicians but also journalists who have a tough job, and that your job is maybe even tougher than ours because you have to work in difficult and complicated circumstances and under a lot of stress. I hope that you have enjoyed yourselves here and we will be happy to see you again in Russia and in St Petersburg as often as possible.
I wish you all the best.
Thank you very much for the attention you have given to our work together.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 17, 2006, 19:12
Text versionEvents
Opening Address at the Meeting with the Prime Minister of India, Manmohan Singh, and the Chairman of the People’s Republic of China, Hu Jintao
July 17, 2006
19:50
Strelna, St Petersburg
Vladimir Putin: Dear Mr Chairman!
Dear Mr Prime Minister!
Please allow me once again to welcome you warmly to Russia. I think that you agree with me when I say that recently it has become somewhat of a habit to invite influential countries that are not formally members of the G8 to do work within this format. I am very glad that we can use this opportunity to meet the three of us. Moreover, summit meetings between our three countries are a natural continuation of the work that our ministers of Foreign Affairs have already begun. I would very much like to point out that our that our approaches to international problems are very close or, as diplomats would say, they practically coincide. Our desire to achieve mutually acceptable solutions allows us to coordinate our efforts in the international arena. And of all this is certainly an important factor in international life.
Mr Chairman and I just now spoke with about how effectively and, I would say, how rapidly Russian and Chinese bilateral relations are developing. With our Indian partners we are slightly lagging behind in economic cooperation but we have huge plans. And I am confident that they are realistic and will be implemented. We live in the same region of the world. Russia has historical or, as we say, centuries-old relations with India and with the People’s Republic of China. And I am very happy to have the opportunity to meet with you today in St Petersburg to talk about both our common problems and our shared plans.
Thank you very much.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 17, 2006, 19:50
Text versionEvents
Beginning of the Meeting with the Prime Minister of India, Manmohan Singh
July 17, 2006
20:20
Konstantinovskii Palace, St Petersburg
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister! Allow me to once again express my satisfaction and gratitude that you have accepted our invitation and come to St Petersburg. Our bilateral relations are developing very rapidly and our countries have reached a very high level of trust. Our three-party meeting with our Chinese partners bears witness to the fact that we are really anxious to find and are looking for ways to improve the situation in our region. We are looking for new opportunities, for new instruments of cooperation.
Indian-Russian bilateral relations are very multifaceted, very diverse. And I am very glad to have the opportunity to exchange impressions with you on the development of our bilateral cooperation.
President of India Manmohan Singh: Mr President, it is both a great honor and a great pleasure for me to be here in Russia. I want to thank you for your invitation to meet with the G8 countries. And your leadership during these meetings acts as proof of just how well you can cope with difficult international issues. Today the economy and the international order as a whole is faced with challenges on a global scale. And at times like these it is of utmost importance that you use the courage, the knowledge and the experiences of all the countries of the world so that we can best resolve the issues and challenges that we are faced with today. And at such a time the leadership of Russia and especially your personal role are of great value in helping resolve these problems.
I would like to once again express my gratitude and emphasise how highly I appreciate your role as host of the G8 summit and the results of our three-country meeting.
Your Excellency, under your leadership our bilateral relations have become stronger and stronger and I would like to express my gratitude for this development. Russia is a great friend of ours, a friend that has passed the test of time and always stood by us during times of trouble and hard times, and we shall never forget this.
I also wish to express my gratitude for your hospitality, your kind invitation, and your big contribution to the results of our meeting.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 17, 2006, 20:20
Text versionEvents
Beginning of the Meeting with the President of Brazil, Luis Inacio Lula da Silva
July 17, 2006
20:24
Konstantinovskii Palace, St Petersburg
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President! Allow me to thank you for accepting the invitation and for taking such active part in our discussion today. I know that yesterday some of my colleagues from the G8 started to prepare for the discussion with you on world trade.
Our bilateral relations are developing quite successfully. I am referring to our high-level contacts and the growth of our volume of trade. Last year our trade grew by 30 percent more then the previous year. The number of areas in which we cooperate is increasing. Prospects for developing our cooperation in sectors such as space exploration, aviation construction, agriculture and energy are very promising.
Mr President, I am very glad to see you and to have the opportunity to exchange opinions with you on various issues on the international agenda.
President of Brazil Lula Da Silva: First and foremost, Mr Putin, I would like to express my sincere thanks for the invitation to take part in the G8 summit. Secondly, I would like to congratulate you on two moments that are directly connected to the discussion that is taking place in St Petersburg.
First of all, I would like to congratulate you on successfully hosting the summit and on including energy security and the Doha Round of trade talks in the discussions. I think that if we do not come to an agreement then we would be taking a big step backwards and seriously harm the interests of the poorest countries of the world. For that reason I think it was important that these themes were on the agenda for discussion at the summit. And I can say that I am looking optimistically at the future and I think that President Chirac will soften his position a little bit.
Russian-Brazilian mutual relations are developing successfully. And I think that they can still significantly improve. There are several themes that I would like to discuss with you. I think that in the coming years our volume of trade will substantially increase. Brazil has a positive balance in its trade with Russia. But I think that we must work together to make our trade relations more equal since, as they say, good trade is a two-way street.
Vladimir Putin: Thanks to diversification.
Lula Da Silva: Yes. Diversification.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 17, 2006, 20:24
Text versionEvents
Beginning of the Meeting with the Chairman of the People’s Republic of China, Hu Jintao
July 17, 2006
19:13
Strelna, St Petersburg
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Chairman!
Please allow me to welcome you once again to St Petersburg. I am very glad that we are able to meet so regularly. Yesterday quite a remarkable event took place – the fifth anniversary of the signing of the friendship agreement between our countries. I am very pleased to be able to say that this document is working. All of its provisions are being implemented. And I would like to point out something else as well – events linked to the Year of Russia in China are being actively carried out. And I know that our colleagues are ready to start preparing for the Year of the People’s Republic of China in Russia that will be held in 2007.
I would like to thank you for actively taking part in today’s discussion. I have already said and would like to confirm once again that without the participation of countries such as the People’s Republic of China and India we cannot consider that any discussion on global economic problems is a universal one. This also applies to security issues and for that reason I would like to thank you once again for accepting our invitation to come to the summit.
chairman of the People’S Republic of China Hu Jintao: I am very glad to have the opportunity to meet with you in St Petersburg. First and foremost I would like to congratulate you, Mr President, on the fifth anniversary of signing the Treaty on Good Neighbourly Relations, Friendship and Cooperation between Russia and China.
I would also like to thank you for the invitation to the G8 summit. Today the summit meeting you hosted was a real success for you. I congratulate you. As you said, today Chinese-Russian relations are developing successfully. High-levels of government maintain very close contacts. And this year we have already met three times both in bilateral and multilateral formats. The agreements that were reached during these meeting are being implemented actively and our strategic cooperation and partnership relations have received a new impulse. We are pleased with this.
In the first part of this year events linked to the Year of China in Russia were a success. We achieved our goal of deepening our friendship and cooperation. In the second part of this year we must continue carrying out such events and actively prepare for the Year of China in Russia. I am convinced that this event that we initiated together will help develop the Chinese-Russian partnership and the level of our strategic cooperation. I am also confident that the far-reaching significance of these events will impact on the further development of our relations.
    Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 17, 2006, 19:13
Text versionEvents
Briefing for Journalists at the International Press Centre
July 17, 2006
09:13
Strelna, St Petersburg
President Vladimir Putin: Good evening,
I know that my colleagues have already met with their media pools. Practically everything has been said already and all I can probably do now is to sum up our assessment of the results of work together. The Russian delegation is satisfied with these results.
We have reached all our objectives. We have adopted all the documents we planned to adopt practically without amendment.
As you know, we adopted an additional document that was initiated by several countries, including Russia. This document sets out our assessment of the situation unfolding in the Middle East and our proposals on what needs to be done now. I think you also have this document.
If there is any need to comment on any of the documents I have just mentioned, I am happy to do so.
At the same time, I would like to start straight away by noting what I think are some key points.
The first point concerns energy security. I think that all of you who have read the document will have noted a certain shift in accent in the very concept of energy security. Previously, energy security was interpreted as meaning stable supply of energy resources to the main consumers. Now we have convinced our partners that energy security is a much broader concept that extends to the extraction, transport and sale of energy. All these links in the chain, the representatives of all these links, bear equal and collective responsibility, and I think that this is very important indeed.
Another issue that was one of the main items on our agenda is education. What I would note here first of all as being particularly important is that we have drawn attention to the issue of resolving problems arising from immigration and helping immigrants adapt with the help of education systems.
Second, it has been discussed before, perhaps, but I think that for the first time it has been set out in a document of this kind that, as we see it, it is important in the modern world to pay attention to all three basic components of education – education itself, scientific research and innovation. We have agreed to work together in this area and to coordinate our work on the practical realisation of the agreements reached.
Finally, regarding the fight against infectious diseases, I think you have already read this document. We will set up here in Russia a laboratory with the different strains. We have a good base for this work as far as eastern Europe and Central Asia are concerned. Together with our partners we will establish a centre for producing needed medicines for Central Asia. Of course, our friends and partners in Central Asia itself will be involved in this project too. We have agreed to create mobile detachments of specialists who can react quickly and effectively to events in the world involving the spread of epidemics and infections. These and other issues are reflected in the document and have been adopted.
As for our declaration, our statement on the Middle East, you already know about it.
As I said, if you want me to comment on anything that I just mentioned, I will be happy to do so.
Thank you very much for your attention.
Question (ISRAELI TELEVISION): I would like to ask about the document on the Middle East. How can Russia help to disarm the Hezbollah militia in accordance with the UN resolution? Can Russia use its influence in countries seen as defending the Hezbollah movement – in Iran and Syria?
Vladimir Putin: First, not only can it do this but it is taking all necessary action in contact with our partners in the Middle East, in Israel and in Israel’s neighbours. We have made efforts through all channels to obtain the liberation of your soldiers. Through all channels. I have reason to believe that our efforts are not in vain. For a number of reasons I will not go into the details just yet.
Second, we spent quite a long time discussing the content of this declaration. This is natural given that it was not worked through by our experts before we gathered in St Petersburg. We had to examine the situation as it unfolded over the course of the tragic events we are all witnessing. I would say that the key point is that, as the Russian delegation sees it, this is a balanced document.
Regarding your interests, the interests of the state of Israel, I think that the document reflects them quite fully. Above all, the document refers to the two UN resolutions on Lebanon. We have reached an agreement that not only will we seek to ensure that these resolutions are enforced in full, but we will also call on the Security Council to draw up a plan for implementing these resolutions. There are also other provisions aimed at bringing about an immediate ceasefire on both sides and putting in place the conditions for holding peace negotiations, and this also includes the forces currently in confrontation with Israel.
Question (VREMYA NOVOSTEI): Vladimir Vladimirovich, regarding the resolution referred to now, in particular, the part that speaks of the need to carry out resolution 1559 on Lebanon, there is no mention of Syria, though the first part mentions the extremists of Hezbollah and Hamas. Was the fact that Syria is not mentioned a compromise condition put forward by Russia in response to its partners’ demands?
And secondly, there was some information that your meeting with Tony Blair played a certain role in the preparation of this resolution. Who initiated this meeting and why was it so important?
Vladimir Putin: It was not a meeting with Tony Blair but was just part of the work on the resolution. We all very much wanted and felt that we should complete work on this resolution before breaking during the day. We agreed with our colleagues that Tony and I would take this initiative upon ourselves and we invited our experts who had been working on this issue, took the resolution itself and, in part, participated in its drafting. I think that we achieved acceptable results, compromise formulations that are, in my view, very balanced.
Concerning the point that you made, the fact that the resolution does not name individual countries, yes, this was a position of principle for us. We believe that if we do not have sufficient grounds for accusations, then we cannot draw our conclusions and set them out, based only on our suppositions, in documents at such a serious state level, even if these conclusions seem logical.
The fact of the matter is that we are very much aware of the situation in other parts of the world, including in hot spots in the Russian Federation itself. Fortunately, these hot spots are gradually cooling down, not least with the support of Muslim countries that are making a constructive contribution to resolving the serious problems in the North Caucasus arising from Chechnya. Looking at what is going on there, we know that support for extremist elements is coming from the territories of some countries, but we do not name them until we have serious evidence that we can show the international community, though there are more than enough hints.
This is why I believe we took the right position, and we are grateful to our partners for agreeing to it. We also agreed to their position on some points, thinking that their logic deserves attention and our support.
Question: Mr President, you adopted a text on energy security today. This text indicates that gas prices could rise again next year. Could you give some more detail on this?
Vladimir Putin: This is a strange way in which you have linked the declaration adopted today to a possible price rise for natural gas. On the contrary, the more security we have in the energy sector, the more stable prices remain.
Natural gas prices, all the more so Russian natural gas prices, are set not in the Kremlin, not through some kind of unilateral decision, but are determined by the market. I can tell you once again how this takes place. The gas price for an individual country is equivalent to the average gas price on the market the previous year plus a small coefficient, the average gasoline price plus a small coefficient and the average heating fuel price. The price of gasoline and heating fuel are pegged to the price of oil and do not depend on us. I would like this to be clear for once and for all. We have left behind the time when we set out own prices for our partners. Now it is the market that decides and I cannot think of a more transparent mechanism.
Incidentally, oil prices are rising, and do you know why? The recent events in the Middle East have been one of the factors driving prices up, as have events in other countries in the region and various disasters in the oil-producing countries of Central and North America. These are all factors pushing up the price of oil on the markets.
But I want to stress that all of our endeavours aim at minimising the risks and thus stabilising prices.
Question (EGYPTIAN TELEVISION): Vladimir Vladimirovich, today’s statement on the Middle East makes reference to everything except to the fact that the root of the problem lies in Israel’s non-fulfilment of all the Security Council resolutions and the Roadmap. Do you not think that today’s statement mixes up the cause and effect? That is, the cause of this explosion in the Middle East is not that Hezbollah violated the border and so on, but that Israel is not fulfilling the Security Council resolutions.
Vladimir Putin: I do not think that we are confusing the cause and the effect because no matter what the circumstances, there is no justification for abducting people or launching rocket strikes from the territory of one country against the territory of another. But there is a certain amount of truth in what you say and, to disclose a little of what went on behind the scenes here, we used this argument to arrive at some of the compromise wording in our statement.
Question (IZVESTIA): Everyone thought that energy security would lead to stormy debates at this summit, but in the end everything seems to have gone quite smoothly. Why is this?
Vladimir Putin: Because we worked very hard throughout the whole year. I would like to thank our colleagues and experts from the G8 countries for their hard and professional work all year. The documents were of a high quality and did not lead to particular discussion.
Question (AL JAZEERA): Vladimir Vladimirovich, the G8 summit has responded very swiftly to the events in the Middle East, even sending a special representative to the region. Have you received any feedback from the conflicting parties, in particular from Hezbollah regarding the Israeli soldiers and their return, or from Hamas regarding the soldier it is holding? And have you received any feedback from Israel on ending military action?
Thank you very much.
Vladimir Putin: We do have feedback, not regarding our statement as yet, unfortunately, but regarding our attempts to work for a ceasefire and reduce the number of human casualties. We have this feedback from all the parties involved in the conflict. I cannot say that these are very optimistic observations, but I do hope nevertheless that common sense will prevail. We have two-way communication with everyone you have named. We have normal, practically ongoing, live contact. Incidentally, this helped us in our work today on the resolution.
This is indeed perhaps Russia’s advantage – that it has kept open channels of communication with all the participants in this conflict. Furthermore, I think that we have quite a high level of trust with everyone involved.
Question (The Moscow Times):
We know that Russia seeks integration with the West, but at the same time the director of one of the biggest potential investors in Russia, Bill Browder, was recently denied a Russian entry visa. Many investors and Western diplomats are concerned about this and don’t understand why that happened, and many people think that this might defer the flow of investments to Russia. Could you explain why he was refused a visa without any explanation and whether there were any other such cases?
Vladimir Putin: Sorry, I didn’t hear you. Who exactly was denied a visa?
The Moscow Times: Bill Browder. He is the CEO of the Hermitage Fund, which is the biggest investor in the Russian stock market. And I think the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom might have discussed this with you today.
Vladimir Putin: Well, to be honest I don’t know for what reasons that particular individual was denied entry into the Russian Federation. I imagine that person may have violated our country’s laws, and if others break our laws we will refuse them entry as well. At the same time, we will do everything to support and assist in every way those who come to Russia to work and to invest in the Russian Federation and in our economy.
Foreign direct and portfolio investments in Russia are growing. I won’t give any figures now but they are very good, and we are very pleased about them. Capitalization of the Russian market keeps growing and last year it was the world’s highest. The highest capitalization in the world. So we are very much interested not merely in attracting investments but also in working with honest and professional investors who really want to work in the Russian economy on a long-term basis.
Question (Georgy Nilosz, Hungary):
With regard to the declaration on counterterrorism, it shows there are common values shared by the G8 members. Does that mean that in specific cases there is also agreement about who can be considered a terrorist? Mr. Zakaev, for example. Would he be extradited to Russia on the basis of that declaration?
Vladimir Putin: Sorry, I didn’t catch your name. Georgy Nilosz? Thank you very much for that question. I don’t really need to comment on it because you put it in such a way as to highlight this very important issue, one of the most acute problems in countering terrorism.
Of course, when we are told Syria or Iran, or some other country is to be mentioned in that context, then why not also mention those who harbor known terrorists on their territory? For that, one does not need to dig deep into archives. We have sufficient video recorded evidence of his criminal activities. And if these questions are raised, then we should not duck the issue or resort to mutual criticism, but should look for a compromise. It seems to me that our position is appreciated.
It is true that in some countries judicial and legal systems are very complex, and criminals, particularly those involved in terrorism, take advantage of such complexity to destroy civilized countries and the basic principles underlying today’s democratic civilization. It’s time for us to understand that, to analyze the situation and to take necessary steps to rectify it.
Question (Radio Liberty):
Mr. Putin, prior to the summit you met with the Civil G8, and worked quite a lot with them, and you made a number of promises. You said that you shared their views and would pass their concerns on to your colleagues. What has happened, if anything? Can you tell us about that?
Vladimir Putin: Yes, that’s what I did. And the position of the authorities of the Russian Federation does coincide with that of many NGOs on a lot of issues, more than I expected, to be honest; for example, on environmental security, energy, education and many other subjects we discussed today.
I have done what I promised. And if you look through the records of my meetings with the NGO representatives in Moscow, see what we were debating, and then compare that with the documents which have been adopted, I think you will find a great deal of overlap. We have fully met the obligations that I accepted at the NGO meeting, at my meetings with the international business, with the G8 general prosecutors, and with trade union activists.
We have formalized this in the documents, and I have raised the issues a number of times in the course of our discussions.
Question (Estonian Radio):
When will Russia adopt the kind of policies that will foster friendship with neighboring countries, such as Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Georgia and Ukraine?
Vladimir Putin: As you know, we have inherited an uneasy legacy from the Soviet Union, because many problems were not apparent in the days when we all were one country; they were not visible. And, after all, why do we today look so closely at the relations between the federal center and the territories in Russia? The reason is there are two thousand potential territorial conflicts within the Russian Federation, and the same was true for the Soviet Union.
So we have to stop the hysteria to calmly resolve these conflicts, keeping in mind that the future will only be assured if we manage to build up such friendly relations and to benefit from them. And the benefits can be enormous, especially for a country of Estonia’s size. One should know the extent of the revenues Estonia gets from transshipment of our cargos, and the aggregate revenues from multilateral economic cooperation with Russia, which we are ready to develop further.
I can repeat that some of our historical heritage is very complex, but we wouldn’t like to see it additionally politicized. Instead, we would like to see the agreements reached being honored. For example, our agreement with your government on the border. It seems strange when a government signs a document while the parliament amends it to an extent that it becomes unacceptable to us. And our partners in Estonia are perfectly aware that it is unacceptable, so what are these games about? Let me say again that we have enough common sense and patience. I know there are people in Estonia who share this attitude, and we will work together.
Question (Norwegian TV):
Mr. Putin, I would like to ask about the Barents Sea oil extraction and related environmental protection measures. This has to do with energy security.
Vladimir Putin: Well, we’ve written all this down. It’s all there. I think this is the first time we have looked at the safety of transit pipelines and infrastructure. That’s the first time that we have considered this in detail and included it in the documents. That’s the first point.
Secondly, I’m not saying that all outstanding problems have been instantly resolved, but we have highlighted them. We have put them on our agenda and we are determined to tackle them.
The next question is that of the Barents Sea. There is an enormous potential there for supplying Europe with energy. More so, not only Europe, but other markets as well, including North America.
You have probably heard that we are engaged in negotiations with a number of countries on the development of various oil fields. We are talking to our Canadian colleagues and considering other potential partners.
And Norwegian companies are among top candidates, as they are very good partners for various reasons. First, they are very down-to-earth, they work hard, and are very professional; they have a well developed infrastructure in the Arctic, but their extraction volume has been falling. And we can quite naturally join our efforts in order not to waste any money on an unnecessary infrastructure. We are prepared to share our capacities, if our partners are prepared to share theirs. And I think that both sides have demonstrated their readiness in this.
Question: Mr. Putin, you have just mentioned that Russia is respected in the Middle East. And it is true. What, in your opinion, could be Russia’s role there, as all sides trust it, and as historically you have had good relations not only with countries but also with organizations? How would this strengthen the positions of Russia and of the Islamic Conference Organization? Will the process of Russia’s accession to this organization accelerate? Question number two: some think that you made a very bold step by inviting Hamas to Russia. Will you also invite Hezbollah?
Vladimir Putin: I cannot tell you now what steps we will take to improve contacts with all the parties involved in the conflict that we are witnessing at the moment.
We invited Hamas for a good reason and we regret nothing. We believe that if a political movement enjoys a legitimate vote of confidence of its people, which is exactly the case with Hamas, then, even if it is not a convenient partner for some, we should come to terms not with those who are comfortable negotiation partners, but with those who can lead the situation and their own people. The essential aspect is the trust people vest in an organization, whether others like it or not. That is what our relationship with Hamas is about. We need to engage in a dialogue no matter how difficult this could be, provided a compromise is reached and the obligations are met. If we choose a political force which does not enjoy the support of its people, there is no point in striving for an agreement with it.
In our view, the process is a very complicated one and you know how it happens in most societies: you win some, and you lose some. We are trying not to put all the eggs in one basket, and to deal with all the participants instead. We will continue this line.
As for Russia’s role, the most vivid example of our influence, without delving into details, is the discussions we had today on the relevant resolution, or, rather, declaration. If it were not for Russia’s stand, the declaration would have been worded quite differently, not as balanced as it is now.
If we were to label some countries as terrorist states, we would have cut off all possible contacts with them. Would that have been in the interest of Israel? I do not think so. So our policy is and will remain well balanced.
Question (MEGA TV, Greece):
Mr. Putin, a number of Russian government officials warned of the danger of the conflict spreading throughout the Middle East region. Also, yesterday you mentioned some wide-ranging plans by the Israeli government. What are your specific concerns and worries? And, if I may, another question: do you see any role in this settlement for Tehran, like Mr. Prodi suggested earlier today? Is there any progress there?
Vladimir Putin: Iran is an influential regional power, and one should take into account its positions and interests and work with it to make it instrumental in improving the situation.
As for the first part of your question, that is why we were working on a balanced resolution. We do not want this conflict to spread. We think nobody stands to gain from it. Some parties may wish to employ military force, but everybody remembers the old days and does not want to have a replay.
As I said, Russia will maintain contacts with all our partners, and I believe peace is quite possible.
You asked me about Israel’s plans. I am not aware of any. I meant the information supplied to us by our sources in the Arab world, including those in Lebanon, the official Lebanese government sources. They are convinced that strikes against infrastructure have no direct relevance to the search for abducted soldiers or any other goals declared by Israel.
At the same time, as I have already mentioned, missile strikes from a neighboring country are not something any state would be prepared to sustain. We have worded the problem in such a way that it is clear that we intend to urge the UN Security Council to think not only about the full implementation of the previous resolutions on Lebanon, but also about the possibility of deploying some international forces there. I would like to specifically stress that this is only possible under the auspices of the Security Council, and subject to all the mechanisms, rules and procedures of the Security Council. One of such rules is that this decision can only be made on an agreement of all the conflicting parties.
Thank you for your attention. See you tomorrow.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 17, 2006, 09:13
Text version