Events
Excerpts from Transcript of Cabinet Meeting
March 26, 2007
10:31
The Kremlin, Moscow
Economic Development and Trade Minister German Gref on the development of special economic port zones
German Gref: The draft law on special economic port zones has already been approved by all the federal agencies. The Legislation Commission will examine it today, and the Government will examine it at a meeting on Thursday. This is the last of the different types of special economic zone we have been working on over the last two years. We have carried out this work in accordance with your instructions. We have finally settled all the customs, tax, land-use, and infrastructure issues within the zones and agreed on the simplified administration procedures that will apply.
The idea at present is to develop special economic port zones based around sea, river and airports with international transport links. Apart from the infrastructure needed for freight processing and handling goods in transit, production facilities, above all facilities for manufacturing and exporting goods, could also be developed on the land around the port areas. This system, the free-port system, already exists elsewhere in the world. We would introduce a similar tax and customs regime to that practised in other countries using this system, and we could possibly combine port and production zones in the areas around the ports so as to stimulate manufacturing and exports.
If everything goes according to timetable, we hope that the State Duma will examine and pass the draft law during the spring session. The Duma deputies support this proposal and a group of deputies have already introduced a similar draft law of their own. We plan to hold a tender for selecting the port zones that will take part in this programme during the course of this year, and starting next year, we will begin carrying out the infrastructure work needed to develop modern cargo-handling facilities and perhaps also manufacturing facilities.
President Vladimir Putin: These zones will be located in the Far East Region, the northwest, north and the south?
German Gref: Our idea is that there should be three or four such zones at first, most likely one in the northwest, one in the north, one in the Black Sea area and probably one in the Far East.
Vladimir Putin: A decision hasn’t been taken on the Black Sea yet?
German Gref: We have a big project underway on developing Novorossiisk as a logistics centre, and we are currently examining a project to develop the port of Novorossiisk, including through investment from the Investment Fund. If Novorossiisk were to be given the status of special economic port zone, the two projects could be combined, of course, and the Investment Fund could be used to help develop state-of-the-art infrastructure there. But these decisions will be made based on the results of the tender.
Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Zhukov on the sports development programme for Sochi and the city’s presentation of its bid to host the 2014 Winter Olympics
Alexander Zhukov: All three candidate cities have presented their bids now. Salzburg was the last to do so. Now, the cards are on the table, as they say. But we are still working actively with the International Olympic Committee, working specifically with the Committee’s members to demonstrate the advantages that Sochi’s bid offers. A big exhibition, Sportaccord, will open in two weeks time in China, and almost half the members of the International Olympic Committee will be attending. We will also be there to present our bid. So, work is going ahead, and work is also going ahead, of course, on carrying out the federal targeted programme for Sochi’s development. After all, we are developing Sochi as a winter sports resort centre regardless of who gets chosen to host the Olympics. The work is already underway. We are ready for whatever the outcome may be, but we are doing everything possible, of course, to ensure that ours is the winning bid.
First Deputy Prime Minister Sergei Ivanov on the Defence Ministry Central Archive’s work to digitalise data on all who were killed or went missing during World War II, and on upcoming meetings on developing transport-sector machine-building and Russia’s internal waterways (the river fleet)
Sergei Ivanov: We have begun the process of digitalising all data on those killed or missing during World War II stored at the Defence Ministry Central Archives in paper form, in card catalogues and archive materials. Around a quarter of this data has already been digitalised and is now available on the Defence Ministry website. We need the financing to be able to complete this work, and if we get this money (around 300 million roubles), we will be able to complete it all by the end of the year. In other words, all the data will have been digitalised.
Vladimir Putin: Tomorrow you are scheduled to hold an away session of the Industry and Energy Ministry Collegium. What is on the agenda?
Sergei Ivanov: We will be holding an enlarged-format session of the Industry and Energy Ministry Collegium tomorrow at Mytyshchi, at one of the big transport-sector machine-building plants. The session will focus on the development of machine-building for the Russian transport sector. Representatives of the Transport Ministry, Russian Railways, and the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs will be taking part. We will be examining a development strategy for the sector for 2007–2010. We have been having problems in this sector. The railways, for example, face a shortage of modern railway wagons. The Government discussed this issue just recently, and the Governor of Kemerovo also noted the lack of modern rolling stock, modern passenger and freight wagons. We also have a problem with our locomotive fleet, which is being modernised only very slowly. We need modern new engines, electric- and heat-powered. We will be looking at all of these issues tomorrow. This sector also needs to be developed. We have enterprises that are able to manufacture modern, lighter rolling stock and wagons made using new materials that are more economical and will work out cheaper for the railways sector as a whole, and this is important because there is a real shortage in the country at the moment.
On Wednesday, I will be chairing a session of the Marine Collegium, and the main item on our agenda will be developing the country’s inland waterways and river fleet. This fleet and the inland waterways in general continue to play a big part in freight transport in Russia. The river fleet currently serves 26 autonomous republics, autonomous regions and national districts, and 42 of the country’s regions, in other words, almost half the country. The river fleet transports 130 million tons of freight and around 20 million passengers every year. This is mostly local traffic.
I would like to note too that the river fleet is the most economical and environmentally friendly type of transport. Costs are eight times lower per ton of freight transported by river than by railway, and 20 times lower than by truck. In other words, river transport is the most energy-saving type of transport. We will also discuss the construction of new river-sea vessels. This is one of the objectives of the newly created United Shipbuilding Corporation.
The river fleet is made up of aging vessels and in this area too we need new ships.
I also want to add that the navigation season begins this week in the south of the country. The Volga-Don Canal will begin working next week. A new lock, the Kochetovsky Lock, has been built, which will enable an approximately two-fold increase in freight traffic on the canal. The start of operations at the new lock also marks the completion of the first stage of our programme to integrate into the unified European system of internal waterways.
<…>
Topics
Special economic zones
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: March 26, 2007, 10:31
Text versionEvents
Press Statement Following Russian-Chinese Talks
March 26, 2007
11:24
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin : Dear Mr Hu Jintao!
Ladies and gentlemen!
I am truly pleased to welcome our distinguished guest and friend, President of China Hu Jintao, and a large Chinese delegation to Moscow. This visit is still further evidence of the intensive development of bilateral contacts between our countries.
We met six times last year. I think that this tradition only serves to strengthen trust and business cooperation between Russia and China.
Today's talks once again confirmed that the Russian-Chinese partnership is a strategic one. Our political dialogue is developing at speed. Our cooperation in business, cultural, and educational spheres is progressing at a new rate. Our cooperation in regional and international affairs has significantly increased.
We praised the Year of Russia in China that is just coming to an end. In general, we feel that it clearly demonstrated the huge potential for bilateral cooperation between our countries' peoples.
I would like to thank the President of China, Hu Jintao, Mrs Wu Yi and all our Chinese colleagues once again for their help in organising and carrying out the Year of Russia in China. The Year of China is Russia is designed to continue our tradition of friendship and cooperation.
Its programme contains many remarkable and memorable events. A Chinese National Exhibition will open tomorrow in Moscow. And the day after tomorrow, an exhibition from Beijing’s imperial palace entitled The Forbidden City – Treasures of the Chinese Emperors will open.
Around 200 events will take place as part of the Year of China. And their geographical location will vary exceedingly – from St Petersburg to Vladivostok.
This year we intend to continue our policy designed to strengthen our joint projects and develop our partnership in all areas. Today we discussed the concrete ways to develop our cooperation in detail. They are reflected in the Joint Declaration we signed following the meeting.
Trade, economic and investment cooperation remains a priority for us. We are satisfied with the positive trends in these areas. According to our data, in 2006 our trade almost reached the 29 billion dollar mark and China estimates that our trade is more than 33 billion dollars. This is a good start towards achieving our goal, namely reaching a volume of trade of more than 60 billion dollars by 2010.
Today we also discussed implementing major projects in construction, wood processing and transport infrastructure, as well as cooperation in the high-tech sector, outer space, energy – including nuclear energy – and aviation.
We will continue our cooperation in the military and technical spheres.
We welcome increased cooperation in environmental issues.
Cooperation in the educational and cultural spheres is especially important for our peoples, peoples that have a rich creative potential. We intend to develop cooperation in science, culture, education, tourism and in youth exchanges.
Foreign policy issues constituted an important part of our talks. We agreed to continue actively cooperating within the Shanghai Cooperation Organization. This is important to address problems such as terrorist threats, transnational crime and illegal drug trafficking. We are convinced that by uniting our efforts we will be able to strengthen the security of Russia and China as well as stability in Central Asia, the whole Asian-Pacific region, and in the world as a whole.
In conclusion I would like to once again thank the President of China, Hu Jintao, and all our Chinese friends and partners for the constructive and intense discussion of all the issues on our agenda.
Thank you.
Chinese President Hu Jintao: Dear President Putin!
Dear ladies and gentlemen, dear friends!
I am pleased to be able to meet with you.
First and foremost I would like to use this opportunity to thank my good friend, President Putin, for his kind invitation to visit Russia and for the way both my delegation and myself were received.
As Mr President has already mentioned, we held very business-oriented negotiations in a warm and trusting atmosphere. We took stock of the important experiences we have gleaned during the development of our partnership and strategic cooperation over the past ten years. We expressed our satisfaction with the range of results our cooperation has achieved in all areas.
We had a detailed exchange of opinions on deepening our strategic cooperation and expanding our business cooperation in various spheres, as well as on topical international and regional problems.
Mr President and I reached important new agreements on all of the issues we discussed. Our talks have important results. We signed the Joint Declaration that confirms the firm intentions of both parties to be guided by the letter and the spirit of the Treaty on Good Neighbourly Relations, Friendship and Cooperation, to work towards establishing a sincere partnership and mutual trust in the political sphere, mutual benefits in the trade and economic spheres, joint innovations in the scientific and technical spheres, harmony and friendship in the cultural and educational spheres, unity and mutual assistance in security issues. And to do so in order to maintain the good dynamic within the healthy and steady development of Chinese-Russian partnership and strategic cooperation.
Mr President and I are of the same opinion with respect to the need to uncover and tap into new reserves of multifaceted cooperation in a way that will be mutually advantageous. We also need to increase both the amount and quality of our cooperation.
As we maintain the high growth rates in our trade we are going to adopt effective measures to optimise our trade structures and increase the share of high-tech and high value-added products, all with a view to expanding the technical and economic component of our bilateral cooperation.
Mr President and I also agreed to create a Chinese-Russian chamber of commerce to oversee the trade of machinery. And this chamber is designed to act as an effective base for promoting bilateral trade in this area.
Furthermore, we agreed to increase our cooperation in the energy, investment, scientific and technical fields and to introduce major joint projects in these branches in order to improve the overall level of our business cooperation.
We expressed our satisfaction with our cooperation in environmental issues and decided to improve cooperation designed to preserve water resources in border regions.
Both parties praised the success of the Year of Russia in China and noted that this type of event helps promote bilateral exchange and cooperation, as well as strengthen mutual understanding and friendship between our countries and peoples.
We will use the newly begun Year of China in Russia as a unique opportunity to develop the concept of a peace-loving centuries-long friendship between China and Russia and to give the development of Chinese-Russian partnership and strategic cooperation a new stimulus.
Mr President and I completely agree on the fact that increasing strategic cooperation between China and Russia – two permanent members of the UN Security Council – in international and regional affairs has a great deal of significance. It is important with respect to promoting a multipolar world, democratizing international relations, ensuring world peace, and promoting general development.
I would like to once again thank President Putin, the government cabinet and the people of Russia!
Thank you!
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: March 26, 2007, 11:24
Text versionEvents
Opening Ceremony of the Year of China in Russia
March 26, 2007
12:20
The Kremlin, Russia
President Vladimir Putin : Dear Mr President of China Hu Jintao!
Ladies and gentlemen!
We warmly welcome you to the grand opening of the Year of China in the Russian Federation. This is truly a landmark event for our two countries. Indeed, Russia and China are not simply close neighbors and trustworthy partners, but are two great civilisations, the history and culture of which carry an immense power of mutual cultural and spiritual attraction. And there is no doubt that the rich chronicles of our long-standing relations will receive new striking chapters this year.
During the complex political developments in the world, and particularly in the twentieth century, our peoples have always retained sincere respect for one another. Both Russian and Chinese peoples have always known that we are not only destined to live as neighbours but also to cooperate closely in light of each others’ respective experiences.
And for many years, our experience has acted as an example of how to build harmonious and equable relations between peoples.
Last year, 2006, marked several different anniversaries. We celebrated the tenth anniversary of establishing relations based on equal partnership and strategic cooperation, and the fifth anniversary of signing the Treaty on Good Neighbourly Relations, Friendship and Cooperation. We also celebrated the fifth anniversary of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation. All of these events represent significant landmarks in our recent history. And I am confident that both Russia and China equally value these milestones.
The decision that President Hu Jintao and I made to carry out large-scale events such as the Year of Russia in China and the Year of the People’s Republic of China in the Russia Federation also holds strategic significance. Experience has shown that this decision was timely, correct and is already yielding its fruit.
The project of hosting such events on an unprecedented large-scale was designed to still further increase the quantity and quality of our partnership. And a number of cultural activities, business meetings and exchanges significantly enrich public life in Russia and China. And these events certainly help our citizens better get to know one another while, at the same time, ensuring continuity in our relations.
Many of these projects have already been executed today. We are both pleased with the success of the Year of Russia in China. Over 300 events took place within this happening and they covered virtually all areas of our bilateral cooperation. The activities induced hundreds of thousands of our citizens and many of our regions to engage in friendly communication.
I would like to once again thank all of our Chinese friends and, first and foremost, President Hu Jintao from the bottom of my heart for their eager participation in these events. This shared success convincingly demonstrated that our historic partnership has a bright future. And the most important thing is that it rests on steady support from both societies.
I have no doubt that many of the initiatives in the economic, scientific and cultural spheres that were put forward last year will be developed within the Year of China in Russia that opens today. And the event’s rich programme covers our neighbours’ diverse world: from the cultural and historical heritage of the Middle Kingdom to the present life of the descendants of the great heroes Huang Di and Yan Di.
The event’s priorities include further expanding the ties between Russian and Chinese business communities. Tomorrow a Chinese national exhibition will open in Moscow along with various business forums and conferences.
The programme of the Year of China in Russia contains famous theatre productions, musical evenings, art exhibitions and meetings between both countries’ academics. Unique Chinese culture generously provided new creative images and impressions for both Russian and foreign artists, musicians and architects.
The Chinese Book of Changes states that similar voices echo each other and that similar characters are attracted to one another. And despite the singularity of both of our cultures we nevertheless have many common features.
Dear friends!
Today, as we open the Year of China in Russia, we are beginning the ascension towards new heights in our partnership.
Ancient Chinese wisdom states that: “if the root is shallow then the branches cannot grow strong”. It must be said that the excellent tree, the metaphor of our joint efforts to develop our relations over the past few years, reflects the depth and strength of the friendship between our two peoples.
I am convinced that this strong friendship will underlie our joint work.
I would like to once again welcome all those who came to this ceremony. And I congratulate all the citizens of our great countries on the opening of the Year of China in Russia from the heart.
Thank you for your attention.
Chinese President Hu Jintao: Dear President Putin!
Ladies and Gentlemen! Friends!
I am exceedingly happy to be able to visit Russia – a good neighbour of China’s – again during such a magnificent season and to participate in the opening ceremony of the Year of China in Russia with President Putin.
I would like to use this opportunity to convey my most heartfelt congratulations and warmest wishes to the friendly Russian government and people on behalf of the government of the People’s Republic of China and the Chinese people.
Russia is a great country and the Russian people are a great people. Throughout history, the hard-working, courageous and wise Russian people have made an outstanding contribution to the development of world civilization and human progress. And this contribution was more than simply the result of an ancient history and a brilliant culture, it was also the result of a glorious, titanic struggle.
Over the past few years and under President Putin’s leadership the country’s economy has developed at a fast rate. The population’s life is improving with each passing day. Russia plays a significant role in international and regional affairs and commands respect from the international community. The government and people of China, a good neighbour and a strategic partner, are sincerely happy with these developments. We wish Russia prosperity and power and wish Russia’s people new successes in the rebirth of their nation.
Russia and China are united by rivers and mountains. The friendship between our peoples has a long historical tradition. Bilateral ties have developed steadily since we established relations based on partnership and strategic cooperation. We have achieved a number of major results. Being good neighbours, best friends and responsible partners is not only a reflection of the good will between our peoples. It is also a necessary product of our desire to protect both of our countries’ national interests.
It was in this context that we decided, together with President Putin, to host the years of China and Russia. We believe that implementing such an initiative helped strengthen mutual understanding and friendship between our countries and peoples and helped ensure the steady development of long-term Chinese-Russian partnership and strategic cooperation. Our initiative is justified by the remarkable success of the Year of Russia in China. The Year of Russia in China was marked with outstanding events – more than 300 of them – and by the real involvement of our citizens. This event was rightly considered an unprecedented event in the history of our bilateral relations and acts as a new stimulus for the development of Chinese-Russian partnership and cooperation.
This year the so-called Year of China will be held in Russia. Around two hundred different events in political, economic, scientific, technical, educational and cultural spheres are planned. I would like to express my hope that these events will give the Russian people a better understanding of Chinese history and culture, of China’s new openness and reforms we have implemented. This will undoubtedly help strengthen mutual understanding and friendship between our countries and peoples, as well as deepen exchanges and cooperation in all areas. This ultimately strengthens the peace-loving idea of a Chinese-Russian friendship to be passed on from generation to generation in the hearts of our citizens, and will give a new stimulus to the long-term steady development of Russian-Chinese partnership and strategic cooperation. We are ready to work together with our Russian friends and to use events such as hosting national years as a unique opportunity for a comprehensive implementation of the Treaty on Good Neighbourly Relations, Friendship and Cooperation. We do this with a view to strengthening mutually advantageous cooperation and strategic cooperation in the name of common development and prosperity.
Let us work together to build a lasting peace, one in which universal prosperity and blessed harmony reign! I wish our countries and peoples eternal friendship!
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: March 26, 2007, 12:20
Text version