Events
Beginning of the Working Meeting with Semyon Vainshtok, President of the Federal Corporation Involved in Building the 2014 Olympic Facilities and Creating a Mountain Resort in Sochi
December 6, 2007
21:06
Novo-Ogaryovo
Vladimir Putin: Semyon Mikhailovich, how is the corporation’s work proceeding?
Semyon Vainshtok: I can tell you already that we have set up a company-wide corporate device within the corporation and we have already held two observational councils at which we adopted the corresponding provisions that will allow the corporation to start its work. Today the corporation is ready to start. Things are just beginning but the collective’s work is picking up speed. We have already begun.
Today we are working with foreign architects and with our contracting institutions. We are looking at what has already been done, how work is progressing, and taking into account the demands you expressed on 27 September 2007 [at a meeting with International Olympic Committee President Jacques Rogge and the IOC members]. As such, we are making ever effort to ensure that no resident of Sochi is disturbed by preparations for the Olympics.
Vladimir Putin: We must ensure that other similar issues are not simply resolved on the sly– neither by the local, regional nor federal authorities. Everything designed to prepare for the Olympics must be done by paying all due attention to citizens’ legitimate demands.
Semyon Vainshtok: With regards to the technology required for this work, we are looking at an evaluation commission and a supervisory structure for the evaluation commissions so as to avoid any possible abuses. I believe that we will be able to do this.
Your second order regards working with environmental organizations and protecting the environment and we are working on this with the architects. We will pay all due attention to the natural environment.
Vladimir Putin: I very much expect that this will be the case. I am thinking of this in light of your previous experience as president of Transneft, when we decided together to bypass the Baikal [while building the Eastern Siberia – Pacific Ocean oil pipeline]. I remember that it was in large part thanks to your efforts that we found the necessary solutions that allowed us to preserve the Baikal. I think that in conjunction with environmental structures you will find ways to meet the challenges in this sphere.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 6, 2007, 21:06
Text versionEvents
Beginning of the Working Meeting with Head of the Federal Atomic Energy Agency Sergei Kirienko
December 6, 2007
21:08
Novo-Ogaryovo
President Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon Sergei Vladilenovich!
Let us start with the industry's results this year.
Head of the Federal Atomic Energy Agency Sergei Kirienko: Today – we still have to wait a little bit for 2007 to end – nuclear power stations are operating steadily. This year we produced a record amount of electricity. Nuclear power stations have provided the country with more than 14 billion kilowatt hours. This is a record both for the Soviet Union and for Russia. Along with this, the most important indicator is that which measures the effectiveness with which we use the capacities we have, the so-called utilization coefficient of our present capacities. Over two years this grew to five and a half percent. This is a good figure.
As to the reliability of our nuclear power stations, there have been no errors for the past five years. There is an international scale which classifies any problems that might arise. We did not have any errors that were rated above zero on this scale. In other words, no error that represented a security problem.
The most important thing is that this year, for the first time in Russia's history, we have begun to build nuclear energy units, in accordance with your request and the tasks set out in the Address to the Federal Assembly. Two new power units – one at the Leningrad nuclear power plant and one at the Novovoronezh nuclear power plant – are being built from scratch. Until now we had simply expanded what remained from Soviet times.
Vladimir Putin: Let us recall the whole programme: how far ahead in the future have we planned?
Sergei Kirienko: In accordance with our programme – a mandatory programme – we must build a minimum of 26 new large capacity power plants with a capacity of 1150 megawatts each and put them into operation before 2020.
Vladimir Putin: Before 2020. And throughout the entire Soviet period, we introduced…
Sergei Kirienko: Thirty.
Vladimir Putin: That number is comparable with the entire Soviet period.
Sergei Kirienko: Absolutely.
Vladimir Putin: And as of that time, the total amount of electricity that the nuclear energy industry will provide will be…
Sergei Kirienko: We must reach 25 percent by 2020. And in light of the tasks you set out we must aim for 30 percent. The optimal amount would be 28–30 percent.
Vladimir Putin: You know that the law on the federal corporation [Rosatom] just came into effect and is designed to create the conditions for the development and the modernization of the nuclear industry. We intend to ask you to head this corporation, and the relevant decree will be made in the next few days.
Sergei Kirienko: Thank you for your confidence in me.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 6, 2007, 21:08
Text version