Events
Extracts from the Meeting with Representatives of Russian and Indian Business Circles
January 25, 2007
19:00
New Dehli
Vladimir Putin: Dear ladies and gentlemen!
I am glad to meet again and to have the possibility to discuss with leading Russian and Indian entrepreneurs the prospects for bilateral business cooperation.
You know that over the last few years our countries achieved significant progress in developing their national economies. Mr Prime Minister told me today during our consultations that in these past years India’s economy has grown by more than 7 percent per year. Russia has a similar level of growth – about 6,9 percent. We need to give due credit to our Indian colleagues because they manage to keep inflation much lower than what it is in Russia. Core inflation amounts to 4 percent and this year it was around 6 percent. In any case, the country is developing well and this is a good basis for expanding business contacts and for undertaking new projects.
In 2006 and according to preliminary data, the volume of trade between our countries – we talked about this several times today –reached 3,8 billion dollars. It increased by 20 percent. As a whole, these rates are not bad, but of course the volume of trade is quite insignificant. The Prime Minister set the task of reaching 10 billion by 2010. What does this imply? That growth should be no less than 30 percent per year.
It is obvious that implementing tasks on such a large scale requires further diversifying our teamwork. In fact, we need to coordinate our approaches to bring our cooperation to an entirely new level. Today we talked about this in detail with the Prime Minister. We agreed to encourage the development of the Programme for the Development of Trade and Economic Cooperation until 2010. We consider that the proposals and recommendations that this document contains will help us significantly expand our business contacts and stimulate our interregional relations. As presented in this document, the development of bilateral trade is hindered, among other things, by high transport costs. In this respect, problems can be lessened as we develop new possibilities and increase the effectiveness of the North-South transport corridor.
One of the fundamental bases for our cooperation should be the high-tech sector. And I think that you will agree that the majority of necessary conditions to ensure this already exist. Recently both Russian and Indian academics have made quite a few discoveries in metallurgy, as well as biomedical, laser and information technologies.
Within the Comprehensive Long-Term Programme for Scientific and Technical Cooperation, more than 130 joint and promising projects are now being developed. I would also point out that we have an agreement to establish a Russian-Indian Centre for Technology Transfer in Moscow. And the issue of establishing three sectoral technology centres is also in its final stages.
Establishing a technopark in Russia with the participation of Indian companies is quite a promising project. The implementation of major investment programmes on Indian territory also has good prospects. Financial resources from India’s debt to Russia could be used to finance these programmes. Moreover, we have already acquired positive experience in this regard. There are certain agreements that, I hope, our finance ministries will agree on during our visit and will then provide us with more opportunities to use this financial resource, including for the representatives of Indian business sitting in this room.
All of us perfectly understand the fiscal role of finance ministries. In Russia, in India or in any other country finance ministers operate more or less the same way. In addition to their fiscal role, they also have the task of helping business. I hope that our finance ministries will reach the necessary agreements.
I will emphasise that among the assets our countries have is the rich and, what is in many respects a unique, history, of constructing nuclear power installations on India’s territory. And I am convinced that in light of India’s plans to increase the capacities of nuclear power reactors, this cooperation will be especially in demand.
Our countries also have important prospects in the fuel and energy sector. In this respect, implementing the Sakhalin-1 project in which Indian oil and gas business is participating actively has a great deal of value. This project is already producing results and in December 2006, as is well known, the first tanker with Sakhalin oil arrived at an Indian port.
We are interested in expanding teamwork in other directions. They include constructing installations for the extraction and transportation of oil and natural gas to India and adjoining regions.
In general, Russian companies such as Gazprom, Stroitransgaz, Silovye mashiny, Zarubezhvodstroi have already strongly penetrated the Indian market and demonstrate important opportunities for effective bilateral cooperation.
We give great value to stimulating direct interregional ties. And I am very glad that our delegation includes leaders from Russian regions. Our countries have established a solid and positive basis for cooperation. Indian partners have close business contacts with the Republic of Tatarstan, the Moscow Region, the Sverdlovsk region, the Astrakhan region and others. We intend to further increase our cooperation in this respect.
Our countries’ business communities are not sitting and waiting for instructions. A number of significant projects have been put forward and already been partially realized. They include a newly established Business Council for Cooperation with India and we are studying the opportunity of opening a Russian Trading House in India.
I would also like to draw your attention to the forthcoming first Russian-Indian Forum for Trade and Investment. It will take place in Delhi on 12–13 February 2007 and promises to be a significant event for our business contacts. About 200 companies have decided to participate in this forum, and that is only from the Russian side. And this will certainly benefit from the support of the Government Cabinet of the Russian Federation.
Economic and investment projects certainly require serious information support. As a whole, it is necessary to more actively publicise the positive experiences of our countries’ business cooperation. In our opinion, there is not enough such information. At the very least, this does not help businessmen orient themselves according to the present realities in Russia and India today. It does not help choose the priorities for our cooperation nor the fields of cooperation. And in this respect the protocol between the customs services of our countries will allow us to improve the exchange of information on goods and vehicles that travel between Russia and India.
And in conclusion I would like to wish all those gathered in this room new business achievements and promising joint ventures. I wish you projects that will correspond to the high level of strategic partnership between our countries.
Thank you very much for your attention.
Habil Khorakiwala: High Excellency Mr. Vladimir Putin, President of the Russian Federation, Mr. Murli Deora, Honourable Minister of Petroleum and Natural Gas, Mr. A. N. Shokhin, President of the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, My colleagues from CII and ASSOCHAM, Senior government officials, Senior business leaders from both India and Russia, Members of the media, Ladies and gentlemen, It is indeed a matter of great honour for me to be speaking here today on behalf of the Indian industry. I extend a very warm welcome to High Excellency Mr. Vladimir Putin, President of the Russian Federation, and the accompanying delegation.
It also gives me great pleasure to welcome our Honourable Minister of Petroleum and Natural Gas, Mr. Murli Deora. Friends, as you all know, Mr. Deora has always been a strong supporter of Indian industry and economic growth. He has played a vital role in giving shape to the reforms programme of the government, especially in the oil and gas sector. We welcome you, Sir.
Your visit to India, Mr. President, takes place at a time when both our countries are going through a historic transformation. Led by strong domestic demand, an even stronger export performance, rising investments, and large-scale foreign capital inflows, the economies of both India and Russia are today growing at a fast pace.
While in the case of Russia, the last three years have seen an average annual growth of 7%, in India’s case the figure is an equally impressive 8%. And this is just the prologue to the great economic story that we would see unfold in the years to come.
Ladies and gentlemen, the now famous Goldman Sachs BRIC report states in no uncertain terms that the emerging economies of Brazil, Russia, India and China will increase their footprints on the global economic landscape in the 21st century. And it is the rise of these economies in the world that would lead to rewriting of the rules that govern global trade and investments.
Indo — Russian Economic Cooperation — Present Status
So against this background, where do we, India and Russia, stand in terms of our economic engagement?
Statistics show that Indo — Russian trade in 2005–06 was of the order of USD 2.75 billion. Talking about investments, we all know that the engagement here is led by the public sectors of the respective economies and focus is too narrow, namely defence and hydrocarbons.
Sir, we have to answer the question of why, despite the strong strategic and political ties between two time-tested friends, bilateral trade and business ties remain low. What would it take to bring about a confluence of our scientific capabilities, our business acumen, and our human capital?
India and Russia — Potential Areas For Cooperation
1. High-Technology
Ladies and gentlemen, since 1990 we have drifted apart and this is especially the case in the field of science and technology. It is time that we start the process of deepening our economic engagement with emphasis on the high-tech sector.
We can immediately establish synergies in biotechnology, nanotechnology. metallurgy, aviation and the manufacture of aviation-related equipment.
The key is commercial use of technologies. We must therefore develop an institutional mechanism that will link Indian institutions and their Russian counterparts and thereby spur innovation and the commercialization of new technologies.
2. Civilian Nuclear Technology
Another critical area is civilian nuclear technology. We must engage profoundly and soon.
3. Emerging Areas
The 2lst century will be the knowledge century. And the leaders of this century will be those who will be ahead of the technology curve. And remaining ahead of the curve demands innovation not just in individual areas but also in areas that are the result of the convergence of various disciplines. We are already witnessing a convergence between pharmaceuticals, biotechnology and nano-technology. The simultaneous convergence of information technology, telecommunications and entertainment is also underway.
I believe that our two countries should come together and take a leadership role as partners in progress in these very promising areas.
To take the case of the energy sector, it is a well-known fact that as India moves ahead on its growth trajectory, the greatest challenge it faces is that of a substantial deficit between its domestic production and its actual requirements of hydrocarbon resources.
Russia, on the other hand, is the world's largest producer and exporter of natural gas. It is also the world's second largest oil producer and a major exporter of oil to Europe and increasingly to Asia.
Sir, Russia's support to India in the field of energy will go a long way in meeting our energy security needs. What is our common strategy and how do we fructify it, is a burning question.
Companies from the two countries can undertake joint projects in offshore oil exploration, investment in each other’s downstream sector as well as in third countries. Russian expertise and technologies can prove valuable for reviving and improving the productivity of mature fields in India. I suggest that we further strengthen our cooperation in the critical area of energy and energy-related technologies by involving both the public and the private sector.
Friends, a resurgent Russia with a booming oil industry and nearly a trillion-dollar economy presents huge opportunities for Indian business. Similarly, the 'new India', has a lot to offer to our Russian friends.
I take this opportunity and request Russian companies to look at enhancing their investments in India, particularly in sectors such as infrastructure, food processing, electronic hardware, coal gasification, chemicals and plastic products.
On the trade front I propose that the two sides look at raising bilateral trade from the present USD 2.75 billion to USD 5 billion by 2010. It is the considered view of Indian industry that this is achievable provided we address the following four critical issues.
Issues
I suggest that the difficulties faced by Indian businessmen in obtaining a visa to Russia be looked into expeditiously. One can consider granting multiple entry visas for an extended period of time to individuals that obtain certification from authorised apex chambers in India.
Second, the issue of optimizing the Indo — Russian shipment route. Though shipping services between Mumbai and the Novorossisk port on the Black sea have started, Indian cargo still comes through Ukraine and other European ports. The North-South corridor provides the shortest route between India and Russia and I propose that this be commissioned at the earliest possible moment.
Third, the issue of the expansion of inter-banking cooperation. Today the transfer of funds takes a long time and there is no coherent letter of credit system (LCs). It is therefore my suggestion that we work towards enhancing the presence of our respective banks in each other's country.
Fourth, the issue of utilizing the remaining funds under the Rupee-Rouble Debt Agreement. And here we propose that the unused money under the 'Rupee-Rouble Debt Agreement' be used to provide initial capital to Russian companies for investments in India. Once this money is used to leverage the entry of a few Russian companies into India, other companies would automatically follow irrespective of the funding support.
Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to end by saying that identifying potential is one thing and harnessing that potential is another. For a long time now much has been said and written about the possible areas of synergy for India and Russia. Time has now come to put words into practice and transform the willingness into actual co-operation.
We must strengthen the economic pillar of our relationship. We must determinedly go much beyond the BRIC's predictions and become leaders in the 21st century, not in words but in deeds and in deliverables.
Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: January 25, 2007, 19:00
Text versionEvents
Beginning of the Meeting with Head of the Indian National Congress Party Sonia Gandhi
January 25, 2007
18:40
New Delhi
President Vladimir Putin: Madam Gandhi, I am very glad to meet with you again.
I must say that when we met in 2005 we discussed holding the Year of India in Russia and that of Russia in India – and it was for the first time we discussed this idea.. And now these are planned interstate and intergovernmental events.
These can be successful events that can become more than simply cultural events. I am confident that they will facilitate direct contacts between our countries’ citizens.
We have had good experiences in carrying out such large-scale events with other countries. I am confident that these events with India will be successful ones. Today Mr Prime Minister and I planned a whole package of joint projects and we are confident – and hope – that the Indian National Congress will support all our endeavours.
Head of Indian National Congress Party Sonia Gandhi (Back translation): There is no doubt about that.
I am glad to welcome you. It is especially pleasant that you are staying to participate in our national holiday – this acts as proof of the special relations and special ties that exist between our countries.
Mr President, of course you are an outstanding world leader and we also consider you to be a very good India’s friend. I want to say that our countries’ relations have been constantly developing for the past few decades and this is especially important in view of the significant geopolitical changes that have occurred during this time.
Our cooperation has developed during this time and taken on a special value. Therefore, it is especially pleasant for me that talks between Mr President and our Prime Minister were a success. My party will support you as much as possible.
Vladimir Putin: Thanks very much.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: January 25, 2007, 18:40
Text versionEvents
Press Conference following Talks with Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh
January 25, 2007
15:53
Hyderabad Palace, New Delhi
Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh:
Your Excellency President Vladimir Putin,
Members of the Russian delegation, my colleagues from the Council of Ministers and Government of India, and members of the press,
President Putin’s visit to India is part of the tradition of annual summits between our two countries. His visit today is especially important because he is our main guest as we celebrate India’s Republic Day. We hold President Putin in high esteem and consider him a world leader, statesman and special friend of India. It gives me particular pleasure therefore to wish him a very warm welcome here today.
Our talks today were very useful and productive and once again confirmed that our strategic partnership is based on the deep similarity of our national interests.
The international situation has undergone great change over the last ten years. But Russia still holds an unchanging place at the centre of India’s foreign policy interests. Based on our longstanding traditions of warm and friendly relations with Russia, we seek to renew our multifaceted cooperation with Russia, thereby giving a new boost to our relations and taking our strategic partnership to new heights.
Energy security is the most important aspect of our new strategic partnership. Russia’s position as a global energy leader is recognised throughout the world. We are looking forward to forming a long-term partnership with Russia in this area. We value Russia’s support in removing the international barriers for nuclear cooperation with India, and we are also grateful for its assistance in expanding our nuclear energy sector. Today we signed a joint declaration on cooperation in the peaceful use of nuclear energy. A sign of our growing cooperation is the signing of a memorandum of intent for the construction of four new units at the Kudankulam nuclear power plant.
The President and I agree that our economic cooperation falls far short of the demands of our strong strategic partnership and the possibilities of the Indian and Russian economies. A joint study group is examining the possibilities for new and comprehensive cooperation, and we have agreed that we will speed up this work.
We held comprehensive talks on our expanding military cooperation. Our military ties are developing steadily and today include areas such as joint research and development, production, marketing, regular cooperation between the different branches of our armed forces and joint training exercises.
The joint development of a multi-purpose transport plane marks a significant event in our cooperation, as does our interest in developing this kind of cooperation in building a fifth-generation fighter plane.
We have decided to give a new boost to our cooperation in the high-technology sectors, including outer space, science and technology, and communications. A sign of this cooperation can be seen in the signature of new bilateral agreements on broad joint cooperation on the Russian global satellite navigation system, GLONASS.
Mr President, we see your visit today as a milestone in our relations that will lay the foundation for renewing the cooperation between our countries. This lays the base for the road that our relations will follow over the years to come. Allow me once again to welcome you and to ask you now to address the media.
Thank you for your attention.
President Vladimir Putin:
Ladies and Gentlemen,
First of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister and all of our friends for their initiative to make this visit coincide with India’s state holiday, Republic Day. I would like to take this opportunity to offer my warmest congratulations to the Prime Minister, to all of our Indian friends and to the entire friendly Indian people on this symbolic occasion.
This year marks the sixtieth anniversary of India’s independence and it also marks the sixtieth anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between our countries. The best present for these important political dates is new concrete steps to deepen the strategic partnership between our countries.
This visit has had a very busy programme. My talks with the Indian Prime Minister have just ended. We exchanged views on the main issues on the international and regional agendas and discussed the full spectrum of our bilateral relations.
Our commitment to strengthening our strategic partnership is reflected in the Joint Declaration that we have adopted.
One of the main subjects of our talks was intensifying our trade and economic ties. Preliminary results suggest an increase of 20 percent in our trade ties over 2006. Our common goal is to expand our business cooperation, take it into new areas and find new and effective models for our work together.
We consider it extremely important to complete the construction of India’s Kudankulam nuclear power plant.
We intend to expand our cooperation in the peaceful use of nuclear energy.
We also have plans to reach new levels of cooperation in the fuel and energy sector. There are already examples that show the way in this area, such as the Sakhalin-1 project. The first tanker with oil from Sakhalin arrived in an Indian port in December 2006.
Russian companies are ready to expand their cooperation in this area, in particular through joint construction of oil and natural gas production and transportation facilities in India and the surrounding region.
The Intergovernmental Commission on Trade and Economic Cooperation is continuing its work. The Business Cooperation Council and the Trade and Investment Forum are due to meet this February in Delhi.
I agree with the Prime Minister in that a considerable part of our work together lies – and we plan to pay particular attention to this – in cooperation in the high-technology sectors. This includes space and aviation. As far as our space activities go, I particularly want to note India’s involvement in the GLONASS navigation system. Our Indian partners recently put forward the initiative of launching a youth satellite. We think this is an excellent idea. We support it and we are sure that this project will go ahead very soon. This will give our young people, students in India and Russia, the possibility of studying the Sun together, and what could be more unifying and more interesting?
In a further development to the agreements signed in Moscow in December 2005, we signed a protocol today on holding a Year of Russia in India in 2008, and a Year of India in Russia in 2009. I am sure that these events will create broad new opportunities for our business, scientific and cultural communities and our young people to come up with business and creative initiatives.
As was highlighted in our talks today, the discussion and coordination of key world and regional policy issues has always been an important part of our work together. I stress that we share common or similar positions on the majority of these issues.
I would like to conclude by once again thanking our Indian friends and partners for their warm hospitality and for the very constructive talks that we have had.
Thank you for your attention.
Question: This is a question for both leaders. Russia put forward the initiative of creating a three-sided axis (the Russia-China-India triangle). Could you tell us, please, what the state of progress is with this idea today? And what is your reaction to China’s ‘anti-satellite missile’ test on January 11?
Vladimir Putin: The Prime Minister and I discussed trilateral cooperation today. We did not discuss the matter in detail, but we noted that it is an interesting and useful format. You all know very well that the studies produced by various international centres working on investment activity show that over the coming decades, India, Russia, China and Brazil will account for a considerable share of the world’s economic activity, and growth in global economic activity will be precisely in these countries. Of course, cooperation between countries such as Russia, India and China should be harmonious, and we need to find ways of working together. Furthermore, we are united by our desire to resolve regional problems in a way acceptable to all sides. We therefore think that there are good prospects for work together in a trilateral format.
As for China’s missile tests, Russia’s principled position is that outer space should be a weapons-free zone. At the same time, I want to note that China is not the first country to have carried out such tests. As far as I remember, the first such tests were carried out in the late 1980s. What’s more, even today we hear military circles in the United States talking about developing plans to militarise outer space. Our position is that we should not let the genie out of the bottle.
Manmohan Singh: President Putin just spoke about our trilateral cooperation. When I was in St Petersburg several months ago as a guest of President Putin, I had a meeting together with the Chinese President and with President Putin, and we had some very useful discussions. The Russian, Indian and Chinese foreign ministers will be meeting next month to look at further possibilities for expanding our work together and ensuring the success of our work on a trilateral basis. Regarding the issue of weapons in outer space, I share President Putin’s view that it should be a weapons-free zone.
Question: I have two questions. Vladimir Vladimirovich, what do you think are the priority areas we should concentrate on over the next two years, and what will dominate, politics or the economy?
And a question for Prime Minister Singh: what is your view on the possibility of investing India’s debts to Russia in the Indian economy, and in what areas could this be done?
Manmohan Singh: Regarding the idea of investing Indian debt to Russia, we have already agreed that we will use these financial resources to expand various areas of our cooperation in joint projects such as the construction of a multi-purpose transport plane and the production of titanium dioxide. We could work in the same way in other areas where we can create new joint ventures.
Vladimir Putin: What will dominate: politics or the economy? We realise that there can be no effective economic cooperation without political support. But the high level of political trust between our two countries should be converted into economic cooperation. I think therefore that what will dominate will be common sense, common sense that will serve as our base as we work towards harmony between the political and economic components of our cooperation. We have already outlined our business cooperation. It includes the energy sector, hydrocarbons, their exploration, production and transport, and it also includes nuclear energy. This is also closely linked to the political component and will include our work together in the nuclear suppliers group in the IAEA and other international organisations. This also includes our direct and practical cooperation in the construction of the Kudankulam nuclear power plant, and perhaps other facilities too. And this includes our work in outer space, aviation, transport and communications in the broadest sense of the word. This also covers our traditional trade and investment activities, and finally also military-technical cooperation and culture, of course. This is plenty to begin with.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: January 25, 2007, 15:53
Text version