Events
Televised Address to Russian Citizens in Connection with the Forthcoming State Duma Elections
November 29, 2007
23:05
Moscow
Vladimir Putin:
Very soon now, on December 2nd, the State Duma elections will take place. The preelectoral campaign is already coming to an end. During the campaign there were many calls to action and useful proposals put forward but, as often happens in such cases, many of them were demagogic statements and empty promises. One can evaluate the methods used to try and win votes in different ways. I won’t make any such assessments here.
Today I want to talk about something else. We have done a lot of work together. The economy is growing steadily. Poverty is in retreat, albeit slowly. We are going to step up the fight against crime and corruption. We will never forget the harsh and sometimes irreparable losses we have incurred in the fight against terrorism. Yes, this fight is still ongoing, but nonetheless we have administered some crushing blows, and we have mastered the situation.
Dear friends, of course our work was not always easy: it was not faultless and neither was it flawless. And the authorities still owe the citizens a great deal. Of course we would all like to see the life in Russia improve faster. But let’s remember what we started with 8 years ago, the kind of pit we had to drag the country out of. And we still need to do a great deal to ensure that Russia becomes truly modern and prosperous. But if we want to live honourably, then we cannot allow those who have already tried unsuccessfully to govern the country to assume power. Today such people would like to rehash the plans for Russia’s development, to change the course that the Russian people support and return to times of humiliation, dependence and dissolution.
And there is yet another thing to which I would like to draw your attention. The results of the State Duma elections will, of course, set the tone for the elections of the new President of Russia. In fact, already today the country is entering a period of the full renewal of the supreme legislative and executive authorities. And in this case it is especially important that we ensure the continuity of our chosen course, that we execute all the responsibilities to people we have taken on. In other words, we need to create the conditions to implement our plans in all spheres that will affect the quality of life of every human being.
We also need to improve Russia’s defensibility and security. We need to increase its international authority. And to reach these goals we have the desire, we have the resources we have accumulated over the past few years and, very importantly, we are embarked on a good development plan.
I would now like to talk about the most important thing. Don’t think – please, do not think – that the present development rates, the tempo of our progression, will automatically be preserved. That is a dangerous illusion. Everything that was done was the result of a harsh struggle, and can be preserved only if we all actively engage in our civil duties. It is precisely for that reason that I have decided to head United Russia’s party list, and precisely for that reason that I ask you to participate in the election on December 2nd and to vote for United Russia.
I am counting on you and I believe in your support!
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 29, 2007, 23:05
Direct link: en.kremlin.ru/d/24715
Text version