Events
Excerpts from Transcript of Meeting with the Government Cabinet
May 7, 2007
17:18
The Kremlin, Moscow
On an upcoming visit to Moscow by Bulgarian Prime Minister Sergei Stanishev
President Vladimir Putin: We are expecting a visit from a Bulgarian delegation that has outlined a broad range of issues to examine regarding our bilateral and international cooperation. What are the most recent developments in this area?
Deputy Prime Minister Sergei Naryshkin: Bulgarian Prime Minister Sergei Stanishev is beginning a two-day visit to Russia today. Tomorrow he will have talks with you and with [Prime Minister] Mikhail Yefimovich Fradkov.
Vladimir Putin: Sergei Yevgenyevich [Naryshkin] chairs the intergovernmental commission.
Sergei Naryshkin: I held a meeting of the intergovernmental commission at the end of April to prepare for this visit. We have had good growth in trade and intensification in our trade and economic relations over the last two-three years. Last year alone growth reached around 55 percent.
The energy sector is our main field of cooperation, but this sector includes some good projects with a high-technology component, above all the project to build a new nuclear power plant. Our company, Atomstroiexport, won the tender for building this plant. Work is also going full steam ahead on a transport project to develop a rail-ferry link between the ports of Kavkaz and Varna.
Four intergovernmental agreements have been drawn up and will be signed during the visit: on protecting intellectual property rights in the military-technical cooperation sector; on protecting classified information; a general agreement on economic, scientific and technical cooperation; and an agreement on cooperation in the tourism sector.
On the results of the international conference on Iraq that took place in Egypt, and on the meeting between the Quartet of mediators in the Middle East peace process and ministers from the League of Arab States’ working group on the Middle East peace process
Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov: Two important events took place in Egypt. First was the international conference on Iraq, attended by all of Iraq’s neighbours, the permanent members of the UN Security Council, the UN secretary general, the secretary general of the League of Arab States and the head of the Organisation of the Islamic Conference.
The discussions were very concrete and the declaration that was adopted sets out the main principles that we, along with other countries, consistently supported. These are the principles of Iraq’s sovereignty and territorial integrity and the need to resolve the crisis in such a way as to uphold these principles. With this goal in mind, the declaration underscores the importance of beginning a genuine dialogue within Iraq, a dialogue that would involve all of the political, ethnic and sectarian groups in order to achieve real national reconciliation in the country and prevent it from splitting apart.
The declaration also emphasises the need to settle at the earliest possible time on a timetable for the withdrawal of foreign troops from Iraq. The declaration does not actually name a date, but it states very clearly the importance of this issue for bringing security to the country and ensuring a transition to social and economic development in a situation free of violence.
Another important point for our work is that a mechanism for accompanying the Iraqi peace settlement process, which will involve all the participants in the Sharm-el-Sheik conference and will monitor the implementation of the agreements set out in the declaration. Through this mechanism, recommendations will be drawn up and presented to the next ministerial meeting, which will also take the format of an international conference and will take place in Turkey in autumn.
A ministerial meeting between the Quartet of international mediators – Russia, the United States, the European Union – and the UN Secretary General and the ministers from the League of Arab States’ working group on the Middle East peace process also took place in Sharm-el-Sheik. The meeting discussed the Arab peace initiative aimed at putting in place the conditions for full implementation of the UN resolutions on full return of the occupied territories and on recognition of the State of Israel by all Arab countries. These steps aim at ensuring that Israel and its neighbours can live in peace and security.
An important result from this meeting is that we have agreed to meet regularly in this format, that is, the Quartet plus the Arab countries.
Vladimir Putin: Were the discussions only about the return of territories, or was the issue of refugees also discussed?
Sergei Lavrov: A final settlement requires the implementation of all the UN resolutions. This means addressing not just the issue of the occupied territories but also the return of refugees and the status of Jerusalem, given that this city is home to the holy sites of three great religions, and so all of these issues will be examined together. The two events in Egypt show that your initiative to hold multilateral forums on Iraq and the Middle East is gaining support.
Vladimir Putin: When did we first propose holding an international conference on Iraq?
Sergei Lavrov: Two-and-a-half years ago, in autumn 2004.
<…>
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 7, 2007, 17:18
Text versionEvents
Beginning of Meeting with Members of the International Olympic Committee
May 7, 2007
21:13
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, dear friends,
I know that various reasons have brought you to Moscow, including the World Hockey Championship and the Judo Super Cup.
I am very happy to see that Moscow is hosting such important sports events, and this has given us a good opportunity to meet with you to talk about Russia’s participation in developing sport in general and the Olympic movement in particular, given that you are members of the International Olympic Committee.
Next year, as far as I know, the International Hockey Federation is going to celebrate its one-hundredth anniversary. How are the preparations going, and what can Russia do to help ensure that the celebrations are a success?
Rene Fasel: The World Hockey Championship will take place in Halifax, in Quebec, Canada. This is the birthplace of hockey as a sport and we will organise the celebrations of the federation’s 100th anniversary to coincide with the championship’s final in Quebec.
We will also be holding an event in Paris in June. The federation was founded on May 15, 1908 in Provence – I want to name the exact place because it really is beautiful. Various celebrations will also take place throughout the year.
Vladimir Putin: I think it would be fitting if Russia also took part in these events. We would be happy to hear any proposals you may have and do whatever is necessary to help.
Rene Fasel: Regarding the celebration of events, we know that the Victory Day holiday is approaching. Unfortunately, not everyone realises that Russia lost more people in the Second World War than all the rest of the world, but we can see just how significant these losses and these events are for Russia from the way that Victory Day is commemorated here, from the high level of celebrations. I think that this is a very important event.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you for remembering this, this is indeed the case.
We pay tribute to all the victims of Nazism, above all in the countries that resisted it. This applies to the people who fought Nazism within Germany itself, to our allies in the Second World War.
Recently I was in Murmansk in the north of Russia. People there have great respect for the memory of the British sailors who accompanied the northern convoys. As these days of celebration approach, I would rather not speak about the regrettable things you have mentioned, but concentrate on remembering that the past should unite us in the name of the future. Sport is precisely something that unites us. I hope that the Judo Super Cup in Moscow has been a success. I would like to hear your opinion.
Lassana Palenfo: Yes, this was indeed a successful tournament. We are also getting ready to celebrate our federation’s upcoming anniversary, and we are preparing for the judo events at the Olympic Games. The Judo Association is working as actively as possible now in Asia, Africa and Europe, and of course, Russia can also help with the preparations for these events.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 7, 2007, 21:13
Direct link: en.kremlin.ru/d/24235
Text version