Events
Responses to Questions from Russian Journalists
July 19, 2007
23:44
Staraya Terizmorga, Republic of Mordovia
Question: What impressions did our honoured guests, the Finnish President and the Hungarian Prime Minister, share with you during your meetings, and what are your feelings as you leave Mordovia and its festival?
Vladimir Putin: I think my colleagues did not even expect that the Republic of Mordovia has taken such a serious approach to preserving and developing the local culture and languages, and that it supports writers writing in the local language and is developing a network of schools teaching the Mordovian language. This has all made for positive impressions, of course, positive emotions. What is most important is that we have agreed to cooperate in the future in this area – to work together on Finno-Ugric issues. I already said that next year we would host the fifth World Congress of Finno-Ugric Peoples in Khanty Mansiisk and I am sure that this event will be well organised and take place at this highest level.
<…>
Question: We have been hearing a lot about Finno-Ugric peoples today, but we’ve also been hearing a lot about Russian-British relations. In your view, how is the situation likely to develop following the latest events?
Vladimir Putin: I think the situation with Russian-British relations will be normal. It is in the interests of both Russia and the United Kingdom to develop our relations. But any action we take should be weighed up against the interests of common sense, and we also need to respect the legitimate rights and interests of our partners, and then everything will work out for the best.
I am sure that we will manage to get over this mini-crisis.
Question: Following Igor Ivanov’s departure will the Security Council be reformed and receive greater powers? Perhaps a law could be passed regulating the Security Council’s activities? And why has Valentin Sobolev been appointed only acting secretary of the Security Council and not simply secretary straight away?
Vladimir Putin: We are not planning any changes to the current legislation at the moment. The Security Council is a constitutional body whose rights and powers are defined by law. I see no need at present to broaden these rights and powers. As for the question of the head of the Security Council, there are various options at the moment and I think that we will settle this issue soon.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 19, 2007, 23:44
Text versionEvents
Beginning of Meeting with Hungarian Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsany
July 19, 2007
23:56
Saransk
President Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister,
I would like to thank you for accepting our invitation. Once again I would like to say how happy we are to receive you and the Finnish President.
Our humanitarian ties form a good foundation for developing relations in all different areas, including in the economy.
Hungary has strong direct contacts with six different Russian regions, including regions where Finno-Ugric peoples are present or form the majority of the population.
Our relations are developing in every area – in the energy sector, in machine building, and in trade, including in traditional areas of trade. We are working towards the objective you set out not so long ago and are increasing the amount of Hungarian exports to Russia.
Our trade turnover is becoming more balanced, but there are still issues to resolve and still a lot of work to do. I am very pleased to have this chance to exchange news and views on our bilateral relations with you.
Prime Minister of Hungary Ferenc Gyurcsany (translation from Russian): Mr President, thank you very much for this opportunity to meet. I should note that our meetings are becoming an increasingly regular event.
Russia has been distinguished of late by increasing influence and an increasing awareness of its own strength and growing economic prosperity. This creates new opportunities and new challenges for everyone else. To be honest, we are now studying Russia anew. I think that this situation creates new tasks and objectives for everyone. It is my view that Hungary understands Russia better than many countries, but this does not mean that this puts us in some kind of privileged situation.
Hungarian exports to Russia increased by 70 percent over the last year alone. Russia’s exports to Hungary have increased three-fold over the last five years, while Hungarian exports to Russia have increased four-fold. We consider it very important that we have managed to break out of the vicious circle that kept our trade relations limited to practically only the energy sector. Yesterday we signed documents on establishing a joint venture. This is the fruit of many years’ work.
Here in Russia we are building hospitals, residential districts and rubbish recycling enterprises. Our respective investment in each other’s economies has now reached a similar figure – 400 million – 500 million euros.
As a member of the European Union, it is Hungary’s desire to see balanced relations between the European Union and Russia. During meetings such as this we represent our country’s own national interests, of course, and we also represent the interests of the European Union, of which we are a part. So far, we have had no particular difficulty in coordinating these different interests, and I hope this will continue to be the case.
Thank you for this chance to meet and speak with each other.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 19, 2007, 23:56
Text versionEvents
Press Statements by President Vladimir Putin, Finnish President Tarja Halonen and Hungarian Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsany
July 19, 2007
23:42
Staraya Terizmorga, Republic of Mordovia
President Vladimir Putin: Good evening, ladies and gentlemen,
I am very pleased to have had the chance to meet once again with the Hungarian Prime Minister and the Finnish President. Of course, the main subject of our discussions today was the first international festival of Finno-Ugric culture, and it is no coincidence therefore that my colleagues and I held a detailed discussion on ways to continue developing the unique and rich traditions of the Finno-Ugric peoples.
Russia strives to preserve and enrich the values of all the peoples living here. This is our common heritage, a heritage that we treasure and in which we feel pride, and the state is supporting this heritage and will continue to do so. Of the 160 different peoples who make up Russia, 13 belong to the Finno-Ugric group. In fact, as we learned today from our discussions with specialists, their number is even greater, and here, in this village where we are right now, we have seen that there are in fact 19 groups.
From the moment international cooperation between the Finno-Ugric peoples began Russia has played an active part and given its active support to this process and I am pleased to see that first international events are taking place in our country.
We will continue working in this area. Next year, Khanty Mansiisk will host the fifth World Congress of Finno-Ugric Peoples. Its main theme will be ‘National Identity in a Changing World’.
I note too that Finno-Ugric cultural centres opened last autumn in Saransk (Mordovia) and in Syktyvkar (Komi).
Russia greatly values the efforts made by our partners – Hungary, Finland and Estonia – to promote Finno-Ugric cultural cooperation. I am pleased to have had this opportunity to learn about the life of Mordovia and this village in particular. This is a mostly Mordovian village and its residents have preserved their unique culture and language and make their folk costume traditions part of their everyday lives…
I would like to conclude by thanking all our colleagues for their interest and their constructive participation, and I would also like to thank the Mordovian leadership for the good organisation of this programme of events. Events of this kind unquestionably help to strengthen inter-ethnic harmony in Russia and to develop the dialogue between countries.
Thank you.
President of Finland Tarja Halonen (translation from Russian): Dear friends, Finland and Russia are neighbouring countries. President Putin and I meet often to discuss our common affairs.
I know well that Russia is a large country with a lot of different ethnic groups, and this is a great source of wealth for Russia. To be frank, I have never hidden my interest in the Finno-Ugric peoples living in Russia. We learned in school that Finno-Ugric peoples live not only in Finland and Hungary but also in Estonia, and that many Finno-Ugric peoples live in Russia. The people of Mordovia are also our dear relatives. As I said earlier today, this is my first time in Mordovia. It has been a fantastic day for me and I will be happy to learn even more about you.
Fortunately, many Finns have already been to Mordovia and have established good channels of cooperation, with Mordovia and with other Russian regions. I attended the last two world congresses of the Finno-Ugric peoples in Helsinki and Tallinn, and I have already promised that I will do everything I can to be at the fifth congress in Khanty Mansiisk.
International meetings are important of course, but the most important work of all is that which takes place in the home, in the workplace and in schools. Language is the motherland of the soul and we therefore must preserve our languages, and you should also remember this need to preserve your language. I also call on you to study other languages too. Thank you very much from the bottom of my heart.
Prime Minister of Hungary Ferenc Gyurcsany (translation from Russian): Mr President, Mrs President, ladies and gentlemen,
In Hungary we say that the life of a nation is in its language. It is not only in its language but also in its culture and traditions. The nation that we see before us now is made up of many ethnic communities with different cultures and traditions.
You know, of course, the laws of attraction in physics. Bodies with a greater mass attract those with a lower mass. To be honest, the situation is the same with languages and cultures, especially when these languages and cultures coexist within the boundaries of a single state.
Minority languages and cultures that come under the influence of the culture of a great people can easily find themselves sharing the fate of comets which, when they collide with a bigger celestial body, are absorbed into it. Minority languages are therefore in need of support to prevent this from happening.
Here in Russia we are seeing this kind of support taking place. We Hungarians also see this support in other countries where Hungarian ethnic minorities live, and we also see it in Finland.
This support is concentrated above all in the family, of course, but we need to see it on a broader scale in the community, because there is a need too for theatres, for schools, for publishing projects.
In short, there is plenty of work to do in providing support for the ‘little comets’. We are aware of this fact and this is why we seek cooperation and will continue to work together in the interests of the unique cultural heritage of the Finno-Ugric peoples.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 19, 2007, 23:42
Text versionEvents
Opening Ceremony of the International Festival of Finno-Ugric Peoples
July 19, 2007
22:41
Saransk
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Dear friends, dear festival participants!
I would like to greet everyone here at the first International Festival of Finno-Ugric Peoples. I would like to thank all our guests and first and foremost my colleagues – the President of Finland and Prime Minister of Hungary. I would like to thank all those who came to Mordovia today.
160 nationalities live in Russia and 13 of them are Finno-Ugric peoples. The Finno-Ugric peoples are scattered throughout the world. However, you have not lost your desire to share your common heritage, your cultural and historical heritage. I am very glad that representatives of the most diverse peoples from an extremely wide range of European countries have gathered on Russian soil today. The festival that we are opening today will certainly help further the cultural development of Finno-Ugric peoples in Russia itself, and will also facilitate a rapprochement between very different countries. And this is only one important merit of the Finno-Ugric peoples. Thank you.
In Russia we always have paid and will continue to pay the most devoted attention to the development of national cultures. Each people – every ethnic group no matter how small – must feel comfortable in Russia, and be aware that Russia is its native land, now and in the future. This feeling constitutes the basis of Russia's stability and sustainable development. I congratulate you on the festival's opening. Shumbrat, Finno-Ugria!
President of Finland Tarja Halonen (translated from Russian):
Dear Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr Governor and Mr Head of the Administration. Dear representatives of Finno-Ugric peoples and festival guests! Dear friends!
I would like to thank all of you, and to thank the organisers for their kind invitation to participate in this celebration of the culture of Finno-Ugric peoples in Saransk. It is a great pleasure and honour to be here and to greet you on behalf of the Finnish government and the Finnish people. It is a heartwarming sight to see such a large audience and speakers that represent so many different Finno-Ugric peoples. And I speak for myself when I say that this is a very impressive and extremely interesting event because this is the first time I have been to Saransk.
It is true that we, Finno-Ugrians, are only a small group of people within the large family that constitutes humanity. But I am confident that our interest in each other is sincere. And despite the fact that we do not always understand each others' languages, we nevertheless share common customs, traditions and cultural traits. Cultural and linguistic diversity represents a valuable and shared resource. Language is the birthplace of the soul. And for that reason the right to one's native language should not exclude the possibility of loving other languages and gaining access to the cultural riches that they hold.
Multilingualism is part of humanity's shared wealth. Teaching students in their native languages is certainly important, but it is also important to preserve language and cultural heritage within the family. And in this respect I am addressing you and ourselves: women and mothers. We must ensure that our language and cultures will be preserved in the future.
A tradition of very advantageous, beneficial cooperation between our peoples has been established. Let us continue this. I hope that we will see each other next year in Khanty-Mansiysk. I would like to thank you for the warm welcome and to wish you success, success within the festival Shumbrat, Finno-Ugria! And I would like to wish the festival's participants many happy reunions with old friends. Thank you.
Prime Minister of Hungary Ferenc Gyurcsany (translated from Russian): Dear Madam President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen!
One of our most prominent composers and scholars, Zlotan Kodaly, said that ”culture cannot be inherited. Our ancestors' culture would instantly evaporate if each successive generation did not appropriate it again and again“. As I look at many of the festival's participants – their songs, dances and clothes – I am confident that the traditions they represent will be preserved in the millennia to come. We might seem different but we are actually the same. Our unity is a part of our thousand-year long cultural tradition. And when I refer to tradition I am referring to the fact that we are not only a product of where we came but of where our journey will take us. I am confident about this and hope that we will continue this way, protecting our values and traditions.
The people that communicate in Finno-Ugric languages live in Finland, Estonia, Russia and Hungary. We share the responsibility of ensuring that we protect these languages and cultures. And that no political disagreements prevent us from doing so. Dear friends, we are happy and proud to be here. I ask you to find the strength to protect our common traditions and pass them on to future generations. Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 19, 2007, 22:41
Text versionEvents
Speech at a Meeting with the leaders of the International Consultative Committee of Finno-Ugric Peoples and the Association of Finno-Ugric Peoples of Russia
July 19, 2007
23:37
Saransk
President Vladimir Putin: First of all, I would like to say that I am very happy to be at this gathering. And I would like to thank my colleagues, the President of Finland and the Prime Minister of Hungary, for taking the time and to come and celebrate this holiday.
I am sure that the first International Festival of Finno-Ugric Peoples will be an important event, not only for Mordovia and Russia but for the whole Finno-Ugric world.
In Russia the number of people in the Finno-Ugric group may not be very high – it is about 2.6 million – but Russia has 13 Finno-Ugric groups, more than any other country.
Response: Even more than that.
Vladimir Putin: You know better, I won’t haggle over the exact figure. And we are fully aware of our responsibility to preserve their culture and languages because of course they constitute the common heritage of Russia and the entire world. We will do everything possible to maintain and develop the Finno-Ugric languages and culture, exactly like we will do with the languages and cultures of other peoples in Russia.
The languages and cultural traditions of the various Finno-Ugric ethnic groups vary considerably. [The President of Finland] Tarja [Halonen] was telling me, for example, that she doesn’t completely understand our Hungarian colleague. All the same, traditions and cultural origins constitute our collective roots. And it is very important for the Finno-Ugric peoples to come together on the basis of their common culture.
Various presenters have been speaking about adverse demographic trends, but as I understand it these are related not only to Finno-Ugric ethnic groups but to the whole of Russia. That is precisely why we have initiated a population programme that should generally help increase the birth rate.
As far as cultures, languages and traditions are concerned, these are demographic problems that must be resolved together.
I want to point out that it is in Russia that the first important forums for developing cooperation among Finno-Ugric ethnic groups were developed. Mr Markov and Mr Mosin have already talked about this. In fact, next year in Khanty-Mansiysk the 5th annual World Congress of the Finno-Ugric peoples will take place.
I should point out that Yugra in the Khanty-Mansiysk Autonomous District is one of the most dynamic regions in Russia. Population problems there are being resolved more effectively than in many other regions of the Russian Federation. I very much agree with previous speakers about issues such as supporting language development, bilingualism, and so on. Tarja [Halonen] and I have discussed this problem: perhaps we have to revisit some of the experiences of the Soviet era, because some things have been lost, and of course we still have all these issues to resolve today. Some presenters have talked about creating two national cultural centres in the Komi Republic and here in Saransk. And of course we will support their work.
I am very glad that the money allocated to these purposes is being put to use, and that there is tangible evidence of local and regional authorities working effectively. And in this respect I would include the theatre in which we find ourselves today, the National Theatre, the first one to feature performances in Mordovian.
I already said at the festival opening that a sense of psychological well-being for ethnic groups is one of the critical elements for the stability of the state, particularly a multi-ethnic state such as Russia. I want to point out that international and community organisations of the Finno-Ugric peoples have always sought to work constructively with the state. This certainly constitutes a major contribution to the development of Finno-Ugric culture, languages and traditions, but at the same time it helps to strengthen the Russian state.
And finally, I want to thank the leadership of the Mordovian Republic and of Saransk for the development of this region. By the way, there is a big difference between what I saw six years ago when I was here for the first time, even from when I was here a year ago, and what I have seen on this visit. In fact, a new town centre has been created.
Our cooperation at the cultural level is helping business ties between the countries to develop. Hungarian companies have interests in six of the Finno-Ugric regions of Russia, including I think in Khanty-Mansiysk where MOL [Hungarian Oil] is producing oil — I think it is producing 3 million barrels a year. Finnish companies are active in various regions of Russia, especially near the border, of course, but in others where Finno-Ugric peoples live. And there is all sorts of cooperation in fields as varied as wood processing, energy, and high-tech. Government officials in Russia will do everything to facilitate this development.
I am confident that the cooperation, including the festival that has brought us here today, will benefit our country, our people, and cooperation in Europe more generally.
Thank you! [in Finnish]
* * *
Vladimir Putin: I would like to thank everyone here.
I have listened carefully to all the speakers, and of course everything that has been suggested here can and will be supported. This includes the development of bilingualism and the study of minority languages in schools. This includes the use of minority languages in the media and the establishment of national media such as newspapers, as was discussed.
But there are other things that haven’t been mentioned today. For example, support for authors who write in a minority language represents a very important new direction. With regards to the political status [of these peoples], we need to think creatively: there are no political obstacles here nor could there be. But I want to be clear on this: the Finno-Ugric ethnic group constitutes 2% of the country’s population. A total of 160 such groups live in Russia, and some experts believe we have as many as 200 peoples and nationalities. When deciding questions of status we must not create a situation like the one that exists in the European Union.
In Russia it will be much worse, it will simply lead to chaos if the average citizen is unable to fill out government forms and communicate with the authorities. I would say that this is the goal to keep in mind. We must simply approach these problems rationally, so as not to make the ordinary citizen’s situation worse. But in any case it seems to me that all the issues we have raised today are extremely important and interesting. In certain areas of government affairs these discussions will be used as a guide for action.
Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 19, 2007, 23:37
Text version