Events
Opening Remarks at Meeting with the Participants in the Public Dialogue “Russia – USA: Looking at the Future”
July 13, 2007
20:26
Novo-Ogaryovo
President Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues and friends.
I am very pleased to see that the idea of creating a working group, “Russia – USA: Looking at the Future”, has become reality, and has become reality so quickly, what’s more. The issues you have discussed – I looked at this separately – are also significant and constitute a geopolitical review focusing on relations between Russia and the United States, the world economy, non-proliferation, the energy sector, the future outlook, and common interests between Russia and the U.S. These are all very important issues and they all have a global dimension and are matters of principle. Practically all of these issues are of great interest for the entire international community and, of course, for our countries too.
President Bush and I always give these issues our most serious attention at our meetings, even at meetings at which we discuss specific, seemingly tactical matters. But in one way or another we always touch on the issues that you have discussed at your meeting. This was also the case at our latest meeting in Maine, where we met at the home of the 41st U.S. President, Mr Bush’s father, and where we had what was indeed a very good, productive and substantial discussion with precisely this issue of the future of Russian-American relations in mind.
This approach, this kind of global approach that looks to the future is very much needed in my view. We cannot afford to let Russian-American relations depend on the political needs of the moment in our countries, whether in the United States or in Russia. We cannot afford to let our relations serve short-term needs, needs connected, for example, to the election period in Russia and the United States.
If we are to keep the interests of global security and the interests of our peoples in mind, we must take a different approach. What kind of different approach should this be? We must ensure that in both Russia and the United States the attitude towards Russian-American contacts and relations at all levels and in all areas reaches a level of national consensus such that the overwhelming majority of people in our countries realise how important these relations are not just in bilateral terms, but how important they are for resolving global issues too.
As I see it, it is precisely in order to reach this objective that you have set up this working group and that you come together and give up your time. I very much hope that the proposals that emerge from your discussions will not end up gathering dust on foreign ministry shelves but will be viewed as material that can be used for developing practical policy.
I wish you welcome once again and I wish you every success in your work.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 13, 2007, 20:26
Text versionEvents
Beginning of Meeting with Chinese Foreign Minister Yang Jiechi
July 13, 2007
20:24
Novo-Ogaryovo
President Vladimir Putin: Mr Minister,
I think you will have an agreeable time and find it no difficulty working with Russia, as relations between our countries have reached a very high level of trust and practical cooperation over recent years. This is also true of humanitarian cooperation: more than 300 events took place last year as part of the Year of Russia in China, and this year we are holding the Year of China in the Russian Federation, which is also a success.
This is also true of our economic cooperation. Our bilateral trade has reached the record mark of around $30 billion and is continuing to grow, and to grow rapidly what’s more, by around 35–40–43 percent a year.
We hold regular contacts in practically all areas and at all levels: at municipal, regional and federal level.
I will be meeting soon with the President of China [Hu Jintao] on the sidelines of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation summit. I ask you to please convey my best wishes to the President and to tell him that we are looking forward to seeing him in order to pursue our multilateral work and also to discuss bilateral affairs. I am sure that the contacts between our foreign ministries will also continue just as intensively as has been the case until now, including through work together in the international organisations.
Yang Jiechi: (consecutive interpretation) Mr President,
First of all, I would like to express my sincere thanks to you for finding the time to meet with my colleagues and I despite your busy schedule.
I would like to pass on President Hu Jintao’s warmest greetings and I will pass on to him your best wishes.
The great support and attention of our head of state and our government have enabled us to make considerable progress in developing the relations and the strategic cooperation and partnership between our two countries over these last years.
The national years of China and Russia, which was an initiative of the Chinese and Russian Presidents, indeed deserve to be called great events in the history of relations between our countries.
Last year, around 300 events were held successfully as part of the Year of Russia in China, and these events have done a lot to develop our relations. Various events are now taking place here to mark the Year of China in Russia, and these events are also proving a great success. In this respect, I would like to express our gratitude to Russia for the great support and hospitality the Chinese delegation has received.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 13, 2007, 20:24
Text version