Events
Answer to a Question at the Joint Press Conference Following the Second Caspian Summit
October 16, 2007
20:20
Tehran
Question: Vladimir Vladimirovich, you already mentioned your sense of the summit’s outcome. Could you also tell us some of your impressions? Today you will meet one-on-one with the Iranian leadership. What are you expecting from this meeting and what will be its main themes?
Vladimir Putin: I would restate my positive assessment of the results of today’s meeting. I believe that we really did move in the direction of resolving fundamental issues with respect to determining the legal status of the Caspian Sea.We agreed that until we come to a final decision we will adhere to the rules that exist today. But what I think is important is that on certain issues we had unanimous agreement. And on issues that are very important for our countries. We agreed that we will assert the sovereignty of littoral states in the Caspian, and this applies to the issue of sub-soil extraction. And the second thing: we agreed that shipping should only be carried out under the flag of states bordering on the Caspian Sea. In our view this is also very important.
We agreed to intensify our economic cooperation and to a proposal made by the President of Iran who suggested that we should establish a corresponding organisation to oversee our economic activities. As the first step towards implementing this plan, we agreed to hold an economic conference between the Caspian Sea states in Russia next year. All of this is evidence that the summit was a success, and I would especially emphasise that all heads of state were interested in discussing the topics on the summit’s agenda.
We spoke very frankly, topically and in an interested fashion. We did not reach agreement on everything or all the time, but it is truly obvious that we desire to find a consensual arrangement. I am confident that if this atmosphere prevails in the future, then all our decisions will be mutually satisfactory. And just like my other colleagues, I would like to thank the Iranian party for organising today’s meeting.
As to bilateral relations, we know that Russia and Iran have a very long history of mutual contacts. Our volume of trade is growing steadily and has already reached the 2 billion dollar mark. We have very interesting, promising areas for cooperation, including space, aviation – first and foremost civil aviation – and energy, a sector in which we are undoubtedly world leaders. All of this plus, of course, the Iranian nuclear programme. Russia is the only country that is helping Iran carry out its civil nuclear programme. Incidentally, the President of Iran has already said that in the declaration we signed today there is a reference to the fact that all of the Caspian littoral states belong to the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons under the inviolable condition that all our states have the right to develop their peaceful nuclear programmes without any restrictions.
This will certainly be a topic that we discuss seriously today.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 16, 2007, 20:20
Text versionEvents
Speech at the Opening of the Second Caspian Summit
October 16, 2007
23:02
Tehran
President Vladimir Putin: Dear Mr President!
Dear colleagues!
Let me begin by thanking the President of the Islamic Republic of Iran, Mr Ahmadinejad, for the invitation and for organising the second Caspian Summit in Tehran.
Russia has always encouraged dialogue among the Caspian states on a permanent basis. Today, this approach becomes a reality. The final draft of the summit declaration provides for regular meetings of heads of the Caspian states and, in the intervals between those meetings, of foreign ministers and their proxies.
I am sure that this mechanism will enable us to discuss and resolve regional problems within the framework of the Caspian Five. And, it opens up new opportunities for the development of mutually advantageous cooperation and partnership in the Caspian region.
I want to emphasise that the enhancement of good relations with the Caspian states is one of the foreign policy priorities of the Russian Federation. We sincerely want the Caspian states to share common bonds, to be united rather than divided. And we believe that the Caspian Sea area should not be completely covered by borders, sectors and exclusive zones.
The smaller the offshore areas we claim for ourselves and the larger the areas in the depths and on the surface of the sea available for use by the Caspian states, the better.
Cooperation and coordination in the management of the sea’s resources, joint use and reclamation will certainly benefit everyone. Moreover, the times require it, and it will be an important advantage for our countries’ competitiveness.
Regarding economic activities on the seabed and the mineral deposits there: they can be carried out within the framework of national mining zones. Their limits in the northern part of the Caspian Sea have been established, and we believe that the interested parties should work out balanced and mutually acceptable solutions for the southern part of the region.
In order to conclude agreements on delimiting the seabed and its mineral resources there is no need to wait for a convention on the legal status of the Caspian Sea as a whole to be drafted. We can use the Caspian Five framework.
Its principles of delimitation are based not only on well-established diplomatic traditions, but also on the experiences of many generations of people involved for centuries in navigation, fishing and trade on the Caspian Sea. They are well aware of the uniqueness of this very vulnerable natural monument. And it is no coincidence that our predecessors maintained special shipping and fishing regimes here.
I do not want to preclude the possibility that the draft declaration we have prepared has already decided a number of policy issues. This applies even to issues related to ships’ flying the national flags of the Caspian states, which in my view is very important. It is also important that we acknowledge the need to address all issues, even those that remain unresolved, through dialogue, taking into account the each other’s interests, respecting each other’s sovereignty, and abstaining not only from using force but even from mentioning the possibility of using force. This is very important. It is equally important that we discuss the impossibility of offering one’s own territory to other countries in the event of aggression or any military action against one of the Caspian states.
I believe that the important principles entrenched in this document will create a climate of confidence. In the long run we can use this to determine all the fundamental principles which we shall lay down for many years to come.
In my opinion, we should also adopt a convention on the legal status of the sea, using the rules that exist, that have been recorded in earlier documents and are already adhered to.
Today we believe that the priority areas for cooperation are the provision of security and stability in the region, in the broadest sense of those terms. I have in mind the safety of navigation and the protection of oil and gas facilities, and the joint struggle against international terrorism and extremism.
There are already specific initiatives that in our view deserve the most serious attention. I am thinking of draft stability pact put forward by Kazakhstan and the agreement with Iran on confidence-building measures to increase stability. I have to mention also the Russian proposal to establish a joint naval group for operational cooperation, which we have provisionally designated as Kasfor. There are positive examples of such concerted action on the Black Sea, and we might as well take the best measures that have been compiled in other off-shore waters, in other seas, and use them here.
Very promising prospects for our business relationships and the realization of infrastructure projects have opened up.
Russia proposes to accelerate the development of the international North-South transport corridor. Strengthening the transit potential of the Caspian Sea would contribute to the creation of an additional channel that would link with the Black Sea and Sea of Azov. We are actively discussing this subject with the President of Kazakhstan. We now have different projects in this regard, but, in any case, improving communication between the Caspian Sea and the Sea of Azov and the Black Sea basin is surely a promising endeavour.
I should note that the Caspian Sea is rapidly becoming one of the world centres for the extraction and export of hydrocarbons, but it also has unique biological resources. Therefore, the sharp decline in the population of sturgeon, including in the rivers flowing into the sea, is perhaps the most obvious indicator of a region in environmental distress. In our view, we must strike a reasonable balance between developing oil and gas production and consolidating the ecosystem. Almost all our colleagues mentioned this — particularly Mr President of Azerbaijan — and I could not agree more.
Environmental security should be the standard by which we evaluate all projects in the Caspian Sea, particularly in the area of energy development and transportation. I believe that projects that could be particularly damaging to the environment in the entire Caspian Sea region should not and cannot be implemented without the prior discussion in the framework of the Caspian Five and the adoption of a consensus decision reached in the common interests of the Caspian Sea.
Dear colleagues!
It has been five year since our first meeting in Ashkhabad. During this time, there have been extensive consultations on the entire range of Caspian issues. Today the major challenge facing us is to give an impetus to the negotiating process on a number of important topics. Among them, I repeat, are addressing the legal status of the Caspian Sea, shipping and fisheries, military activities and the protection of the environment. I am confident that such an all-encompassing task is in our power to perform, particularly because now all the Caspian states are involved in facing up to this challenge.
I thank you for your attention.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 16, 2007, 23:02
Text versionEvents
Interview with IRNA Information Agency and Iranian State Television and Radio
October 16, 2007
14:50
Tehran
Abbas Ali Hadji Parvane: In the name of Allah! Mr President, we are very grateful to you for finding the time to give us this interview in spite of your busy schedule and to answer our questions on Russia’s international position and bilateral relations between Russia and Iran. As we do not have much time, can we begin straight away with the questions?
Vladimir Putin: Of course.
Question: Iran and Russia are two friendly neighbours that have many opportunities for developing their cooperation. How do you assess the current state of bilateral relations and what kind of prospects do you see ahead?
Vladimir Putin: Russia and Iran are indeed friendly neighbours. Our peoples are the bearers of ancient cultures that have interacted with each other over the course of centuries. We have a longstanding tradition of building good-neighbourly relations.
Cooperation between Iran and Russia has great importance for the region and the world, but this is not the only thing that determines the nature of our relations. It is also the interest of partners in both countries in developing trade and economic ties, supporting humanitarian cooperation and settling a number of problems regarding the Caspian region and the Caspian Sea that help to shape our relations. Indeed, we have gathered here in Tehran today precisely to work on problems related to the Caspian.
Bilateral trade between our countries is growing and has now reached a figure of around $2 billion. Promising new areas of cooperation are emerging such as space, civil aviation and infrastructure, including major infrastructure projects such as developing the North-South transport corridor. Today, as you saw, a relevant agreement was signed between three parties – Iran, Turkmenistan and Kazakhstan – opening up the possibility of then joining up with the Russian railway network. In other words, our cooperation is developing in positive fashion in practically all areas. Of course, cooperation in the energy sector is one of the most visible areas in which we work together. This covers not only nuclear energy but also hydrocarbons. Iran and Russia are two of the world’s biggest exporters and our actions have a considerable impact on world markets and the state of the world economy. We are aware of our responsibilities before our partners, whether in the oil and gas or the electricity sectors. Today, for example, the President of Azerbaijan proposed examining the possibility of unifying our countries’ electricity systems, unifying the systems of three countries so as to make electricity flows as effective as possible at different times of the year. Here in Iran, for example, your electricity consumption goes up in summer because you are using air conditioners, while in Russia electricity consumption goes up in winter. We already have this kind of cooperation with other countries.
Finally, there is nuclear energy and the well known matter of the nuclear power plant in Bushehr. I am sure that the plant will be completed and that we will be able to outline plans for our future cooperation. Overall, I think that our work together is positive.
Question: Mr President, what proposals do you have for ensuring security and stability in the Caspian region, Central Asia and the Trans-Caucasus? What bilateral and regional decisions do you consider essential for preventing the rise of tension in the region, especially given NATO’s eastward expansion and the plans to install missile defence systems in European countries?
Vladimir Putin: One could write an entire dissertation in answer to your question because it is very wide-ranging, but I will try to be brief.
As far as Central Asia goes, we know the complexity of the situation there and we know the difficulties encountered over recent years. I think I would not be mistaken in saying that both Russia and Iran have made a substantial contribution towards normalising the situation in Central Asia, and we continue to work in this direction. Iran has done a lot to help settle the situation in Tajikistan, and so has Russia. This is really a unique situation in the post-Soviet area and I think quite a rare situation in the world when not only have bitterly opposed parties sat down at the negotiation table but, in the interests of their people and their country’s future, have succeeded in joining forces within a united government and are working together quite well now to achieve their common goals.
Iran and Russia both pay great attention to normalising the situation in Afghanistan. What we want is for the Afghan people, who have suffered so much, to be able to live a normal and peaceful life and rebuild their country. We want the bloodshed in Afghanistan to end and we want to see the ultimate withdrawal of foreign troops from the country once the Afghan people are able to take full responsibility for security in their country. Both Iran and Russia have already carried out much work in this direction earlier, and we continue to cooperate today, and to cooperate well. I am sure that we will continue to make a needed contribution in the future.
Regarding the Trans-Caucasus, there have been quite a few problems there inherited from the Soviet years. These are complex problems that require not just a lot of attention from the international community and international organisations, but also political will on the part of all those directly involved in the conflicts. This concerns above all Nagorny Karabakh and the relations between Armenia and Azerbaijan. Russia has done much to help the parties find an acceptable solution. We work bilaterally and take part in multilateral efforts. There is, for example, the Minsk Group, in which not only Russia takes part but also our Western European partners and the United States. We will continue these efforts.
Regarding NATO’s eastward expansion, we consider this as very negative. It is our view that today’s threats, and chief among them is international terrorism, cannot be dealt with by expanding a military-political organisation that was originally set up to counteract the Warsaw Pact and the Soviet Union. There is no Soviet Union and no Warsaw Pact today, while NATO not only exists but is expanding. We have not seen any signs of rapid change in thinking within NATO itself, within its structure. There has been a lot of talk of change, but we have yet to see real change. We are particularly concerned about military infrastructure coming closer to our borders. We think this is simply harmful and that it does not help to build a climate of trust in Europe and the world. Modern threats such as terrorism, drugs trafficking and organised crime cannot be resolved by organisations such as this. We can only address these threats through modern means such as building up trust and cooperation on a multilateral and not bloc basis.
And the final part of your question – the missile defence system: you know that the dialogue has proven complex, above all with our American partners but also with our European partners. We think that if some kind of missile defence system is developed it should be based on several components and should be something that we do together. What are the components involved? First, we need to identify the missile threats. There is not at present sufficiently conclusive evidence about exactly where these threats will come from. In any case, we do not have such evidence today, and if someone does have it, they should make it known.
Second, we need to ensure democratic access to this system. All countries taking part in this work should have the clear understanding that they will also take part in running this system.
Third, we need to agree on the actual procedures for working together and running the system. Only once we have settled these issues can work on such a system go ahead, in our view. But I must say that our latest meetings with our American partners show that it is possible for their views on this matter to undergo a certain transformation, and we will continue the dialogue.
Question: You said that one of the most important technical cooperation projects between Russia and Iran at the moment is the construction of the nuclear power plant in Bushehr. This is the project that has been most in the news and there has been a lot of talk about it.
The construction process has been much delayed, unfortunately. The Iranian public and especially the country’s elite are very concerned about the fate of this project, which is seen in Iran as a symbol of our bilateral cooperation with Russia.
Many people here would like to hear your comments on this project. As President of Russia, can you promise that by the time your term in office ends this project will have got underway once more and that the delivery of nuclear fuel to the plant – the most important stage before actually bringing the plant on line – takes place?
Vladimir Putin: The only promises I have given were to my mother when I was a little boy. What I can say is that the attitude of the elite, whether in Russia or Iran, towards cooperation is very important, of course, but I think it is even more important to make known to the general public in our countries what exactly is happening with the Bushehr project. I will take this opportunity to try to give a brief account of this situation now.
I draw your attention to the fact that no other country was willing to take on this contract. What’s more, the German partners who began work on the project several decades ago subsequently abandoned it. The fact that the work was begun by one group and then continued by Russian organisations has in itself complicated the situation from the outset, not so much from a political as from a technical point of view. Originally, German equipment was used in the project, and it is still there now, but it has become obsolete since that time. This equipment dates from 20 or 30 years ago. But this is not where the difficulty lies. The real difficulty is in the contract itself, in the legal arrangements made for this deal.
There is another circumstance that has complicated this work, and that is that Iran, during the work on building the Bushehr nuclear power plant, signed agreements not only with Russian partners but also with partners in other countries, in the Republic of Korea, for example, who have refused to deliver the equipment promised by the contracts they signed. This has created additional problems and has meant that we have had to find replacement equipment for the equipment not delivered.
All of this together plus a number of other circumstances have, of course, led to delays in the work schedule. But at the same time, Russia did make it clear from the outset that not only would it sign the contract but it would also see the project through to its completion, and we will not go back on these commitments.
As for the delivery of fuel for the power plant, in accordance with IAEA regulations, fuel can only be delivered to the facility a few months before the nuclear reactor begins operation. We first have to have a clear understanding of when exactly this will take place. But we are not backing down from any of our commitments and have no intention of doing so, all the more so as we have already signed an agreement with our Iranian partners under which the spent fuel will be returned to the Russian Federation. We are fully satisfied with this agreement.
Now, turning to the question of what needs to be done in order to speed up the work, Russian and Iranian specialists are discussing right now possible amendments to our contractual obligations. Overall, our Iranian partners agree that such amendments are necessary given that the contract has become outdated and we need to understand clearly what to do about the fact that we have old equipment alongside the new technology that the Russian subcontractors are using today, and what we are going to do to settle several financial and legal issues. Overall, an understanding has been reached. As soon as these issues are resolved, we will be able to settle the matter of delivering the fuel.
Question: The world has lived through fundamental changes in politics and security over the last 20 years. Russia has tried to use this constantly shifting situation to restore its weight and influence in the region and the world, while the United States, in carrying out a unilateral policy, especially with regard to Afghanistan and Iraq, has created serious challenges for peace and security.
In the current situation, what decisions and mechanisms can Russia propose, as an influential power, to counteract the American unilateral approach and help to restore peace and tranquillity around the world?
Vladimir Putin: The answer is very simple. As you know, we support a multipolar world and I personally am deeply convinced that even if someone wanted to see a world based on unilateral power, this model has already proven that it does not work and that it cannot actually be implemented in practice.
No single world power, not even the biggest power, can resolve all of the world’s problems on its own. No single power has the financial, economic, general material and political resources to do so. This has become clear today. The examples you gave, Afghanistan and Iraq, are clear illustrations.
And what do we propose instead? Every new idea is really just old ideas we had already forgotten. What we propose is to strengthen the role and importance of the universal international organisation that is the United Nations, to strengthen the role and importance of international law, to observe strictly the principles of international law and state sovereignty and to strive for consensus in our decisions. This is complex and difficult work, but it is only through this work that we can achieve long-term results and ensure stability in world politics.
Question: If you permit, I would like to ask a personal question. So far, all the questions have been about politics, and I would like to ask a question that is not related to politics.
Over these last few years you have succeeded in taking important steps that have changed Russia’s position in the world, and here in Iran you are received well and are a popular figure. Iranians would like to hear about the President of Russia from the President himself. We know here that you still keep up your sports activities, and we also know that you are interested in Persian literature, especially in the poetry of Omar Khayam. In this respect, could you please tell us what role sport plays in your working life, how you fit it in to your life, and what kind of influence does it have?
And also, could you tell us what you think of Omar Khayam’s poetry?
Vladimir Putin: I will start with the second question. I do not consider myself an expert on Persian literature, to my great regret. I have only fragmentary knowledge of Persian literature, but what I have read and heard has always interested me greatly. The same goes for Iranian history. This is part of the world’s history. Iran is a world power. Its territory originally stretched from the Middle East to India. Even part of the former Soviet Union was part of ancient Iran’s territory. Iran is the home of early religions, of Zoroastrianism, and some specialists think that this was the source from which Judaism, Christianity and Islam would later spring. But now there is evidence suggesting that Zoroastrianism first emerged on Russian soil – in the southern Urals – and that population migrations took this religious culture to other places, including to Iran.
What I want to say is that the history of our countries and the interaction between our cultures goes much deeper and has much deeper roots than specialists sometimes think. This is the guarantee that we will always find a way of solving any problems that arise, because we understand each other.
As for Omar Khayam, I simply love his work, I like his poetry. I know that not everywhere in the Muslim world do people like his work as much as I do, but that does not make his poetry any worse.
Regarding sport, I have never really thought about the role it plays in my life, I simply play sport.
Question: Mr President, I would like to hear your thoughts on how you see your own future in Russia, in your country’s life. There are rumours that once your term in office ends you will return to this post after a little while. There are also rumours that you will take the post of Prime Minister. Could you comment on this please?
Vladimir Putin: You are right in saying that these are only rumours. Russia has a constitution, and I value this constitution and believe that we must abide by the letter and by the spirit of this, the fundamental law of our country. The Constitution does not allow a president more than two consecutive terms in office. In theory, one could run for office again later, after a term or more has gone by. But life in the world in general and in Russia in particular is changing very fast. It is difficult to say what the situation will be in a few years time. I do not want to try looking ahead at this moment. As for what I want for myself, I would like to be in a position where I will be able to be of service to the people of Russia.
Thank you.
Abbas Ali Hadji Parvane: Thank you very much, Mr President, for giving us this opportunity, and we hope that you will visit Iran again.
Vladimir Putin: I would like to thank you for the interest you have shown in my visit and for your interesting questions, and I would like to take this opportunity to give my very best wishes to every Iranian home, every Iranian family and every citizen of your country.
Thank you very much.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 16, 2007, 14:50
Text version