Events
Excerpts from the Transcript of the Meeting with Cabinet Members
December 24, 2007
10:27
The Kremlin, Moscow
Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Zhukov – the signing of an agreement between trade unions, employers and the Government
Alexander Zhukov: Last week a general agreement was signed between the national trade organisations, employers and the Government. This is essentially an instrument of social cooperation. It sets out all the basic principles for work and economic relations over the next three years, from 2008 to 2010.
The main purpose of the agreement is carrying out the country’s socio-economic policy, which will ensure the citizens' right to decent work, improving the quality of life of workers and their families and reducing poverty through sustainable economic growth and stable employment.
It should be noted that, for the first time, this agreement was unanimously approved by the various parties to it. All the previous disagreements were with the unions, particularly concerning the issue of wages. At that time there was a dispute between the unions and employers concerning how quickly the minimum wage can become more than a mere subsistence income. The question is when this should take place.
It was agreed that in the spring of next year (taking into a account a very substantial improvement in the autumn of this year) the results would be analysed in terms of the impact on regional budgets, primarily on the socio-economic development of the regions, and then it would allow to determine the possibility of raising the minimum wage to a living wage more rapidly than the government had previously anticipated. According to our previous estimates, this could be achieved in 2010. Now, given the way things are developing, it could be done sooner.
President Vladimir Putin: Good. I hope that in the future these very sensitive issues can be decided in the same way, through very close contact with the unions.
Minister of Regional Development Dmitrii Kozak concerning preparations for the 2012 APEC [Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation] summit in Vladivostok
Dimitrii Kozak: Today there is a meeting of the organizing committee for the development of Vladivostok as a centre for Asia-Pacific cooperation. On 21 November, when the policy decision was taken on the places that will host the summit, on the infrastructure in Vladivostok, we adopted a roadmap for everyone involved in the planning and construction of the event. We have worked out a schedule for literally every of the 71 undertakings. This plan will be executed in real time, in accordance with the approved scheme.
The task of town planning for the sites, which in our view is the key challenge, was prepared and reviewed in an inter-agency operational headquarters put together by the Ministry of Regional Development. We must approve it at today’s meeting of the organizing committee. From there work will proceed on the technical specifications required by all contract holders concerning the design of specific facilities. To date, we are fairly confident that we will be able to build all the different facilities required for the summit, with the exception of one quite complicated case, on time.
First Deputy Prime Minister Sergei Ivanov concerning the implementation of the next phase of the GLONASS [Global Navigation Satellite Systems] programme
Sergei Ivanov: Tomorrow afternoon at Baikonur [Space Launch Centre] the Proton-M rocket will be launched. And there will be on board the Proton-M three GLONASS spacecraft. This will raise to 18 the number of GLONASS spacecraft in orbit, which will enable us to cover the entire territory of the Russian Federation by the end of this year.
As a result of updates to the federal targets for the GLONASS programme, by 2010 we have to have 24 in-orbit spacecraft. And already in 2008–2009 the spacecraft will be a new generation, with a life expectancy in orbit of from 7 to 10 years. This will make the whole programme cheaper. This is how this mission will be carried out.
Now we are involved not so much in outer space alignments but rather in the creation of ground systems for the reception and distribution of the signals. And, as you remember, during your visit to the Lavochkina plant you were shown consumer equipment. At the end of this year, that is literally this week, the first devices that can be used in road transport will be in hardware stores. Working with private business, and we are now engaged directly in expanding the development of commercial production equipment, the so-called blackberries
Vladimir Putin: When can I buy a device to put on my dog Koni to keep him from wandering off?
Sergei Ivanov: We can produce collars for dogs and cats and sell them to commercial consumers in the middle of 2008.
Vladimir Putin: And for our state-owned companies: transportation, rail?
Sergei Ivanov: They’re already available.
Vladimir Putin: Shipowners?
Sergei Ivanov: We have already produced such equipment, including for the Ministry of Defence.
Vladimir Putin: Road transport?
Sergei Ivanov: Already done.
Vladimir Putin: Do we have a programme to create the conditions for the acquisition of equipment, and to ensure that this service is available to all economic actors?
Sergei Ivanov: With regard to state customers, the Ministry of Defence, transport, ships, aircraft — in accordance with your decree, everything has been mapped out and already provided. With regard to commercial users, in my view there can only be one criterion: the competitiveness of the equipment. It should not exceed the price of similar receivers in the GPS system, all the more so because our receivers are capable of picking up GLONASS, GPS, and the European system Galileo as well. In this way they will be profitable in terms of positioning accuracy, because they will be based not on a single system, like the American GPS, but on two and potentially three at once.
First Deputy Minister Dmitrii Medvedev concerning the implementation of the President's appeal for funds to restore the Saint Genevieve des Bois cemetery
Dimitrii Medvedev: In October of this year, you issued an order allocating money for the restoration of the Saint Genevieve des Bois cemetery in Paris, France. The Government took this decision on 20 December and allocated the money to rebuild and renovate the cemetery. For the first time in many decades, this unique monument, which formed as a result of the dramatic events of the twentieth century, will be restored. We ourselves will now take care of it because so many well known Russian figures are buried there: people like Bunin, Merezhkovsky, Korovin, Tarkovsky, and many others.
There is a special decree concerning delegations of the Ministry of Defence and Military Memorial work abroad. Budgetary funds have been allocated to organize the work. It will be improved in two ways: through international agreements that have already been concluded with a number of states, and through the work that the Ministry of Defence has already undertaken. Special delegations will be established for these purposes. The situation is really very complicated. I visited Port Arthur in China and I saw how our Chinese friends had helped maintain Soviet graves, but graves left over from the time of the fighting for Port Arthur are in a very dilapidated state. And we need to take action to restore them.
Minister of Economic Development and Trade Elvira Nabiullina concerning the results of international assessments of the volume of the world’s economies
Elvira Nabiullina: The final results of international comparisons of the world’s economies have been published. These are global studies, which this year included 146 countries and territories worldwide. These data are interesting because they are calculated on the basis of purchasing power parity, that is, distinct from official exchange rates and domestic price structure. According to the data for 2005, Russia was in eighth place. The volume of GDP at purchasing power parity is one trillion seven hundred billion dollars.
Vladimir Putin: This means that we have gone up a place?
ElVIRA NABIULLINA: Yes. The United States is in first place, followed by China, Japan, Germany, India, Britain, France and, after us in the top ten, come Italy and Brazil. And we estimate that if we are able to maintain a high rate of growth, 6 or 7 per cent until 2020, then we will be in the top five. This is the goal we have set ourselves. Moreover, using PPP to calculate GDP per capita we were in 51st place. Raising the level of GDP per capita in purchasing power parity is a huge challenge for us. Now it’s 11861 dollars; the goal that we have set ourselves for 2020 is 30,000 dollars.
Vladimir Putin: Good. In order to deal with these issues on schedule, we need to work effectively with Parliament. Today an important event in the political life of the country occurred. The State Duma began its fifth session. At this time I want to use the media to address the deputies and congratulate them on the start of their work. I hope that the Government of the Russian Federation will continue to be as active in this joint effort as it has been to this point. All the legislation that has been previously announced and prepared must be quickly implemented through hard work. There is a very large, important and sensitive programme in the social sphere.
This work is critical. The welfare of our citizens, particularly those who get their income not from business but from wages, depends on how competently, efficiently and carefully we deal with these issues. This is what the budget will determine.
Prime Minister Viktor Zubkov – the first meeting of the State Duma
Viktor Zubkov: The deputies were in a good mood. One could feel this in the hall and in the statements of [Vice President of the Russian Academy of Science] Zhores Alfyorov. I talked about the legislation we have prepared, mostly relating to the social sphere, and told the Government to work as closely with this Duma as it did with the previous one.
Vladimir Putin: Did Zhores Ivanovich focus on specific issues?
Viktor Zubkov: He drew attention to the fact that we need to spend more on science, education and national projects.
Vladimir Putin: Really. As far as I know, Zhores Ivanovich was elected as a member of the Communist Party. And if a deputy of the Communist Party calls for more money to be spent on national projects, this obviously means that those who have voted communist up to now will be voting in the presidential election for our candidate, Dimitrii Medvedev. As everybody knows, he is in charge of implementing national projects. How things will actually go, we’ll see.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 24, 2007, 10:27
Text versionEvents
Speech at the Opening Ceremony for the Year of the Family in Russia
December 24, 2007
10:39
The Kremlin, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: Dear friends!
We are in the days leading up to Christmas and the New Year, a holiday that brings together families and loved ones, and we are opening the Year of the Family in Russia. And it is meaningful for us that this opening event is taking place before a special audience.
People that have gathered for this special evening are well aware of the value of the family, and the inevitable care that relatives and loved ones show.
Mothers and fathers who have borne many children are gathered here today. There are young families and senior citizens who already have young grandchildren. There are also people who work in orphanages and open their hearts to children who have lost their parents. These are people who care, and their personal actions demonstrate that there is no such thing as a child that belongs to someone else.
As each of you knows from personal experience, it is difficult to create wealth, comfort and warmth in a home. And each of your families has strong foundations and are further strengthened by enormous daily efforts, work, patience and responsibility. And it is extremely important that the forthcoming Year of the Family help revive precisely this responsibility, and a responsible and respectful attitude towards family values.
I think that you will agree that continuing these traditions is very much required in modern Russia. Indeed, the more families live in peace and harmony, the stronger they are united by common goals, values and moral standards, the more humane our society will be. And when we talk about the prestige and dignity of our country, then to a great extent we are referring to the moral values and dignity of every individual, including our youngest citizens.
All these qualities originate in the family. And already from childhood people learn their first lessons with regards to respect for their elders in the family. This is where their eyes are opened and they learn a valuable lesson, namely one that begins with the Motherland. Since it is precisely in the family circle that very first civil impulses, love for one’s country, and understanding for the history and culture of the Fatherland are felt.
And on the contrary, an indifferent attitude to society and underestimating the family’s role are encouraged by despicable practices such as abandoning and neglecting children. And in general these practices have a negative effect on demographic trends in Russia.
You are well aware that in recent years we have begun to implement national social projects in health care, education and housing. These fields are certainly fundamental ones for any family. And long-term demographic policy measures should play a special role in this respect.
For the first time in Russian history a so-called maternity capital has been introduced. And this is not only a first for Russia but for other countries as well. Birth certificates are being paid. Basic medical facilities are improving.
Since the beginning of 2007 there are increased allowances for childcare. Similar benefits have been introduced for mothers that stay at home. And I already said that we will index these allowances to inflation.
All of this is yielding results. In just 10 months of this year more than 1,300,000 long-awaited children were born in Russia, and this is 8 per cent more than in 2006.
The necessary conditions for working parents are being implemented. Expenses on kindergartens are now partially reimbursed. The salary received for acting as foster parents have almost doubled.
The wages that adoptive parents receive have also increased. This is because education within the family to a large extent determines what kind of person a child will grow up to be. Neither the state nor even the best teachers (and thank God they exist!) can replace the family.
And next year we are going to continue to organize the fate of orphans. We are going to improve legislation with regards to foster care and guardianship so that this process is quicker and, most importantly, for the benefit of children.
We expect to achieve visible results quickly, ie. in the short term. And the newly-created Fund to help address the problems of children in difficult circumstances has work ahead of it, and it will carry out its work with dignity.
And there is yet another piece of news that is especially important for young people. The government is now examining the issue of increasing the age of those who participate in housing programmes for young families from 30 to 35 years.
As you can imagine, all these measures are not only relevant to the Year of the Family. It is equally important that the aims and objectives of this Family Year be developed in the future and that we find new and effective directions for this work.
Dear friends!
In keeping with a long tradition, may the coming New Year’s holiday allow you to once again gather all generations around the common table, give you warmth, cheer and a feeling of good will.
May the year 2008 be a happy one for your families, and may your children and grandchildren bring you new successes
May 2008 bring health and well-being to the Russian family! All the best!
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 24, 2007, 10:39
Direct link: en.kremlin.ru/d/24746
Text version