Events
Beginning of the Meeting with Head of the Palestinian National Authority Mahmoud Abbas
July 31, 2007
19:14
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Dear Mr President!
Dear friends!
I am very pleased to see you in Moscow.
Hello!
I know and we all know how difficult it has been for you and for the entire Palestinian people. Our position has not changed and you know it well. We have consistently defended the legitimate interests of the Palestinian people, including the establishment of an independent state. And I want to assure you that we will continue to support you as the legitimate leader of the Palestinian people. I am confident that you will do everything to restore the unity of the Palestinian people.
President Mahmoud Abbas (simultaneous translation): Thank you, Your Excellency, for that welcome!
We are very happy to be here with you. Our meeting underlines the importance that we attach to bilateral discussions with the Russian Federation, which has always defended the interests of the Palestinian people.
We know your firm stand with regards to the legitimacy of the Palestinian cause, of the Palestinian National Authority and Palestinian unity. You know that we always strive for the unity of our people, to allow our people to establish an independent Palestinian state.
As you know, we have recently suffered very painful and difficult events. Certain things have occurred in Gaza. But we are sparing no efforts and doing everything possible to deal with the results of these events, to make sure that the situation returns to what it was, and to continue on our way.
Despite the upheaval that took place in Gaza we feel responsible for the lives of our people and call on all our friends to provide humanitarian assistance to the Palestinian people, and to send this help with a view to making sure that the social and economic situation does not get any worse. We have done this from the very first day that all of this took place. We are going to continue to do so and thereby ensure the minimum living standard for our people.
Your Excellency, you know that the Gaza strip has now become a large prison. This happened after they closed the Rafah checkpoint. Thousands of people who would like to cross the border have gathered along the Egyptian border and in Palestinian territory.
<…>
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 31, 2007, 19:14
Text version