Events
Extracts from Transcript of Meeting with the Government Cabinet
September 3, 2007
18:01
The Kremlin, Moscow
Deputy Prime Minister Sergei Naryshkin on the results of his visit to Azerbaijan:
Sergei Naryshkin: Vladimir Vladimirovich, on your instructions I visited Baku on Friday and Saturday and held working meetings with the co-chairman of the Intergovernmental Commission for Economic Cooperation, with First Deputy Prime Minister Eyubov and with members of the Government. We have decided to hold a session of the intergovernmental commission in the second or third week of November.
We have decided to complete the preparations for signing an agreement on mutual protection of investment, an agreement on cooperation in the marine transport sector and an agreement on quarantine and protection of flora. We analysed the state of progress regarding implementation of the decisions made at the commission’s last meeting. I also met with President of Azerbaijan Ilham Aliev and I have written up a report on this meeting. I met with business leaders, with the heads of Russian and Azerbaijani companies working on a bilateral basis, and with religious leaders.
Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov on preparations for the APEC summit and visits to Australia, Indonesia and the United Arab Emirates:
Sergei Lavrov: Vladimir Vladimirovich, preparations are practically complete for the APEC summit and for your visits to Australia, Indonesia and the United Arab Emirates.
Three declarations are to be adopted at the APEC summit in Sydney. They have been drafted by the experts and ministers and will be examined by the APEC countries’ leaders. There is a general political declaration on questions of principle in the areas of international security and trade and economic cooperation, which outlines the trends in these areas. A separate declaration on climate change is being drafted. Its wording follows in the line of the agreements reached at the G8 summit in Heiligendamm. The third declaration concerns the outlook for the Doha round of multilateral trade talks and this is also of interest for Russia given the ongoing negotiations on our country’s accession to the World Trade Organisation.
The summit will also examine Vladivostok’s bid to host the APEC summit in 2012, and all the forum’s participants have promised their support.
First Deputy Prime Minister Sergei Ivanov on a meeting of the Council for Nanotechnology:
Sergei Ivanov: Vladimir Vladimirovich, I will chair the second meeting of the Russian Federation Government Council for Nanotechnology on Friday, September 7. The meeting will examine four items.
First is the issue of developing nanotechnology in the defence industry as a separate aspect of overall nanotechnology development.
Second, we need to examine and approve the regulations for our Council. These regulations have already been drawn up by the Ministry for Education and Science and have been approved by all the relevant ministries and agencies. All that remains now is to adopt them.
Third, we will examine the pilot project to set up a national nanotechnology research centre at the Kurchatov Institute as was foreseen in your initiative on nanotechnology development.
The fourth issue is that of practical implementation of the federal law that has now come into force on creating a nanotechnology corporation. The necessary decisions have already been prepared, including as concerns personnel decisions and the supervisory board. We will examine these decisions and the corporation should be able to start active work, I think.
Vladimir Putin: <…> On this day, September 3, we honour the memory of victims of terrorist attacks. I ask you all to stand please. Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: September 3, 2007, 18:01
Text version