Events
The Beginning of Russian-Dutch Talks
November 6, 2007
17:13
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin:
Colleagues, I would like to welcome you to the Kremlin once again!
Relations between our two states, between Russia and the Netherlands, have a long history. Our relations are developing very positively today. We are pleased with the growth in trade, and we are satisfied with our political contacts. We hope that our relations with the Netherlands will serve as a good example and provide an impetus to developing relations between Russia and the European Union as a whole. And finally, we would like to thank you, Mr Prime Minister, for bringing a representative business delegation and members of the Dutch business community with you today. I hope that the direct contacts between representatives of our business communities will help expand and develop our relations in the trade and economic spheres.
Prime Minister of the Netherlands Jan Peter Balkenende: Dear Mr President!
First of all, thank you for the hospitality you have shown us. It is a great honour for us to be here in the Kremlin. It is correct that there are long historical traditions and ties that join Russia and the Netherlands. And it is very important to note that last time, when I was in St Petersburg a few years ago, we reiterated the importance of continuing these historical traditions. I would also like to point out that the colours of our national flags match. We are certainly happy to be able to discuss various issues and we engage in open communication in various areas. It is also important to note that we have an open trusting dialogue, including with respect to issues on which our views do not always coincide.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 6, 2007, 17:13
Text versionEvents
Press Statements Following the Talks between Russia and the Netherlands
November 6, 2007
23:31
The Kremlin, Moscow
Russian President Vladimir Putin: Ladies and gentlemen! We have just completed our talks with the Dutch Prime Minister and his colleagues.
First, I want to say that this is the first visit to Russia by a Dutch head of state, which is in itself significant. And I want to point out that it has been very dynamic and substantive, and we discussed a whole range of issues of mutual interest.
Since my visit to the Netherlands in 2005, we have accomplished a lot.
The volume of trade between our countries has increased substantially. The Netherlands has become our second most important trading and economic partner, after the Federal Republic of Germany: our trade will be 42 billion dollars this year.
Our investment cooperation is growing. The Netherlands is the second largest investor in Russia: 34 billion [dollars]. In the first half of this year alone, the inflow from the Netherlands was 12 billion dollars.
Energy, machinery, high-tech, energy-saving technology, culture, science and education, these are the areas where we are actively developing our cooperation.
Our relations in the sphere of energy have gained new quality after today’s signing of an agreement between Gazprom and Gazunie. The participation of the Dutch company in the North European Gas Pipeline project makes it truly multilateral and, of course, creates better conditions for the realization of the project. But in addition to this project, there is the long-term potential for cooperation between Russian energy and Dutch energy companies in their various activities in Europe, and perhaps in third countries.
In 2005, the Council for Business Cooperation was created. This evening we will have the opportunity to meet with members of the Council and the leaders of the companies in both countries and to discuss practical issues of cooperation.
I hope that we will soon be signing a new joint programme of action for 2008–2010.
Partners will also meet within the Intergovernmental Commission for Economic Cooperation.
As I said, our cooperation is not confined to economic spheres. As is well known, the largest affiliate of the Hermitage Museum operates actively and successfully in the Netherlands.
The national culture days of Russia in Holland and the days of Dutch culture in Russia, called “A Dutch Window on Russia”, were very successful, particularly in St Petersburg.
Contacts among community organizations and academic institutions have increased and expanded.
We talked about international issues of mutual interest, first and foremost, of course, about Russia-EU relations and those between Russia and NATO. We talked about the issue of the CFE Treaty, missile defense, the problems surrounding the Iranian nuclear program, the problem of Kosovo, and the situation in Afghanistan.
I briefed Mr Prime Minister on the internal political developments in Russia: the upcoming elections to the State Duma and the election of the President of the Russian Federation in the spring of 2008.
And, in conclusion, I would like once again to thank Mr Prime Minister for the substantive, engaged and very frank conversation. I am sure that this visit will be a landmark and will benefit the development of bilateral and inter-state relations.
Dutch Prime Minister Jan Peter Balkenende: Ladies and gentlemen, dear Mr President, I would like to point out that the President and I have just had a very frank, interesting and constructive conversation. And again, I would like to take this opportunity to thank Mr President for his hospitality and openness.
And let me, on behalf of the Dutch people, express my condolences to all in connection with the tragic event that occurred in the Tula Region, and I want to assure you that the Dutch people sympathize with the Russian people.
Undoubtedly, the purpose of my visit is to give the necessary impetus, the stimulus needed to further the development of our relations. I am referring to such issues as the economy, politics, including public relations.
I should point out that in the conversation that took place I emphasized once again the need for such meetings and our mutual need to develop our partnership further.
I also want to acknowledge and thank Mr President for the fact that we understand that we need to talk about various topics, including those about which we may not agree.
And of course, when we talk about the opportunity to discuss various issues, it again confirms the strength of our relationship, the durability of our relations, which are based on respect for each other. In addition, it once again gives us the opportunity to discuss those issues where we sometimes disagree.
I would like to reiterate that Russia is a very important country for the Netherlands. And, as I learned from my conversation with Mr President, the Netherlands is an important country for Russia. As I realized again, Russia is closely monitoring the economic opportunities for the Dutch in Russia.
Without a doubt the Netherlands is an important partner for the Russian Federation, in trade, economic issues, investment and technological development including energy. But we should not forget that the Netherlands can also be an important partner in international issues as a member of the United Nations, the European Union and NATO.
And, of course, it is not only a question of establishing contacts between the Prime Minister of the Netherlands and President of the Russian Federation, but the expansion of such contacts and increasing in their magnitude. I am referring to contacts at the level of students and teachers and to all kinds of important areas.
Of course it is worth noting that the Netherlands is one of the largest investors in the Russian economy, and it is important to note that today two large business delegations from the Netherlands accompanied me on this visit.
A large delegation of major entrepreneurs and the heads of important Dutch companies are hoping to contribute to the future strategic and long-term development of Russia's economy, which can develop in various fields. And I noted with pleasure that Mr Putin accepted the proposal and is keen to cooperate. Mr Putin also expressed his desire to support Dutch businesses, both large and small companies. And it is in this area, too, that we can cooperate.
You have just witnessed the signing of a comprehensive agreement between the Dutch firm Gazunie and the Russian firm Gazprom, and this once again underlines the importance of relations in the areas of energy security between Russia and the European Union.
Undoubtedly, there are still some concerns and questions regarding environmental issues, but it is important to note that we are trying to address and resolve these issues.
We discussed the following issues: the rule of law in the Russian Federation and our cooperation in this field. And, of course, we touched on the subject of human rights. For me it was particularly encouraging to note the implementation of the Russian Civil Code, compiled with our assistance.
And, of course, as Mr Putin said, we talked about relations that are developing within the Russia-European Union framework, and the Netherlands is and will continue to be a constructive partner in this cooperation. And we once again stressed that this is how things should evolve between our countries.
With regard to international politics, we in fact did discuss Iran and Kosovo. We also raised the topic of climate change, particularly in anticipation of the conference, which will take place at the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change on the island of Bali. And we agreed that these topics should receive the necessary attention.
In conclusion I would like to emphasize once again that my visit to the Russian Federation and the visit that Vladimir Putin made in 2005 to the Netherlands reaffirm the importance that the Netherlands hold for Russia and the similar importance that Russia holds for the Netherlands. There is no doubt that the new Russia is becoming an important player in the international arena and our exchange with you, our contacts with you, help make the necessary contribution to further strengthening Russia's position.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 6, 2007, 23:31
Text versionEvents
Beginning of the Meeting with Prime Minister of the Netherlands Jan Peter Balkenende
November 6, 2007
15:33
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin:
Dear Mr Prime Minister, I am very happy to see you in Moscow.
I remember very well how warmly you welcomed us to your country. And I would like to note that recently our relations have developed very intensively.
Measured by the volume of trade and economic ties, the Netherlands is Russia’s second largest trade and economic partner. This year our volume of trade will probably exceed 42 billion dollars. The Netherlands also hold second place with regards to investments made in Russia – they total 34 billion dollars.
We have many common interests and opinions on international issues. I am confident that we will have the opportunity to talk about all these problems, reach agreements, and clarify our positions on issues where our views might differ.
In general, we are satisfied with the nature of relations between our countries. They are relations between open partners, between trusting partners. We are very glad to see you in Moscow, Mr Prime Minister.
Prime Minister of the Netherlands Jan Peter Balkenende: Mr President, first and foremost please let me thank you for your hospitality. I am pleased and glad to be back in Moscow.
And I certainly retain pleasant memories of our meetings with you in St Petersburg and of being in Moscow for the celebrations commemorating the end of the Second World War. I also have wonderful memories of your state visit in November 2005 to the Netherlands. And for the Netherlands both your visit and your interest really does have great importance.
I would also like to express my condolences concerning the tragic events that occurred in the Tula Region, where more than 30 people were killed by a fire in a home for the elderly.
It is true that the developments that are taking place in Russia allow us to say that Russia is becoming an important player on the world stage and we highly value our cooperation. And in connection with this I would like to emphasize that the bilateral relations between our countries continue to develop and have a positive dynamic. This does not only refer to our economic relations but I would especially like to emphasize our mutual investment projects.
I look forward to passing some time with you soon and discussing many other problems.
And I would like to express my agreement with your claim and say that, indeed, our countries have open relations, an open partnership and – I would like to emphasize this again – this refers to economic relations and our discussions of various civil issues. And I hope that in the future we will continue to develop in the same direction. Allow me to thank you once again for taking the time to meet with us.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 6, 2007, 15:33
Text versionEvents
Beginning of Meeting with Members of the Russian and Dutch Business Communities
November 6, 2007
11:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin:
Ladies and gentlemen, it gives me great pleasure to welcome you all to Moscow.
For many of us, this is not the first time we have met. Many of us have already met in The Hague in 2005.
Many positive events have taken place over these two years. In 2006, the Netherlands accounted for almost 9 percent of the Russian Federation’s overall trade. We have set a good pace in work on important joint projects. These projects are, of course, chiefly in the energy sector. As you know, and some of you were directly involved in preparing this decision, a Dutch company has now joined the North European Gas Pipeline project.
I just now had the chance to have a brief talk with the president of Shell, and he said that he is happy with the way work on Sakhalin is going. This is good to hear. But as the Prime Minister and I discussed today, both of our countries are interested not just in developing energy resource exports and imports but also in exchanging energy-efficient and energy conservation technology. We seek to develop our relations in different sectors and look for new opportunities, including, above all, in science and technology, in the science-intensive sectors.
As you know, the Russian economy is growing rapidly – at a rate of around 7 percent a year over the last 6 years, and 7.7 percent for the first three quarters of this year. The energy sector now accounts for only one third of this overall growth. Sectors such as the processing industry, machine building, retail, services, construction and finance account for two thirds of the growth.
Some segments in the machine-building sector are growing at a rate of 25 percent per year, likewise in the construction sector, and the increase in housing construction is even higher – 34 percent this year. We have also achieved some positive results in the agriculture sector. All of this shows that new opportunities for cooperation are now opening up.
We hope not only to attract Dutch investment but also to expand our cooperation in general, establish new joint production and introduce new technology that could be brought into Russia in order to turn a good profit. We hope, of course, that turning a good profit will go hand in hand with development of Russia’s economy, and so we are ready to do everything we can to support cooperation.
The Russian-Dutch Business Cooperation Council has a particular part to play in this respect. Work on its organisation is nearly complete now and I hope that it will play an important part in developing our trade and economic ties.
We are pleased to see that economic activity is not limited to the big cities, to Moscow and St Petersburg, but that an increasing number of ties are developing with the Russian regions. The founding of the Dutch Business Support Centre in Yekaterinburg is an important event in this respect and I think that the opening of this Dutch trade office in the Urals region will expand the range of opportunities for work together.
We are grateful to the Dutch Government for its help in providing training for young Russian company directors. I think that these young people constitute a human resource reserve that we can also draw on in our work together. We are working consistently to create ever more favourable conditions for business and investment. It is a good sign that the world’s three leading ratings agencies have just recently once again raised Russia’s investment rating. I wish you success and I hope for interesting and fruitful work together.
  Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 6, 2007, 11:30
Text version