Events
Speech at the Opening of the Chinese National Exhibition in Russia
March 27, 2007
21:30
Crocus Expo Centre, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Dear Chinese and Russian friends and colleagues!
Today we are opening the national exhibition of the People’s Republic of China together in Moscow. Without any undue exaggeration this is the most important or, in any case, one of the most important events within the Year of China in Russia. I want to draw your attention to the exhibition’s theme: “mutually advantageous cooperation and its harmonious development”. It seems to me that this motto summarises the spirit of our countries’ present relations in the best possible way.
China has always been and remains one of Russia’s most important economic partners. And our business relations have increased and steadily gained strength over the past few years. Suffice to say that our trade has increased to five times what it was in 2000 and reached, according to different estimates, a figure of about 30 billion dollars. It will be extremely important and useful for us to become familiar with the best Chinese products and technological achievements.
Let me point out that this is the largest economic exhibition on China that has ever taken place in Russia. In area alone, the exhibition covers 20,000 square metres. The products on display here reflect the most significant achievements of the Chinese economy and provide us with a unique opportunity to learn about the successes of political reforms and increased openness within China.
The sections devoted to innovative and information products, aviation, aerospace and the nuclear industry, as well as the exhibition of Chinese achievements in sectors such as electronics, machine-building and others are of particular interest to us. I am confident that the exhibition that is opening today will not help us increase our trade but also to improve the quality of our cooperation. I am confident that one of the practical results of this exhibition will be the launch of joint scientific, technological and industrial products.
Please allow me to wish the Russian and Chinese organisers, all participants and visitors excellent experiences and concrete results, concrete work.
I congratulate you on the exhibition’s opening and wish you success!
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: March 27, 2007, 21:30
Direct link: en.kremlin.ru/d/24098
Text versionEvents
Speech at Reception held for the 80th birthday of Mstislav Rostropovich
March 27, 2007
22:31
Grand Kremlin Palace, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Ladies and gentlemen, dear guests,
Today marks a great event not just in Russian, but in world cultural life, because today we are celebrating the birthday of an outstanding musician and excellent person.
Everything begins to breath talent in Mr Rostropovich’s hands, be it the bow of a cello or the conductor’s baton.
People call Mr Rostropovich a Man of the World, and indeed he is, but I know personally, and many of those here know, just how deep are his feelings for Russia and how strong his love for our country.
There are many people in positions of power, many prominent people in the world who love Mr Rostropovich’s work. His strength lies not in this, however, but in the love of millions of ordinary people.
Mr Rostropovich is not only an outstanding musician. He has also been involved in philanthropic work over the last twenty five years. I recall concrete acts of philanthropy that few know about, such as how he travelled the winter roads between Moscow and St Petersburg, for example, taking medicines and medical equipment to the city hospitals.
Dear Slava [Rostropovich],
We congratulate you from the bottom of our hearts and souls on this jubilee. I want to say that not only do we know and remember your jubilee but will do everything to be worthy of your friendship.
On this occasion of celebration I would like to make it known that I have signed a decree awarding Mr Rostropovich one of Russia’s highest decorations – the Order for Services to the Fatherland I class.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: March 27, 2007, 22:31
Text version