Events
Beginning of Meeting with President of Venezuela Hugo Chavez
June 28, 2007
09:48
Novo-Ogaryovo
President Vladimir Putin: Mr President, allow me to welcome you to Moscow. I am happy to see that our relations are continuing to develop.
Your visit this time has begun with the launching of a cultural project (I had the chance to see the event take place on television). The Simon Bolivar Centre in Moscow will certainly be a place where Russian people can learn more about Latin America and its history.
A symphony orchestra from our country recently toured Venezuela under your patronage, and this event was also a big success.
Now we are set to hold talks on our economic and military-technical cooperation.
I am very happy to see you and wish you welcome.
President of Venezuela Hugo Chavez: Thank you, Mr President, thank you, my brother.
Yes, my visit did indeed begin in a very fine way. Thank you for the invitation. This is my fifth visit to Moscow. How much has changed here!
I met with the mayor of Moscow this morning. He made a very good and resolute speech. The atmosphere was very inspiring in general with dances performed, Russian and Venezuelan music, a lot of young people, and it was in a very beautiful place here in Moscow.
We have opened the Simon Bolivar Centre. We promised to do this less than a year ago. I think this is a significant event.
For us, Simon Bolivar is the flame leading us onwards, today more than ever. I spoke with the mayor about the main currents in history, about the fact that we need to revive ideas, geopolitical ideas too.
How much has changed in the world since we first met in 2001! And this change has benefited precisely our ideas and the interests of our peoples.
<…>
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 28, 2007, 09:48
Text versionEvents
Beginning of the Meeting with Deputies from the United Russia Party
June 28, 2007
23:17
Novo-Ogaryovo
President Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, dear colleagues!
I am very glad to welcome you to our traditional meeting. First of all I would like to begin the discussion by thanking you for supporting the initiatives that were outlined this year in the President’s [Annual] Address [to the Federal Assembly]. Your parliamentary faction and the party in general have shown their willingness to become involved in implementing the strategic programme that was suggested. And therefore to share the political responsibility for its results.
I consider this to be a very worthy, forthright position and I hope that it will lead to concrete, tangible results for Russian citizens. I know that at the May session of the Supreme Council and the General Council the party’s position on the suggestion of having a three-year budget was examined in detail. I would like to say at once that I am thankful that you supported the very idea of a three-year budget, especially on the eve of State Duma elections. This is a responsible and correct approach because we are all well aware that it is difficult to keep emotions at bay during election time. And one could take the budget apart in such a way so that there is nothing left except emotions, however, we must think about our citizens.
Tomorrow, 29 June 2007, the State Duma is already planning to review the three-year budget project in a second reading. In connection with this I would like you to pay special attention to ensuring that the budget supports the priorities laid out in the President’s Address.
United Russia is solidly represented in the federal and regional authorities and could also take the initiative to improve budgetary planning. I am referring to the shift from managing budget expenditures to managing results in order to better ensure that budgetary, material and human resources are allocated as efficiently as possible. It is, of course, easy to say and much more difficult to do, but we must move in this direction.
It is equally important to ensure that the key issues contained in the Address receive timely legislative support. In the economic sphere I am first and foremost referring to the adjustment capabilities and structure of the Stabilisation Fund, support for the high-tech industries and scientific research, as well as for the development of infrastructure.
As we implement these projects we certainly need your party’s support. We will not be able to efficiently and expediently accomplish these tasks without Russia’s leading political force. And I say this in full awareness of the magnitude of the challenges we face. I am not only referring to adopting the necessary legislation, but also to raising public awareness about these issues. Russian citizens must know how these important programmes are developing and their potential impact on Russia’s economic growth. And, in turn, this means improving people’s living standards.
Your party has traditionally paid a great deal of attention to social issues. You actively support the implementation of priority national projects. We expect to see the party participate actively in pension system reform. In particular, we need to carefully analyse all aspects of the creation of pension capital. And by the end of this year I would ask that the issue of the “northern” pensions be resolved through legislative means. I know that deputies have repeatedly raised this issue and when touring the country I always get asked the same questions by Russian citizens. We are able to resolve this problem today and we must do so!
One of the most pressing problems we need to resolve today is the modernisation of public utilities: eliminating sub-standard housing, engaging in a comprehensive housing renovation including by improving dilapidated housing when possible and, if not, then demolishing it.
Already by the beginning of 2008 the Housing and Municipal Services Sector Reform Fund should amount to 240 billion rubles. We both know — you have been working on the budget for many years now — that this is a significant amount of money, and especially significant when used to launch a reform. But I would especially like to draw your attention to the fact these are not resources to simply be “consumed” or just used for renovation – they are rather resources to get on top of the problem. Of course, to solve this problem we need to engage in concrete actions, including the renovation and demolition of dilapidated and sub-standard housing. However, most of these investments are designed to push ahead with the reform, move it forward, and help precisely those regions that are ready to receive help and accomplish this reform. We need to adopt the corresponding draft bill and then the law without delay. I would add that in 2007 we are planning to allocate 10 billion rubles from the Emergency Fund for primary needs concerning housing renovation and resettling people.
The United Russia party has offices in the Russian regions and the resources to promote public monitoring of reform in the housing and municipal services sector, and of course the party should do so. Personally, I have a great deal of respect for bureaucratic apparatus. It is not possible to do anything without well-meaning, honest and efficient managers but we also know how strong bureaucratic red tape still is, how embezzlement and corruption are still widespread, and that construction, housing and municipal services are some of the most corrupt sectors. Little by little, billions of rubles are lost. For that reason the public and party structures must act as the most stringent agents of control.
One of the key tasks laid out in the Address consists in preserving and developing Russian culture. And in this respect both political parties and NGOs have enormous potential in this field.
Your party could make a real contribution to popularising the Russian language by creating a Presidential Library and replenishing the resources of local libraries, especially those located in rural areas or in small towns.
The most important event of this year will be the State Duma elections. They will introduce a proportional representation system for the first time. This represents a serious step towards strengthening democratic institutions and to increasing parties’ influence in the political system. And of course these elections will address the issue of political continuity and whether the state can continue to fulfil its obligations.
This year’s regional elections have demonstrated that United Russia is ready to contend and compete. (The party received about 45 percent of the vote.) This is undoubtedly a positive party that has evidently declined to engage in populism or empty promises.
I want to once again emphasise how grateful I am. I really see what is happening: the more empty promises there are, the more problems there are. And the more it is incumbent upon responsible people to seriously try and tackle problems — yes, it’s a truism — but it is the only way to achieve better results. I am convinced that tangible actions and real contributions to resolving peoples’ problems are the winning elements in any election campaign.
During the election campaign the party should involve groups such as youth and non-party professionals more actively. The party would provide them with a good opportunity to engage in state or party work.
I am confident that the forthcoming elections will open up new possibilities and opportunities for people who wish to serve their country.
I wish you success!
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 28, 2007, 23:17
Text versionEvents
Beginning of Meeting with the Organisers and Participants in the XXIX Moscow International Film Festival
June 28, 2007
09:54
Novo-Ogaryovo
President Vladimir Putin:
Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen,
It gives me great pleasure to welcome you all to Moscow, especially on such a fine occasion as the Moscow Film Festival.
This is a particularly significant event for us. The cinema has always been the object of particular love and attention in Russia. Like the country as a whole, Russian cinema lived through some difficult times in the early and mid-1990s, but state support and active work by the profession itself has succeeded in maintaining our film industry. The professional unions have played a big part in this work. Nikita Sergeyevich Mikhalkov has done a great deal for this, and we are grateful and thankful to him and all of his colleagues for their efforts.
I think anyone can see that Russian cinema has been undergoing an active renaissance of late. Several circumstances make this possible: Russia’s deep roots and rich traditions in both theatre and cinema; rising incomes; and positive changes in the economy.
As Nikita Sergeyevich [Mikhalkov] and I were saying recently, if his Barber of Siberia were to come out now, when the country has far more cinemas, and not a few years ago, the film would have made much bigger financial and economic returns. Bigger returns mean more possibilities for creating new products and creating the economic foundation needed for the industry’s development. The industry has changed today and there are more possibilities today.
In this context, it is very important that we maintain and develop the forum that is the Moscow International Film Festival. I think that we also need to talk about our plans to join various international organisations, including the European film, video and audio support fund.
The growth in Russia’s film industry is backed up by the figures. The number of films made in the country has increased considerably and we are one of the world leaders in this respect (I think we are now in fifth place, which is a good result). The quality of our films is also improving all the time, and tangible proof of this is the results of our work on the international stage. Eight Russian films have earned recognition and won prizes at prestigious international film events in the last five months alone. All of this indicates excellent prospects for the Russian film industry.
We are very pleased to see you here. We are thankful to our country’s cinema professionals who work tirelessly to support the industry. And we are thankful to our foreign friends and colleagues for the attention they give to the Russian film industry and for the time they accord Russian cinema, including here at the Moscow Film Festival.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 28, 2007, 09:54
Text version