Events
Excerpts from the Transcript of the Meeting with Cabinet Members
August 6, 2007
21:07
The Kremlin, Moscow
On Implementing the Budget
Finance Minister Aleksei Kudrin : In the first half of 2007 federal budget revenues amounted to 3,244 billion rubles. This is equivalent to 23,4 percent of GDP. This is 206,8 billion rubles more than the same period in 2006. Had oil prices in the first half of 2007 been higher, revenues would have been higher as well. But now oil prices have risen to what they were in the second half of 2006.
Expenditures amounted to 2,171 billion rubles, 317 billion rubles more than was spent in the first half of 2006. Therefore a slight decrease in income, mainly related to oil revenues, has not resulted in lower expenditures. On the contrary, when compared with last year spending has noticeably increased.
In connection with this the budgetary surplus amounted to 1,074 billion rubles. This is about 7,7 percent of the GDP of the past six months. Much of the funds contained in the surplus accumulate in the Stabilisation Fund. And in this respect one can compare the work done by the Stabilisation Fund with that of an instrument that protects our economy from the threat of inflation.
Let me give an example. From 1 August 2006 until 1 August 2007 the amount of money in the economy – the monetary mass – increased by 51 percent. This is a record increase for the Russian economy over the past few years. Without the Stabilisation Fund there would be even more money in our economy and we would have even higher inflation. Unfortunately, inflation in Russia remains high.
President Vladimir Putin : You know there are fears associated with unfavourable conditions in certain markets, including in North American markets. How will this affect our gold and currency reserves and the Stabilisation Fund?
Aleksei Kudrin : The rules that govern the Stabilisation Fund provide that the Stabilisation Fund is constructed so as to best protect itself and to ensure a timely utilisation of a number of currencies in the future. It will therefore protect the funds it contains from crises associated with a given currency or the collapse of certain currencies. For example, we made the decision to manage our Fund in the following way: 45 percent of our stock is kept as assets or securities that are denominated in U.S. dollars, 45 percent in securities denominated in euros, and 10 percent in pounds sterling. And because the dollar is falling against the euro we are benefiting from the fact that a significant portion of our Fund is denominated in euros.
I can summarise in the following way: the Stabilisation Fund was first used on 24 July 2006. In one year the Fund’s yield – measured as of 24 July 2007 – amounted to 9,5 percent in monetary terms. That is one of the very highest rates of return for such funds.
This implies that Finance Ministry and Central Bank employees responsible for governing these funds have, one could say, set a record when compared with similar funds in other countries. This is also linked to the favourable market conditions during this period. In the long-term we should expect somewhat lower returns but this year was very good. And as a result about 3,320 million USD of revenues were generated in one year because of the Fund.
In fact, the Fund generates income that is subsequently used to resolve economic, investment and social issues since the President’s Address [to the Federal Assembly] noted that a significant part of these funds (more than 300 billion) will be allocated to development institutions. As of next year the Future Generations’ Fund will work with the retirement savings of Russian citizens and be co-financed by the Russian Federation.
Therefore both protecting and expanding the Stabilisation Fund as a result of how it is being managed serves two purposes. First and foremost it stabilises the amount of money in our economy and reduces inflation. Secondly, it helps accomplish economic and social tasks.
<…>
  Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: August 6, 2007, 21:07
Text versionEvents
Beginning of the Meeting on Developing the Oil and Gas Sector
August 6, 2007
21:32
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin : Good day dear colleagues!
We were planning to discuss the domestic oil and gas sector. As you know, our country is the world's leading producer of oil and gas. We can be counted on to provide for our own needs and for exports.
The oil and gas industry plays a key role in the country's general economic development, and is one of the prime targets for both Russian and foreign investment in our country.
However, there are obvious problems, as described in the 2007 President's Address to the Federal Assembly. Above all, how efficiently and effectively we use our fuel resources will determine whether they have the greatest possible impact.
Today, the oil sector constitutes almost 50 percent of the Russian economy, and petrochemicals about one and a half percent. Domestic companies have fallen far behind foreign companies with respect to processing petroleum and basic oil products. Because we export so many raw materials, Russia has to buy many products linked to oil and gas processing, ranging from plastics to chemical fibres. In fact, the weakness of our processing industry has substantial economic costs for us. We also lose the opportunity to occupy more lucrative niches in the global division of labour.
This issue was discussed in detail at a meeting with representatives of the business community at the beginning of the year. We then gave instructions for developing a system of incentives for increasing the amount of minerals processed in Russia. But this work has unfortunately been slow to take effect. Today I would like to talk about what steps have been taken to quickly remedy the situation and what we can do in the near future.
Regarding transport, I would suggest discussing the deadlines for the completion of the pipeline to the Pacific Ocean.
There should be no delay in resolving other long-standing problems. According to the most conservative estimates, we burn every year more than 20 billion cubic meters of gas produced as a byproduct. Such a waste is unacceptable!
The measures that must be taken are well known and have proven effective in many countries. This involves introducing a system of accounting, increased fines for environmental offences, stricter licensing requirements for the mineral extractors. Please inform yourselves on how work on all these fronts can proceed. We really do need to create an environment in which it is profitable to work in this sector. Today it is more profitable to burn gas rather than refine it. So we burn it.
In conclusion, a few words on another important topic. We have consistently been guided by a desire to offer a transparent environment for foreign investors. I have to point out that Russia has one of the most liberal regimes for allowing foreign investment in the oil and gas sector. We must work not simply at openness but for maximum understanding and transparency, so as to avoid any ambiguity whatsoever. We talked about the need to improve legislation in this area, and I would also like to speak about that today.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: August 6, 2007, 21:32
Text version