Events
Answers to Journalists’ Questions Following the Black Sea Economic Cooperation Organisation Summit Meeting
June 25, 2007
12:29
Istanbul
Question: What is your opinion of the summit’s results?
Vladimir Putin: It is well known that both the Balkans and the Black Sea region have always held a special interest for us. And we have always had special political and economic relations with these countries, with the countries of this region. This is due to a number of historical and, one might say, ethnic and humanitarian factors. And the fact that Russia, a country that benefits from new opportunities, is returning to these regions and starting to play a more prominent role is completely natural. This corresponds not only to our interests but also to those of our partners.
I highly appreciate the results we achieved during these two days.
Question: Yesterday President Parvanov confirmed that Bulgaria will participate in the South Stream project. What is your opinion of this project?
Vladimir Putin: Gazprom is extending old agreements and concluding new ones, and of course the company is interested in establishing new contracts with new transportation routes and facilities. So these amount to new infrastructure projects drawn up according to new contracts.
Of course Russia is interested in having direct access to its major European consumers. And this project is absolutely in line with our economic interests. It is certainly in the interests of our European partners as well. As we understand it, this route — just like the North European Gas Pipeline — will allow us to reach our major European consumers directly. It is no accident that many countries in southern Europe are interested in the South Stream project. You witnessed the reaction of our Italian, Bulgarian and Greek partners. It is clear that very different routes from Greece are possible. Choosing a final route naturally depends on experts’ opinions and on the project’s economic viability.
Question: You held many bilateral meetings. What do you retain from these them?
Vladimir Putin: This type of activity gives us the possibility to discuss a great many issues: both bilateral and international ones. We certainly talked about the most sensitive international issues as well as about the Kosovo settlement and certain problems in the states of the former Soviet Union.
We spent a great deal of time discussing our bilateral relations. Russia considers it important that, for example, we once again reaffirmed the principles that were established at the G8 summit in St Petersburg. Let me remind you that this concerns the shared responsibility between countries that extract, export and consume energy resources. This is in the joint statement, in the joint document. There are also several other instances that determine the operating principles in this extremely important sphere and that completely correspond with our vision of desirable relations in the energy sector.
And all the contacts and all agreements that were concluded at the bilateral level will undoubtedly benefit both the Russian economy and those of our partners.
For example we talked about construction projects in Turkey and about the need to increase trade. We talked about the growing opportunities in investment, tourism and sports.
You know that 2007 is the Year of Russian Culture in Turkey and that next year we will host a similar event on Turkish culture in Russia. All of this will undoubtedly facilitate direct contacts between our countries’ citizens.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 25, 2007, 12:29
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Greek Prime Minister Konstantinos Karamanlis
June 25, 2007
12:47
Istanbul
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Dear Mr Prime Minister, I am very glad to see you again. First of all I would like to say that we are consistently implementing all of our agreements and that almost all aspects of Russian-Greek relations are developing. This includes political and economic relations as well as major infrastructure projects.
All three countries have ratified our agreements on the construction of the Burgas-Alexandroupolis oil pipeline. And now we need to embark on the next stage of the pipeline project. We hope that today we will benefit from the opportunity to speak about these issues as well as other promising fields in which we cooperate.
Prime Minister of Greece Konstantinos Karamanlis: Dear Mr President, I am particularly pleased to see you again. Such meetings bear witness to the closeness and quality of our relations. Your visit to Athens, when we signed the Burgas-Alexandroupolis agreement with our Bulgarian colleague, remains fresh in our memory. And today's meeting is a good opportunity to discuss our cooperation in all areas, both with respect to ongoing and global issues.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: Dear Mr Prime Minister, I would like to say how pleased I am to see that our relations with Greece are developing very positively. I am referring to both bilateral relations as well as major infrastructure projects, projects that are of interest to our partners in Europe.
We are moving rapidly to implement the Burgas-Alexandroupolis project. You know that a few days ago we agreed with our Italian partners on constructing a new gas pipeline system from Russia to Bulgaria. And yesterday the President of Bulgaria reiterated his interest in implementing the project. I am very pleased that you demonstrated your interest in this project today and manifested your desire to participate in the project. Of course, the participation of Greece — one of our time-tested, long-standing partners — in this work will give it additional clout. I am confident that the project’s implementation will benefit not only its direct participants but our other partners as well.
Konstantinos Karamanlis: We reaffirmed the excellent relations that exist between our countries in recent years. We found that what we are talking about is, for example, visible in the Burgas-Alexandroupolis project.
At today's meeting we paid special attention to a new project, the project of delivering Russian natural gas to Europe via Greece. This represents a major project which will contribute to both energy security and the diversification of supplies and primary commodities to Europe. Greece is studying the proposal together with Russia, Bulgaria and Italy and is ready to embark on implementing the project.
In addition to the Burgas-Alexandroupolis pipeline’s objective economic benefits for Greece, the implementation of this project along with infrastructural energy projects with Turkey and an underwater project with Italy will allow Greece to truly become an important hub for distributing international energy resources.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 25, 2007, 12:47
Text versionEvents
Speech at the Black Sea Economic Cooperation Organisation Summit Meeting
June 25, 2007
12:18
Istanbul
Russian President Vladimir Putin:
Dear Mr Sezer! Dear ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues! First of all I would like to thank our Turkish friends for their warm welcome and the excellent organisation of our summit meeting.
The increasing economic potential of the countries of the Black Sea region has resulted in the region’s steadily increasing role in today’s world. A significant number of members of the international community are paying increased attention to our organisation’s activities. I shall emphasise that Russia is in favour of cooperation with all interested parties in the Black Sea region.
Despite its obvious successes we consider that the Black Sea Economic Cooperation (BSEC) Organisation’s potential has yet to be fulfilled and that it is too early to talk about establishing new structures. And while we are open to partnership we must recognise that internal consolidation and integration processes must be as effective as possible to allow us to reap important benefits from our geographic situation.
Today we face the very widest variety of tasks: from ensuring economic growth to conserving the Black Sea’s ecosystem and its unique cultural heritage. And we all bear responsibility for accomplishing these tasks and for the stability and prosperity of our shared home.
Improving the economic output of BSEC activities remains a key challenge. Increasing business ties will act as a solid foundation for strengthening trust and good neighbourly relations in the region. And the Russian BSEC presidency from May to October 2006 focused on precisely these issues. As a result, there are now good prospects for improving transport infrastructure in the region and for better links with European and Asian transport arteries. We are in favour of restoring passenger and ferry services between Black Sea ports. Along with this we were able to increase cooperation in fields such as energy, eliminating the consequences of emergency situations, combating organised crime, communications and tourism. We are prepared for further work in environmental issues, education, customs regulation, culture and health care.
Ensuring reliable energy supplies is becoming more and more important. In connection with this we suggest increasing the stability of the Black Sea region’s energy markets, including by introducing more long-term contracts. Diversifying energy routes, introducing new insurance policies, and better sharing partners’ financial risks through the exchange of assets are also on the agenda.
Together with our partners, we are ready to continue accomplishing major tasks that will affect not only the region’s economic well-being but also that of European and global economies.
My dear colleagues and partners, the main issue to which I would like to draw your attention is that all our projects — both large and small — must be economically viable and benefit from adequate resources. Otherwise, this would simply amount to empty talk and, eventually, disappointment.
Together with other BSEC members Russia intends to vigorously pursue projects such as the Black Sea electricity chain and participate in forming an open space and energy market in the region.
We have great expectations that the BSEC Parliamentary Assembly, the Black Sea Trade and Development Bank, the BSEC Business Council and the International Centre for Black Sea Studies will help us improve the quality of our cooperation.
New horizons are opening up in relations in the cultural and educational spheres, including in sports. The first Black Sea Games that will be held in July 2007 in Trabzon act as an example of this.
As you know the Russian city Sochi is one of the candidates to host the 2014 Olympics. We plan to establish a world-class centre for winter sports open to both Russian and foreign athletes in Sochi before this date. And we are thankful to BSEC members of parliament for supporting Sochi’s candidature to host the 2014 Winter Olympics. Of course we intend to build a truly world-class centre there and our neighbours will always be welcome, especially since it will not be far away.
Dear summit participants!
In conclusion I would emphasise that today I expect to see you restate your determination to strengthen the BSEC and thereby allow the Organisation to truly act as an effective instrument in accomplishing the economic and social tasks that face our countries.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 25, 2007, 12:18
Text version