Events
Beginning of the Meeting on Economic Issues
February 15, 2007
22:24
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon dear colleagues!
As you know, the Prime Minister of the Russian Federation has more than once raised the issue of the need to make changes to the cabinet structure.
One of the main tasks that we are embarked on together involves increasing innovation in the Russian economy. In connection with this, the Prime Minister and I made a decision and I then signed a decree on expanding Sergei Borisovich Ivanov’s spheres of responsibility within the cabinet of the Russian Federation: in addition to the military industry Sergei Borisovich will coordinate part of the civil sector of the economy. Along with this Sergei Borisovich has been promoted to First Deputy Prime Minister of Russia.
I expect that the positive results from work in the military industry will be expanded to the civil sector. As you know, the figures describing the increase in our exports of weapons and special technical equipment are proof of the positive tendencies in the military industry. Last year we achieved yet another record in this sphere – more than six billion dollars.
I believe that Sergei Borisovich accomplished the tasks he incurred in the Defence Ministry, and accomplished them well. And of course this new situation means that he can not act as Defence Minister any more. In this case, it would be impossible to sit in two chairs. We need to implement the plans we already have, plans for development and reequipment until 2012–2015. The plans have been worked out, and a great deal has already begun and is being executed. I want to emphasise that the challenge lies in fully implementing all that has been planned.
And today what we need in this sphere is a person with experience in economics and finance to accomplish this task, namely to organise effective work and to spend the huge – at least huge for our country – budgetary resources in a rational manner. In connection with this I signed a decree appointing Anatolii Eduardovich Serdiukov to the position of Defence Minister of the Russian Federation. Mr Serdiukov has worked in the Finance Ministry of the Russian Federation as the head of the Federal Tax Service for the last three years.
The Prime Minister also considers it expedient to increase work in the sphere of foreign economic relations, first and foremost with the CIS countries. I fully agree with these suggestions, and Sergei Evgenevich Naryshkin who is also being promoted to Deputy Prime Minister of the Russian Federation will assume these functions.
<…>
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: February 15, 2007, 22:24
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Defence Ministry Senior Officials and Collegium Members
February 15, 2007
22:30
Defence Ministry, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin:
Good afternoon, colleagues.
Sergei Borisovich Ivanov has held the post of defence minister since March 2001. You know better than I do what state the Armed Forces were in back in 2001.
Since then, not only has the degradation of the country’s armed forces and entire military life been stopped, but a new principle for forming the armed forces has been introduced and is now being actively implemented. This has enabled us to reduce compulsory military service to 18 months, as from January 1, 2007, and starting from January 1, 2008, it will be only one year. Furthermore, this new policy has meant that we no longer send conscripts to ‘hot spots’. Training and combat preparedness are now organised on a planned and ongoing basis, and these are the main tasks for a country’s armed forces in a time of peace.
A programme is being implemented to modernise the armed forces’ arms and equipment. Finally, the first real steps have been taken to resolve the social problems facing the armed forces, chief of which is providing military servicemen with housing. These are only the first steps, however, and much remains to be done in this area.
We have worked together to draw up and adopt realistic programmes for developing and modernising the armed forces and the state’s entire defence component for the period through to 2012–2015. The main task today is to implement these programmes and ensure that their goals are reached.
I think that Sergei Borisovich Ivanov has succeeded in reaching the objectives that I set for the Defence Ministry.
I have decided to raise his status within the Cabinet and expand his areas of responsibility. In this situation, he will not be able to ‘sit on two chairs at once’, as this would not be productive.
All of us, in the government and in the ministry itself, need to concentrate our efforts on how to ensure that we carry out all the plans we have drawn up. But developing the armed forces is only one part of the state and the government’s work, and an even greater task before us is that of introducing innovation into our entire economy. In this respect, it is important to combine the potential of the defence industry and the civilian sector of the economy. Sergei Borisovich Ivanov, not losing sight of the Defence Ministry’s interests, will be responsible for precisely this work.
It is my hope that the Defence Ministry, the part of it responsible for development, at least, will pay serious attention to the economic and financial aspects involved. I have therefore signed a decree today appointing a new defence minister, a civilian, who, I am sure, will be able to use his economic and financial knowledge to help the Defence Ministry carry out its plans.
At the same time, the military component, the General Staff, will be more important now than ever. I spoke about this today with Yury Nikolayevich [Chief of General Staff Baluyevsky]. I urge you all to give not just formal support to these decisions but to help the new minister in every way to reach the goals that have been set.
Sergei Ivanov:
Vladimir Vladimirovich, colleagues, comrades and friends,
Indeed, almost six years have gone by since Vladimir Vladimirovich presented me to you here in this same room. I remember it well. Six years seems like a long time, but it has flown by as if no more than a moment, and I would like to thank you all for the support you have given me over this time. We have worked during these six years as a well-coordinated team, and we have succeeded in addressing together the urgent tasks we had before us in 2001–2002. I will not pass judgement on how good or bad our performance has been in carrying out this work, but I do think that we have made some progress in developing the country’s armed forces.
Now I will return to purely civilian duties, but I can assure you that the armed forces have come to mean a lot to me over these last six years and I will always uphold your interests and keep them at heart. As it is, in my duties I will be responsible for the defence industry, among other things, and I will try to support our armed forces through the development of industry and innovative technology. I have only one thing to ask of you, and that is that you support the new defence minister just as you supported me. We worked together as a single team for six years, and I hope, indeed, I am certain, that this will remain the case.
Thank you very much.
Vladimir Putin: As far as making use of the defence industry’s potential to help develop innovation in our economy goes, this is an entirely realistic idea – you need only look at how well our defence industry is doing on foreign markets. Our export sales of special equipment and arms set a new record of more than $6 billion last year. This shows that our defence industry is developing, and we need to capitalise on this development and make it serve the needs of our civilian economy.
Anatoly Serdyukov: Allow me to introduce myself. I am Anatoly Eduardovich Serdyukov. I was born in 1962 in Krasnodar Region. I trained in economics and later also in law. After graduating in economics, I did 18 months military service in the armed forces. I completed officers’ training and was discharged as a reserve officer. I have been working in Moscow for the last three years as director of the Federal Tax Service.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: February 15, 2007, 22:30
Text versionEvents
Beginning of Working Meeting with Alu Alkhanov
February 15, 2007
22:45
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Alu Dadashevich [Alkhanov], I have examined the request that you made at the start of the month to be transferred to other duties. Today, I signed a decree appointing you deputy justice minister of the Russian Federation.
You have held the office of President of Chechnya since August 2004, and there has been much change for the better in Chechnya over this time. This has not been the easiest time for you in your work for Chechnya and for the country, especially in the Caucasus.
Much has been accomplished. I am confident that you will continue to do just as much for Chechnya and for the country as a whole in your new post – also not an easy one.
I also wish to inform you that today I signed a decree awarding you the Order for Services to the Fatherland IV class.
I would like to thank you for everything you have done for Chechnya and I hope to be able to count on your active work in the future. Of course, the achievements reached in Chechnya are the result of collective effort – the effort of the republic’s government, your team, and local officials – but they are also very much your achievements, the result of your work and your contribution to the common cause.
I would like to thank you for this and I wish you success in your new post.
Alu Alkhanov: Thank you, Vladimir Vladimirovich, for this positive assessment of my work as President of Chechnya. Over this time, I have done all within my power and possibilities to follow the state policy that you have defined, and to support and continue the course set by Chechnya’s first President, Akhmat-Hajji Kadyrov. This has been a policy of consolidating Chechnya’s society and achieving harmony among all its people.
Not only over the little more than two years that I was in office, but over these last six years in general, much has been accomplished. The greatest achievement, in my view, is that we have broken the backbone of Wahhabism and extremism. All institutions of state power are effectively functioning in Chechnya today. The republic is stable today, and this is not just the result of my work, of course, but is the work of many, many people, the work of officials and ordinary people, the work of the federal and regional authorities and the Chechen law enforcement and security agencies.
Chechnya has indeed taken on a whole new look over these last years, and most importantly of all, people there now have confidence in the future.
I think that the course you have set, the policy being carried out in the Chechnya today, will be continued.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: February 15, 2007, 22:45
Text version