Events
Beginning of the Meeting with Hungarian Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsany
March 22, 2007
21:11
Novo-Ogaryovo
President Vladimir Putin :
I am very pleased to see you Mr Prime Minister! Welcome!
I would like to point out that all of our previous agreements are being executed. I remember your concerns with respect to certain imbalances in our trade. Of course this imbalance still remains today but the present trend is developing in Hungary’s favour.
As far as I can tell from the documents, 70 percent of Hungary’s foreign trade balance is being compensated by increasing exports precisely to Russia. Hungarian exports to Russia amount to almost two billion dollars. And this includes machine building and communications. And exports in the communications sector – this is a strange figure – have increased 23 times! Our relations in the energy sector are also developing quite well.
I recall that you had concerns about oil deliveries. All of these problems have been resolved. We never had any problems in the gas sector and we have big plans in both the energy sector and in the transport sector.
I am very glad that you agreed to come to Moscow. We will hold intergovernmental consultations this fall and we will have the opportunity to talk about the whole range of our relations.
Welcome!
Prime Minister of Hungary Ferenc Gyurcsany:
Mr President! Thank you very much for your gracious hospitality and your kind words.
We came here to work. I see that in the last five years very positive changes have taken place in our countries’ relations. I am glad that you are not worried about changes in Hungary’s favour in our balance of trade. Indeed, our exports have room to grow. We see that over the past five years Hungarian exports of agricultural products to Russia have doubled. And, in general, Hungary’s exports have grown by more than four times.
And we are no longer holding talks with you about which products to export or which products to buy, how to cooperate in the investment sector, in the food industry, or even in the film industry. Or in the logistics sphere, in the construction of new apartments, or in the modernization of old housing.
It seems to me that the principle we have adhered to since the very beginning – less about the past and more about the present and the future – was effective. Our idea to talk less about politics and more about business and commerce also produced concrete results. I think that in many respects the results we obtained are the product of these well-founded principles.
I think that our regular meetings act as very good signal for all concerned. We were also able to develop relations that are not completely dominated by energy issues. Thanks to God and thanks to each others’ good will we are already talking about cooperation in the cultural and educational spheres.
Mr President, I came to Moscow to take stock of our results and to talk about how we can further develop our relations.
Thank you very much.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: March 22, 2007, 21:11
Text versionEvents
Beginning of Meeting with President of the Supreme Court Vyacheslav Lebedev
March 22, 2007
18:29
Novo-Ogaryovo
President Vladimir Putin: I am listening to you, Vyacheslav Mikhailovich.
Vyacheslav Lebedev: The court has quite a large number of cases before it, unfortunately. But at the same time, the number of cases shows that people are now turning to the courts and that they see the courts as an institution that can protect their lawful interests and rights.
We have been giving a lot of attention to protecting intellectual property rights of late, and the Supreme Court plenum has now drawn up a draft resolution on practice in examining cases related to criminal law protection of violations of intellectual property rights, related rights, patents and inventors’ rights, and also the practice in examining cases related to unlawful use of trademarks.
This is a very topical matter today, and I must say that the number of cases concerning violations of intellectual property and related rights has been growing over recent years. Over the last year, there has been an almost four-fold increase compared to the previous year. This shows that the law enforcement agencies are working harder to detect these crimes, which have an increasingly high profile today, but at the same time, quite a few questions are now being raised in the courts on the application of criminal law provisions in this area.
Our resolution will clarify and set out the grounds for laying criminal charges for the manufacture of counterfeit goods and the violation of related rights. The resolution will clarify what to do with counterfeit goods: as for now, it can be either destroyed or returned to the owner of the rights. But what is also very important is that, this year the issue will be settled regarding confiscation of the equipment used to manufacture counterfeit goods.
The resolution explains to judges the relation between the criminal law provisions set out in the Criminal Code and the civil law provisions, because the Criminal Code contains blanket provisions [in cases where elements of the legal violation in question are partially or fully undefined in the Criminal Code, reference can be made instead to other, non-criminal, laws and (or) regulations and statutes that define the elements not defined in the provisions of the Criminal Code – Ed.] This will help the judges find their way around more quickly in this rather complex subject matter.
I think that this will settle many of the questions our partners have regarding Russia’s accession to the World Trade Organisation, because they have also been paying attention to the fact that a lot of illegal and counterfeit production is going on in our country – audio and video products and various computer programmes. I think that if we coordinate our work with the law enforcement agencies we will succeed in changing this situation.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: March 22, 2007, 18:29
Text version