Events
Opening Address at the State Council Presidium Meeting on National Transport Infrastructure Development
November 13, 2007
23:25
Krasnoyarsk
President Vladimir Putin: Good day, dear colleagues!
Today we are going to discuss a wide range of issues related to the modernisation of Russia’s transport infrastructure.
Everyone knows that our country with its vast territory needs a modern and advanced transportation infrastructure. Without any exaggeration this is truly our path to the future. It has strategic importance for economic growth and the quality of economic transition to innovative development. I am not only talking about the creation of new opportunities for regional and international cooperation. The desirability of increasing labour mobility and communication opportunities for new resources is self-evident.
Recently, demands for transport services have continued to grow. However, the existing infrastructure is unable to meet the needs of the economy. A significant part of the infrastructure breaks down a lot, and has become technically unsuitable and obsolete. Let me give you a few examples: in the last 15 years, the number of airports in the country has been reduced fourfold. A large part of the industries devoted to rolling stock, airplanes, and ships is working at full capacity. Depreciation of fixed assets in river ports has gone from 50 to 70 percent. Utilisation levels of the airport network are nearing the critical 80 per cent mark.
The government has repeatedly issued directives to help develop transport infrastructure. Some things in this area have been accomplished, and there have been some changes. Russia has adopted and put into action a strategic plan for transport until 2020. The outline of a strategy for developing rail transport by 2030 has been approved. Just recently, I discussed this subject with Vladimir Ivanovich Yakunin, including the events related to the celebrations on the occasion of the establishment and development of the railway industry as a whole. These plans provide for the construction of new high-speed railway, the modernization of airports and roads, and the construction of new roads.
Changes in the Budget Code should improve the situation. They permit the conclusion of state contracts for the duration of the construction of major facilities. Incidentally, at our meeting today I was able to talk with the builders who are working on new bridges and highways in the region. They talked about the flaws in the system of bidding on construction jobs. I want to draw this to the attention of Igor Evgenyevich Levitina [the Minister of Transport]. Breaking this process up into separate parts, having separate tenders was probably a good idea in the beginning to ensure against corruption in this area, but now it creates difficulties for companies interested in coming up with a workable strategy for determining medium-term projects. I want to draw your attention to this.
For improving the development of transport infrastructure planned measures alone are not enough. Today we must know exactly what sort of transportation and what routes are practicable and convenient for a particular territory, primarily, of course, for residents of remote areas. For example, in the Far North, in the absence of rail service and major road transport, goods and passengers travel by river in the summer. This costs ten times less using planes, the only alternative.
At the same time, each region needs to find the optimal combination between intra- and inter-regional transport infrastructure. And so as to not be 'racing with one another', it would be good to determine both current and future transport requirements.
Next. It is irrational and unacceptable that approximately two thirds of domestic air travel goes through Moscow, and this is largely due to the stagnation of local air transport markets. We understand that, first of all, this is expensive for citizens and for business and, in addition, this overloads a metropolis that is already overburdened.
Without forming a network of public airports that includes major international hubs this situation will not change. We took the decision to create such a network last December. However, we have not witnessed a significant changes in this regard. I suggest that we talk about this today. And if my data are inaccurate, then please correct me.
Moreover, it is important that we integrate the internal transport network with international ones. I already talked about this earlier but I would like to stress this point again. This will allow us to increase our export potential, offer our partners newer, shorter, and more lucrative ways of transporting goods and passengers. And the region in which we are today, the Krasnoyarsk region, is one of the best examples of this. Aleksandr Khloponin [Governor of the Krasnoyarsk Region] told me that in some regions these lines have already been built a long time ago. Moreover, even infrastructure facilities have been built in light of the fact that we are also expected to do our part. We need to use this very obvious competitive advantage.
And yet another important issue. In recent years we have significantly increased funding from the federal and local budgets for upgrading transport infrastructure. However, these investments must be complemented by increases in private investment. This can be done by introducing modern forms of the public-private partnership. In some regions it is being done. Unfortunately, it is being done very slowly. In St Petersburg a law was adopted which contains a number of promising options and models for partnership as well as concessions. This is the kind of positive experience we need to study and copy.
I wish to draw the attention of our colleagues in the government cabinet and in the Ministry of Economic Development to this issue. I know how long it takes for regions to agree on these issues. Reaching agreements takes months, if not years. People walk back and forth between offices. Someone forgot to put a comma in one place, and the whole issue gets discussed again.
I will deal separately with the development of the transport network in the major centres and their suburbs. In rush hour they are literally suffocating because of insufficient land transport. The conclusion here is obvious: we need to work out integrated development programs for suburban and urban transport. And special emphasis should be placed on developing high-speed transport networks, express trams and other modern modes of transport. Here, obviously, you need to look for new sources of revenue and extensive extra-budgetary funds. Public-private partnership arrangements should be really attractive and beneficial not only for the state but also for those who are investing their private resources. Today I have touched only on the main topics which need to be discussed. I hope that in the course of today's discussion we can go much further.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 13, 2007, 23:25
Text versionEvents
Opening Remarks at a Meeting with Teachers and Students at the Siberian and Southern Federal Universities
November 13, 2007
17:37
Krasnoyarsk
President Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, dear friends,
We are here today in Krasnoyarsk to discuss the projects that establish two federal universities – the Siberian and Southern Federal Universities.
I would like to hear from the heads of the federal agencies, the heads of the universities, the governors, and the students, about how you think the project’s implementation is going. I think this project is important not just because it is seeing the emergence of two major federal education institutions, but more significantly because these two universities are to become the prototypes for developing a new education system in our country, a system that meets the demands of today’s and tomorrow’s life, of today’s and tomorrow’s economy. Both here and in Rostov, several educational establishments have been reorganised to form these two new universities. Four educational establishments have served as the base for forming the new university here in Krasnoyarsk.
But I want to emphasise that our aim in establishing these new universities is not simple consolidation. Our aim is to raise the quality of education services, raise the quality of education and create a new and innovative environment. Our aim is to put in place the required conditions for integrating science, education and the economy in order to create synergy out of these different areas of activity. Our aim is to produce a quality education product that will help us to tackle our main development objective, that of giving our economy an innovative character, and, of course, we also seek to bring major educational centres closer to the parts of the country that have such great potential and importance for our nation’s future. Our goal is to ensure that the specialists trained within the walls of these new universities will meet the demands of the regional and national economy and make sure that these universities will be able to respond flexibly to changes on the labour market and supply needed specialists at the right moment.
Looking at the region we are in today, the Siberian region, Krasnoyarsk, we see that there are very large and ambitious projects underway, projects in the mining and minerals industry and in high technology. These ambitious projects cannot be properly implemented without people who take the right decisions to reach the set objectives. This is our main goal. We need to ensure that our economy has a supply of qualified local professionals. This is a goal that we can achieve and I have no doubt that not only will these universities become leading centres of learning in the Russian Federation but will also take a worthy place in the international education system.
Here in Siberia at least five vectors for cooperation with foreign partners are planned, and in Rostov the number of foreign partners is even greater. This is also important because education and science today cannot be confined within national borders. In the context of globalisation these goals can be reached effectively only through combining our possibilities with those of other leading education and science centres around the world and exchanging personnel and information with them. I hope very much that not only will specialists who in their time left the Soviet Union or the Russian Federation return, but that we will also attract leading foreign specialists and offer them all the conditions necessary for their work.
But before we ensure the necessary conditions for foreign specialists, including for teachers from abroad, we need first to concentrate on putting in place the best conditions for our own students and our own teaching and research staff. This is also one of our goals in setting up these universities in Siberia and southern Russia, because only by optimising expenditure can we achieve effective investment in their development.
I remind you that almost 5.5 billion roubles are being allocated this year for the two universities, and 4.7 billion roubles will be allocated next year. Today, and after the formation of the new parliament following the election on December 2, we also need to look at how to organise financing in the future, because not only the business community (which, as you know, is also involved in the work on developing these universities), but above all the federal and regional budgets must provide a clear blueprint for how these universities will be financed in the future.
Thank you for your attention.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 13, 2007, 17:37
Text versionEvents
Concluding Remarks at a State Council Presidium Meeting on National Transport Infrastructure Development
November 13, 2007
17:29
Krasnoyarsk
President Vladimir Putin: Thank you to the State Council’s working group and the Governor of Krasnoyarsk Region, who heads the working group, for preparing all the necessary documents. As in the past, the results of today’s work will serve as the basis for drawing up a list of presidential instructions that will include practically all the recommendations made during today’s discussions in one form or another.
These recommendations include drafting and approving amendments to the federal targeted program for modernising the country’s transport system. They also include drafting proposals on state tariff policy for transport services in the aim of stimulating an increase in passenger and freight traffic in the Siberian and Far East regions, as [First Deputy Prime Minister] Sergei Borisovich Ivanov said just now.
Another recommendation I particularly want to emphasise is the need to take a decision on differentiated reductions of customs import duties on aircraft, simulators and spare parts that take into account production of these items in Russia itself. But despite the appeal by [President of the Volga-Dnieper Group] Alexei Ivanovich Isaykin, I would not include this proposal on the list for now for the simple reason that we do not yet manufacture Boeing 847 aircraft here in Russia and nor will we be doing so.
I am not against the purchase of foreign technology and equipment. I understand that our carriers need modern technology in order to be competitive on the international and domestic markets. But we need to take a well-planned and balanced approach that takes into account what First Deputy Prime Minister Sergei Borisovich Ivanov said just now.
Our policy in this area needs to take into account our plans for production within the Russian Federation. We need to sit down once more with our manufacturers, examine their development plans and possibilities and support them with financial resources, organisational help and administrative resources where it makes sense to do so. We need to ensure that they are able to produce particular technology. But this does not mean that this recommendation is being dismissed entirely, rather, we need to work on it further.
We need to carry out our own production plans. But as you know, and as I have already seen on numerous past occasions, it is easy to write everything down and issue instructions only to see later that production has not actually gone ahead. These are important issues and each word can have a great cost. But as I said, I am not opposed, I am simply saying that we need to work through these issues further.
We also need to draw up the procedures for transferring regional and local airports to the regional authorities in order to develop the regional air transport system, as has already been done in Krasnoyarsk, in St Petersburg and in other places. I ask the Transport Ministry and the Economic Development and Trade Ministry not to hold fast to assets that we are not able to manage efficiently. This process has happened all around the world and it needs to happen here too. Of course, the decisions need to be properly prepared and weigh up all the possibilities and the likelihood of positive results, but there is no need to keep hold of assets just for the sake of it.
We have also discussed the need to implement a series of measures to establish a network of major air transport hubs throughout the Russian Federation, such as the one we plan to develop in Krasnoyarsk. This network will include Moscow, St Petersburg, Yekaterinburg, Novosibirsk and Khabarovsk. It is realistic to carry out these projects in all of these major centres. Finally, it has also been recommended that the regional authorities draft and approve a comprehensive program for urban and suburban transport that would integrate different types of transport and offer a higher quality of service. There are also recommendations to take the needed decisions on providing state support for regional and local air transport, equipping airport infrastructure and so on.
Colleagues,
I want to draw your attention to the fact that what we are talking about today is not the issue of survival. We are talking about development. It is very evident to all of us that our country and economy are in a highly neglected state in terms of transport infrastructure development. Transport infrastructure insufficiencies and the problems in the energy sector are real factors holding back our economic growth today. This is what makes the issues we have been discussing today so very important. We must adopt a transport development strategy for the period through to 2030. This strategy needs to be planned in conjunction with the national economic development strategy for the period through to 2020, of course. This strategy needs to be worked on further and adopted, and this will be the first of my instructions.
Thank you very much for your work.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 13, 2007, 17:29
Text version