Events
Beginning of the Meeting with Representatives of the United Russia Party
November 17, 2007
18:35
Zavidovo, Tver Region
President Vladimir Putin: I would like to congratulate all the deputies on
the completion of their work and I am very glad to be able to do so. And not only members of the United Russia party, but also those who never voted in favour and even opposed certain decisions. As we know, the truth springs from argument: over a thousand laws have been passed.
Now I would like to talk about United Russia. Your party put forward more than two thirds of the draft bills. And in recent times, there is no doubt that everything positive that was adopted was done so with the support and direct participation of United Russia.
This applies, first and foremost, to the country’s economic and social spheres, and the establishment of new institutions to promote the country’s development: the Development Bank and the Development Fund. This refers to the pension system and to ensuring its stable development. Even though we know that there is still a great deal to do and to improve in this sphere. But the decision to increase salaries, pensions and social benefits, as well as the decision concerning maternity capital were taken in an energetic, professional and timely manner. I would like to thank you for this.
I would also like to say a few words about international activities. This particular Duma has significantly intensified work in this area. More than once we saw Russia’s position – and the position of the parliament of the Russian Federation – on various issues on the international agenda formulated in a clear and concise way. And it is certainly true that this has played a positive role in allowing Russia to assume its role in the international community and to play its proper role in world affairs.
However, we are well aware that in order to preserve much of what has been planned and not simply lose it in light of populist chitchat, we need to win the elections. We need to assure the country and Russian citizens that all of our intended plans will not be sidelined. And of course this can only be done if the positive majority that intends to engage in the country’s constructive development stays in the Duma.
United Russia had this majority in the State Duma. I very much hope that together we will be able to preserve it. And for that reason I would like to wish you success in the elections. I would like to address those who are competing for the position of deputy for the first time and to wish them success.
I am very much counting on the fact that United Russia will develop in a positive way, its internal structure will get better, and its ideological basis will get stronger. As such, the party will be more robust, stable, predictable and comprehensible for people.
The members of United Russia can well defend their position, even if, at first glance, certain decisions do not seem unequivocally attractive. But if the deputies think that these decisions are beneficial for the citizens of the country, then they need to learn to defend their positions, to state them clearly and consicely, to argue and to defend their opinions. This is very important. It is just as important as renewing the party – we need to attract new bright young people into the party. Of course, in turn they must draw on the experience and support of those people who have already been active for a long time in politics, who have already worked in administrative and political structures for a long time, and done so effectively. We need to build on the work of these people.
I wish you success.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 17, 2007, 18:35
Text version