Events
Answers to Journalists' Questions Following the Summits of the Commonwealth of Independent States, the Eurasian Economic Community, and the Collective Security Treaty Organisation
October 6, 2007
21:18
Dushanbe
Question: You have already briefly described today's CSTO summit. In general,
what can you say about your two days in Dushanbe?
President Vladimir Putin: In my opinion, the work that was done here in Dushanbe within the framework of these three organisations: the CIS, the Eurasian Economic Community (EurAsEC), and the Collective Security Treaty Organization (CSTO), was the most productive and fruitful that we have accomplished in recent years.
With regards to the CIS, after a very long and heated debate over the fate of the CIS and how to reform it, we came to an agreement and rightly endorsed a CIS development concept and concrete action plan. We agreed that we will choose one concrete theme once a year that will then be the main focus of our attention. And this year we decided to discuss migration. It is clear that this is a very sensitive issue for practically all CIS member states, including the Russian Federation. We reached an agreement about establishing a special agency to coordinate our policies on this issue, on this problem.
The results concerning the EurAsEC are almost revolutionary. We agreed to create a customs union and establish a supranational organ, a commission that will deal with customs regulations. This is not yet the creation of a customs union as such – the union will only be created after we have finished all procedures, ratifications and signed the additional agreements until 2011 – but I could mention that all participants want to do more than simply participate in this process; they want to accelerate the speed at which we are moving towards a final concrete result. Along with this, despite the fact that in its initial stage customs union is the creation of three states – the Russian Federation, Belarus and Kazakhstan – all remaining members of the EurAsEC expressed their interest in participating in this process. It is for precisely that reason that we made the decision to conduct the entire negotiations under the auspices of the EurAsEC rather than create a separate organisation somewhere on post-Soviet territory.
And finally, the CSTO also achieved significant and tangible results. Primarily, they concern military and technical supplies. We agreed on and approved a final list of all documents according to which CSTO members will receive Russian weapons and special equipment both for their own armed forces and special services, almost at Russian domestic prices.
Question: Several questions arose concerning Mr Lebedev. How would you characterise his work as head of the Foreign Intelligence Service and who will head that organisation now? In addition, it became clear that Mr Rapota has lost his powers. It would be very interesting to know what will happen to him? Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Let's start with Grigorii Alekseevich Rapota. He worked well, productively, and it is in large part thanks to his efforts that the EurAsEC achieved the results I mentioned earlier. Moreover, in my opinion, he was able to create a very business-like yet friendly atmosphere, and to a large degree this has been passed on to those who participated in the meetings today. In general, I should have said this in answer to the first question: I very much liked the constructive approach. You know that when we sat down at the negotiating table it was possible to think that we wouldn't agree on anything. It seemed that there were such differences in approach, despite the fact that experts had worked very thoroughly. Yet there still was the desire to reach an agreement – this is something that can already be felt throughout post-Soviet territory – the desire to achieve results in these issues, to be together, and to cooperate. And today this desire is becoming dominant, and is driving integration processes in post-Soviet territory. This is to a large degree thanks to Rapota's activities, and for that reason I think that it would be possible that, once I have returned to Moscow, I will sign a decree appointing him as Plenipotentiary Presidential Representative in the Southern Federal District.
Question: Now about Lebedev …
Vladimir Putin: Yes. Lebedev has, of course, done more than simply head the Foreign Intelligence Service. He is a person who, without any undue exaggeration, has already engaged in public activities as a member of the Security Council of the Russian Federation. This is something on a serious scale and it is certainly true that Sergei Nikolaevich is the person who headed a priority area of Russia's foreign policy, policy directed at CIS member countries. As to the person who will take his place as director of the Foreign Intelligence Service, you know him will. It is Mikhail Efimovich Fradkov. Thank you.
Question: Can you tell us where and in whose company you will celebrate your birthday? And maybe not only tomorrow?
Vladimir Putin: You know, I usually do not have any parties for this occasion, but I thought that because this is a good round figure, it would be possible to invite the permanent members of the Security Council and heads of the Armed Forces, including the District Commanders, commanders of different divisions and types of Armed Forces, to the Kremlin tomorrow.
Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 6, 2007, 21:18
Text versionEvents
Press Statements following a Meeting of the Eurasian Economic Community Inter-State Council
October 6, 2007
09:48
Dushanbe
President Vladimir Putin:
Ladies and Gentlemen,
We had an exceptionally full programme today.
First of all, I would like to note the productive outcome of this meeting of the Eurasian Economic Community Inter-State Council and the inter-state agreements we have signed aimed at consolidating the legal foundations of the customs union. We have also approved a list of international agreements that will form the basis of the customs union, and a work programme for establishing the customs union within the Eurasian Economic Community by 2010.
I would like to note that the signing of these agreements creates the legal foundation that the customs union needs in order to begin operating in practice. This will happen once all the procedures and relevant documents set out in these basic agreements have been completed and signed, by 2010. This will make business contacts within the Eurasian Economic Community more effective and will help to strengthen overall economic stability in the region.
The transition to this new stage in integration is based on the agreements reached in August 2006 on the creation of a customs union between Belarus, Kazakhstan and Russia within the framework of the Eurasian Economic Community. The plan is that the Community’s other member countries will join the customs union when and as they are ready to do so.
I would also like to note that the Eurasian Economic Community has considerably expanded its international contacts over these last years. We all share the view that this is a positive trend and that we should consolidate it. Today, we approved the UN General Assembly draft Resolution on Cooperation between the United Nations and the Eurasian Economic Community. This issue is on the agenda for the 62 session of the UN General Assembly and we hope that the adoption of this resolution will help to further broaden the range of the Community’s partnership relations.
Regarding further consolidation of the Eurasian Economic Community’s positions on the international stage, our work continues in accordance with the recently approved concept for the Community’s international activities.
A traditionally important issue is that of energy sector relations between the Community’s member states. The Community’s Secretary General informed us today about work on two important projects: the concept for effective hydro-energy resource use in the Central Asian region, and the concept for forming a common energy market between the Community’s member states. These documents are currently both in the approval stage. We hope that their signature will enable our countries to achieve new successes in developing our energy dialogue and in practical cooperation in the energy sector. We all agreed that this work should be based on the principles and rules of international law and that top-level independent international experts should be involved.
Overall, this summit has once again confirmed that the Eurasian Economic Community is a robust and fast growing organisation. I am confident that the decisions and documents adopted in Dushanbe will help us to further develop the integration process within the Community. I note that we have taken a very important new step towards developing the integration process in the post-Soviet area.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 6, 2007, 09:48
Text version