Opening Address at a Ceremony Laying the Cornerstone of a New Plant for the Production of Stamped Car Parts and a Metals Service Centre
December 21, 2007
12:21
St Petersburg
President Vladimir Putin: Dear colleagues, friends!
Ladies and gentlemen!
I want to congratulate everyone on a landmark event, the beginning of the construction of a factory for the production of automotive components.
As you know, we have just opened a new Toyota factory. Only two years ago we laid the first stone for this factory, and today it has produced its first car. This is an assembly operation, and I want to point out that, as we just saw in the movie, all the major auto companies are coming to St Petersburg, are coming to Russia.
The five biggest automobile companies in the world are planning to set up plants in St Petersburg, and one is already working in the province. In fact, St Petersburg is becoming one of the most important centres in Russia and the entire world for the production of automotive technology. This is not only the result of our economic policy in recent times but also of macroeconomic indicators and other factors. Of course this is the result of sensible actions by the government in regards to industry. This involves the government in making difficult decisions, but we have done so knowingly, and the results are clear: work on major automotive factories has already begun, which means technology, jobs, a high level of training and skills, and that means in-house development.
Of course today we are here to celebrate a very pleasant event, because if in the next few years, Russia produces something like 300,000 cars with the help of foreign investment, by the year 2010 we will have more than a million, and by 2012–2015 there may be more than a million produced in St Petersburg alone.
Specialists are well aware that once a certain number of cars are produced in a country, the components should be made in the same country, because it is economically more feasible. In any case, manufacturers of components and various automotive parts must be based in the country where a certain amount of automotive technology is produced. Within the next two to three years Russia will be in such a situation and it will be economically viable to produce automotive components right here, on Russian territory. This is the first serious step in that direction.
This is a very important step, and today we are planning to install new equipment, introduce an advanced production line, and to introduce resource-saving technologies. Already in the next little while we plan to establish the full automobile production cycle in St Petersburg. All of this will help promote the development in the automotive industry throughout Russia.
I would also note the important social role and significance of this project – more than 1500 jobs will be created, and highly skilled workers will need to receive training here. That is what we saw today at the Toyota factory. I was glad to talk with the guys, with young Russian specialists working in this enterprise, who already have a good education and training. Here it will certainly be the same but here, as you know and understand, it is a Russian company that is the major investor, something that is especially gratifying. This implies that our Russian producers have already reached a level that will allow them to not only develop domestic production in such a crucial and high-tech oriented sector such as automotive manufacturing, but it will also act as an integral part of global production. This is very pleasant and gratifying to see.
In conclusion I would like to once again wish you success in constructing this new production facility that should be fully consistent with the challenges facing the automotive industry in Russia. I would like to sincerely wish you success as well as, of course, my best wishes for the New Year. Thank you for your attention.
* * *
Vladimir Putin (speech before the ceremony for laying the symbolic plaque): Exactly two years ago in a similar location we laid the cornerstone for the Toyota factory. I hope that in two years we will we witness something comparable to the production of the first car, which we have seen today.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 21, 2007, 12:21
Direct link: en.kremlin.ru/d/24742Events
Meeting with Directors of Toyota Motor Corporation
December 21, 2007
12:15
Shushary Village, Leningrad Region
President Vladimir Putin: I would like to congratulate all of us once again on the launch of this plant and the production of the first car. Two years ago we were here in an empty field and laid the cornerstone of the future enterprise. Frankly speaking, it was hard to imagine back then that two years later the plant would already be completed and would begin operation, but here we are today at this happy event.
More than five billion roubles have been invested and more than 600 new jobs created, and this is just the first stage. There will be even more staff once the other production lines and workshops begin operation, and this means more revenue for the budget and more jobs for the population.
This is a good example of cooperation between the Russian Government, the regional authorities, and one of the world’s leading carmakers, Toyota Motor Corporation. This is a very important project not just for St Petersburg and the northwest region, but for all of Russia, because it is the first serious step towards establishing the full car production technological cycle in St Petersburg.
We expect that foreign investment will lead to Russia producing 300,000 cars a year by 2010, and this figure should reach around 1 million a year by 2011–2012. By 2015, St Petersburg alone will produce around 1 million cars a year at five plants with foreign investment.
I would like now to address Mr Mori, my old friend and the former Japanese prime minister. I would like to say that relations between Russia and Japan are growing stronger and that this also makes an important contribution to Russian-Japanese relations and raises the level of trust between our two countries. If you recall, the first time we met, we spoke about the need to develop our trade and economic ties. This year, our bilateral trade has increased by 40 percent and has reached a figure of 18.5 billion dollars.
The development of trade and economic ties without any doubt helps to create the conditions for strengthening Russian-Japanese relations in general and creates the foundation we need for resolving the other problems we have been trying to resolve for many years now, problems that I am sure we will resolve.
The company and the employees of this plant that has opened here now have the concrete tasks of satisfying the large Russian market’s demand for their products and entering the markets of European countries.
I would like to say thank you to the engineers, the workers, and everyone who helped build this enterprise. I wish you all success. I also want to give you all my best wishes as the New Year approaches. This enterprise’s staff will be lucky enough to celebrate the New Year twice – according to the Russian and Japanese calendars. Thank you.
H. Okuda (As translated): Two years ago, we laid the cornerstone of this plant. I would like to say first of all that this plant was built within two years thanks to the effort and ability of the Russian staff and the Russian designers. I was president of Toyota at the time and also president of the Japanese federation of economic organisations, Kaidanren. Now I am older and have therefore left these posts. I am sure that the company will develop its business.
As I said, I have retired now, but I was told yesterday that I have been named to be a special adviser to the prime minister, so I will still have work to do for the Government and the imperial family. I also have another responsibility in this area, namely as concerns development in the Far East, namely Primorsky Region, and this is also an area in which I am working hard at the moment.
Incidentally, I recently travelled on the Trans-Siberian railway.
Vladimir Putin: What a coincidence, I also decided to retire and everyone wants to give me new appointments, so I am going to have to keep working. I agree that the Siberian project is very important. Developing the infrastructure in the Far East is one of our priorities, so we will be working together with you on this.
K. Watanabe (As translated): For my part, I would like to thank you, Mr President, and thank everyone here today. It is thanks to your efforts that we have succeeded in building this plant in such a short time – two-and-a-half years.
I would also like to thank you, Mr President, and everyone here, for taking part in this ceremony today. This is genuinely touching.
As you noted, the Russian market has development potential and is becoming ever more important. I have a dream: to work harder in this direction and expand our business in Russia.
Vladimir Putin: This will indeed be the case, because people’s incomes here are growing by 11–12 percent a year, and this means that the opportunities for you to sell your products on the Russian domestic market will grow steadily.
Russians currently buy around 2 million cars a year, more than in India, for example, where the population is much bigger, ten times bigger, than the Russian population.
K. Watanabe (As translated): Our policy aims at protecting the environment and conserving energy. We want to use technology that respects people and respects the environment. We have already made considerable progress in this direction, and we want to use this to help Russia too.
Vladimir Putin: You need have no doubt that the level of relations that has developed today between the federal government, the regional authorities and your company will not only continue, but that we will do everything we can to ensure that your business feels at ease and in a reliable environment in Russia and that new incentives emerge for developing your production.
Yoshiro Mori (As translated): As I said at the ceremony today, this was a fine conclusion to the plant’s construction, and that this has been possible is above all thanks to the efforts of the governor of St Petersburg and the ministers present here today. But your support has been most important, Mr President, and I think it has contributed to this work.
When we met in South Korea, you said that we should build tunnels together from Hokkaido to Sakhalin.
I think that work to upgrade the Trans-Siberian railway will make a contribution to Japanese business, and I think this will have great importance for Japanese-Russian relations.
H. Okuda was named yesterday to be special adviser to the prime minister. We intend to continue our cooperation in order to upgrade the Trans-Siberian railway.
Vladimir Putin: Careerist.
Yoshiro Mori (As translated): I would like to take this opportunity to pass on Mr Yamasita’s greetings. Do you still do judo?
Vladimir Putin: Of course, he and I even recorded a video disc, a video supplement to a textbook on judo. I think it will be in the shops in January or February. The money raised will be used to fund development of children’s judo.
I am very grateful to Mr Yamasita for finding the time to come to Russia to take part in this recording. Please pass on my greetings to him.
Toyota’s arrival here is an important event in itself but it is also a good signal for other investors. When I came here I looked around and saw that General Motors is working actively on construction of its enterprise, Nissan is also moving in and then we have Hyundai and Suzuki also in line. But it is a significant event that Toyota was the first to come here.
I know how closely big Japanese business works with the country’s government, and I know that without the Japanese government’s support this project is unlikely to have been possible.
I would like to say a couple more words. I want to thank Mr Mori, who I know has worked all these years to create a favourable climate in Russian-Japanese relations. I know that he regards Russia very well and that he even has personal reasons for this: his father is buried on Russian soil. But all of our Japanese colleagues who have succeeded Mr Mori as prime minister have been committed to developing cooperation with the Russian Federation. I ask you to pass on my very best wishes to the Prime Minister.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 21, 2007, 12:15
Text version