Events
Beginning of the Meeting with President of the People’s Republic of China Hu Jintao
August 16, 2007
11:56
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
President Vladimir Putin : Mr President!
It is a pleasure to meet with you again, this time because of our work with the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation.
I have to say that relations between our countries are progressing very well. First and foremost, I want to point out the success of the Year of China in the Russian Federation. We are off to a good start on this campaign: by our count some 150 events have already taken place.
Our economic relations are developing steadily. I think that this year we can confidently predict that our trade will exceed 40 billion dollars.
I know that you are concentrating on the development of Russian-Chinese relations in all areas. I want to emphasize that in Russia we have also paid special attention to the development of our bilateral relations. We are all working hard on transforming our relations into ones with strategic importance.
I am confident that our meeting today will benefit our general interests.
President of China Hu Jintao: Dear Mr President!
I fully share your sense of the relations between our countries. This year, relations between China and Russia continue to move forward in all areas. First and foremost, we have increased high level contacts and we are strengthening mutual trust and support.
Secondly, with your active support and that of the Russian government and various business circles, the events associated with the Year of China in Russia have been successful and have already had positive repercussions.
Thirdly, there has been further progress in our practical cooperation in all fields. Trade has increased rapidly. In the first half of this year it was up more than 30 percent. As you have already noted, there is every reason to believe that the full amount of trade for 2007 will exceed 40 billion USD.
It is encouraging to note that trading structures have improved. Russian exports of machinery products to China have maintained their positive dynamic.
The clear progress in our relations is bound up with the increased attention you and the Russian government cabinet have extended to them. It is also linked to the huge support they have had. We are prepared to increase our efforts and, using the agreements that were reached during my visit to Russia in March of this year, join in a general effort to advance our practical cooperation and take the strategic partnership between China and Russia to new heights.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: August 16, 2007, 11:56
Text versionEvents
Press Statement Following the Session of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation Council of Heads of State
August 16, 2007
20:53
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Vladimir Putin : Ladies and gentlemen!
First and foremost I want to join in thanking the President of Kyrgyzstan, Kurmanbek Salievich Bakiev, and all our Kyrgyz friends for the warm welcome.
I share my colleagues’ high opinion of the outcome of the SCO summit. Our meeting here in Bishkek has been really productive. And the decisions taken will, I am sure, further strengthen our Organisation.
The main business today has been the signing of the Agreement on Long-Term Neighbourly Relations, Friendship and Cooperation. This document provides a guide for working together in the future. It also creates a good foundation for the comprehensive development of the SCO and for increasing cooperation among members of the Organisation and observer states.
Today we have also signed important agreements concerning the ministries of culture and the SCO financial and economic structures, the Business Council and the Interbank Association. Our approach to regional and international issues is reflected in the Bishkek Declaration.
One of the SCO’s topical challenges remains working together in the fight against terrorism. The way terror currently operates across borders makes it a general threat for our countries and the SCO will deal with it using the mechanisms established by the Organisation. As you know, tomorrow we will participate in the final phase of the SCO anti-terrorist training exercises in the Chelyabinsk region of Russia.
In conclusion, I want to thank my colleagues for their support of the Russian proposal to hold the 2009 session of the SCO Council of Heads of State in the Russian Federation.
I am confident that relations between our countries will continue to develop on the basis of ”Shanghai Spirit“ of cooperation. Our peoples' mutual desire for friendship and partnership will help create and implement new initiatives and projects in the cultural, educational and economic spheres.
Thank you for your attention.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: August 16, 2007, 20:53
Direct link: en.kremlin.ru/d/24470
Text versionEvents
Speech at the Expanded Session of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) Council of Heads of State
August 16, 2007
21:44
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Vladimir Putin: Dear Kurmanbek Salievich [President of Kyrgyzstan Kurmanbek Bakiev]!
Dear heads of state and representatives from SCO observer countries!
I would like to greet the participants of the sixth SCO summit meeting. Today we are going to discuss the results of our joint work over the last little while and set our future priorities.
We generally agree that as the years go by the SCO is becoming an increasingly important factor in strengthening security and stability in Central Asia. The Organisation is working actively to increase the economic potential of member countries and to harmonise integration processes in the region.
Today we will sign Agreement on Long-Term Neighbourly Relations, Friendship and Cooperation. This document should define our future cooperation. And it will act as a basis for developing concrete programmes in each of the areas in which we cooperate.
It is evident that our key task remains tightening security in SCO member countries. And first and foremost eliminating the threats of terrorism, separatism and extremism. And in connection with this, the process of increasing our consultations and joint activities in the fight against terrorism takes on a special value.
It follows that we should pay serious attention to improving the legal foundations of our Regional Anti-Terrorist Structure. We must finish work on the agreements that regulate the regime for carrying out anti-terrorism training exercises and train the staff in the according departments of SCO member states. And we must also lay down a legal framework for developing contacts with SCO observer countries.
Continuing to set up a partnership network between regional counter-terrorism structures is also on the agenda. The foundations already exist. Ties with the Collective Security Treaty Organisation and the CIS Anti-Terrorism Centre are consistently becoming stronger. Representatives of the ASEAN Security Forum and other organisations have said on more than one occasion that they are ready to engage in dialogue with SCO on how best to face new challenges and threats. And of course closer cooperation with the corresponding UN agencies is in all of our interests.
The system designed to engage in a joint rapid response to threats the region faces will increase SCO potential to act in security issues. Its elements will be developed during tactical training exercises and one of them, Peace Mission 2007, is presently taking place in Russia in the Chelyabinsk region. We are going to attend its final phase tomorrow.
As you know, the training exercises are proceeding successfully and demonstrate heightened technical capabilities and better coordination between departments. And in connection with this, we should review the issue of regularly holding such exercises on the territories of different SCO countries.
The fight against illegal drug trafficking remains topical for SCO member countries. I am referring to conducting joint operations, training personnel, and analysing the relevant national legislation. We expect the leaders of anti-drug agencies to conduct an in-depth analysis of the situation and make proposals for conducting systematic work in this sphere.
As we fight against drug trafficking we expect close cooperation with SCO observer states and first and foremost the Afghan government, the UN and the entire international community.
It is important to continue building the anti-drug security belt along Afghanistan. This could be supplemented by financial security zones that would involve the financial monitoring services of SCO member countries in this work. This would increase the efficiency of the struggle against both drug trafficking and illegal incomes.
I am convinced that all SCO member countries are interested in stability in Afghanistan. In connection with this it would be useful to discuss the various possibilities for assisting Afghanistan's development during a special conference. I would suggest that we instruct representatives from our foreign ministries to work on this question. I am thinking of the fact that we already have an SCO-Afghanistan contact group.
We are ready to increase cooperation within the SCO with regards to anticipating emergency situations. And eventually establishing an SCO centre for preventing natural and man-made disasters.
Another significant area in which we cooperate includes hosting major international events. In particular, I am referring to ensuring security during the Beijing Summer Olympics next year. As you know, representatives of our countries' security councils agreed on this at a recent meeting. We know how much the Chinese government is preparing for this major international event, the Beijing 2008 Olympics, and we wish them success.
I am sure that the experience they gain will help us as we host the Winter Olympics in Sochi. I would like to use this occasion to once again thank our colleagues for their support and good wishes as Sochi was chosen to host the 2014 Olympics.
Dear Colleagues!
Developing economic cooperation plays a special role in our countries' partnership. This creates the necessary basis for accomplishing our key overall goal, namely increasing our citizens' quality of life.
Expanding cooperation in the energy sector will be able to act as a powerful stimulus for regional projects that are in the interests of all SCO members. I am confident that the energy dialogue we have begun, the links we have made between our national energy strategies, and the creation of an Energy Club will define the priority areas of our future cooperation.
Today there are attractive opportunities in the modernisation of transport infrastructure, and with respect to joining the European and Asian transport corridors. Cooperation in the knowledge-based industries should help us develop the innovative sectors of our domestic economies. And it should act as particular help in allowing us to develop our information and telecommunications sectors.
The implementation of economic projects is inextricably bound up with strengthening relations between financial institutions. And it is very important that these steps are already being taken. For example, the Russian VTB group plans to open their affiliates or subsidiaries in SCO member countries. We expect that the SCO Interbank Association will make a major contribution to this work.
There is a need to move forward and develop cultural contacts using the SCO framework. I believe that such an endeavour would benefit from the experience and capabilities of the CIS. This would involve multilateral projects in the fields of culture, science, education, and work with youth, using the existing structures in the Commonwealth. For example, the CIS Interstate Humanitarian Cooperation Fund.
In this context, an important subject involves establishing the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation University. It could be a network of educational institutions from member states offering coordinated educational programmes. This can markedly increase the opportunities our young people have to receive a first-rate modern education, and for teachers and researchers to develop academic contacts.
I think that this issue could be worked out by ministries of education, and then presented to the SCO Council of Heads of States.
A problem that carries special social significance relates to continuing our joint efforts in the field of public health. Thus, at the initiative of the Russian members of the SCO Business Council in July and August 2007, several teams of doctors did check-ups preventing infectious diseases and tuberculosis in Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan. And very soon, sometime this fall, there will be a mobile rail-based medical centre operating in SCO countries.
The plans for an SCO Health Organisation are worth pointing out. Obviously, the coordinated efforts of SCO countries in this area could enhance the quality of medical care for our citizens.
And, of course, we would welcome the involvement of observer states in these and other similar projects.
Dear participants!
In this new century the world is changing rapidly. The old way of thinking in Cold War blocs is out of date. New centres of power and economic growth have appeared. Like other countries of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation, Russia supports the strengthening of a multi-polar international system that provides equal security and development possibilities for all countries. We believe that security in a globalising world is indivisible. And attempts to deal with global and regional problems in isolation have no future.
Since it was established, the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation bears witness to the effectiveness of collective efforts to counteract contemporary challenges and threats and expand the horizons of business and cultural cooperation. And there is no doubt that every year the SCO's precious formative role will continue to grow.
In conclusion, I wish once again to express my gratitude to our Kyrgyz colleagues for the work they have done to prepare for today's meeting. I would also like to wish our Tajik friends, who are taking over the chairmanship of the SCO, every success in setting and attaining laudable new goals for our cooperation.
Thank you for your attention.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: August 16, 2007, 21:44
Text version