Events
Beginning of the Working Meeting with Natural Resources Minister Yury Trutnev
May 15, 2007
23:19
Novo-Ogaryovo
Natural Resources Minister Yury Trutnev: First of all I would like to report that work on bringing the forestry code into force is proceeding. We had to develop and adopt 23 government cabinet resolutions. And at the present time all have been completed. Every month we gather together all the leaders of the Russian regions and listen to all their comments. We try to ensure that legislative changes do not affect work in the forestry sector.
In addition, we are working on issues relating to theft in the forestry sector. We are monitoring the entire territory of the Russian Federation for these purposes. Today one of the most acute problems exists in the Chita region. Unfortunately, the amount of wood obtained through illegal means is greater than the amount that is obtained legally. We have uncovered two private customs points and more than 250 loggers. A significant amount of wood stolen from other regions passes through the Chita region. On Saturday we are going to fly to the region with the Interior Minister [Rashid Nurgaliyev], a large team that includes customs officers and the FSB, and examine all these problems.
President Vladimir Putin: The adoption of a new law, the Forestry Code, should have a positive influence on the forestry sector.
Yury Trutnev: Naturally.
Vladimir Putin: And the second issue.
Yury Trutnev: Today we held a meeting on filling the pipeline between eastern Siberia and the Pacific Ocean. We gathered all the companies that own permits together and updated the permits because a significant number of them did not have deadlines — neither for geological studies nor for commencing extraction. This work has now been completed.
There are no problems relating to major companies. Surgutneftegaz is working ahead of schedule and Rosneft is working according to schedule. However, there are problems today linked to smaller companies, and this type of company accounts for about 30 percent of the reserves. We are going to take all possible measures in this regard. We are going to revoke the permits of those who cannot cope with these measures and then redistribute them. However, we will try to do everything possible to ensure that the pipes are filled up with the promised amounts according to schedule.
Vladimir Putin: Do you have a vision of how to resolve this problem? Is this issue one that, despite these problems, can be resolved or do you expect that the problems will persist?
Yury Trutnev: There will not be any strategic problems.
Vladimir Putin: If everything gets done and done according to schedule, will the pipe be filled?
Yury Trutnev: Yes, it will.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 15, 2007, 23:19
Text versionEvents
Beginning of the Meeting with German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier
May 15, 2007
22:26
Novo-Ogaryovo
President Vladimir Putin: Mr Minister!
Dear Colleagues!
Good afternoon! I am pleased to welcome you to Moscow.
Germany is carrying a double burden and double responsibility in 2007 as head of the European Union and of the G8. If we are able to lend a hand and provide support then we will be very glad to do so. Especially since we really are in the final stages of preparing for a Russia-European Union summit and that you are very busy preparing the G8 summit.
Two days ago I had the opportunity and the pleasure of talking on the telephone with Madam Federal Chancellor. We were once again able to ascertain that our bilateral relations are very close and developing very intensively. Dear Mr Minister, we are ready to talk about our bilateral relations and about international affairs that interest both Russia and Germany and, therefore, Russia and the European Union.
German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier: Mr President, I would like to express my heartfelt thanks for the welcome we have received.
I know that your day is full of foreign visitors. We are all the more grateful to you for finding time to meet with us on the eve of the EU-Russia summit. Mr President, I know that in 2001 you said that you do not only support European integration but that you are also hopeful about this process. And in addition to this you said something else that I cannot quote but that I can paraphrase: you said that we are still very closely tied to our traditional thinking patterns and that when we talk about partnership we are, at times, not trusting enough.
Your two statements proved correct but in cases where there is not enough trust we must not assume a position of expectation and waiting, and we must not remain silent when treating areas in which we have a conflict of interests.
I could also say that I believe that both parties at this table are interested in overcoming our differences of interest – sometimes even conflicts of interest – and preventing them from becoming major political conflicts. That is yet another reason why I am here today: to look for opportunities that would allow us to overcome our differences of opinion before the next summit and perhaps put an end to them in the coming weeks.
Vladimir Putin: I think that, thank God, we do not have any conflicts yet. We have different opinions about how to solve certain problems but both parties have the desire to see these problems resolved. In my opinion, this is already quite positive.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 15, 2007, 22:26
Text version