Events
Beginning of a Meeting with Chinese Prime Minister Wen Jiabao
November 5, 2007
12:43
The Kremlin, Moscow
Vladimir Putin: Dear Mr Prime Minister! Dear friends!
Allow me to welcome you warmly to the Kremlin.
First, I wish to congratulate you on the success of the Congress of the Communist Party of China and to convey our very best wishes to our friend, newly elected to the high office of President of the party, [Hu Jintao].
The XVII Party Congress outlined big development plans for the People's Republic of China, and I very much hope that our cooperation will significantly contribute to the implementation of these programmes.
For both Russia and China, our cooperation is an essential element in the development of our respective countries. In the first nine months of 2007 our trade grew by more than 41%.
President Hu Jintao came to the opening of the Year of China in Russia. You have arrived for the final stage of this major event. This is further evidence of the development of our relations in the cultural sphere.
I want to thank you, Chairman Hu Jintao and all our Chinese friends for the assistance provided to our rescuers during the search for the Russian tourists who were victims of the recent disaster.
Chinese Prime Minister Wen Jiabao: Dear Mr President!
At the invitation of the government of the Russian Federation, I have come back to Russia to participate in the closing ceremony of the national Year of China in Russia, as well as hold another regular meeting between the heads of the two governments.
We were immediately struck on our arrival by the very warm reception from you and from the Russian government. I want to express my heartfelt thanks.
First of all I would like to convey to you my warmest greetings and good wishes from President Hu Jintao, and thank you for your congratulations on the successful completion of the XVII Congress of the Communist Party of China.
Our party's Congress went very well. I would like to inform you of two things: first, we took stock of the reforms and opening up over the past 30-odd years, and have concluded that we need to build and carry out reforms in the country to continue on the path of socialism with Chinese characteristics. Secondly, China will continue its peaceful foreign policy and in doing so we have made cooperation with Russia a priority.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 5, 2007, 12:43
Text version