Events
Beginning of Meeting with President and Chairman of the Board of VTB Andrei Kostin
December 4, 2007
19:50
Novo-Ogaryovo
Andrei Kostin: I would like to say a few words about the general situation today on the banking market. It must be said that we are seeing a crisis situation on the banking market in the United States and Western Europe. Many leading Western banks have made losses and capitalisation of the U.S. banking sector has dropped dramatically. It is enough to say that Citibank, the world’s biggest bank, has seen its share price fall by almost half this year. Many experts now suggest that the banking crisis in the U.S. will lead to a slowdown in the U.S. economy. Seen against this background, the Russian banking sector is showing enviable stability and steady and successful development. The measures taken by the Government and the Central Bank have had results. There is sufficient liquidity in the Russian banking sector today. Overall, the clients of Russian banks have no need to worry.
Vladimir Putin: In short, everything is going badly over there but everything is fine here.
Andrei Kostin: The situation is normal here, though I wanted to say that Russian banks do have need of additional long-term liquidity because it has become more expensive and difficult to borrow abroad, and this was an important source of long-term resources for investment. The banking sector expects that the measures the Government has outlined now to make more active use of the funds we have within the country will have a positive impact on maintaining the growth rate in the banking sector and lending to the economy, and ultimately this will be reflected in higher economic growth overall.
Vladimir Putin: You know the Government’s position. The Government and the Central Bank are ready to support the country’s banks, but they must do this carefully so as to avoid upsetting our macroeconomic indicators. I am sure that there will be progress in this direction. What are the results of your work?
Andrei Kostin: The results are good and steady. We expect a record profit this year. Our assets have increased by 60 percent already this year and our credit portfolio by around 80 percent. We marked a record this week – three billion dollars in total mortgage loans made to the population. Overall, every day, 150 Russian families in 90 different towns throughout the country improve their housing situation with the help of housing loans made by VTB Group. The housing loan crisis that America currently faces is not a problem in Russia. We are continuing to develop our housing loan programme and consumer loans for the population and all different types of services, including lending to Russian corporations, of course. There is growth in every segment today. Overall, our results are better this year than last year.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 4, 2007, 19:50
Text versionEvents
Beginning of a Meeting with the Secretary General of the Iranian Supreme Council for National Security, Said Djalili
December 4, 2007
20:49
Novo-Ogaryovo
President Vladimir Putin: I am pleased to note that contacts at all levels between Russia and Iran have intensified recently. I remember how warmly you welcomed us in Tehran. The summit meeting of the leaders of the Caspian region, organized by Iran, was certainly a success, and this is a serious move towards cooperation. In the bilateral format, we have stepped up cooperation on almost all fronts. Most recently, our Foreign Minister visited Tehran again.
I am very pleased to note the intensification of contacts between your country and the IAEA. We welcome the expansion of cooperation and expect that all your nuclear programmes will be open, transparent and conducted under the supervision of this international organization.
We are very happy that you are here. Please convey our very best wishes to the Iranian leadership, the spiritual leader of Iran and the President.
Secretary General of the Iranian National Security Council Said Djalili: In the name of Allah the Merciful and the Compassionate, I am very pleased to have the opportunity to meet with you and would like to express my congratulations on behalf of both the Iranian leadership and the Iranian people on the convincing victory in the recent elections. These were very important elections. For political stability and the fundamental strength of the state, we always adhere to two basic principles. The first is cooperation, the second-healthy competition of political forces. The victory on 2 December in the elections demonstrated a high level of political involvement and the healthy competition that exists among Russia's political forces. This makes this victory particularly significant. In this regard, I would like to convey to you my most sincere congratulations.
Said Djalili: Your visit to Tehran was a turning point in the history of relations between our countries. I think that it can be said without exaggeration that with this visit our relations entered a new phase. I mean the relationship between Russia and both the Iranian leadership and the Iranian people. Fortunately, today, our political relations are going through a period of strategic partnership. And our leadership's political will is that our relations are long-term, strategic and forward looking. Today, our prospects have developed in a way that gives both Russia and Iran domestic political stability and continued steady development.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 4, 2007, 20:49
Text version