Events
Vladimir Putin`s Address on the Occasion of Boris Yeltsin’s Passing
April 23, 2007
22:07
Moscow
Boris Nikolaevich Yeltsin, the first President of Russia, has passed away. His presidency has inscribed him forever in Russian and in world history.
A person who began a new era has passed away. A new democratic Russia was born during his time: a free, open and peaceful country. A state in which the power truly does belong to the people.
The first President of Russia’s strength consisted in the mass support of Russian citizens for his ideas and aspirations. Thanks to the will and direct initiative of President Boris Yeltsin a new constitution, one which declared human rights a supreme value, was adopted. It gave people the opportunity to freely express their thoughts, to freely choose power in Russia, to realise their creative and entrepreneurial plans. This Constitution permitted us to begin building a truly effective Federation.
We knew Boris Nikolayevich as a brave and a warm-hearted, spiritual person. He was an upstanding and courageous national leader. And he was always very honest and frank while defending his position.
Boris Yeltsin assumed full responsibility for everything he called for, for everything he aspired to. For everything he tried to do and did do for the sake of Russia, for the sake of millions of Russians. And he invariably took upon himself, let it in his heart, all the trials and tribulations of Russia, peoples’ difficulties and problems.
And today I would like to express my most sincere and profound condolences to Naina Iosifovna and to Boris Nikolayevich’s friends and relatives.
We grieve with you. We will do everything to ensure that the memory of Boris Nikolayevich Yeltsin, his noble thoughts and his words “take care of Russia” will always act as our moral and political watchwords.
I declare 25 April 2007 a day of national mourning.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 23, 2007, 22:07
Text versionEvents
Beginning of Meeting with U.S. Defence Secretary Robert Gates
April 23, 2007
20:58
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Mr Defence Secretary, colleagues,
It is a great pleasure for us to welcome you to Moscow. I am very pleased that you have accepted the invitation I made in Munich, and I am also very happy that President Bush has reacted so speedily and sent you to Moscow.
By the way, I am to speak with him on the telephone after our meeting today. I will be able to pass on to him the best wishes from his defence secretary in Moscow. I am very pleased that such a busy political season is opening now in Russian-U.S. relations.
[U.S. Secretary of State] Ms Rice will be visiting Moscow soon. Then I will be meeting with the U.S. President at the G8 summit in Germany. We also have other meetings planned, including within the Russia-NATO Council. I know too, that you have a very busy schedule here in Moscow.
We are very happy to see you. Welcome!
U.S. Defence Secretary Robert Gates: Thank you, Mr President, for your invitation to come to Moscow.
I spoke with President Bush yesterday before flying out from the United States. He asked me to pass on to you his best wishes. When I left, I did not know that you would have the chance to inform so swiftly on how my visit here is going.
It has been almost fifteen years since I was last in Moscow. The changes that have taken place have made a huge impression on me.
Russian-U.S. relations are very important. I think that the upcoming meetings that await us demonstrate this importance and the need to develop our relations on the basis of equality and mutual respect. Together we can achieve much indeed.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 23, 2007, 20:58
Text versionEvents
Beginning of the Meeting with President of Turkmenistan Gurbanguly Berdymukhammedov
April 23, 2007
20:53
Novo-Ogaryovo
President Vladimir Putin : Dear Gurbanguly Kulievich!
First of all, I would like to say how happy I am that you accepted our invitation and came to visit us. I would like to once again congratulate you on your election to the post of President of the Republic of Turkmenistan. And I would like to once again emphasise that the very convincing results of your election are evidence of the people of Turkmenistan’s trust in you.
Over the past few years our relations have developed in the best possible way: our economic cooperation is increasing and, as a matter of fact, we have very important partnerships in the fuel and energy sector.
I am very glad to see that our work has produced good results and that we have good prospects for future cooperation. You known that, at your request, we just recently launched another branch of the gas pipeline along the Caspian Sea and we are now pumping more than five million cubic metres of gas through this pipeline every day. There is scope for expanding our activities in these areas.
Today we are very happy to welcome you to Moscow and to have the possibility to discuss all aspects of our varied and multifaceted cooperation, today’s events, and our plans to develop our cooperation in the mid- and long-term future.
Welcome!
President of Turkmenistan Gurbanguly Berdymukhammedov:
Thank you Vladimir Vladimirovich!
First of all, we are sincerely grateful for your hospitality. Thank you for inviting us and for honouring us.
I must point it out that relations between Turkmenistan and Russia have historical roots. They have been intertwined for centuries and, therefore, I think that your invitation will once again provide an important stimulus for our mutually-beneficial relations, relations that must develop in the interests of our states and peoples.
Thank you once again for the invitation.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 23, 2007, 20:53
Text versionEvents
Excerpts from Transcript of Meeting with the Government Cabinet
April 23, 2007
23:02
The Kremlin, Moscow
On the macroeconomic situation
Economic Development and Trade Minister German Gref: Last week we summed up the results for national economic development as a whole, for gross domestic product growth. GDP grew by 7.9 percent over the first quarter. GDP growth for the same period last year was 5 percent, and so we have a net increase of 2.9 percent.
The average month-on-month increase last year was 0 percent in the first quarter, but this year, the average monthly increase, clear of seasonal and calendar factors, comes to 0.6 percent.
On the general programme for the construction of electrical energy facilities
Industry and Energy Minister Viktor Khristenko: In accordance with your instructions, we have drawn up a general programme for building electrical energy facilities through to 2020, and the government has examined it. The economic basis for this programme was the government decision of November 30 last year, which set out a long-term forecast of electricity consumption needs. It also set out the development outlook for the electricity and gas markets, including with regards to price formation. These forecasts provide us with the basic parameters that we have used as a foundation for drawing up what are essentially engineering objectives in order to optimise the construction and location choice of generating facilities, and to optimise and develop a reliable network topography for the period through to 2020.
This is an unprecedented programme and is the first such long-term plan in our modern history for building facilities for as important a sector as electricity production.
We worked at regional level with all the country’s regions in drawing up this programme, in order to analyse the demand for electricity in different parts of the country. We took into account basic increase in electricity consumption and also major plans and projects that would see the creation of new consumers.
At the same time, this long-term optimisation of the electricity production sector is based on the principle that construction of new generating capacity should be based primarily on the development possibilities offered by nuclear, hydro- and coal-based energy, while scaling back the amount of gas-based fuel.
The work we have done will enable us to reduce the amount of gas-based generation from the current 43 percent to 35 percent of electricity production. Coal-based electricity production will see its share rise from 23 percent today to 31 percent, while nuclear energy-based production will increase from 16 percent to 20 percent. The capacity of nuclear power plants will increase 2.3-fold over the period through to 2020. Coal-based production capacity will increase 1.7-fold, hydroelectricity generation capacity will increase by 47 percent, while gas-based generation will rise by 41 percent.
What is particularly important is that over this same period we plan to make radical changes to the network’s topography, enabling us to reliably link the generating capacity in Siberia with the Urals and the central regions, and create reliable new links between the northwest, the central regions and the Urals, and between the southern regions, the central regions and the Urals.
We also plan to develop two new energy belts, one around Moscow and one around St Petersburg. This will ensure the national energy system’s reliable functioning and will make it possible for us to meet national electricity consumption needs through our own generation capacity.
Finally, regarding the programme’s content, I want to say that the whole general plan is based on the latest technology in order not just to increase production capacity but also to make it more effective.
To give you one example, today we have gas-based generation with a useful working coefficient of 39 percent, but by 2020, the remaining gas-based generation facilities will have an average useful working coefficient of 54 percent (on average throughout the sector). The best result obtained today in gas-based generation is a useful working coefficient of 58 percent.
The government has decided that by September 1, work will be completed to link the basic plan for electricity production facility construction with the development plans for the transport sector and also the gas sector, so as to ensure that other infrastructure development projects help contribute to the development of electricity production.
Vladimir Putin: The adoption of new provisions on tariffs has made these decisions possible?
Viktor Khristenko: That is exactly the case: the decisions on tariffs, on long-term construction in the electricity market, and on gas liberalisation, since this was one of the key points incorporated into the model for creating normal economic conditions for developing non-gas-based generation and developing the other types of electricity production.
Vladimir Putin: I hope that this is all also linked to the programmes for developing the different regions, for developing industry, new mining and extraction operations and the creation of new industrial facilities in the processing and manufacturing sectors?
Viktor Khristenko: The plan is definitely linked to the development programmes for the different regions, and they have given rise to new objectives that are already being taken into account. In connection with the programme for developing the Far East, it is possible that some adjustments will have to be made to the general plan over this period, so as to ensure all the necessary conditions for the facilities that we plan to commission as part of these new programmes over this period.
On preparing for the Russia-EU summit and the meeting of the Russia-NATO Council
Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov: I am going to Luxemburg today for another meeting of the foreign ministers of Russia and the European Troika.
We will be looking at what we have accomplished over the six months since the last meeting, above all regarding preparations for the Russia-European Union summit next month in Samara.
We also plan to sign a memorandum extending the scope of the agreements concluded between Russia and the EU to Romania and Bulgaria, which joined the EU in January this year. This memorandum will regulate issues concerning the future development of trade and economic relations between Russia and these two countries in their new capacity.
I will also be going to Oslo this Thursday to attend a ministerial meeting of the Russia-NATO Council, which will look at current cooperation issues, including the implementation of our joint counterterrorism plan and other joint projects.
Both in Luxemburg and Oslo the Europeans will be particularly interested in the situation regarding U.S. plans to deploy elements of their missile defence system in Europe. They have already said that they would like to hear our assessment of the bilateral contacts currently taking place between us and Washington, and which so far have failed to answer all of our concerns. This worries the Europeans because they want to have a clear understanding of all the aspects of this situation, given that this matter is one that concerns their security in the long term.
I will report on the results and present the proposals for future steps to prepare for the Russia-EU summit and on development of relations with NATO.
<…>
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 23, 2007, 23:02
Text version