Events
Speech at Celebration of the 860th Anniversary of the Founding of Moscow
September 2, 2007
09:38
Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Dear Muscovites, dear guests,
Once again, as is tradition, these first days of September see us celebrate Moscow’s founding. This is a holiday that Moscow always celebrates in full spirit and on a scale truly fitting for the capital.
This year's anniversary is even more of a celebration because our capital is marking 860 years since its founding. I would like to congratulate sincerely Muscovites and all citizens of Russia on this important event, this significant date.
Our capital city’s long history reflects the destiny of our country, all of the difficult moments and events it has lived through, its great victories and times of trial.
“Moscow raised the banner of all Russia and became the capital”, wrote the Russian historian and philosopher Konstantin Aksakov. Responding to internal struggles and fragmentation, Moscow “carried forth the idea of the entire Russian land and an undivided Russian state”.
This is without doubt the most important thing that has made Moscow the heart of Russia and the patriotic centre of our country.
It is our duty to remember that the chronicles of our capital record the names and great deeds of many outstanding sons and daughters of our Motherland. Throughout the century they have heroically defended the capital and in so doing have strengthened the unified Russian state. Through their labour they have multiplied their achievements and passed them down to new generations.
Today’s Moscow is a city where past, present and future coexist in harmony. Everything has become interwoven in the city’s years and image, which belong to every citizen of our vast country and to each of its regions.
Moscow’s image is the image of our common home. Moscow is a place of meetings and a source of creative inspiration. It is home to millions of hardworking people. No matter where each of us was born and grew up, we all see Moscow as the pride and glory of Russia.
I would like to offer special words of thanks today to the war and labour veterans who not only defended our capital but built it anew and developed its economy and the life of its people.
Dear veterans, you hold the most honoured place in the city’s life. You have earned the right to particular respect and support. These are matters that receive very serious attention here in Moscow. I would like to take this opportunity to wish you health and prosperity.
Dear friends,
Moscow today is one of the world’s rapidly developing great cities. It has an economy growing at a rate of 10 percent a year, holds first place for the profitability of its companies and has a rich cultural life.
It is not surprising then that not only Russian citizens but also many foreigners are drawn to Moscow. After all, to live and work in dynamic Moscow is a chance to reach new heights and attain leadership and success.
An ability to keep up with the changing times unites Moscow’s team, led by its mayor. Innovative and socially significant projects are constantly being undertaken in Moscow. They include the Social Card, the Health Passport and the Civil Change youth project.
It is pleasing to see that Moscow’s young people are becoming more and more involved in resolving the city’s most pressing problems. Last year, a student government was given the reins of power over the capital for a whole month.
These links between the generations help to ensure continuation and at the same time inject new life and pace into this big city, a city that is turning into one of the world’s leading capitals before our very eyes.
I hope that you will keep up this pace and move confidently towards new victories in the name of growing prosperity for all Muscovites and for the glory of all of Russia.
Happy birthday, dear capital!
Happy birthday, dear Muscovites!
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: September 2, 2007, 09:38
Text version