Events
Speech at the Opening of the 8th International Aviation and Space Salon MAKS-2007
August 21, 2007
15:43
Zhukovsky, Moscow Region
President Vladimir Putin:
Dear friends!
Ladies and Gentlemen!
The opening of the 8th International Aviation and Space Salon, a Salon that Russia has organised for 15 years, is a very significant event for our country.
It is more than just an exhibition and a world class air show. MAKS has become the most important celebration of aviation in our country. This event continues the long-standing tradition of aviation parades and air show holidays that has always existed in Russia.
People of all different ages are going to come to the Zhukovsky Air Base near Moscow for the exhibition. But it is mainly young people that gather here. And this suggests that the romance of flying, the interest in aviation and in space exploration, remains attractive and essential.
We are proud of the fact that over quite a short period of time MAKS has done more than simply assume a distinguished position among international air salons. It has confirmed its role as a world leader in this sphere. I believe that all the participants and guests of the Salon will be able to confirm their sense of just how much the Salon’s possibilities have increased in recent times.
This year the number of exhibiters has increased by 30 percent. More than 780 domestic and foreign companies and institutions are present here. MAKS welcomes official delegations from over 110 countries.
We are pleased to see that the number of international participants is consistently increasing. We are going to continue to develop the Salon as a forum for concluding contracts and developing international cooperation in aviation and space.
MAKS-2007 has adopted a new philosophy with regards to organising such events. And I am not merely referring to developing the Salon’s infrastructure and making it operate in a more systematic way. As you can see, large modern comfortable booths have been built, the necessary information infrastructure and communications link-ups have been set up. But the most important thing is the events scheduled during the Aviation Salon: academic conferences, meetings between experts, seminars. One of the most important novelties of this Russian exhibition is that academics, designers and engineers are actively participating in the Salon and in the discussion of the future development of aviation and space exploration.
Virtually all leading developers and producers of aviation and space technology have representatives at the Air Salon. And along with this I would like to point out the transformational character of the exhibition hosted by the Russian Associated Aviation Construction Corporation. It plans to compete more actively in the international market with competitive passenger and cargo aircraft. Russia faces the additional challenge of preserving its leading role as a producer of military combat aircraft technology. Our country’s unique potential in the space sector is visible at the Salon. Along with this I would like to emphasize that Russia, a country that today is benefiting from increased economic possibilities, will continue to pay the closest possible attention to the high-tech sector and its development.
And I certainly cannot help but mention one of MAKS best traditions, namely the full programme of air shows which highlight the skills of the best pilots in the world. The World Cup flying competition will also take place here. I wish all participants the opportunity to show off their skills. I am confident that our audience will welcome all the participants with delight and respect. But it is obvious that since this event is being held here, in Russia, the audience will pay special attention to the Russian participants.
Dear ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate you on the opening of our international Salon, which promises to be the biggest forum of the business partnership in aviation and space. I wish you success!
Thank you for your attention.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: August 21, 2007, 15:43
Text versionEvents
Excerpts from the Transcript of the Meeting with Cabinet Members
August 21, 2007
14:42
Novo-Ogaryovo
Economic Development and Trade Minister German Gref on current macroeconomic indicators:
German Gref: We have calculated the results of our economic growth for July and for the first seven months of 2007. GDP growth in July amounted to 8 percent and from January to July it was 7,9 percent. The Industrial Production index is as follows: industry grew at 7,8 percent in July and at 7,7 percent in the first seven months of 2007. Along with this the manufacturing industry – contained within the Industrial Production index – grew at 12,5 percent in July. And the extraction of mineral resources grew by only 1,5 percent. In other words, the manufacturing industry is now acting as the instigator and main force behind economic growth in industry.
Vladimir Putin: Aleksei Leonidovich and I looked at the figures. We are still lagging behind in the machine building industry.
Aleksei Kudrin: With respect to investments in all industries.
Vladimir Putin: Significantly lagging behind.
German Gref: The machine building industry is growing well, the amounts of investment…
Vladimir Putin: I see. At some point these indicators will be in opposition and this will limit growth. And for that reason we – and first and foremost I am referring to the Economic Development and Trade Ministry – already need to start thinking about how to prevent this. I think you would agree with me.
German Gref: Yes of course.
Vladimir Putin: Please go ahead.
German Gref: In July agriculture grew by 3,2 percent and trade by 14,7 percent – the best indicator for 2007. And investments in fixed assets grew by 24,7 percent in July and by 22,7 percent over the first seven months of this year; this is the most dynamic indicator for 2007. As a point of comparison investments grew by 8,8 percent in July 2006 and by 10,6 percent over the first seven months of that year. In other words, this year’s July growth was four times more than last year’s July growth and over twice as much as the investment growth in the first seven months of last year. Real income increased by 15,5 percent in July and by 11,9 percent over the past seven months. Average wages grew by 15,4 percent in July and by 17,1 percent over seven months. This is also a very high rate. Over the first seven months of 2006 Russian salaries grew by 12,5 percent. In other words we are five percentage points ahead of last year’s indicators. Along with this the macroeconomic indicators are, for the most part, stable. The monetary mass is growing a little bit faster than it did last year – by 2,5 percent – and in general this is reflected in inflation. Among all the macroeconomic indicators inflation remains the most sensitive one, but we can nevertheless observe that over the first two weeks of August inflation in Russia amounted to 0,2 percent and that prices in the produce market are steadily declining. We think that August will be quite a good month in this respect. We are planning to have about 0 percent inflation in the last two weeks of August. Therefore we think that we will be able to keep to the forecasted figure, namely 8 percent.
We have more than 400 billion dollars in gold and currency reserves. In the past seven months our gold and currency reserves grew by 112,5 billion dollars.
Vladimir Putin: And the total amount is?...
German Gref: The total was 416 billion on July 1, 2007 and is now 420 billion.
All other indicators are generally positive. There were fluctuations in the stock market and there still is a certain tension in the stock market and this is connected with the macroeconomic situation that first occurred in the U.S. and then affected the Asian market. We have good expectations for the measures implemented by the United States Federal Reserve and the European Central Bank (and the Russian bank worked quite well with us last week). I think that these temporary fluctuations should not have any significant long-term ramifications on the market. We hope that in the near future the market will begin to grow and grow at a stable rate, and that at least by the end of the year we will be able to reinstate the level from which we started to fall and even surpass it.
Vladimir Putin: First and foremost, there already are positive signals from the west and, secondly, this was not an extreme drop for us. In light of the previous unprecedented growth we can refer to what happened as a correction. Therefore I agree with you and consider that these views are absolutely well-founded and correct.
<…>
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: August 21, 2007, 14:42
Text version