Events
Beginning of the Working Meeting with the Acting President of Chechnya, Ramzan Kadyrov
March 1, 2007
19:47
Novo-Ogaryovo
President Vladimir Putin: Ramzan Akhmatovich, I have taken the decision to present you as a candidate for the position of President of Chechnya. And according to present legislation the corresponding letter was sent to Grozny today.
I made this decision based on the fact that you have done so much to help reconstruct Chechnya over the past few years, both as deputy Prime Minister and as head of government.
All indicators show that Chechnya has really made significant and tangible steps forward. I very much expect that your nomination to this honourable position, if it does happen – and I hope that the deputies of the Chechen parliament will support me – will result in your expending all possible efforts so that Chechnya’s recovery proceeds at the same rate. This includes social and economic recovery, so that people feel more secure, so that each resident of Chechnya is motivated to develop their own Republic, is motivated to strengthen the Russian Federation.
Acting President of Chechnya Ramzan Kadyrov: Vladimir Vladimirovich, thank you for your trust. For my part, if I receive the vote of confidence from the National Assembly of the Chechen Republic, I will do everything possible to continue what you and my father have started. So that the people of our Republic live decently, live like other people do. So that they feel secure. And so that there are no further displays of international terrorism and wahhabism in our Republic. So that people finally feel secure – and they already feel so today. Our priority today is not security but rather jobs and the reconstruction of the Republic. And we are trying to do everything possible so that each day our life is better than it was yesterday.
Thank you once again. I have a big responsibility before our God, before our people and before you yourself. I shall try to be worthy of your trust.
Vladimir Putin: I very much count on that. What do you consider to be priorities today? Since you are very much in tune with the Republic’s problems – you are engaged with them in detail, constantly, every day.
Ramzan Kadyrov: Today the problem of job creation is a very sharp one in Chechnya. We have now attracted many investors and are creating a new economic strategy, one designed to significantly develop the Republic’s economy. Today in Chechnya we have all the necessary conditions to create tens of thousands of jobs. And I think that by the end of this year we will be able to completely restore the construction industry. This includes the cement, reinforced concrete and brick factories. I think that if the federal authorities continue to support the region the way they are today, then in the next few years our region – which I consider to be the most peaceful region – will become the most prosperous. These are more than just words. I am confident that this is true because our people want to work and want to live in peace. Our people have decided that they want to live within Russia and to live in harmony with other peoples.
Vladimir Putin: I wish you success.
Ramzan Kadyrov: Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: March 1, 2007, 19:47
Text version