Events
Beginning of Meeting with President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko
December 14, 2007
17:00
Minsk
Alexander Lukashenko: Vladimir Vladimirovich,
Here with our Russian and Belarusian colleagues present, I would like to officially welcome you to our native Belarusian soil.
Yesterday evening, I saw how, in as much as was possible, you looked with such interest at everything taking place in Belarus. We had the chance to discuss a few issues yesterday, and I think this was useful for both of us.
Today, as we agreed yesterday, our work is in two parts: the talks in narrow format, followed by the session of the Russian and Belarusian Union State Supreme State Council, where we are to examine twelve items on the agenda. I think we will be prompt in getting through this work and I am sure we will be able to settle all of these issues.
It surprises me to see how much speculation your official visit has generated both in Russia and in Belarus. I was very surprised to see that this official visit has really grabbed the West’s attention too. It is quite amazing. I want to say quite frankly that there is absolutely no hidden agenda here: we are simply meeting in Minsk as representatives of a friendly union state, and it would be surprising if you, as President of Russia, did not make an official visit to Minsk. When we were in Dushanbe we noticed that although we have regular working contacts, you had not yet made an official visit to Minsk. This is the whole explanation behind this official visit by the Russian President to Minsk.
We have many questions to examine today: matters concerning defence, our state’s security, and many economic and social issues. We do not make any secret of these issues. We will give voice to them at the press conference, no doubt, and there is nothing out of the ordinary in this.
I repeat that Belarus is ready for talks on all issues in the format that we have decided on together.
Vladimir Putin: Alexander Grigoryevich [Lukashenko], thank you very much for the invitation.
Relations between Russia and Belarus are indeed very extensive and are growing all the time. I think we can be confident that this year will see us take our trade and economic relations to a new level with a figure of more than $24 billion. This is a significant result, a very good result.
I congratulate you and the entire Belarusian leadership on the success you have obtained in resolving social and economic issues in your country. Your successes, and the Russian economy’s successful growth, make it possible for us to achieve such results.
As for the official side of things, indeed, the variety and diversity and the extent of our relations have somehow always pushed the official aspect into the background. But the time comes when we should probably also pay attention to the official side of things, and my colleagues and I were therefore pleased to accept your invitation, make use of the opportunity to hold the session of the Union State Supreme State Council here and at the same time hold talks on the whole range of our bilateral relations as part of an official visit. I am sure that our talks will be a success.
Once again, thank you very much.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 14, 2007, 17:00
Text versionEvents
Beginning of Meeting of the Russian and Belarusian Union State Supreme State Council
December 14, 2007
18:30
Minsk
Alexander Lukashenko: Delegates and friends,
First of all, allow me to congratulate our colleague and friend Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin on the United Russia political party’s confident victory in the election to the State Duma. This party’s election victory on December 2, 2007, bears witness to the support for your policies aimed at strengthening Russian statehood and raising Russia’s authority on the international stage.
We are especially pleased that your first visit abroad following this referendum is to our country. We see this as a symbol of your commitment to the idea of unity between our countries and an assessment of the importance of Russian-Belarusian relations. For my part, I want to say once again that Belarus always sees Russia as its main strategic partner.
Ample illustration of the mutual benefits of Russian-Belarusian cooperation can be seen in the steady rise in our bilateral trade, which is set to reach a record level in 2007 with a total of more than $24 billion. Our country with its modest natural resources and small population is one of Russia’s leading trade partners along with world industrial giants such as the United States, China and Germany. This growth is evidence that real cooperation is increasing in industry, science and technology and relations between the regions.
In our intergovernmental relations we have reached a high point of integration in which both sides work together to plan common action and make a conscious choice to hand over certain national powers in the interests of reaching common objectives. It is in this direction that the Supreme Council and the Union State’s other organisations are working.
The issues of ensuring equal rights for our citizens, upholding social guarantees in employment, pension provision and the right to medical assistance and education are all matters of central importance for the Union State’s organisations. We support the idea of common conditions for economic actors. At the same time, the reality of life today sets us another objective, that of ensuring a better level of cooperation on the international stage, not only standing together against new threats and challenges in the world but also consolidating our foreign policy influence and building up our common economic potential.
Belarus is ready to play its part regarding the question of plans to deploy elements of a U.S. missile defence system in Europe. We will work in close coordination with Russia on the adapted Treaty on Conventional Forces in Europe. I am sure that the level of cooperation we have reached will enable us to find effective solutions to this and many other issues that we face today.
Members of the Supreme State Council, we are genuinely pleased that today’s session is taking place in Belarus. I am confident that your decisions will give new impetus to our common work on building the Union State.
Since the last session took place, a number of issues have accumulated that call for joint discussion and decisions on optimum means to resolve priority matters. Today’s agenda is a clear illustration of this situation. We need to examine important issues regarding our work together on building the Union State, among them, the Union State’s draft budget for 2008, which has increased by almost 10 percent and now comes to more than 4 billion Russian roubles.
Projected budget expenditure covers areas such as industry, the energy sector, construction, military-technical cooperation, law enforcement activity, ensuring the Union State’s security, social policy and more. The budget will provide funding for 38 programmes, sub-programmes and events.
Implementation of the programme for coordinated action in foreign policy and trade and economic cooperation between Belarus and Russia in 2006 and the first half of 2007 was particularly important. This work was set out in the treaty on the creation of the Union State, the provisions of which form the foundation for our cooperation and remain relevant today. We are to examine the state of progress in implementing Supreme State Council decisions, a number of organisational and personnel matters and issues regarding the award of prizes and the chairmanship and co-chairmanship of the Border Committee.
Delegates, I have made a brief outline of today’s agenda by way of introductory remarks, and I would now like to give the floor to my colleague, President of Russia Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin.
Vladimir Putin: Alexander Grigoryevich [Lukashenko], colleagues,
Today we will be reviewing the results of the year’s work and outlining the directions for continued integration and cooperation between Russia and Belarus.
Our basic position is that the main criteria for measuring the results of our work together is improvement in the lives of Russian and Belarusian citizens, the people of our countries. This is the objective yardstick we will continue to use as our reference in the future.
The measures we are taking aim at further strengthening the economic foundation of our relations. This was the main set of issues regarding bilateral relations discussed during today’s meeting with the Belarusian President.
In this respect I think it is important that the Supreme State Council concentrate its attention on making pragmatic decisions tailored as best as possible to respond to the specific tasks before us.
One of the clearest indicators of active and effective economic relations is the positive growth in our bilateral trade. Alexander Grigoryevich has already mentioned the figures and they are indeed impressive: we have achieved an increase of more than 25 percent.
The Union State’s budget is becoming increasingly important as an instrument for cooperation. Of course, it is important that we act promptly to settle the question of the 2008 budget in accordance with the planned parameters. The planned increase in expenditure and the changes proposed for budget formation and use will enable us to implement the Union State’s cooperation programmes more effectively.
Continued work to develop foreign policy cooperation between Russia and Belarus is also one of the important items on our agenda. Cooperation in this area is already progressing well through the Programme for Coordinated Foreign Policy Work. We now need to review the state of progress in this programme’s implementation and organise the drafting of a programme for 2008–2009.
Other items on the agenda include approving the candidacies of chairman and co-chairman of the Union State Border Committee. We also need to decide on awarding the 2007–2008 Union State Prize in Literature and the Arts recognising the contribution to the spiritual unity of the Russian and Belarusian peoples.
These are the main outlines of the Supreme State Council’s work today. I hope that in our work on the agenda today we will be united in our desire to take more energetic steps in the interests of creating a common economic space and fully fledged customs union and removing the trade barriers that still remain. We examined these issues in considerable detail during our talks in narrow format today.
To make progress in these directions we need to make active use of the experience and practice we have already built up, adapting them to today’s global economic situation. This approach will enable us to take relations within the Union State to a new level and considerably strengthen the economic ties between our countries, creating new possibilities for reaching our social and economic development goals.
Thank you very much.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 14, 2007, 18:30
Text versionEvents
Press Statements and Answers to Journalists' Questions Following the Session of the Supreme State Council of the Union State of Russia and Belarus
December 14, 2007
18:30
Minsk
President of Belarus Aleksandr Lukashenko: Dear comrades!
Two events have taken place: the President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin's official visit to our country has come to an end. Once again, I want to publicly emphasize the impact and the importance of this visit. This visit really will remain part of the history of our relations. And the second event is the session of the Supreme State Council of the Union State, which also affects relations between our countries.
You are aware that there were 12 issues on the agenda, a continuation of the problems that we examined during the official visit. Appropriate decisions have been taken on absolutely all issues that were on the Supreme State Council's agenda.
Vladimir Putin: For my part, I wish to thank the President for the invitation to make an official visit to Belarus, and for the working conditions that were present both in the bilateral format, and also within the Supreme State Council of the Union State.
Indeed, today we managed to accomplish a great deal both at the bilateral level and with regards to building a union state. I would add that to ensure a smooth transition in Russian-Belarusian cooperation in the energy sector according to world market principles, and in light of both parties' obligations contained in their agreements and contracts, Russia has decided to offer Belarus credit worth 1.5 billion dollars
We made decisions relating to the Union State's budget and discussed the problems the executive authorities face as they implement earlier agreements and accords. We talked about coordinating our work in foreign policy and in defense. I am satisfied with the results of our work and, once again, want to thank our Belarusian friends for organizing it.
Question: Vladimir Vladimirovich, as we know, the prices of the gas that Russia receives from Turkmenistan have gone up. Does this mean that the price of gas that Gazprom delivers to Belarus will also go up?
Vladimir Putin: No. The prices for our Belarusian partners will not be raised. Gazprom will fully implement all the commitments it took on in the contracts it signed last year.
Question: I have a question for both presidents. The highest state authorities in Russia will change in the near future. I am referring to the elections. And in connection with this, what would you, Aleksandr Grigorevich, and you, Vladimir Vladimirovich, expect with regards to relations within the Union? (I am referring to politics, economics and, for example, equal rights for citizens.)
Aleksandr Lukashenko: Dear friends! One answer to this is simply to reply: let’s wait and see. But in order to respond properly to your question, we must look to recent history.
I just congratulated Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin on the victory of his party in the elections. We know the outcome of the vote for the State Duma. And it is not hard to predict (I certainly hope I’m right) the result of the upcoming presidential election, given the level of confidence in the current President, and support for the candidate nominated to be the new President of the Russian Federation.
As a result of this I am absolutely convinced that, whoever is in power in the Russian Federation, our relations will continue unchanged because they are of a strategic nature and nobody can change that. I can assure the Russian side on my own behalf and on behalf of the Belarusian people, that Russia — as I often say, our Russia — will always remain a priority in our relations compared to other nations, when we examine all the possibilities.
Therefore I am absolutely confident that we will continue to move forward. At times it will be difficult, at times complicated. As the President of Russia has said, we represent different countries, but basically we face similar issues, although we may have different ways of looking at certain problems. Nevertheless, we have always been able to find solutions for the most complicated and difficult problems and issues. Therefore I am absolutely convinced that this approach will continue in the future, no matter how Russia’s domestic political situation develops, because relations between two brotherly peoples are more important than mere political dispositions.
Vladimir Putin: I want to just reiterate what my colleague has said. Relations between Russia and Belarus are indeed both fundamental and genuinely strategic. They are important, not because one of the leaders of our states wants them to be, but rather because the peoples of Russia and Belarus have for centuries enjoyed very close relations at the level of their shared humanity, especially at the personal level between the citizens of our countries.
There is probably no country to which Russians feel closer than to Belarus. Our economies are very tightly linked. Just today we were saying that in the last year our trade has increased by 25 per cent. It has now reached a new record: 24 billion. This year will be at least 24 billion. And all this is the result, first and foremost, of our extensive cooperation, which continues to grow among enterprises and in entire industries.
Your Russian colleague just asked whether energy prices will be raised beyond the levels fixed in previous contracts. I have already answered: yes, they will go up, but as provided for in previous contracts, despite the fact that Russia itself must pay higher prices for energy, particularly gas, to our partners in Central Asia.
This shows that Russia understands the difficulties faced by the major consumers in Europe, including Belarus, as a result of high world prices for energy. And we will do everything possible to minimize these effects for the Belarusian economy.
I would like to point out that, as per previous agreements between Russia and Belarus, we once again confirm that we will strictly enforce agreements reached earlier concerning contracts for the supply of energy. This confirmation has another, pan-European dimension. Thus we once again confirmed today in our memorandum that we will not only abide by these contracts, but Russia and Belarus will live up to all their commitments concerning the supply of Russian energy to Europe. This means that Russia and Belarus are aware of their responsibility for maintaining an appropriate supply regime for our European partners.
Both sides have made significant contributions to the stabilization of the European energy market. All this indicates that Russia and Belarus are unconditional strategic partners. Whatever processes may occur within the Russian Federation, I can assure you that developing a genuinely close and fraternal strategic relationship with Belarus is an absolute priority for the Russian Federation. And, in this regard, there is a clear national consensus.
Aleksandr Lukashenko: I want to add to what Vladimir Vladimirovich has said. We have insisted for a very long time that we are committed to providing a stable supply of energy to Western Europe, to Europe rich and poor, to the European Union. The Russian Federation supplies a huge amount of energy, natural gas and oil to Europe via the territory of Belarus. In this way we are making a tremendous contribution to the economic, social and political stability of the European continent and the European Union.
I want to say in this regard that, in making this contribution to the stability of Europe, we expect an appropriate response on Europe’s part in relation to our countries. We would very much like Europe to understand the challenges facing the two States that have made the commitments that the President of the Russian Federation just mentioned.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 14, 2007, 18:30
Text version