We have significantly strengthened science's legal base, we have adopted an up-to-date law on science, and science and technology policy that contains the elements of the programme we are discussing today.
As you are well aware, just a few years ago the Russian cabinet approved a new charter for the Russian Academy of Sciences that consolidates the legal status of the main Academy as well as expands its possibilities, autonomy and spheres of responsibility.
Along with this I would like to draw your attention to the fact that increased autonomy goes together with increased responsibility. We need to think about optimizing the network: there are 600 enterprises of which only 400 are involved directly in scientific research. The remaining 200 are not.
I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Academy of Sciences is not a commercial organisation. Its main purpose is research, not commercial activities for profit. This also applies to the 200 institutions that are not engaged in scientific research activities. I would like to draw your attention to this.
We already have the results of a pilot project to improve the wages paid within the Russian Academy of Sciences. Just recently it was hard to believe that we would be able to achieve quick and passable results in this sector. And, in general, the Academy of Sciences and its leadership was able to achieve them. Researchers' average salaries have more than doubled and, of course, they will continue to increase.
I regret to have to point out that the cabinet is not fully aware of what is happening in this sphere. In general, we have an agreement with the Academy of Sciences, but what is actually happening is another matter. And the cabinet certainly should pay special attention to this in the near future. We finally need to determine whether additional payments for the degrees and academic stipends are the same thing or not. All members of the Academy of Sciences receive degree payments. And another academic stipend on top of that? Or could the academic stipend simply absorb this additional degree payments? This is not not the most important thing for researchers to work on, but the state and the cabinet – and of course together with the Academy's leadership – must be aware of precisely what is going on in this sphere.
We have to instill order here, and this is quite obvious.
Today academic science's main task is to take advantage of new opportunities. I repeat that these opportunities will increase, and there is no doubt about that. The cabinet will pay all necessary attention to this and the possibilities, including financial ones, will increase. You need to take advantage of these new opportunities and invest in the relevant, promoting competitive advantage knowledge, technology and finished products.
I shall note that adopting such a programme requires further substantial changes in the way that research projects are organised, especially the way they are planned and the priorities they set. The basic capacities of our fundamental science programmes in the coming years depends not only on the success of strategic and and defense industries, but also on developing various social processes in the Russian Federation.
For example, in the humanities creating an up-to-date research methodology remains a priority. This is particularly required in disciplines such as the social sciences, history, sociology and philosophy. And, of course, we need to engage in more profound analyses of the development of contemporary Russian society, and take into account how new global trends influence our country.
With regards to the economic sphere we clearly need strategic scenarios and projections for the social and economic development of both the domestic economy as a whole, and that of separate territories and individual sectors. I repeat that the very future of fundamental sciences depends directly on its ability to ensure that innovative growth takes place in Russia. In turn, this refers to the effectiveness with which they can integrate academic science with the production and professional education. And in this respect I would agree with the recent conclusion made by the Public Chamber. Namely that, unfortunately, these three aspects are proceeding in separate ways and developing in isolation.
The academic sector must also create an innovative environment and work closely together with other research centres and the existing state institutions for development. The future of science – and here I would exclude purely fundamental research – includes active participation in establishing technically innovative zones, technological parks, other innovative business structures and, of course, productive ways of integrating science and education. And I just signed the corresponding federal law on strengthening and developing these last two sectors. I am referring to how to expand the possibilities of academic research, attract young academics from universities, and attract students. And at the same time we need to give universities the possibility to use the equipment that is available for academic institutions.
I think that the Academy of Sciences should engage in the very closest cooperation with the corresponding university departments. They are certainly able and should become a meaningful part of Russia's fundamental science.
I will touch on one other of the programme's main provisions, namely on involving youth in fundamental research. And I think that you will agree with me that youth is in particular need to first and foremost see clear prospects for their academic future, to be interested and engaged in interesting and topical fields, and to have the opportunity to participate directly in international academic exchanges and research.