Events
Beginning of Meeting with Prime Minister of Bavaria Edmund Stoiber
February 10, 2007
13:30
Munich
President Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister, before answering the specific questions you have raised, I would like to thank you for this invitation. I want to thank you for this invitation today and for the invitation to visit Bavaria four months ago.
I have particularly fond recollections of the visit to that little restaurant near Munich where you and I were able to spend some free time together. I don’t remember its name now, but I do remember what a warm welcome the local residents gave us, and this will remain in my memories. Please pass on my very best wishes.
I would like to note that relations between Russia as a whole and between individual Russian regions and Bavaria are developing very actively.
Trade turnover between Russian and Bavarian companies now comes to more than five billion euros, and Bavarian companies account for two thirds of German investment in the Russian economy. We value this greatly, of course. I know that you are developing particularly close relations with individual Russian regions: with Sverdlovsk Region, with Moscow, and with several others.
You told me yesterday about your initiative to expand cooperation between Moscow Technical University and the Bavarian Technical University. I can only regret that I did not come up with this initiative myself and am not taking personal part in it. I can only say that I am grateful for this initiative. It is direct contacts such as these between the young people in our respective countries that create good prospects for future cooperation.
Regarding the mass media market, I can say that German companies are quite well represented on the Russian market. German capital is also present in the electronic media, at national level, too. It is even more present in the print media in our country, especially in the segment of glossy magazines. The transition from the analogue to the digital system is a very big business, of course, one worth billions of dollars and euros. This is the right moment, of course, to begin discussions on this issue, because this is an issue of choosing our development vector and choosing the corresponding systems. I want to emphasise that we see this as being above all a business issue. But at government level we will, of course, do all we can to support the development of ties with foreign partners, including from Bavaria.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: February 10, 2007, 13:30
Text versionEvents
Interview with Arab Satellite Channel Al-Jazeera
February 10, 2007
20:48
Comment: Mr President,
It gives me pleasure to welcome you to Al-Jazeera. Thank you for finding the time to meet with our viewers.
Vladimir Putin: Your channel is becoming increasingly influential not only in the Arab and Muslim world, but around the world in general. I am therefore pleased to have this opportunity to speak with you and explain Russia’s point of view on whichever issues interest you and your viewers.
Question: Thank you very much.
Let me begin with one of the most pressing problems – Iraq. What is your assessment of the situation in Iraq? Do you think what we are seeing there is civil war?
Vladimir Putin: We were against this from the outset. Our position of principle is that we always oppose the use of military means to resolve any of the problems in international affairs, all the more so without direct authorisation from the UN Security Council, because this undermines the international-legal foundations of peace throughout the world. But what has happened has happened and we have to deal today with the reality of the situation. We will do all we can to work together with everyone involved in this process to help resolve this situation.
The situation is very worrying, of course, and it is no exaggeration to say that it is indeed tragic. Saddam Hussein was executed just recently. I do not wish to comment on this at the moment. But what were the charges made against him? He was charged with carrying out reprisals against the residents of Shiite villages that resulted in the execution of around 148 people, and more in another location. Those were the kinds of figures cited, in any case. But since military operations began in Iraq, more than 3,000 Americans have been killed and the number of Iraqi civilians killed, according to various estimates, is already in the hundreds of thousands. Can we really compare these two situations?
Of course, we must reflect on how to find a way out of this situation. I think that unless the Iraqi people are given the right and possibility to decide their own future, it will not be possible to resolve this problem.
Question: And what do you see as the solution?
Vladimir Putin: The solution is simple: strengthen Iraq’s own capacity to ensure its security, withdraw the foreign contingent from Iraqi soil and give the Iraqi people the chance to decide their own future.
Question: Can I ask you then what your view is of the new American strategy for Iraq that Mr Bush announced recently, and will this strategy solve the problem?
Vladimir Putin: A new strategy, as we understand it, should involve a new approach to resolving this or that problem. If the strategy involves only increasing the numbers, we don’t see anything new in it. When our American partners talk simply of boosting their military contingent, we do not consider this to be a new strategy. But that does not mean that there is nothing new in President Bush’s initiatives. I think that there is something new in a point that was spoken about before but not cemented as the official line, namely, as I said just before, this issue of transferring full powers, above all in the areas of law enforcement and security, to the appropriate Iraqi departments and agencies. The U.S. President has spoken about this publicly, it is reflected in his latest initiative, and if this is the official line, we can say that this does represent something new. But I think that it will work only if a date is set for the withdrawal of the foreign contingent. This is because in any conflict and in any country, people in the country have to know by what date they need to be ready to take full responsibility for their country upon themselves. When there is no clear date, when it is not clear at what point the country’s institutions need to have reached a certain level of development, responsibility ends up being placed on the foreign contingent. I think that a date should be set for the withdrawal of the foreign troops.
Question: Mr President, you mentioned the execution of Saddam Hussein. Did you see this footage?
Vladimir Putin: I did. It was terrible, a barbaric execution.
Question: Yes. Now, turning to another big issue – Iran. Mr President, you are in regular contact with the Iranian leadership. Have you received any positive signals from Tehran on settling the Iranian nuclear issue?
Vladimir Putin: We are indeed in contact with the Iranian leadership. Mr Ivanov, the secretary of the Russian Security Council was just in Tehran, and after my meeting with you, I have a meeting scheduled with an envoy of the Iranian leadership, who has brought me a message from Iran’s religious leader, Mr Khamenei.
We know the position of our Iranian partners. We very much hope that they will also give consideration to our recommendations. There are no questions or doubts on the Iranian side as to the sincerity of our relations with Iran. All of our action seeks to settle the confrontation over the Iranian nuclear issue. We think that this would not take much. Iran must address the concerns of Mr El-Baradei and the organisation he heads, but we do not think that this need in any way infringe on Iran’s plans and right to develop peaceful nuclear technology.
Question: As you know, Mr El-Baradei recently proposed that Iran stop its uranium enrichment activities simultaneously with a lifting of sanctions against Tehran. Am I right in understanding that you support this initiative?
Vladimir Putin: Yes, we support it. We think it is a carefully conceived and balanced initiative that does not harm Iran’s interests.
Question: In your contacts with the Iranians, have you received any positive signals about this initiative in particular?
Vladimir Putin: We have received the signal that Iran would like to resolve this problem, but as to whether our Iranian partners are willing to respond positively to Mr El-Baradei’s proposals, we have not heard anything constructive on this particular issue.
Question: Russia’s foreign minister, Mr Lavrov, said a few days ago that Washington had assured him that it did not have plans for military intervention in Iran. Could you say that this constitutes guarantees from the USA on this issue?
Vladimir Putin: This matter is one of the key issues on the international agenda, and not only with regard to Iran. This is a matter of security guarantees in the world in general and the modern architecture of international relations. Can the members of the international community feel that international law really does provide them with solid and reliable protection today? Or are we going to make unilateral decisions not based on international law part of the practice of international relations?
We very much hope that the assurances Mr Lavrov received from our American colleagues really do correspond to reality. We think, and I hope, that is indeed the case.
But at the same time, I think that people in Iran and throughout the entire world remember very well how events developed in Iraq, which you asked me about at the start of this interview. I would just like to remind you that we adopted a resolution on Iraq in the autumn of 2002, and the IAEA noted that Iraq was cooperating actively with the organisation and positively assessed Iraq’s efforts to develop this cooperation. Despite this, military operations began in the spring of 2003. This is the first point that raises concern.
Second, the new initiative on Iraq that you mentioned provides for not only increasing the military contingent on Iraqi soil itself, but also for deploying aircraft carrying units in the region. Independent military experts say that this is not necessary for resolving the problem in Iraq.
Furthermore, a fairly large naval presence armed with missile technology is already deployed in the Persian Gulf and is not being used for operations in Iraq. All of this together does raise questions and gives us some cause for concern.
Question: The West, the USA and Israel criticise Russia for its military and technical assistance to Iran, including in the field of nuclear energy. Do you plan to continue this cooperation despite the fuss it has caused?
Vladimir Putin: We are always being criticised for something. I know of no country that has not at some point or another been criticised for its foreign policy, if it is able to pursue an active and independent foreign policy in keeping with its national interests. Our foreign policy is highly balanced. We pursue our national interests, but at the same time we comply strictly with the Charter of the United Nations and with international law in general.
In this respect, I would like to say that our nuclear energy and military-technical cooperation with Iran is not in contradiction with any international laws. We have not taken a single step that violates any of the international agreements relating to Iran. Our nuclear programme, the programme to build a nuclear power plant for electricity production at Bushehr is exclusively peaceful and is under the full control of IAEA inspectors. The inspectors have their verification equipment in place and are always present, and they have no claims to make against our programme at Bushehr.
We will continue to follow this same line in any future action. We are categorically opposed to the proliferation of nuclear weapons. It is not in our own national interests to even consider for a second allowing another country to acquire nuclear weapons. This would not contribute to strengthening world peace.
As for our military-technical cooperation, we cooperate in this area with many countries in the region and not just with Iran. We have been working with Iran for around 40 years now, but this cooperation is very limited. We have made very few arms supplies to Iran. Our last supply was the delivery of mid-range air defence systems with a radius of 30–50 km. This is a purely defensive weapons system and the supply of this kind of weapons system does not upset the balance of power in the region. Looking at arms supplies to the region as a whole, Russia supplies many times fewer arms to the Middle East than do a good number of other countries. I think that our actions are therefore fully justified. We act within the limits of international law, as I said. But as far as Iran goes, there is one other issue that I think we should not forget. We think that Iran should not be made to feel that it is surrounded by hostile forces. I think we must not push a country such as Iran and the Iranian people into a dead end, into some kind of trap. The Iranian people and leadership must realise that they do have friends in this world, that there are people ready to talk to them, and that there are people they can trust. We need to make them aware of this so as to create the atmosphere that will help us to resolve the most pressing problem we face with Iran – that of its nuclear problem.
Question: Your country has returned recently to the idea of convening an international conference on the Middle East. Mr President, what kind of outcome do you think such a conference could have?
Vladimir Putin: I discussed this issue just yesterday with the Secretary General of the League of Arab States. We share the view of our colleagues from the Arab countries who say that before such a conference begins, they would like to be certain of its results and have an understanding of the outcome it is expected to bring. This is an ideal scenario, of course, and we would very much want for things to be this way too.
But what is happening now in the Middle East and in Palestine? Chaos, that’s what. We need to come up with new ideas, consolidate our positions, establish a dialogue that would enable us to actually hear each other, listen to each other and perhaps even have a positive influence on each other. We think that organising a major conference that would involve not only Palestine and Israel but also other countries in the region, the leading Arab countries and of course also the ‘Quartet’ of mediators, would help to create a positive environment for addressing the problems before us today and achieving a breakthrough in the current situation.
I am, certainly, not one of those Trotskyites who say that it is only the movement forward that counts, and not the final aim. I would also like to see concrete results. This is why I think that we should begin work immediately on coordinating our positions.
Question: Do you think that the time could come when even countries that previously rejected the idea of such an international conference and did not support such an initiative might agree to it?
Vladimir Putin: Yes, I think so.
Question: Good. Mr President, a year ago, if you recall, you were asked your view of the Hamas victory in Palestinian parliamentary elections. Your response caused a big stir in the West at that time because you said that Russia had never considered Hamas a terrorist organisation. Your decision to invite Hamas officials to Moscow caused even greater controversy. Do you now regret that position you took then?
Vladimir Putin: No, not at all. We have no regrets and on the contrary, we think that we were right to do what we did. The situation is very urgent today. I don’t have time to make an analysis of all the events since the late 1940s that have brought the region to the state it is in today, and in any case, this interview is not the right moment for such a detailed analysis. But it is obvious that the situation is very complex and that there are many mutual claims, grievances and unresolved problems that have accumulated. Our position is that all the people living in this region have the right to statehood and to a safe existence. That is the first point.
Second, Hamas has used it own means to fight for its stated aims, and I am not certain that they have always been good means. But Hamas won the election. And we have always heard and still keep hearing calls from our European and American partners, to develop democracy. We also know about the theory of democratising the Greater Middle East, although no one seems to be able to define the geographical boundaries of this Greater Middle East. As for what democratisation of this Greater Middle East consists of, it seems no one has any clear idea of what this means, but the fact remains that the idea has been put forward. So it has been put forward, and here we have the first result: the Hamas victory in Palestinian elections. What is democracy? It is power of the people. We are always being told that one must respect the people’s choice. Well then, do respect this choice. Let us not set Palestinians and their organisations against each other. This is a flawed theory and a flawed practice, for this idea of ‘divide and rule’ never brings any good but only drives situations into a dead end.
Alright, say Hamas is driven underground, but the problems won’t go underground, they will remain out in the open. We need to take another approach. After all, if Hamas is responsible for the Palestinian people’s future, it will behave accordingly and will be simply forced to take the reality of the situation into account, and the reality is that the state of Israel exists. The reality is also that the international community and the entire world not only agrees with this but has cemented it in international agreements adopted by the United Nations.
I think that anyone can understand that if a political group claims the right to lead a people and a country, it cannot ignore the view of all of humanity, as expressed in agreements adopted by the world’s universal international organisation – the United Nations. It is my view therefore that we should of course work with Hamas to convince it of the need to recognise Israel’s right of existence.
This is not easy of course, but it is better to work with people who have influence among their country’s people and try to transform their position through negotiations than to pretend that they do not exist.
Is it possible to achieve such a shift in their views? Of course it is. Just remember one influential political leader in the Arab world – Yasser Arafat. There was a time, after all, when he was also viewed as a terrorist, but he ended up receiving the Nobel Peace Prize. This shows that change is possible. We just need to have patience and be willing to work together.
Question: Mr President, do you still think that the current situation in the Middle East is the result of the failures of U.S. diplomacy in this region?
Vladimir Putin: I have never said that. Why do you say ‘do you still think?’ When did I ever express such a view?
Question: Last year, answering my question, you said that ‘the Hamas victory is a big blow for American diplomacy’.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, of course it was a big blow, but that does not mean that the United States is responsible for everything that is happening in the Middle East. We do not agree with U.S. policy on many points, but it would be wrong to demonise the United States. Responsibility for what is happening in the region lies above all with the people who live there, with the Arab countries, with Israel and with Palestine itself. Of course, responsibility also lies with the influential countries such as the United States, Europe and Russia who are acting in the region’s interests.
We can discuss whether we have different understandings of the region’s interests, and we can debate amongst ourselves, but we cannot step in from outside to resolve the region’s problems. I think that the situation in Iraq just goes to show that no matter how strong a country is, it cannot resolve this or that problem by acting alone. Countries with big political, economic and military capability obviously do have a significant influence on how situations develop and their influence can work for good or bad. We hope very much that our American partners will act in a more cooperative spirit and listen more carefully to all the participants in this process.
Question: Can the fact that Russia maintains good relations with all sides in the conflict in Lebanon, including Hezbollah, help resolve the crisis in that country?
Vladimir Putin: I can only continue with what I said in response to the last question. We cannot solve the Lebanese people’s problems for them, we can only help. We do indeed have very friendly relations with the Lebanese government, with Hezbollah and with other political groups. This is the truth. We have traditionally always had very good relations with the Arab world, as we both know. But we cannot solve Lebanon’s problems for it.
The point I would like to make today is that we call on all the different political forces in Lebanon to make the interests of their own people their main aim and guideline in their attempts to settle the complex domestic political issues they face. We, for our part, will do everything we can to use our influence, above all our moral influence, and our contacts based on trust in order to help negotiate compromises.
Question: By the way, Mr President, could you explain why a unit from Chechnya was chosen to provide security for the Russian battalion that you sent to Lebanon to rebuild damaged bridges?
Vladimir Putin: It was a natural choice and there are no secrets involved. Our position was above all that our servicemen would be working in a difficult environment, in a country where an armed conflict had only just ended and where the internal political situation was complex. We decided that since our servicemen would be working mostly in the Muslim areas of Lebanon, it would be good if the unit providing the security for our engineers was made up of Russian citizens from Chechnya, which, as is well known, has a primarily Muslim population. Our calculations proved correct, I must say, because local people in Lebanon greeted the arrival of Russian servicemen and people of Muslim faith very positively, and it was a surprise to them to discover that there are units entirely composed of Muslims in the Russian Armed Forces.
Moreover, this decision also illustrated that great changes are taking place in Chechnya itself. We have complete confidence in those who are carrying arms to defend the interests of their people in Chechnya.
Question: Mr President, if you permit, I would like to look at more global issues now.
You reacted negatively to the U.S. decision to deploy elements of its missile defence system in some Eastern European countries. In taking these steps, are the Americans violating earlier agreements in this area?
Vladimir Putin: I cannot speak of violations of specific agreements, though this could be a matter for discussion at expert level. I want to say that after the Berlin Wall came down, we talked a lot and in great detail about the fact that we must build a Europe without dividing lines. We also signed the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe.
We are complying with these limitations. But at the same time, we see that new virtual ‘Berlin Walls’ are being erected. Instead of a common space, what we see instead is that this ‘Berlin Wall’ is simply being shifted further east and that new bases are being established.
We are complying with all the arms limitation obligations we have taken on, but our partners do not seem to feel bound by these obligations. Many of them have not ratified this agreement, and this, of course, gives us some cause for concern.
Question: Mr President, continuing on this subject, does this step taken by the USA require you to make changes to your own military plans?
Vladimir Putin: Of course we are forced to take this situation into account, because it is one matter when we hear talk of political transformation of, say, NATO and another matter when we see in reality that NATO’s military infrastructure is coming closer to our borders. Of course this forces us to respond, and we are responding.
Question: How?
Vladimir Putin: We are shaping our military doctrine accordingly and equipping our Armed Forces to address the new tasks that emerge.
Question: Many in the West see Russia’s announcement that it has unique missiles unlike any other in the world as some kind of demonstration of its power. What do you say to this?
Vladimir Putin: They are right.
Question: So this is a way of demonstrating Russia’s strength?
Vladimir Putin: Of course.
Response: But this sometimes provokes a negative reaction towards Russia in the West.
Vladimir Putin: It provokes a negative reaction among people who do not realise the meaning of what is taking place. What is the meaning of what is taking place? This is a complex issue, but I will try to give a brief explanation.
From the point of view of stability in this or that region or in the world in general, the balance of power is the main achievement of these past decades and indeed of the whole history of humanity. It is one of the most important conditions for maintaining global stability and security. When we see that our partners are developing new weapons systems and bringing their military infrastructure closer to our borders, we are forced to make some kind of response. Take the plans to create a missile defence system, for example. They change the balance of power. If one side puts this system in place, the other side might feel less sure of its security, and this also changes the balance of power. Faced with this situation, we are forced to make a response, at the very minimum an asymmetric response. If we decide not to build our own missile defence system in response then we must design a system that will be able to penetrate the missile defences being built by our partners. This is all very logical and clear, and this is precisely what we are doing.
Question: Following the gas crisis with Ukraine at the start of last year and the problems with Belarus at the beginning of this year, many in the West have been saying that Russia is using its energy resources as a weapon for political blackmail.
How do you plan to build your future relations with foreign consumers of your energy resources?
Vladimir Putin: I not only think but I am certain that statements of this kind have no grounds in reality. They are either a line of attack used by those who wish our country no good, or are a means of unfair competition. No other country, after all, is expected to accept non-market relations and offer preferential conditions to other countries, and we do not understand why we should be expected to do so. Our action aims solely at establishing exclusively market-based relations with our partners, both with consumers and transit countries. We are not proposing anything else. Moreover, I can give you an example that very clearly illustrates what I have just said and that shows that this really is the foundation of our energy policy.
Our political relations with the Baltic states could certainly be better, but nonetheless, we reached an agreement with them three or four years ago about introducing market prices and we signed agreements on a gradual transition to these prices. Since then, we have continued subsidising their economies by supplying cheap energy resources, but gradually raising the price. This has had no impact on our political relations with these countries. They were not very good to begin with and, unfortunately, they remain on the whole not very good today. We have never used energy as an instrument in our relations with these countries.
Still at the beginning of last year, Latvia was paying only 60 percent of the market price for, say, natural gas from Russia, and it was only this year that we gradually introduced market prices in our dealings with Latvia. We are taking exactly the same approach with all our other partners.
When we see here and there criticism of Russia’s wish to establish market relations with its partners become all-out hysteria it is really just covering for political aims with regard to Russia. It is really in this case a means of trying to influence Russia.
Question: There is a lot of talk in the West about violations of human rights and freedoms in Russia. You have come in for a lot of criticism personally in this respect. How do you react to this criticism?
Vladimir Putin: I see it in much the same way as I see the criticism of our energy policy. I think that to a considerable extent it is being used as a means of influencing Russian internal politics and I think that some countries are using this kind of demagogy as a means to pursue their own foreign policy goals in Russia.
I do not really understand why some of our partners are trying to return to a situation where they see themselves as cleverer and more civilised and think that they have the right to impose their standards on others. Let them go to China and try managing its more than 1.5 billion people. I doubt they would do it better than Mr Hu Jintao. The thing to remember is that standards that are imposed from outside, including in the Middle East, rather than being a product of a society’s natural internal development, lead to tragic consequences, and the best example of this is Iraq.
Question: Mr President, you have said that the restoration of Russia’s territorial integrity is one of the main achievements of your seven years in power. Were you referring to Chechnya?
Vladimir Putin: I was referring not only to Chechnya. I was referring to the fact that, after the Soviet Union collapsed, there were competing trends of movement towards and away from central authority that dealt a serious blow to the new Russia’s attempts to carry out state-building work and develop its new statehood. This situation was undermining the foundations of Russia’s statehood. It was a situation of disharmony, because we have many regions, but what we were seeing was that in regions where ethnic minorities make up a large part of the population, and even in regions where the population is predominantly ethnic Russian, we were seeing various tendencies towards not simply federalism, but towards going beyond the limits of their rights within a federal state. It was this situation that we put an end to.
As for Chechnya, in this context it is of particular significance. As you know, the Chechen people voted in a referendum on Chechnya’s constitution and affirmed their desire to remain within the Russian Federation. In this sense, this marked the final point in restoring Russia’s territorial integrity.
Question: You refuse to name your successor. This is your right, of course, but I’m sure you would agree that the Russian people and Russia’s friends abroad have the right to know if the course set by the current leadership will be maintained? Correct me if I’m wrong.
Vladimir Putin: No, no, you are not wrong at all, in fact, you are exactly right. Of course, a lot depends on individual figures, and the same is true in Russia. But I think that what is most important is to maintain the current course which, as I see it, has justified itself overall given that, as I said, we have restored Russia’s statehood and its territorial integrity and developed its economy and social sphere. We have begun implementing a large number of social development programmes this year. People are worried, of course, about whether these policies will be continued, whether the state will fulfil its commitments to the public, and whether the economic base enabling these commitments to be fulfilled will be maintained. Russia’s entire system of state power is important in this respect, and I think that the parliamentary elections are no less important than the presidential election that will follow. All the bodies and branches of power need to work together in consolidated fashion in the interests of Russia’s people. What we need to talk about therefore is not a successor, but about continuation of today’s policies.
Question: You are popular both inside Russia and abroad. Some of your friends among the Arab leaders have even suggested that you should perhaps stay on for more than one term in office. What is your response to such suggestions?
Vladimir Putin: This might come as a surprise, but not only Arab leaders but also the leaders of some European countries have said to me in private that Russia is not Europe (in terms of living standards, unfortunately, and current development stage, the stage we are at in developing our modern statehood), and have suggested that during this transition period it would make sense for me to stay on as President of the Russian Federation. I have heard such recommendations not only abroad but often inside Russia too.
Regarding my friends inside Russia, those who give a positive assessment of my work, at least, I can but thank them, but I also have to say to them that they do not represent the entire Russian people.
Also, I consider it crucially important to make democratic principles and institutions and respect for the law and the Constitution part of the practical life of our country. It is in this way that we can lay genuinely solid foundations for our country’s stability.
It is for these reasons that I think that Russia’s people should make their own conscious choice in the parliamentary election at the end of 2007 and in the presidential election at the start of 2008.
Question: Mr President, after the events of September 11, 2001, Muslim communities in Europe and the West have been living in a state of growing anxiety as a result of increasingly anti-Muslim moods there. In Russia the situation has been calmer so far. Are there any guarantees that this calm will continue in the future?
Vladimir Putin: Yes, of course. Above all, this is linked to the different situation and status of the Muslim population in Russia and in European countries. In European countries, even if people have obtained citizenship, they still consider themselves immigrants. In Russia, the Muslim population is an integral part of our multiethnic and multi-religious people. These people have no other homeland but their region, their republic, and Russia as a whole. Russia is their homeland and they are full members of our society, full citizens of our country.
This state of Russia’s society has internal origins and has been shaped over the centuries. For more than a thousand years, Muslims and Christians have lived together on this territory, and I am sure that over these centuries of life together they have developed a particular ethnic and cultural community with very similar and often completely coinciding humanist principles and rules. All of this together makes our society very stable. It is precisely for this reason that Russia became an observer in the Organisation of the Islamic Conference. We are grateful to our partners for voting in favour of this decision. Russia’s Muslims can and should feel that they are an organic part of the Muslim world.
Question: I must say, Mr President, that many of the foreign citizens living in Moscow, many students in particular, when they learned that I was going to meet you, asked me to raise the issue of the hostility radical groups have been showing towards foreigners. You are no doubt aware of the cases of foreign citizens being killed by extremists. What do you intend to do to address this problem?
Vladimir Putin: This is a complex and serious issue. I think that the roots of this situation go back to the complex processes that have taken place in our country over the last 15 years.
For a start, as you know, there was a state ideology that then completely disappeared.
Second, a large number of our citizens found themselves living below the poverty line as a result of the economic events of the early and mid 1990s, economic upheavals I would call them.
Third, after the collapse of the Soviet Union we did not take due action to regulate our relations with the former Soviet republics, neither in the economic nor social spheres. Many citizens of these former republics, now independent states, became involved in economic activity in Russia itself, doing jobs that, it would seem, Russian citizens themselves could do. All of this combined to create suspicion with regard to foreigners. I think that a return to basic values of Orthodoxy, Islam and our country’s other traditional religions, in combination with effective state measures to protect the interests of foreigners and also protect the lawful rights of Russia’s own citizens should remedy this situation.
Question: Mr President, you are about to make the first visit by a Russian President to the countries of the Persian Gulf. This region has so far been on the margins of Russian foreign policy and foreign economic policy. What are your forecasts for the future?
Vladimir Putin: This situation arose because during the Soviet years there were ideological barriers and contradictions that got in the way of developing relations with these countries. The fact that these barriers have disappeared is one of the positive results to come out of the last decade or 15 years. There are no countries in the Arab world now with whom we have contradictions of any kind. This gives us the chance to develop our relations with all countries in the region, including the Gulf states. We do indeed hope that the resources these countries possess, above all the financial resources, could be used in the growing Russian economy. There are no obstacles to this. One of the aims of my visit is to reaffirm the high status of the intergovernmental relations between our countries today and find ways of developing these relations in the economic sphere.
Question: I am happy to recall that there will soon be an Arab-language channel in Russia that will show events taking place in Russia from Russia’s point of view. How do you think this will help to build bridges between the Arab countries and Russia?
Vladimir Putin: Building bridges was the whole reason we decided to go ahead with these plans. Of course this step should help to develop direct relations in the information field between Russia and the Arab world, between your people and our people, who have a longstanding interest in and love for Arab culture.
Question: Mr President, among ordinary people in the Arab countries there is a certain nostalgia for the Soviet Union. Many people think that your foreign policy will restore Russia to the place the Soviet Union once held. What would you say to them?
Vladimir Putin: I want to say that Russia does not seek superpower status. Russia does not seek conflict with anyone. But Russia knows its worth. We will work towards creating a multipolar world. We do not want to return to the era of confrontation between opposing blocs. We do not want to split the world into different military and political groupings. But Russia does have enough potential to influence the formation of the new world order and to ensure that the future architecture of international relations is balanced and takes the interests of all members of the international community into account.
Question: One final question: you said that your wife recently gave you a collection of verse by Omar Khayam.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, that’s true.
Question: Have you had time to read it? Have you read any of his verse so far?
Vladimir Putin: Of course. Moreover, while I was sitting at the recent press conference when I mentioned this, I was writing down a few of the quatrains that I had memorized, and your Russian colleagues filmed this. It’s a good book.
Omar Khayam, after all, was not just a poet and writer but he also studied nature and was a physicist, chemist and mathematician. But this literary creation that he carried out in between his main occupations, so to speak, is just one fine example of the magnificent and very profound culture of the East, a culture that has always been of particular interest to people in this country.
Response: Mr President, thank you very much for this interview.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: February 10, 2007, 20:48
Text versionEvents
Speech and the Following Discussion at the Munich Conference on Security Policy
February 10, 2007
01:38
Munich
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much dear Madam Federal Chancellor, Mr Teltschik, ladies and gentlemen!
I am truly grateful to be invited to such a representative conference that has assembled politicians, military officials, entrepreneurs and experts from more than 40 nations.
This conference’s structure allows me to avoid excessive politeness and the need to speak in roundabout, pleasant but empty diplomatic terms. This conference’s format will allow me to say what I really think about international security problems. And if my comments seem unduly polemical, pointed or inexact to our colleagues, then I would ask you not to get angry with me. After all, this is only a conference. And I hope that after the first two or three minutes of my speech Mr Teltschik will not turn on the red light over there.
Therefore. It is well known that international security comprises much more than issues relating to military and political stability. It involves the stability of the global economy, overcoming poverty, economic security and developing a dialogue between civilisations.
This universal, indivisible character of security is expressed as the basic principle that “security for one is security for all”. As Franklin D. Roosevelt said during the first few days that the Second World War was breaking out: “When peace has been broken anywhere, the peace of all countries everywhere is in danger.”
These words remain topical today. Incidentally, the theme of our conference – global crises, global responsibility – exemplifies this.
Only two decades ago the world was ideologically and economically divided and it was the huge strategic potential of two superpowers that ensured global security.
This global stand-off pushed the sharpest economic and social problems to the margins of the international community’s and the world’s agenda. And, just like any war, the Cold War left us with live ammunition, figuratively speaking. I am referring to ideological stereotypes, double standards and other typical aspects of Cold War bloc thinking.
The unipolar world that had been proposed after the Cold War did not take place either.
The history of humanity certainly has gone through unipolar periods and seen aspirations to world supremacy. And what hasn’t happened in world history?
However, what is a unipolar world? However one might embellish this term, at the end of the day it refers to one type of situation, namely one centre of authority, one centre of force, one centre of decision-making.
It is world in which there is one master, one sovereign. And at the end of the day this is pernicious not only for all those within this system, but also for the sovereign itself because it destroys itself from within.
And this certainly has nothing in common with democracy. Because, as you know, democracy is the power of the majority in light of the interests and opinions of the minority.
Incidentally, Russia – we – are constantly being taught about democracy. But for some reason those who teach us do not want to learn themselves.
I consider that the unipolar model is not only unacceptable but also impossible in today’s world. And this is not only because if there was individual leadership in today’s – and precisely in today’s – world, then the military, political and economic resources would not suffice. What is even more important is that the model itself is flawed because at its basis there is and can be no moral foundations for modern civilisation.
Along with this, what is happening in today’s world – and we just started to discuss this – is a tentative to introduce precisely this concept into international affairs, the concept of a unipolar world.
And with which results?
Unilateral and frequently illegitimate actions have not resolved any problems. Moreover, they have caused new human tragedies and created new centres of tension. Judge for yourselves: wars as well as local and regional conflicts have not diminished. Mr Teltschik mentioned this very gently. And no less people perish in these conflicts – even more are dying than before. Significantly more, significantly more!
Today we are witnessing an almost uncontained hyper use of force – military force – in international relations, force that is plunging the world into an abyss of permanent conflicts. As a result we do not have sufficient strength to find a comprehensive solution to any one of these conflicts. Finding a political settlement also becomes impossible.
We are seeing a greater and greater disdain for the basic principles of international law. And independent legal norms are, as a matter of fact, coming increasingly closer to one state’s legal system. One state and, of course, first and foremost the United States, has overstepped its national borders in every way. This is visible in the economic, political, cultural and educational policies it imposes on other nations. Well, who likes this? Who is happy about this?
In international relations we increasingly see the desire to resolve a given question according to so-called issues of political expediency, based on the current political climate.
And of course this is extremely dangerous. It results in the fact that no one feels safe. I want to emphasise this – no one feels safe! Because no one can feel that international law is like a stone wall that will protect them. Of course such a policy stimulates an arms race.
The force’s dominance inevitably encourages a number of countries to acquire weapons of mass destruction. Moreover, significantly new threats – though they were also well-known before – have appeared, and today threats such as terrorism have taken on a global character.
I am convinced that we have reached that decisive moment when we must seriously think about the architecture of global security.
And we must proceed by searching for a reasonable balance between the interests of all participants in the international dialogue. Especially since the international landscape is so varied and changes so quickly – changes in light of the dynamic development in a whole number of countries and regions.
Madam Federal Chancellor already mentioned this. The combined GDP measured in purchasing power parity of countries such as India and China is already greater than that of the United States. And a similar calculation with the GDP of the BRIC countries – Brazil, Russia, India and China – surpasses the cumulative GDP of the EU. And according to experts this gap will only increase in the future.
There is no reason to doubt that the economic potential of the new centres of global economic growth will inevitably be converted into political influence and will strengthen multipolarity.
In connection with this the role of multilateral diplomacy is significantly increasing. The need for principles such as openness, transparency and predictability in politics is uncontested and the use of force should be a really exceptional measure, comparable to using the death penalty in the judicial systems of certain states.
However, today we are witnessing the opposite tendency, namely a situation in which countries that forbid the death penalty even for murderers and other, dangerous criminals are airily participating in military operations that are difficult to consider legitimate. And as a matter of fact, these conflicts are killing people – hundreds and thousands of civilians!
But at the same time the question arises of whether we should be indifferent and aloof to various internal conflicts inside countries, to authoritarian regimes, to tyrants, and to the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction? As a matter of fact, this was also at the centre of the question that our dear colleague Mr Lieberman asked the Federal Chancellor. If I correctly understood your question (addressing Mr Lieberman), then of course it is a serious one! Can we be indifferent observers in view of what is happening? I will try to answer your question as well: of course not.
But do we have the means to counter these threats? Certainly we do. It is sufficient to look at recent history. Did not our country have a peaceful transition to democracy? Indeed, we witnessed a peaceful transformation of the Soviet regime – a peaceful transformation! And what a regime! With what a number of weapons, including nuclear weapons! Why should we start bombing and shooting now at every available opportunity? Is it the case when without the threat of mutual destruction we do not have enough political culture, respect for democratic values and for the law?
I am convinced that the only mechanism that can make decisions about using military force as a last resort is the Charter of the United Nations. And in connection with this, either I did not understand what our colleague, the Italian Defence Minister, just said or what he said was inexact. In any case, I understood that the use of force can only be legitimate when the decision is taken by NATO, the EU, or the UN. If he really does think so, then we have different points of view. Or I didn’t hear correctly. The use of force can only be considered legitimate if the decision is sanctioned by the UN. And we do not need to substitute NATO or the EU for the UN. When the UN will truly unite the forces of the international community and can really react to events in various countries, when we will leave behind this disdain for international law, then the situation will be able to change. Otherwise the situation will simply result in a dead end, and the number of serious mistakes will be multiplied. Along with this, it is necessary to make sure that international law have a universal character both in the conception and application of its norms.
And one must not forget that democratic political actions necessarily go along with discussion and a laborious decision-making process.
Dear ladies and gentlemen!
The potential danger of the destabilisation of international relations is connected with obvious stagnation in the disarmament issue.
Russia supports the renewal of dialogue on this important question.
It is important to conserve the international legal framework relating to weapons destruction and therefore ensure continuity in the process of reducing nuclear weapons.
Together with the United States of America we agreed to reduce our nuclear strategic missile capabilities to up to 1700–2000 nuclear warheads by 31 December 2012. Russia intends to strictly fulfil the obligations it has taken on. We hope that our partners will also act in a transparent way and will refrain from laying aside a couple of hundred superfluous nuclear warheads for a rainy day. And if today the new American Defence Minister declares that the United States will not hide these superfluous weapons in warehouse or, as one might say, under a pillow or under the blanket, then I suggest that we all rise and greet this declaration standing. It would be a very important declaration.
Russia strictly adheres to and intends to further adhere to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons as well as the multilateral supervision regime for missile technologies. The principles incorporated in these documents are universal ones.
In connection with this I would like to recall that in the 1980s the USSR and the United States signed an agreement on destroying a whole range of small- and medium-range missiles but these documents do not have a universal character.
Today many other countries have these missiles, including the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, the Republic of Korea, India, Iran, Pakistan and Israel. Many countries are working on these systems and plan to incorporate them as part of their weapons arsenals. And only the United States and Russia bear the responsibility to not create such weapons systems.
It is obvious that in these conditions we must think about ensuring our own security.
At the same time, it is impossible to sanction the appearance of new, destabilising high-tech weapons. Needless to say it refers to measures to prevent a new area of confrontation, especially in outer space. Star wars is no longer a fantasy – it is a reality. In the middle of the 1980s our American partners were already able to intercept their own satellite.
In Russia’s opinion, the militarisation of outer space could have unpredictable consequences for the international community, and provoke nothing less than the beginning of a nuclear era. And we have come forward more than once with initiatives designed to prevent the use of weapons in outer space.
Today I would like to tell you that we have prepared a project for an agreement on the prevention of deploying weapons in outer space. And in the near future it will be sent to our partners as an official proposal. Let’s work on this together.
Plans to expand certain elements of the anti-missile defence system to Europe cannot help but disturb us. Who needs the next step of what would be, in this case, an inevitable arms race? I deeply doubt that Europeans themselves do.
Missile weapons with a range of about five to eight thousand kilometres that really pose a threat to Europe do not exist in any of the so-called problem countries. And in the near future and prospects, this will not happen and is not even foreseeable. And any hypothetical launch of, for example, a North Korean rocket to American territory through western Europe obviously contradicts the laws of ballistics. As we say in Russia, it would be like using the right hand to reach the left ear.
And here in Germany I cannot help but mention the pitiable condition of the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe.
The Adapted Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe was signed in 1999. It took into account a new geopolitical reality, namely the elimination of the Warsaw bloc. Seven years have passed and only four states have ratified this document, including the Russian Federation.
NATO countries openly declared that they will not ratify this treaty, including the provisions on flank restrictions (on deploying a certain number of armed forces in the flank zones), until Russia removed its military bases from Georgia and Moldova. Our army is leaving Georgia, even according to an accelerated schedule. We resolved the problems we had with our Georgian colleagues, as everybody knows. There are still 1,500 servicemen in Moldova that are carrying out peacekeeping operations and protecting warehouses with ammunition left over from Soviet times. We constantly discuss this issue with Mr Solana and he knows our position. We are ready to further work in this direction.
But what is happening at the same time? Simultaneously the so-called flexible frontline American bases with up to five thousand men in each. It turns out that NATO has put its frontline forces on our borders, and we continue to strictly fulfil the treaty obligations and do not react to these actions at all.
I think it is obvious that NATO expansion does not have any relation with the modernisation of the Alliance itself or with ensuring security in Europe. On the contrary, it represents a serious provocation that reduces the level of mutual trust. And we have the right to ask: against whom is this expansion intended? And what happened to the assurances our western partners made after the dissolution of the Warsaw Pact? Where are those declarations today? No one even remembers them. But I will allow myself to remind this audience what was said. I would like to quote the speech of NATO General Secretary Mr Woerner in Brussels on 17 May 1990. He said at the time that: “the fact that we are ready not to place a NATO army outside of German territory gives the Soviet Union a firm security guarantee”. Where are these guarantees?
The stones and concrete blocks of the Berlin Wall have long been distributed as souvenirs. But we should not forget that the fall of the Berlin Wall was possible thanks to a historic choice – one that was also made by our people, the people of Russia – a choice in favour of democracy, freedom, openness and a sincere partnership with all the members of the big European family.
And now they are trying to impose new dividing lines and walls on us – these walls may be virtual but they are nevertheless dividing, ones that cut through our continent. And is it possible that we will once again require many years and decades, as well as several generations of politicians, to dissemble and dismantle these new walls?
Dear ladies and gentlemen!
We are unequivocally in favour of strengthening the regime of non-proliferation. The present international legal principles allow us to develop technologies to manufacture nuclear fuel for peaceful purposes. And many countries with all good reasons want to create their own nuclear energy as a basis for their energy independence. But we also understand that these technologies can be quickly transformed into nuclear weapons.
This creates serious international tensions. The situation surrounding the Iranian nuclear programme acts as a clear example. And if the international community does not find a reasonable solution for resolving this conflict of interests, the world will continue to suffer similar, destabilising crises because there are more threshold countries than simply Iran. We both know this. We are going to constantly fight against the threat of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
Last year Russia put forward the initiative to establish international centres for the enrichment of uranium. We are open to the possibility that such centres not only be created in Russia, but also in other countries where there is a legitimate basis for using civil nuclear energy. Countries that want to develop their nuclear energy could guarantee that they will receive fuel through direct participation in these centres. And the centres would, of course, operate under strict IAEA supervision.
The latest initiatives put forward by American President George W. Bush are in conformity with the Russian proposals. I consider that Russia and the USA are objectively and equally interested in strengthening the regime of the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and their deployment. It is precisely our countries, with leading nuclear and missile capabilities, that must act as leaders in developing new, stricter non-proliferation measures. Russia is ready for such work. We are engaged in consultations with our American friends.
In general, we should talk about establishing a whole system of political incentives and economic stimuli whereby it would not be in states’ interests to establish their own capabilities in the nuclear fuel cycle but they would still have the opportunity to develop nuclear energy and strengthen their energy capabilities.
In connection with this I shall talk about international energy cooperation in more detail. Madam Federal Chancellor also spoke about this briefly – she mentioned, touched on this theme. In the energy sector Russia intends to create uniform market principles and transparent conditions for all. It is obvious that energy prices must be determined by the market instead of being the subject of political speculation, economic pressure or blackmail.
We are open to cooperation. Foreign companies participate in all our major energy projects. According to different estimates, up to 26 percent of the oil extraction in Russia – and please think about this figure – up to 26 percent of the oil extraction in Russia is done by foreign capital. Try, try to find me a similar example where Russian business participates extensively in key economic sectors in western countries. Such examples do not exist! There are no such examples.
I would also recall the parity of foreign investments in Russia and those Russia makes abroad. The parity is about fifteen to one. And here you have an obvious example of the openness and stability of the Russian economy.
Economic security is the sector in which all must adhere to uniform principles. We are ready to compete fairly.
For that reason more and more opportunities are appearing in the Russian economy. Experts and our western partners are objectively evaluating these changes. As such, Russia’s OECD sovereign credit rating improved and Russia passed from the fourth to the third group. And today in Munich I would like to use this occasion to thank our German colleagues for their help in the above decision.
Furthermore. As you know, the process of Russia joining the WTO has reached its final stages. I would point out that during long, difficult talks we heard words about freedom of speech, free trade, and equal possibilities more than once but, for some reason, exclusively in reference to the Russian market.
And there is still one more important theme that directly affects global security. Today many talk about the struggle against poverty. What is actually happening in this sphere? On the one hand, financial resources are allocated for programmes to help the world’s poorest countries – and at times substantial financial resources. But to be honest — and many here also know this – linked with the development of that same donor country’s companies. And on the other hand, developed countries simultaneously keep their agricultural subsidies and limit some countries’ access to high-tech products.
And let’s say things as they are – one hand distributes charitable help and the other hand not only preserves economic backwardness but also reaps the profits thereof. The increasing social tension in depressed regions inevitably results in the growth of radicalism, extremism, feeds terrorism and local conflicts. And if all this happens in, shall we say, a region such as the Middle East where there is increasingly the sense that the world at large is unfair, then there is the risk of global destabilisation.
It is obvious that the world’s leading countries should see this threat. And that they should therefore build a more democratic, fairer system of global economic relations, a system that would give everyone the chance and the possibility to develop.
Dear ladies and gentlemen, speaking at the Conference on Security Policy, it is impossible not to mention the activities of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE). As is well-known, this organisation was created to examine all – I shall emphasise this – all aspects of security: military, political, economic, humanitarian and, especially, the relations between these spheres.
What do we see happening today? We see that this balance is clearly destroyed. People are trying to transform the OSCE into a vulgar instrument designed to promote the foreign policy interests of one or a group of countries. And this task is also being accomplished by the OSCE’s bureaucratic apparatus which is absolutely not connected with the state founders in any way. Decision-making procedures and the involvement of so-called non-governmental organisations are tailored for this task. These organisations are formally independent but they are purposefully financed and therefore under control.
According to the founding documents, in the humanitarian sphere the OSCE is designed to assist country members in observing international human rights norms at their request. This is an important task. We support this. But this does not mean interfering in the internal affairs of other countries, and especially not imposing a regime that determines how these states should live and develop.
It is obvious that such interference does not promote the development of democratic states at all. On the contrary, it makes them dependent and, as a consequence, politically and economically unstable.
We expect that the OSCE be guided by its primary tasks and build relations with sovereign states based on respect, trust and transparency.
Dear ladies and gentlemen!
In conclusion I would like to note the following. We very often – and personally, I very often – hear appeals by our partners, including our European partners, to the effect that Russia should play an increasingly active role in world affairs.
In connection with this I would allow myself to make one small remark. It is hardly necessary to incite us to do so. Russia is a country with a history that spans more than a thousand years and has practically always used the privilege to carry out an independent foreign policy.
We are not going to change this tradition today. At the same time, we are well aware of how the world has changed and we have a realistic sense of our own opportunities and potential. And of course we would like to interact with responsible and independent partners with whom we could work together in constructing a fair and democratic world order that would ensure security and prosperity not only for a select few, but for all.
Thank you for your attention.
Horst Teltschik: Thank you very much for your important speech. We heard new themes, including the issue of global security architecture – one was not in the foreground over the last few years – disarmament, arms control, the issue of the NATO-Russian relations, and cooperation in the field of technology.
There are still a whole number of questions and Mr President is ready to answer.
Question: Dear Mr President, thank you for your speech. I would like to emphasise that the German Bundestag is convinced of Russia’s importance as Europe’s partner and of the importance of the role you play. The Federal Chancellor said this in her speech.
Proceeding from experience, I would like to mention two issues in your speech. First of all, on your opinion of NATO and NATO expansion, a phenomenon that you consider dangerous for Russia. Would you acknowledge that this phenomenon is, in practice, not expansion but rather the self-determination of democratic states who want this? And that NATO finds it difficult to accept states that do not declare this readiness? You could admit that thanks to NATO expansion eastern borders have become more reliable, more secure. Why are you afraid of democracy? I am convinced that only democratic states can become members of NATO. This stabilises neighbours.
About what is happening inside your country. The murder of Anna Politkovskaya was a symbol. One can say that this affects many journalists, makes everybody afraid, and the law on non-governmental organisations also causes alarm.
Question: I well understand your comments about non-proliferation. Especially at the end of the Cold War we saw a reduction of the deployment of nuclear weapons, but we also saw increased terrorism. Nuclear materials must be kept away from terrorists.
Question: Coming back to the question that was also asked to the Federal Chancellor. What does the future hold for Kosovo and Serbia? What is your opinion of Mr Ahtisaari? How will Russia influence resolving this problem?
Question: Can you comment on the experiences of Russian servicemen in Chechnya? And about your comments on energy: you briefly mentioned the market role energy plays in politics. The EU is interested in reaching a partnership agreement that contains fixed policy principles. Are you ready to guarantee reliable energy deliveries, including in the agreement?
Question: Mr President, your speech was both sincere and frank. I hope that you understand my frank and direct question. In the 1990s Russian experts actively helped Iran develop missile technologies. Iran now has advanced medium- and long-range missiles that would enable it to strike Russia and part of Europe. They are also working towards placing nuclear warheads on these missiles. Your country has made efforts to negotiate with Iran on this issue and supported the UN Security Council resolution to prevent Iran from carrying out such a policy.
My question is as follows: what efforts will Russia make – through the UN or otherwise – to stop these very serious events in Iran?
Question: I am confident that the historians of the future will not describe our conference as one in which the Second Cold War was declared. But they could. You said that it is necessary to put pressure on Iran and to provide positive incentives. But is it not true that Russia is interfering with the process of applying strong pressure through sanctions? Secondly, with regards to deliveries of weapons, Russia is encouraging Iran, especially since these weapons appeared in Lebanon and in Gaza. What are your comments on this?
Question: I understand your sincerity and I hope that you will accept our sincerity. First of all, about arms control. Who needs a new arms race? I want to point out that the USA has not developed a new strategic weapon in more than two decades and that you recently tested the Topol-M missile, and that it is already deployed in silos and on mobile installations. You criticised the USA for unilateral actions and said twice that military actions can only be legitimate if they receive UN approval. The USA is carrying out military actions in Iraq and in Afghanistan according to UN decisions and today in Kosovo the majority of troops are supporting peace-making operations in this country.
My question is the following: are you saying that independently of how Russia perceives a threat to its international interests, it will not undertake military operations without UN approval?
Question: You talked about the danger of a unipolar world in which one sovereign makes a decision without consulting anyone else. In many people’s opinion, in Russia we are seeing an increasingly unipolar government where competing centres of influence are forced to tow the party line, whether it be in the State Duma, the regional leadership, the media, business communities or non-governmental organisations. Would a unipolar government be such a reliable partner when the issue of energy security is at stake?
President Vladimir Putin: First of all I would like to thank you for your questions. Very interesting. It is a shame that we have little time left because I would be pleased to have a separate discussion with all of you. I very much enjoy this, I like it.
I will begin with the last question about the unipolar nature of the Russian government. Today the Communist Party of the Russian Federation, the United Russia Party, the Liberal Democratic Party and other political forces as well sit in the Russian parliament. And their basic positions differ significantly. If you aren’t aware of this then just have a talk with the leadership of the Communist Party of the Russian Federation and then with the leader of our liberal democrats, Mr Zhirinovsky. You will see the difference at once. If you cannot see it now, then have a talk with them. There is no problem here, simply go to Moscow and talk to them.
About our future plans. We would like to have a mature political system, a multi-party system with responsible politicians who can anticipate the country’s development and not only work responsibly before elections and immediately after, but in a long-term future as well. That is what we aspire to. And this system will certainly be a multi-party one. All our actions within Russia, including changing the State Duma election regime, the election regime in the Russian parliament, are designed to strengthen a multi-party system in Russia.
And now about whether our government cabinet is able to operate responsibly in resolving issues linked to energy deliveries and ensuring energy security. Of course it can! Moreover, all that we have done and are doing is designed to achieve only one goal, namely to transfer our relations with consumers and countries that transport our energy to market-based, transparent principles and long-term contracts.
I will remind you and my colleague, the President of Ukraine, who is sitting opposite from me, also knows this. For fifteen years prior to 2006, as long as we did not make the corresponding decisions during our difficult talks, deliveries of Russian energy and, first and foremost, of gas to Europe depended on the conditions and prices for the deliveries of Russian gas to Ukraine itself. And this was something that Ukraine and Russia agreed among themselves. And if we reached no agreement, then all European consumers would sit there with no gas. Would you like to see this happen? I don’t think so. And despite all the scandals, the protection of interests, and differences of opinion we were able to agree with President Yushchenko. I consider that he made a responsible, absolutely correct and market-oriented decision. We signed separate contracts for the delivery of our gas to Ukraine and for delivering Russian gas to Europe for the next five years. You should thank us, both Russia and Ukraine, for this decision. And thank you also for your question.
It would have been better if I answered your questions at once.
Regarding our perception of NATO’s eastern expansion, I already mentioned the guarantees that were made and that are not being observed today. Do you happen to think that this is normal practice in international affairs? But all right, forget it. Forget these guarantees. With respect to democracy and NATO expansion. NATO is not a universal organisation, as opposed to the UN. It is first and foremost a military and political alliance, military and political! Well, ensuring one’s own security is the right of any sovereign state. We are not arguing against this. Of course we are not objecting to this. But why is it necessary to put military infrastructure on our borders during this expansion? Can someone answer this question? Unless the expansion of military infrastructure is connected with fighting against today’s global threats? Let’s put it this way, what is the most important of these threats for us today – the most important for Russia, for the USA and for Europe – it is terrorism and the fight against it.
Does one need Russia to fight against terrorism? Of course! Does one need India to fight against terrorism! Of course! But we are not members of NATO and other countries aren’t either. But we can only work on this issue effectively by joining our forces. As such, expanding infrastructure, especially military infrastructure, to our borders is not connected in any way with the democratic choices of individual states. And I would ask that we not mix these two concepts.
You know, I wrote so illegibly here that even I cannot read my own writing. I will therefore answer what I can read and if I do not answer something, please remind me of the question.
What will happen with Kosovo and with Serbia? Only Kosovars and Serbs can know. And let’s not tell them how they should live their lives. There is no need to play God and resolve all of these peoples’ problems. Together we can only create certain necessary conditions and help people resolve their own problems. Create the necessary conditions and act as the guarantors of certain agreements. But we should not impose these agreements. Otherwise, we shall simply put the situation into a dead end. And if one of the participants in this difficult process feels offended or humiliated, then the problem will last for centuries. We will only create a dead end.
What does our position consist in? Our position consists in adhering precisely to this principle. And if we see that one party is clearly dissatisfied with the proposals to resolve the situation then we are not going to support this option.
I did not exactly understand what you meant when you asked about our servicemen’s experience in Chechnya. Their experience is not pleasant, but it is extensive. And if you are interested in the general situation in Chechnya, then I can tell you that a parliament and a president have been elected, and that the government is functioning. All the bodies of authority and administration have been formed. Practically all the political forces in Chechnya have been involved in work in the Republic. As an example, the former Defence Minister of Aslan Maskhadov’s government is now a member of parliament in Chechnya. And we made a whole series of decisions that would allow former insurgents to return not only to normal life, but also to the Republic’s political activities. As such, today we prefer to act by using economic and political means and, in practice, we have transferred the responsibility for ensuring security almost 100 percent to the Chechen people. Because the agencies of law and order that were formed in Chechnya are almost 100 percent composed of local citizens, from those living in Chechnya on a permanent basis – from Chechens.
As to Lebanon, I also did not quite understand what you meant. But, yes, the fact that we sent military construction workers to Lebanon to restore bridges and infrastructure that was destroyed in the conflict with Israel is a confirmation of a well-known situation, the one I described just now. And military units protecting these builders were made up of servicemen from Chechnya and with Chechen origins. We recognised that if our servicemen must operate in regions inhabited by Muslims, sending a contingent of Muslim servicemen would be no bad thing. And we were not mistaken. The local population really gave a warm welcome to our military builders.
Now about the energy agreement with the European Union, since this is how I understood the question. We have said many times that we are not against agreeing on the principles underlying our energy relations with the EU. Moreover, the principles contained in the Charter are generally comprehensible. But the Charter itself is not so acceptable to us. Because not only Russia but also our European partners do not adhere to its principles. It is enough to remember that the market for nuclear materials remains closed for us. Nobody has opened this market to us.
There are also other moments which I simply do not want to draw attention to now. But as to the principles themselves, we are already using these principles in our work with German companies. I shall remind you of the transaction that took place between Gazprom and BASF. As a matter of fact, this was an asset swap. We are ready to continue to work this way. We are ready. But in each concrete instance we must understand what we give, what our partners give, calculate, have an independent international expert evaluation, and then make a decision. We are ready to engage in this work. We have actually just recently done something similar with our Italian partners, with the company ENI. And we did more than simply sign an agreement about deliveries until 2035 – I think – we also talked about swapping assets. And we are studying this same type of cooperation with our Ukrainian friends. This is going ahead.
And is it necessary to fix these principles in a possible future fundamental text between Russia and the EU? It is possible to have different opinions on this issue. I consider that it is not necessary because, in addition to energy, we have other spheres in which we cooperate with the EU, including agriculture, high-tech and transportation. And all of this is very important and very interesting. And we cannot put all of this in one fundamental act that should act as a framework document. Or would you want us to put only what you need in the document and leave what we need outside of the framework? Let’s discuss things honestly with one another and take mutually acceptable decisions.
“In the 1990s Russia helped Iran develop missile technologies”. I think that you asked me this question. “Today Iran wants to put nuclear warheads on these missiles that could reach Europe. What is Russia going to do about the Iranian nuclear programme?” Is that so?
Well first of all, I do not have data that in the 1990s Russia helped Iran create its own missile technologies. It was other countries that worked very actively towards this. And technology was transferred through different channels. And we have proof of this. At the time I gave these proofs directly to the President of the United States. And technology also came from Europe and from Asian countries.
So Russia is hardly at fault here. I assure you. Russia is the country least involved here. Least of all. If it is involved at all. At the time I was still working in St Petersburg, but we were not involved with this. I can assure you of this. But you know that at the business level something could have happened. We trained experts in institutes and so on. And at the request and according to the information of our American partners we reacted harshly to this. Immediately and harshly. We did not observe such a reaction from our other partners, including European partners. Moreover, I do not know whether you are aware of this or not but you should know that military technology and special equipment is still coming from the United States. Until now. Until now spare parts for F-14 planes come from the armed forces and the Pentagon. As far as I know, there is even an investigation taking place in the United States on this account. And despite the fact that this investigation is proceeding and that these spare parts were seized at the border and then sent back, after a certain amount of time, according to the data I have – and if they are not correct then check them – those same cargos were again seized at the border. Even bearing a tag ‘material evidence’.
You know, this stream is really hard to stop. We need to work together to do so.
About whether or not Iran has missiles that threaten Europe. You are mistaken. Today Iran has – Mr Gates is here today and certainly knows this data better than I do, and the Russian Defence Minister is also here – missiles with a range of 2000 kilometres.
Russian Defence Minister Sergei Ivanov: 1600–1700 kilometres.
Vladimir Putin: 1600–1700 kilometres. Only. Well, count how many kilometres there are between Munich and the Iranian border. Iran has no such missiles. They plan to develop some with a range of 2400 kilometres. It is not known whether they have the technology to do so. And with respect to 4000, 5000 or 6000 kilometres, then I think that this would simply require a different economy. So, it is improbable in general. And Iran is not threatening Europe. With regard to the idea that they are preparing to use nuclear warheads then we do not have such data. We do not have this data about nuclear warheads.
North Korea has tested a nuclear device. Iranians are constantly saying that their nuclear programme has a peaceful character. But I agree with you that the international community has concerns about the character and quality of Iran’s nuclear programmes. And Mr ElBaradai recently stated these concerns in what I think were six or seven points. I agree with you about this. And I do not understand why the Iranian party has still not reacted in a positive and constructive way to the concerns that Mr ElBaradai stated and therefore assuaged these concerns. I do not understand this just as you do not understand it.
What are we going to do? I think that together we need to work patiently and carefully. And, that’s right, to create incentives and show the Iranian leadership that cooperation with the international community is much better than confrontation.
Yes, and again about the deliveries of weapons to Iran. You know that there has been more talk than deliveries. Our military and technical cooperation with Iran is minimal. Simply minimal. I am not sure what minimal figures it is estimated at. In general we deliver much less arms to the Middle East than other countries, including the United States. No comparison is possible there. We recently delivered an anti-aircraft weapon system to Iran – that is true – with a medium range, approximately 30 to 50 kilometres. That is true. Why did we do this? I can explain why. We did this so that Iran did not feel it had been driven into a corner. So that it didn’t feel that it was in some kind of hostile environment. Rather that Iran could understand that it had channels of communication and friends that it could trust. We very much expect that the Iranian party will understand and hear our signals.
As to our weapons in Lebanon and in the Gaza strip. I am not aware of our weapons in the Gaza strip. I have not heard of such examples. Well, Kalashnikovs are in general the most widely used small arms in the world. They are probably everywhere. And probably there are still automatic Kalashnikovs in Germany or, in any case, some that have still not been destroyed. That is one hundred percent certain.
In Lebanon it is true. Elements of our anti-tank systems really have been seen there. That is true. Our Israeli partners told me about this at once. We carried out a thorough investigation into what happened. And we determined that these systems had remained in Lebanese territory after the Syrian army left. We carried out the corresponding work with our Syrian partners. We determined that our future military and technical cooperation with Syria would exclude the possibility that weapons could fall into any hands other than the ones they were destined for. We developed such a system. Among other things, we agreed on a system of possible warehouse inspections, at any time that is convenient for Russian experts. Inspections in warehouses after deliveries of Russian weapons systems to Syria.
“The USA are not developing strategic weapons but Russia is. Will Russia use force in the future if it is not sanctioned by the UN? Russia is developing a system of strategic weapons”.
Fine question, excellent! I am very grateful to you for this question. It will give me the opportunity to talk about the essence of what is happening. What are we indebted to in the past decades if there was a stand-off between two superpowers and two systems but nevertheless a big war did not take place? We are indebted to the balance of powers between these two superpowers. There was an equilibrium and a fear of mutual destruction. And in those days one party was afraid to make an extra step without consulting the other. And this was certainly a fragile peace and a frightening one. But as we see today, it was reliable enough. Today, it seems that the peace is not so reliable.
Yes, the United States is ostensibly not developing an offensive weapon. In any case, the public does not know about this. Even though they are certainly developing them. But we aren’t even going to ask about this now. We know that these developments are proceeding. But we pretend that we don’t know, so we say that they aren’t developing new weapons. But what do we know? That the United States is actively developing and already strengthening an anti-missile defence system. Today this system is ineffective but we do not know exactly whether it will one day be effective. But in theory it is being created for that purpose. So hypothetically we recognise that when this moment arrives, the possible threat from our nuclear forces will be completely neutralised. Russia’s present nuclear capabilities, that is. The balance of powers will be absolutely destroyed and one of the parties will benefit from the feeling of complete security. This means that its hands will be free not only in local but eventually also in global conflicts.
We are discussing this with you now. I would not want anyone to suspect any aggressive intentions on our part. But the system of international relations is just like mathematics. There are no personal dimensions. And of course we should react to this. How? Either the same as you and therefore by building a multi-billion dollar anti-missile system or, in view of our present economic and financial possibilities, by developing an asymmetrical answer. So that everybody can understand that the anti-missile defence system is useless against Russia because we have certain weapons that easily overcome it. And we are proceeding in this direction. It is cheaper for us. And this is in no way directed against the United States themselves.
I completely agree if you say that the Strategic Defense Initiative (SDI) is not directed against us, just as our new weapons are not directed against you. And I fully agree with my colleague and my friend about another thing. Do you know – and I will not be afraid of the word – that in spite of all our disagreements I consider the President of the United States my friend. He is a decent person and I know that today the wolves can blame the United States for everything that is being done on the international arena and internally. But I know that he is a decent person and it is possible to talk and reach agreements with him. And when I talked to him he said: “I proceed from the fact that Russia and the USA will never be opponents and enemies again”. I agree with him. But I repeat once again that there are symmetries and asymmetries here, there is nothing personal. It is simply a calculation.
And now about whether Russia will use military force without the sanction of the UN. We will always operate strictly within the international legal framework. My basic education is in law and I will allow myself to remind both myself and my colleagues that according to the UN Charter peace-keeping operations require the sanction of both the UN and the UN Security Council. This is in the case of peace-keeping operations. But in the UN Charter there is also an article about self-defence. And no sanctions are required in this case.
So, what have I forgotten?
Question: My question was about multipolarity in Russia itself and about the attitude of the international community towards Russia if Russia does not observe these principles, in reference to the murder of journalists, fears, anxieties, the absence of freedom and non-governmental organisations.
Vladimir Putin: I will say a couple of words. I already answered part of the question when I talked about the structure of the Russian parliament. Look at who is represented there, the political views of the people who have leadership positions in parliament, the legitimate parties. Now, as to non-governmental organisations, they are working actively in Russia. Yes, we introduced a new system for registering these organisations. But it is not that different from registration systems in other countries. And we have not yet seen any complaints from non-governmental organisations themselves. We have not refused registration to almost any organisations. There were two or three cases that were refused on simply formal grounds and these organisations are working on correcting certain provisions in their charters and so on. Nobody has been refused registration based on substantial, fundamental issues. All are continuing to work in the most active possible way and will continue to do so in the future.
What bothers us? I can say and I think that it is clear for all, that when these non-governmental organisations are financed by foreign governments, we see them as an instrument that foreign states use to carry out their Russian policies. That is the first thing. The second. In every country there are certain rules for financing, shall we say, election campaigns. Financing from foreign governments, including within governmental campaigns, proceeds through non-governmental organisations. And who is happy about this? Is this normal democracy? It is secret financing. Hidden from society. Where is the democracy here? Can you tell me? No! You can’t tell me and you never will be able to. Because there is no democracy here, there is simply one state exerting influence on another.
But we are interested in developing civil society in Russia, so that it scolds and criticises the authorities, helps them determine their own mistakes, and correct their policies in Russian citizens’ interests. We are certainly interested in this and we will support civil society and non-governmental organisations.
As to fears and so on, are you aware that today Russians have fewer fears than citizens in many other countries? Because in the last few years we made cardinal changes to improve the economic well-being of our citizens. We still have a great many problems. And we still have a great many unresolved problems. Including problems linked with poverty. And I can tell you that fears basically come from this source.
As to journalists then yes, this represents an important and difficult problem. And, incidentally, journalists are not only killed in Russia, but in other countries as well. Where are most journalists killed? You are an expert and probably know in which country the most journalists died in, say, the last year and a half? The largest number of journalists were killed in Iraq.
As to tragedies within Russia, we will certainly struggle with these phenomena in the most thorough way possible and sternly punish all criminals who try to undermine trust in Russia and damage our political system.
Thank you for your attention.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: February 10, 2007, 01:38
Text version