Events
Answers to Journalists' Questions after Visiting the S. A. Lavochkin Scientific-Production Enterprise
December 3, 2007
09:21
Khimki, Moscow Region
Question: Vladimir Vladimirovich, at the Science Council meeting on Friday you talked about the fact that, unfortunately, fundamental science and production are going off in different ways. How can this problem be resolved? (It seems that the S. A. Lavochkin Scientific-Production Enterprise has found a way…)
Vladimir Putin: Yes, and others have as well. We just had a meeting with some heads of other major enterprises, people with whom we had discussions at the Council for Science. But here we are witnessing how much Russia has been renewed in the past few years, everything that took place in the previous decades and that we can be proud of. Here the development prospects for space science and military space projects are clear. And the prospects are good ones. This also applies to research projects, astrophysics, and planetary exploration. I would repeat that this is first and foremost linked to the country's security. These questions are resolved by enterprises such as these. And, as we see here, these problems are being resolved in optimal fashion. I am referring to the budgetary funds, the money that the country is spending in this production and in this research. In general, I am happy with what I saw. And naturally, the leadership of the S. A. Lavochkin Scientific-Production Enterprise would like the programmes we set up together to be implemented more quickly and, perhaps, even more broadly. All of this will be reviewed in the Security Council and the government cabinet.
Question: Vladimir Vladimirovich, the State Duma elections were held on Sunday. I would like to know your opinion of the election results, and that of United Russia, the party whose list you head?
Vladimir Putin: First of all I would like to thank the citizens of Russia, all the voters, for their active participation; this was the biggest turnout of the last eight years. It was higher than in 1999, higher than in 2003. This is proof that Russian citizens are perfectly aware that a lot depends on the choices they make. A lot depends on the programmes and the parties they vote for. The vote is in and, of course, I would also like to thank everyone who voted for United Russia. And this is natural, because I headed the party list and this vote is, of course, a sign of trust in United Russia. Undoubtedly, this vote is not just in thanks for what has been done. The result is first and foremost a reflection of voters' expectations. The expectation that United Russia will continue to work constructively towards developing the country and resolving citizens' social problems. This primarily refers to salaries but also concerns pensions, benefits, demographic programmes, health care, science and education.
I hope that United Russia will not fail us.
But it is not only United Russia that has strengthened its position. United Russia has won an unquestionable success, a victory and a good one at that. United Russia received the constitutional majority in parliament and strengthened its position. It now has, I was told, some additional 12 seats. So a sizeable constitutional majority – 315 deputies in the State Duma. And not only United Russia, the Communist Party of the Russian Federation has also strengthened its position. The number of Communist deputies in the Duma has increased. The Liberal Democratic Party of the Russian Federation has also strengthened its position. And, finally, the party Fair Russia who participated in the elections for the first time ever, is in the State Duma as well.
To conclude my answer to your question I would say the following. I think that it is very important that the legitimacy of the Russian parliament increases. If the elected deputies of the former State Duma had found favour with 70 percent of the voters, the present State Duma is based on 90 percent of the votes. Only 10 percent of citizens voted for parties who didn't get seats in parliament. This means that 90 percent of the voters voted for parties that are now represented in the State Duma of the Russian Federation and this gives our Duma a high degree of legitimacy. And something I think is very important to note is that Russian citizens have shown a serious, responsible attitude towards their country's development, towards strengthening its internal political situation. It is now very obvious to me that Russians will not allow their country to develop in a destructive way, as happened in several other former Soviet republics. I see the sense of responsibility that our citizens have towards their country and, in my opinion, the most important indicator that our country is growing stronger is not economic or social, but internal political. This is, therefore, a good example and a good indicator of Russia's internal political stability.
Question: The 12th of December 2007, the date when Russia will withdraw from the CFE Treaty (Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe), is approaching. What induced Russia to take this decision, and how will the situation in this industry develop in the future?
Vladimir Putin: I have already spoken quite a bit on that subject. I can only repeat what has been said before. Russia has not simply signed the treaty, she has ratified it and observed its provisions unilaterally for many years. This situation cannot be tolerated any longer. We made this decision at a time when our partners had not implemented the treaty – and they haven't ratified it either– but, on the contrary, they have built up their military capabilities, and done so right in the immediate vicinity of our borders. Of course we have heard a lot of different justifications for this, and that everything that is done by the military near our borders is not directed against the Russian Federation, but, as they say in such cases, it is not the intentions that are important but the potential capabilities. These capabilities have not developed in our favour and this threatens the security of the Russian Federation. We are obliged to respond accordingly. However, if our partners do ratify these agreements and begin to implement them, then we are not ruling out the possibility that we also come back to them.
I would like to emphasize once again that we are not going to wait forever.
Thank you very much.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 3, 2007, 09:21
Text versionEvents
Extracts from Transcript of Meeting with the Government Cabinet
December 3, 2007
21:15
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin:
Good afternoon, colleagues,
At the start of our meeting I think I should once more address our country’s citizens and thank everyone who voted in the national parliamentary election. This is an important stage in our country’s development and it is especially important as it has convincingly shown that the domestic political situation in our country is stable and that the Russian people are the main guarantor of this stability. This is very important for our country’s future and also very important for the parties in which the voters have placed their trust. Our parliament has gained greater legitimacy. The previous parliament reflected the votes of 70 percent of voters, while the new parliament represents 90 percent of the voters, because the parties that did not make it into the State Duma received considerably fewer votes than in previous elections. This is one of the highest results in Europe in terms of broad-based support for the parties represented in the parliament. This also entails great responsibilities, especially for the party that has obtained the majority, the constitutional majority, in the Duma, namely, United Russia. People will be expecting serious results and active work from United Russia and from the other parties in the State Duma. In this respect I think it would make sense to hold the first session of the new parliament earlier than the 30-day time period set by law. The law gives the President the right to convene the Duma earlier, and this we will do. I therefore ask the Presidential Executive Office to draft a decree convening the Duma earlier than this date and begin work together with the Government.
It is a pity, of course, that we have one election campaign coming straight after another, with the presidential campaign now underway. People are no doubt tired of campaign tactics and political promotion, but, unfortunately, we now have to enter this next campaign, the presidential election campaign. Perhaps the new Duma could think about how to space these two election campaigns further apart in the future. But that is a matter for the members of the new parliament themselves, of course. It would be good to space the campaigns further apart so as not to burden the country with one campaign straight after another, but this is a technical matter and something that can be looked into later.
As for the present moment, we need to begin work as quickly as possible with the new State Duma. I know that the Government has already drawn up a plan for legislative work, and now we need to begin implementing this plan.
<…>
Prime Minister Viktor ZUBKOV on a meeting with forestry industry representatives and forestry products exports:
We will be holding a meeting with forestry industry representatives and forestry products exporters in Vologda on Wednesday. They have put forward a whole series of proposals for improving the sector’s overall performance that merit attention. The Forestry Code has come into force now, as have a whole number of other statutes and regulations, including on priority investment projects in forestry development, and this makes it possible for us to prepare effective investment projects. We have the necessary resources at our disposal, the Development Bank and the Investment Fund, and we should therefore make maximum use of public-private partnership mechanisms in this sector. The situation is complex at the moment: we have 25 percent of the world’s forests and we use less than three percent of this total for forestry exports, mostly round wood. In other words, we are not getting the returns we should from this sector. Holding a real and substantial meeting to discuss specific investment projects will help us to achieve results. We will hold a Government meeting on the matter, issue instructions, and we will keep this matter under our supervision.
Vladimir Putin: I certainly hope that we will start making progress on this issue.
Viktor Zubkov: We have the will and we have the means. I think that we will be able to get matters under control in this sector.
Vladimir Putin: We need to establish the conditions for developing a domestic timber processing industry.
Viktor Zubkov: Yes.
Vladimir Putin: We have already spoken about this on many occasions.
Viktor Zubkov: We have discussed these matters during talks with the Finnish prime minister and the Canadian prime minister and we have some partnership agreements in this sector. I think that we will be able to work together with these countries.
Vladimir Putin: We have absolutely no desire to create any difficulties for our partners, but we do have to think above all about developing our own economy.
<…>
First Deputy Prime Minister Sergei IVANOV on measures taken following an electricity installation accident in Kamchatka:
Quite a serious energy installation accident took place in Kamchatka at the end of November when the Dachnaya sub-station broke down. I called all the relevant officials to a Government meeting on November 23 and instructed them to address the situation within ten days and restore permanent electricity supply in Kamchatka.
Defence Ministry and Emergency Situations Ministry planes flew to Kamchatka with the needed material, a large-scale transformer, and specialists from RAO Unified Energy Systems also flew out to help the specialists from Kamchatskenergo repair the damage. I gave a deadline of ten days and I can report to you that the situation was entirely fixed up by November 30, that is, within seven days, and permanent electricity supply was restored by the evening of November 30. The governor of Kamchatka was therefore able to end the emergency situation he had decreed in the region. So, the affair is now closed.
Vladimir Putin: [addressing Prime Minister Zubkov] Viktor Alexeyevich, as we have said on many occasions, we need to pay particular attention to the Far East in general and Kamchatka too as far as strengthening the energy sector and ensuring reliable electricity and heating supply is concerned.
Viktor Zubkov: We will hold a meeting this month on the Far East and Trans-Baikal regions in Khabarovsk and will examine all of these issues together, including as far as Sakhalin and Kamchatka are concerned.
<…>
Regional Development Minister Dmitry KOZAK on preparations for the APEC summit in the Far East:
Following the discussions we had with you, Vladimir Vladimirovich, we have signed the development programme for Vladivostok as a centre for Asian-Pacific cooperation and we set up an inter-ministerial working headquarters the next day.
I must say that this task will not be easy to carry out, and this is why we have begun work immediately and set up this headquarters to coordinate the inter-ministerial work. I chaired the headquarters’ second meeting on Friday and we approved a timetable for construction work next year, have already presented reports on what is required and issued instructions to the relevant ministries and agencies and worked out the quantities of construction materials that will need to be delivered to Russky Island. Based on these figures, the Transport Ministry, together with the other ministries, will have the transport logistics and proposals for building docks ready by December 15. Also by December 15, RAO Unified Energy Systems should have its programme for energy supplies for the construction work ready for us.
We are continuing our work. All of the architectural and urban development decisions regarding the sites will be presented by the end of December. We can probably expect to see the construction costs go up a little, but this would be only after the planning for the sites has been completed and has gone through state expert evaluation.
Vladimir Putin: How much money are you planning to allocate for this work?
Dmitry Kozak: The programme currently allocates 148 billion roubles, including 100 billion from the federal budget and 48 billion from extra-budgetary sources and funds from the Primorsky Region budget.
Vladimir Putin: Does this sum include construction of the bridge?
Dmitry Kozak: Yes, it does. The total sum includes 15 billion roubles for building the bridge to Russky Island.
<…>
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 3, 2007, 21:15
Text version