Events
Speech at the Ceremony for Presenting Letters of Credential
December 11, 2007
20:40
The Kremlin, Moscow
Vladimir Putin:
Dear Sirs!
I am happy to welcome you to the official ceremony of presenting credentials. It marks the formal beginning of your diplomatic mission in Russia, a mission that comes at a time of extraordinary historical significance for our country.
Just recently there were elections to the State Duma, Russia’s parliament. I am pleased to say that the election results convincingly demonstrated the support of the Russian people for ensuring the continuity of power and for the programme of long-term positive economic and governmental changes currently in place.
This position, expressed by a majority of citizens, suggests that in the upcoming presidential elections they will choose someone for whom continued forward-looking, democratic progress in Russia and the implementation of all the commitments made to our citizens will serve unconditionally as a priority and guide.
This fully applies to Russian foreign policy as well. I am confident that our country will continue its consistent policy of strengthening multilateralism and the legal basis of international relations, and working for a just solution to international problems.
It is important to note that a majority of nations, including the countries that you represent, have taken similar positions. This is good not only for the formation of a more democratic and safer world, but also markedly increases the opportunities for bilateral interaction: increasing trade, economic and investment ties, and strengthening our cooperation in the area of culture and the humanities.
I am sure that your objective accounts of the situation in Russia, its internal development and the steps it has taken in the international arena will make a real contribution to establishing a dialogue and a spirit of constructive cooperation between our nations.
This is precisely how relations between Russia and Ecuador have developed. Their substantial political component has been reinforced by increasing trade and economic ties. We are working to make them more diversified by creating new and promising initiatives and projects.
A mutual sympathy has long connected the peoples of Mexico and Russia, one of our leading partners in Latin America. We share the mood of the Mexican leadership concerning the further build-up of cooperation in all fields, first and foremost in continuing to implement agreements reached during the exchange of visits at the highest level in 2004–2005.
An atmosphere of friendship and mutual understanding characterizes the constantly growing contacts between Russia and Kuwait. On the agenda is the implementation of significant cooperative potential in the energy sector, and the realization of mutual investment projects and projects in the area of high technology.
We are pleased with the high level of relations with Vietnam, our long-standing, reliable and very promising partner in the Asia-Pacific region. There is a solid, time-tested tradition of trust and respect between our peoples, enforced by a pragmatic mutual interest in extending mutually beneficial cooperation. I sincerely wish our Vietnamese friends continued success in economic and social development and in strengthening its international position. Talks between Russia and Vietnam in November last year and September this year confirmed our intentions to pay more attention to this partnership, and to find even more effective ways of working together.
Cooperation between Russia and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg has taken on a new importance. Successful negotiations during the spring of 2007 and the first-ever visit by the Russia head of state to Luxembourg confirm this. We have a common interest in an extensive dialogue on a broad international agenda and in building economic and cultural ties.
Equality and mutual respect define the nature of our friendly relations with the Islamic Republic of Mauritania. Developing business ties is part of our vision for the future. We welcome the successful completion of the transition to democracy and the restoration of the constitution in Mauritanian political life.
Our strategic partnership with the Republic of India is very precious. This state is one of the centres of economic growth and influence in the emerging multipolar world. And it is vital that our global interests coincide and that we share an understanding of general responsibility for international security and stability. We highly appreciate the outcome of the recent visit to Moscow by India’s Prime Minister, Mr Singh. I am confident that the upcoming Year of Russia in India and then the Year of India in Russia will strengthen and deepen contacts between our countries on virtually all fronts.
Joint efforts to enhance cooperation with the Republic of Rwanda are already in place. The people of Rwanda can always count on our assistance in stabilizing the situation and advancing the integration process in the Great Lakes region.
In conclusion I would like to wish you success in your crucial mission in Russia. I sincerely hope that its results will assist in the enrichment of our bilateral ties.
I am sure that you will use your diplomatic experience to build traditions of friendship, trust and cooperation between our countries and peoples.
Thank you for your attention.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 11, 2007, 20:40
Text version