The regional legislative assemblies must now become actively involved in this work. I urge you to ensure this is the case. It is the regions, after all, who, since 2003, have been responsible for the provision of primary and secondary education (with a few exceptions of which you are aware). In this context, I would like to draw your attention to a few moments I think are of key importance.
First, the system for training specialists, the structure of the directions, jobs and professions it covers, should meet the demands of today’s labour market.
At the same time, the entire vocational and professional education system should become more varied, flexible and mobile. It should be ready to adapt rapidly to changing demand on the market and in the economy.
A transition to financing based on actual student numbers will help this process. This is not the only way to improve the situation, but it is quite an effective method for ensuring change for the better in this area. The different educational establishments will have to compete to attract students, and this means they will try to raise the quality of the educational services they provide. This is why the regional vocational education programmes should be based on these economic principles.
Second, we need to make individual professions and skills more attractive and make training in professions for which there is a shortage in your regions more accessible. One option here could be to provide bigger student allowances and make other forms of payment from the regional budgets.
Third, professional education standards at all levels, primary, secondary and tertiary, need to be adapted to production demands, and educational establishments should have more independence in developing their education programmes. I know that a lot of administrative organisations are reluctant to hand over any of their powers to the educational establishments. I ask you to give this matter your attention because we need to get things moving in the right direction.
Of course, we also need to raise the quality demands for management training. As you know, world-class business schools have been opening in Russia and have already been founded in Moscow and St Petersburg. But we need to train top class managers not only in these cities. We need to develop this kind of training in the regions too.
We should draw on leading international experience and education technology in all areas of training, and we should not be afraid to invite leading foreign teachers and specialists to work in our educational establishments. Of course, this all requires money. These are important tasks and we should not spare the funds needed, but the money has to bring results. What we need are top-class specialists, and if we pay them, we have to know what we are getting.
Business plays a big role today in training specialists. Business is the main client, and the future development of our vocational and professional education system will depend to a large extent on the effectiveness of the private-public partnership. It is the regional legislative assemblies’ responsibility to help form the legal basis for this partnership.
Legislative provisions at regional level are needed in particular in order to involve employers in forecasting and monitoring labour market needs.
We also need to strengthen the legal provisions for employers to take part in the work of boards of trustees, and also for the development of ratings and other methods of independently evaluating educational establishments. This is a very important area of work. Independent evaluation of the quality of education establishments are providing is something we need.
It is also important to come up with effective legal incentives for attracting private investment into developing the material and technical resource base of educational establishments. As you know, as part of the Education National Project that I have already mentioned today, innovative vocational schools and colleges have received state support. If we want to modernise the entire vocational and professional education system we need to equip other educational establishments too, all those who are training people in skills for which there is demand in the regions.
We should be encouraging businesses and employers to become more involved in organising workplace internships and training. It could be worth recalling the old methods of training specialists directly in the workplace, including at the state’s expense. In this case, a business itself could act as client, placing the order for the specialists it needs. This method is already being used elsewhere in the world and some countries train young people in precisely this fashion.
I would like to mention one other important subject in conclusion. It is not only the economy that is in urgent need of qualified specialists but also the state bodies and agencies and the municipalities, all the more so following the reforms that have been carried out at municipal level.
Some steps have already been taken in this direction. Starting in 2008, training for federal civil servants will take place on a public procurement basis.
In the long term, we should aim to develop an integral and continuously functioning system for training specialists for the civil service and the municipalities. I hope that this Council will pay close attention to forming the legal foundation for training modern civil servants for our country.
This was all I wanted to say for now. It is with great interest and attention that I will listen to what you have to say, and I will say a few more words at the end. Thank you very much for your attention.Events
Beginning of Meeting with French President Nicholas Sarkozy
October 9, 2007
21:28
Novo-Ogaryovo
President Vladimir Putin: Mr President,
It gives me great pleasure to see you here in Moscow. We agreed on this meeting back at the G8 summit in Heiligendamm. I know that you have a very busy schedule and I am therefore all the more pleased that you have accepted our invitation and come here today to Russia. France was, is, and I hope will remain one of our priority partners in Europe and the world. Our relations are developing well and top-level contacts take place regularly. Our foreign minister and our economy ministers met recently. Now we have the pleasure of welcoming the President of France to Moscow.
Our bilateral trade is also on the rise. I am sure that during our informal meeting over dinner to night, and during our talks tomorrow, we will have much to talk about.
Welcome.
French President Nicholas Sarkozy: Mr President, I would like to thank you. It is a great honour for me to be received here at your dacha and I am pleased that we will soon have the opportunity to have a one-on-one talk over dinner. I was very pleased with our meeting in Heiligendamm. France seeks to be a friend to Russia and is watching Russia’s development efforts very attentively. I have seen the strength of your convictions and I think that we will be able to understand each other, for I also have strong convictions of my own. I am happy to have this chance to talk with you. We will discuss the situation in our countries, important world affairs, and the fact that, given the situation in the world today, we need to work together. Speaking frankly, it is a pleasure for me to be here.
Vladimir Putin: Mr President, you spoke of your desire to understand Russia. There is a well known poem about just this. I do not know how the interpreter will translate it, but in Russian it is very convincing: “Russia cannot be fathomed with the mind, nor seized with any common measure, she has a character of her own and you can but simply believe in her”. I will do everything I can to answer your question and I will explain any of our positions in order to make them clear to all.
Nicholas Sarkozy: I realise that Russia has gone through many trials over these last years. France understands Russia’s desire to once again take its place on the international stage. Discussions are fruitless unless we also try to understand the reasons for a situation. I want to understand you, and I hope that you will also try to understand our convictions.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 9, 2007, 21:28
Text versionEvents
Beginning of Working Meeting with Ukrainian Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovich
October 9, 2007
18:58
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Good evening,
I spoke with the Ukrainian President just two days ago and he informed me that you arranged a meeting with the Russian Prime Minister. I hope that your meeting today was productive. He asked that I meet with you, and this is, of course, normal practice in our relations. I would like to say once again that Russia seeks to develop the closest possible relations in all areas, above all in the economy, of course, with what is without any exaggeration as fraternal a country as Ukraine.
The President and I also agreed that after the Ukrainian Government has been formed, we will call a meeting of the commission that we chair together to discuss the strategic vision of relations between our two countries. Today we have the opportunity to discuss current matters too. I am very pleased to see you.
Ukrainian Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovich: Thank you, Vladimir Vladimirovich. I am very grateful to you for inviting me to this meeting, and I am pleased that our relations continue as normal despite the as yet still fairly unclear political situation in Ukraine. We consider the situation to be stable and we think that it will certainly be stable as regards our relations with Russia. We are sure of this. We will ensure stable government within our country and stable relations with our strategic partner, with Russia and its fraternal people.
I would like to say how satisfied I was with my meeting today with the Russian prime minister, Viktor Zubkov. We reached full agreement on continuing the work that began 18 months ago by establishing the Intergovernmental Commission, which has done a lot to stabilise trade and economic relations between our countries.
Of course, we have more ambitious plans, and we can carry them out if we work together at the highest political level, if the presidents of our two countries work together. The Intergovernmental Commission opens the way for the Ukrainian and Russian Governments to settle many questions. The results are already visible. Within the framework of the Intergovernmental Commission we have set up 11 sub-committees, which have been working together very closely for 18 months now, and the result is an increase of around 30 percent in the trade balance between our countries. This year, our bilateral trade will reach a figure of around $30 billion for the first time.
We are happy with our relations, happy to see that they are developing in a range of economic sectors, including in priority sectors such as the energy sector. We have achieved some very important results in the fuel and energy sector. Today, we once again underscored the stability of our relations and our commitment to integrating the Ukrainian and Russian economies.
You gave a correct assessment of the matter that has come up, calling it a commercial matter. But at the same time, our state policy should help ensure that commercial settlements always be carried out in disciplined fashion and in such a way that does not infringe on the interests of our countries.
This is why we signed an agreement today regulating this very issue, and I can say that the signature of these documents has provided us with a mechanism for settling the so-called debt issue.
We think that this agreement is a result of the fact that we fully trust each other and realise how we should build our relations in such important sectors as the gas sector, for example.
Vladimir Putin: Viktor Fyodorovich, I am very pleased that our companies and our governments have been able to settle this issue. It came as a complete surprise to us that such a debt – around 1.3 billion – had accumulated. But I will not go into all the details now. I am pleased to see that you have found a solution to this problem. As far as I know, it has been decided that Gazprom will gain ownership rights to a certain volume of gas stored in reservoirs on Ukrainian territory. But we need to remember, and I want our Ukrainian colleagues to know this, that this gas that you have will be supplied above all to Ukrainian consumers. I ask you to ensure that all the government agencies and companies keep this in mind, for the gas supplied will be to a large extent not gas delivered through the pipeline system from Russia in line with the agreed schedule, but gas that has to be pumped up from the underground reservoirs.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 9, 2007, 18:58
Text version