Events
Answers to Journalists’ Questions during a Visit to Krasnaya Polyana
February 20, 2007
14:53
Krasnaya Polyana, Sochi
Question: Vladimir Vladimirovich, what do you think of Krasnaya Polyana? What changes have you noticed?
President Vladimir Putin: A lot has been built here. The ski-lifts are good, really excellent, I’d say. They’ve made good ski runs. Looking around, I noticed a lot of fine-looking new apartment buildings, not just state-owned buildings, but private ones too. It seems to me that the number of people doing winter sports here is increasing. Kids, how many of you are there in your school?
Children: 60 people.
Vladimir Putin: There we go – 60 people. This probably isn’t the only school, is it? Are there any others?
Children: This is the only winter sports school.
Vladimir Putin: It’s the only one here in Krasnaya Polyana, but there are probably others elsewhere.
Question: What are Sochi’s chances of hosting the 2014 Winter Olympics?
Vladimir Putin: Sport is always about competition, and it’s always full of surprises, so we can be sure that the Olympic Games will be interesting, and as for who will win the right to host the Games, time will tell – we will have to wait and see. We are up against worthy competitors – our friends in Korea and in Austria – and they really are our friends, we go there often, visit each other. I am sure that they will also be doing all they can to win this bid to host the Olympics. Their candidate cities are also good places, cities worthy to host the Olympics, but Sochi is better.
Question: Do you think that your coming here to Krasnaya Polyana has boosted Sochi’s chances of winning?
Vladimir Putin: I don’t think it makes a big difference. The main thing is that we all stay focused on development and that we work to develop our own resorts, develop our economy and give people the opportunity and conditions for recreation and leisure.
Question: How important is it to introduce visa-free entry for tourists if we want to develop this resort region?
Vladimir Putin: Visa-free travel is good not just for tourists but for everyone. If we believe that Europe should be a continent without borders, visa-free travel for all should be our goal. But this issue of requiring or not requiring visas is always settled on a reciprocal basis. We are willing to abolish visas tomorrow if need be, but our partners in Europe are not yet ready to do this. We are moving together in the right direction, however. The State Duma recently ratified the agreement we have with the European Union on simplified visa procedures between Russia and the EU, and the EU parliament ratified it just yesterday. If we continue working in this direction we will attain our final objective of visa-free travel for all.
Question: Do you think that Krasnaya Polyana will be able to compete with ski resorts such as St. Moritz, Davos, or Courchevel?
Vladimir Putin: We need to keep an objective view on things. St Moritz, Davos, Courchevel and other ski resorts have been developing for more than 100 years now. Our goals are different. We have a better climate here than in many of the European ski resorts and we have the chance now to develop this resort based on completely new, cutting-edge technology. So, we should be setting our sights even higher.
Question: Will the resort still be accessible to ordinary people once all these ambitious development plans have been carried out?
Vladimir Putin: Of course it will be, and this is why every step is being taken to ensure that millions of people will be able to use and enjoy it.
Gazprom is developing the resort, and, like any commercial company it wants to make a return on its investment. As for state investment, it should, of course, go hand in hand with preferential conditions for some groups of the population, above all, for children.
Question: How will you protect the environment here?
Vladimir Putin: This is a very important issue. We have established good contacts with environmental protection organisations, both Russian and international. I think it would be a big mistake not to take into account the opinions of environmental organisations. Everyone in the Government who is involved in this work is directly in contact with Russian and international environmental organisations. We must ensure that no damage is done to the region’s natural environment, because it truly is our treasure. We need to strike a balance between the interests of those who want to develop and take part in winter sports and recreation, and environmental protection. By working together with the environmental protection organisations, we will ensure that we find this balance.
Question: There is clear demand for winter sports in Russia. Will our bid to host the Olympics boost winter sports in our country, and does the fate of Krasnaya Polyana depend on this bid?
Vladimir Putin: We will develop a ski resort here whether Sochi is chosen or not. We need this resort regardless of whether or not we host the Olympics because we have few such places to offer our fellow citizens. Sochi is an ideal choice because it offers the sea and wonderful mountains all in one place. It is all close by. Our plans lay out a good basis for Sochi’s development over the next few years because this is a city that can, in any case, become a year-round resort region. Millions of people could come here for holidays and leisure in summer and in winter. As far as the Olympic Games go, Sochi is an ideal venue because it has a mild climate. We have other potential venues in the north and east of the country, but the combination of more or less developed infrastructure, a mild climate and such excellent conditions for winter sports can probably be found only here really, in Sochi. I think that everyone living here is probably happy at the prospect of seeing real development get underway.
Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: February 20, 2007, 14:53
Text versionEvents
Speech after the Presentation of the Plan for Developing Sochi’s Sporting Installations as Part of the Candidature to Host the 22nd Winter Olympic Games
February 20, 2007
22:57
Rus Sanatorium, Sochi
President Vladimir Putin: The presentation has formally ended and therefore I will allow myself to say literally two words. First and foremost I would like to thank all of you for coming here and for your interest in Russia’s candidature to host the Olympic games here in Sochi. I am confident that whatever brought you here, whatever your orders and professional obligations are, you are not indifferent to sports. But I am not going to repeat all of what my colleagues have already said at this podium.
I have no doubt, simply no doubt whatsoever, that if Russia wins the bid to host the Olympic games in Sochi, we will cope successfully with this task.
I would now like to say something else. Please look at the map of Russia. Russia is the largest country in the world but it is mainly a northern one. We have very few places like these on the Black Sea coast – this is a unique place. And for that reason we are going to develop this territory in any case. First of all, this is certainly for our own citizens, for the citizens of the Russian Federation, but not only. It is also for all foreign citizens who want to holiday here. Our citizens are now traveling a great deal abroad. We will be happy to welcome tourists from other countries who want to relax here. I think you have seen for yourselves how unique this climate is – down below the climate is subtropical and up above there are mountains and snow. Where we were today the snow was four to six metres thick. The day before yesterday I skied in another place and there was about seven to eight metres of snow. Conditions are simply very good.
Please look at the territory we are in. In ancient times there were Greek settlements here and then new peoples came to inhabit this area, but we have not forgotten everything that remains from ancient times – this is all in our memory. According to an ancient legend it was here on one of the rocks above, near where you were, where Prometheus was chained to a rock. As we are both well aware, this hero is famous for having given people fire. Fire can destroy, but it also can create. We all are now working together towards ensuring that this fire unites all, unites us all around sport and common humanistic ideals.
Russia intends to spend a huge amount of money on the development of this region, about 12 billion dollars. Of this money about two thirds will be spent on infrastructure: on roads, on resolving environmental problems, on communications, on improving peoples’ lives. This money will be spent towards uniting people from all over the world around the idea of physical education.
We will not spend this money on guns, on ammunition, on fighting aircraft, or on tanks. We will spend this money so that people from all over the world congregate here in Sochi, in Russia, and join hands. We will do everything to make Sochi a worthy capital of the 2014 Olympic games. And I am very much counting on your help.
Thank you very much for your attention.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: February 20, 2007, 22:57
Text version