Events
Beginning of Meeting with President of Serbia Boris Tadic
June 24, 2007
13:00
Zagreb, Croatia
Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, Mr President,
I am very pleased that we have regular contacts with the Serbian leadership, including at the highest level. I had the pleasure of speaking with the Prime Minister just recently at the International Economic Forum in St Petersburg.
I would like to say that we are happy overall with the way our intergovernmental relations are developing. Our bilateral trade has now reached a figure of $2.5 billion. We have good prospects not only in the energy sector but also in industrial production. Of course, I expect that we will also take the opportunity of this meeting today to discuss problems in the region, including the Kosovo issue.
Boris Tadic: Mr President,
I am very grateful for this chance to meet again and to discuss our bilateral relations, our economic relations, and the future status of Kosovo, which are all matters of paramount importance for our country and for the entire region.
I greatly appreciate Russia’s principled position and your personal position on the issue of Kosovo, and I think that any talk of independence for Kosovo is very dangerous for stability in the region in general and for Europe as a whole.
Serbia does not agree with the idea of an independent Kosovo, but Serbia is willing to look for a compromise solution based on respect for international law and on a positive and open dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina to the benefit of stability in the region as a whole.
Mr President,
Our economic relations are of great importance for the entire region’s development. I fully agree with you that we can discuss our cooperation in the energy, transport, and industrial production sectors. It is very important to me that we remain committed to the principles we agreed on at our first meeting. Our relations are firmly set on an upward course.
I am genuinely pleased that we have this chance to meet once again.
Vladimir Putin: Mr President,
You know our position on the Kosovo issue. I just had the opportunity to meet on the sidelines of this summit with our colleague, the President of Albania, and discuss this matter with him. Our position and all of our efforts are aimed at creating the conditions for stability in this region based on international law and consideration of the interests of all sides.
This position is not based on religious, ethnic or historical motives. It is based on the principles of international law today and on a wish to look to the future and establish stable relations that will enable all countries to develop.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 24, 2007, 13:00
Text versionEvents
Beginning of Meeting with President of Bulgaria Georgi Prvanov
June 24, 2007
12:40
Zagreb, Croatia
Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, Mr President,
I would like once again to offer my sincere greetings and say how pleased I am to have this chance to meet with you once more.
Our relations are developing well and very steadily in all areas of cooperation. Bilateral trade is growing: Russia is now in strong second place among Bulgaria’s trade partners, and this also covers work together in investment, infrastructure projects and, of course, the energy sector.
We are happy with the way work on the Burgas-Alexandropoulis project is progressing. All the countries involved – Bulgaria, Russia and Greece – have ratified the relevant documents. Now we need to take the next step and establish the necessary companies. We also have other major infrastructure projects to examine and I hope that we will have the chance to discuss all of these matters today.
Georgi Prvanov: Mr President, I am very pleased that this forum has given us the chance to meet.
I share your positive assessment of our dialogue and our relations over these last years. What is most important is that this dialogue is helping us to expand our cooperation in all different areas, especially in the economy.
As is tradition when we meet, I would like to begin with a few words about our spiritual and historical heritage. This year marks 130 years since the beginning of the Russian-Turkish war of liberation. In Bulgaria, we are preparing for large-scale celebrations to mark this event. I am sure that all of our institutions will cooperate well in this work and that we will mark these celebrations together.
We are sure that a good political climate encourages trade, economic progress and investment. In this respect, I consider many of the Russian investment projects in Bulgaria to be successful.
But first of all, I would like to note the good relations our countries have in the energy sector. Over the last few months we have accomplished what we were unable to do for long years on the Burgas-Alexandropoulis project. We are very pleased with the work our ministries and agencies involved in this matter have done to achieve these results.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 24, 2007, 12:40
Text versionEvents
Statement following Meeting with President of Bulgaria Georgi Prvanov
June 24, 2007
12:50
Zagreb, Croatia
President Vladimir Putin: Mr President,
I am pleased that we have discussed not only the implementation of the projects we have already reached agreement on, but also examined major new joint investment projects, including the one discussed in Rome yesterday, which we have given the name Southern Stream. This is the project to build a new gas pipeline system from Russia to Bulgaria and onwards to the other European Union countries.
This project would undoubtedly raise Bulgaria’s role and importance as a major gas transit and distribution centre in Europe and would certainly help to raise energy stability and diversify energy supplies for European countries. This would have a positive impact on the international energy market.
Georgi Prvanov: Mr President, Ladies and Gentlemen,
I am happy with our talks, which have covered a wide range of economic cooperation issues.
We discussed in detail the possibilities offered by the new Southern Stream project. This represents an important step not only in energy diversification but also in ensuring the stability of the region and of the European Union in general.
Bulgaria is interested in this project and we are ready to take part. The relevant agencies and institutions will soon discuss the project and make the right decision. We can say with confidence that this project opens up big opportunities for Bulgaria as a whole and for developing our economy. As this meeting is taking place on the sidelines of the Balkan energy summit, I would like to note too that the project would benefit all of the countries present at this summit.
Vladimir Putin: I would like to add that our Italian colleagues have already informed the European Commission leadership about this project. We are thankful to the European Commission for its positive reaction to our plans.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 24, 2007, 12:50
Text versionEvents
Beginning of Meeting with President of Montenegro Filip Vujanovic
June 24, 2007
12:30
Zagreb, Croatia
President Vladimir Putin: Mr President, I am very happy to see you.
Our relations have entered a new stage in their development since Montenegro obtained independence. This applies to our political contacts and to our economic cooperation.
Our trade and economic ties are still at a modest level, but we are pleased to see that Russian investment is increasing. We know about our big companies’ plans and we hope that they will benefit from the favourable conditions your government has put in place and that economic actors have thus far enjoyed. We note the favourable attitude the government of Montenegro shows towards Russian companies’ investment activity, and we thank you for this.
Filip Vujanovic: Mr President,
I would like to thank you for this meeting and for your position of principle on matters in our region.
Russia’s position, and your position as President of Russia, was of great assistance in holding a democratic referendum giving our citizens the chance to express their will freely. We would also like to thank Russia for its swift recognition of independent Montenegro and for rapidly establishing diplomatic relations and appointing an ambassador.
I think that the good political relations we have already established at this point will gain new substance through economic cooperation. The creation of the Intergovernmental Committee on Trade and Economic and Scientific Cooperation will make a valuable contribution to this work.
This committee, co-chaired by Minister Shoigu for Russia and by Minister Rodcin for Montenegro, has now held its first meeting and outlined an action plan.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 24, 2007, 12:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Chairman of the Presidium of Bosnia and Herzegovina Nebojsa Radmanovic
June 24, 2007
12:20
Zagreb, Croatia
President Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, Mr Chairman,
It is a great pleasure to have this opportunity to meet with you. We see your country as one of our priority partners in the region.
Our political dialogue is developing steadily and this is very good to see. Of course, we do need to give an additional boost to developing our trade and economic ties.
In this respect, we hope very much that the agreements reached by our prime ministers will be implemented and that the Intergovernmental Commission will resume its work.
Nebojsa Radmanovic: Mr President,
Thank you for your warm words. Bosnia and Herzegovina hopes for good economic cooperation with the Russian Federation. The Russian Federation plays an exceptionally important role in world affairs, and this in turn is very important for Bosnia and Herzegovina.
If you will allow, I would like to say a few words about economic cooperation. First, there is the unresolved issue of Bosnia and Herzegovina’s debt for Russian gas that was supplied during the conflict period. This issue has burdened our economic relations but is now 90 percent settled, and I hope that we will be able to resolve the remaining 10 percent over the next two months.
Second, and very important today, is the Russian investment in Bosnia and Herzegovina, specifically, in the Republika Srpska. I spoke about this not long before you arrived at the summit. This investment has been made by Zarubezhneft, which has acquired two refineries in the Republika Srpska. We see this issue as settled and resolved, at least as far as the government of the Republika Srpska is concerned.
Specialists from Zarubezhneft are in the towns of Grot and Matrici, sorting out all the questions. For Bosnia and Herzegovina, this investment by Russian companies is extremely important. These companies will develop two major refineries and have also acquired a chain of petrol stations.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 24, 2007, 12:20
Text versionEvents
Speech at the Balkan Energy Cooperation Summit
June 24, 2007
12:14
Zagreb, Croatia
President Vladimir Putin: Colleagues, Ladies and Gentlemen,
First of all, I would like to thank the President of Croatia, Mr Mesic, for the invitation to take part in this important multilateral summit.
This is the first energy cooperation summit, the first at such a high level, in this region, in any case, and we hope that this meeting will not just lead to broader dialogue, but, most importantly, will outline practical prospects and priorities for future work together.
The subjects discussed at this summit are immensely important for today’s world. Energy supply issues have become a primordial part of international economic policy today. The strategic objective our cooperation in this area pursues is to ensure access to reliable energy supplies for all countries of the region. Our policies take into account the Balkan countries’ increasing involvement in the European integration process, and we are ready to develop our relations in cooperation with the European Union.
It is my conviction that we should draw on all the best in our experience of working with current European consumers of Russian energy supplies. I note that for four decades now, despite the serious and truly global changes in the world, Russia has never broken a single one of its contractual commitments.
Regarding the countries of southern and southeast Europe, Russia supplied 73 billion cubic metres of gas to this region in 2006 alone. This comes to almost half the total volume we supply to the EU countries. We also supplied 59 million tons of oil. These figures are eloquent proof of the solid base upon which we can continue to build our cooperation in the energy sector.
I am sure you will agree that Russia’s relations with its partners in the Balkans have traditionally been based on mutual sympathy, common spiritual traditions, the closeness of our languages and cultures and a common history. Our economic ties are defined by the aim of turning the Balkans into a region of stability and security.
As one of the world’s leading oil and gas producers, Russia is ready to do everything possible to resolve the region’s energy problems. This, of course, must be based on a balance of interests and on equal responsibility of suppliers, transit countries and energy consumers.
As you know, this formula for ensuring energy security was first approved at the G8 summit in St Petersburg. We are strictly committed to applying this formula in implementing our future energy policy. Another of the main principles underpinning energy cooperation is that of transparent and fair business relations. I stress that long-term relations is also one of the fundamental principles of energy cooperation. We view this as an additional incentive for developing ties in other areas too, above all in investment. Based on these clear and straightforward positions we are ready to develop our cooperation with the Balkan countries in the energy sector.
The oil and gas sector is one of the main areas of cooperation. Russian companies are already involved in a number of major projects in the region, in particular projects to increase transport capacity from the Black Sea to the Mediterranean. Russia, Greece and Bulgaria signed an intergovernmental agreement on building and operating the Burgas-Alexandropoulis oil pipeline in March 2007 in Athens. This pipeline will be able to transport 35 million tons, and this capacity can be expanded to 50 million tons. I want to emphasise that this project will use the very latest technology and will conform fully to all the demands set by environmental protection organisations.
Gazprom, of course, is the company that has taken the lead in cooperation with the Balkan countries. Gazprom not only supplies gas to the region but is also involved in work to improve the energy infrastructure. In Greece, for example, six gas pipelines with outlets and the Florina electricity generating station have been brought on line.
The memorandum of understanding between Gazprom and the Serbian Government on building a gas pipeline across Serbian territory, signed last December, is an important step in strengthening the system for reliable energy supplies to the Balkans. Similar work is currently in a preliminary phase with other partners in the region, including Hungary. We are looking at options for future cooperation and for the most suitable and effective transport routes.
Russia is interested in continuing talks on gas sales and in making use of the region’s transport possibilities. Russia is also interested in building underground gas reservoirs in a number of Balkan countries, which will not only improve the region’s energy supply situation but will also make it more attractive and important in terms of resolving Europe’s energy issues as a whole. Also of interest is the project to develop the gas network in Macedonia and expand the gas pipeline network into Albania, southern Serbia and Kosovo.
As you know, Gazprom and Italian company ENI signed a memorandum yesterday on the possibility of laying a new gas pipeline system across the Black Sea. We have held preliminary talks and consultations with our Bulgarian colleagues. I hope that we will continue this discussion today at the meeting with Mr Prvanov.
This is a promising project that would unquestionably help improve the energy supply situation in Europe overall, and we are very pleased that this project has the backing not only of the Italian and Russian governments but also of the European Commission.
Other Russian companies, LUKOIL, for example, are working actively in Bulgaria, Macedonia, Romania and Serbia. LUKOIL alone has already invested $1.5 billion in the region and it intends to continue developing this mutually beneficial partnership.
We also have a good outlook for cooperation in the nuclear energy sector. Last year, Russia’s Atomstroiexport won a tender to build a nuclear power plant in Bulgaria. We hope that the contract will be signed this year.
This Russian project is also interesting in terms of developing technology cooperation between Russia and Europe. Our German partners, Areva and Siemens, will supply a large amount of equipment directly involved in ensuring safety and enhancing the plant’s technical and economic performance.
The electricity sector is another area in which we can develop our cooperation. Russia has traditionally been a reliable partner for southeast Europe in this sector. One of the most important projects in this area is the synchronisation of the energy systems in western, central and southern Europe with the energy systems of the CIS and the Baltic countries. This project’s implementation will enable us to create an electricity chain forming a ring around the entire Black Sea region and uniting all the European countries located in the region. Furthermore, this will help to put in place the main parameters for a common energy market.
I stress that our energy companies are ready to discuss in substance the question of taking part in privatising and modernising generation capacity in the countries of the region. There is particular interest in building heating and electricity stations in Macedonia and modernising electricity stations in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Russia’s Siloviye Mashiny is one company that has deservedly established a reputation for itself as a reliable partner in the region and has long been cooperating with countries in the region, supplying turbines and generators for energy facilities.
It is pleasing to see that today our partnership has become a two-way street. Croatian company Konchar, for example, has been working successfully on the Russian market for a long time now, supplying equipment for electricity production, transmission and distribution.
I think that we could achieve significant results by combining our efforts in work to reconstruct energy facilities built in earlier years with Soviet assistance. Of course, we intend to take part in tenders under equal conditions with other competitors.
Russia is also ready to discuss the question of helping to create regional energy transit hubs. You can rest assured that Russian companies will maintain the most stringent environmental standards in any work undertaken as part of joint energy projects in the Balkans.
I would like to draw your attention to the fact that our companies are working in the energy sector, in particular in production, in another part of the world, the Caspian, not so far from here, and are competing against the world’s leading energy companies. And our environmental standards are higher than those our partners from other countries follow in their oil and gas production operations.
It is our conviction that the way to strengthen our cooperation in the energy sector is to strengthen our trust in each other. This requires transparency, the supremacy of the law, complete absence of discrimination, open markets, and of course, readiness to stand up for our national interests.
Colleagues,
Russia’s economy is developing so fast now that we are able to address far-reaching social and infrastructure issues.
The international economic forum that took place recently in St Petersburg, and which was attended by delegates from more than 60 countries, analysed in detail the current situation and development outlook for the Russian economy and assessed its prospects very positively.
The Russian economy is growing at a rate of 6.9 percent a year on average, and it increased by 7.7 percent over the first four months of this year. The energy sector accounts for only 1.6 percent of this growth. The service sector, construction, machine-building and the chemicals industry account for the rest.
These facts convincingly demonstrate our consistent and steady progress, and I think that this is just the beginning. Our country has a highly optimistic development outlook and I am convinced that constructive cooperation with your region and with Europe as a whole will only multiply our future achievements.
In short, we are interested in mutually beneficial, open and good-neighbourly cooperation. We hope that we will be able to, whether in multilateral format as at this summit, or in bilateral format, hold productive discussions on all the items on the agenda and on the real mechanisms for carrying out our cooperation in the energy sector in general.
Thank you for your attention.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 24, 2007, 12:14
Text version