Events
Beginning of Talks with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
June 7, 2007
23:55
Heiligendamm, Germany
President Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister, allow me once again to give you my warmest greetings. I am very pleased to see you and to have the opportunity during this summit to discuss with you our bilateral relations, our cooperation, both economic and political, and the complex issues related to the possible conclusion of a peace treaty. We are ready to discuss all issues, and we sense the willingness to work too on the Japanese side in the talks we have had with Japan.
Shinzo Abe (simultaneous translation): We met during the APEC summit in Hanoi and I am very pleased to see you again here at the G8 summit. I would like to look over what the Japanese-Russian action programme has accomplished in general and hold a frank exchange of views on developing our bilateral relations further.
The Japanese-Russian action programme encompasses six main points. First is to deepen our political dialogue, and in this respect we have been consistently developing our cooperation – above all, [Russian Prime Minister] Mr Fradkov recently visited Japan and Mr Aso, our foreign minister, visited Russia.
As for our cooperation on the international stage, we are working actively together on issues such as North Korea and Iran, including at this summit.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 7, 2007, 23:55
Text versionEvents
Press Statement Following the Meeting with American President George W. Bush
June 7, 2007
23:05
Heiligendamm, Germany
President Bush (www.whitehouse.gov): Vladimir and I just had a very constructive dialogue, particularly about missile defense. He expressed his concerns to me. He is concerned that the missile defense system is not an act that a friend would do. He made some interesting suggestions. As a result of our discussions, we both agreed to have a strategic dialogue, a opportunity to share ideas and concerns between our State Department, Defense Department and military people.
This will be a serious set of strategic discussions. This is a serious issue and we want to make sure that we all understand each other's positions very clearly. As a result of these conversations, I expect there to be better understanding of the technologies involved and the opportunities to work together.
I told Vladimir we're looking forward to having him up to my folks' place in Maine the beginning of July. And we'll be able to continue our discussions, our bilateral discussions on a variety of issues.
Vladimir Putin: I would like to support everything the President of the United States said except for one thing. I did not say that friends do not act in such way. We have the same understanding of common threats. But we also have differences. Differences with respect to how and with what means we can best counter these threats.
We carefully considered the proposals made by the United States and we have our own ideas. I outlined them in detail. The first proposal involves the joint use of the Gabala radar station that Russia leases from Azerbaijan. I spoke with the President of Azerbaijan about this just yesterday. Our present agreement with Azerbaijan would allow us to do this and the President of Azerbaijan stressed that he would be happy if his country could contribute to ensuring global security in this way.
We can do this automatically and in this case the system we established would include all of Europe without exception, rather than simply one part of the continent. This would completely eliminate the possibility of missiles falling on European countries because they would fall either into the sea or into the ocean. It would eliminate the need — or, more accurately — allow us to refrain from changing our position and retargeting our missiles. On the contrary, it would create propitious conditions for joint work.
But this work has to be multifaceted and involve all European countries. We agreed with George that our experts will begin working on this as soon as possible. This would eliminate the need to deploy our missile strike system in the immediate vicinity of our European borders and to deploy the U.S. missile strike system in outer space. But we hope that these talks will not act as a convenient shield under which to begin unilateral action. I told George so. Because as soon as any country, including Iran, completes the first test of its long-range missiles, our intelligence services — both American and Russian ones — will record this.
Following the first test there is a minimum period of three to five years before such missiles could be deployed. This is enough time to develop and deploy any missile defence system. For that reason no matter how long we continue negotiating we shall never be too late. The main thing is that these talks were substantive and took our mutual security interests into consideration.
I am very grateful to the President of the United States for the very constructive conversation we had today.
President Bush (www.whitehouse.gov): We'll answer one question apiece. Toby. Then we got to go to a meeting.
Question (www.whitehouse.gov): President Putin, are you saying now that you do not consider the missile defense issue a serious threat to your country anymore? And were you satisfied with what President Bush presented to you in this meeting?
President Putin: I think that if we work together to overcome the threats we are discussing today, and if we take into account the concerns of each other, if we make this work transparent and if we provide for an equal access to the system then we'll have — through the management of this system — then we will have no problem. And I'm, of course, satisfied with the spirit of openness in which we discussed this problem today on behalf of President of the United States.
Question (www.whitehouse.gov): My question is for both Presidents. In your today's dialogue what was more, constructive things, or rather differences? What prevailed?
President Bush (www.whitehouse.gov): Well, you just heard, that the desire to work together to allay people's fears. There's a lot of people who don't like it when Russia and the United States argue, and it creates tensions. Russia is a great country, and so is the United States. It's much better to work together than it is to create tensions.
Thanks. See you later.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 7, 2007, 23:05
Text versionEvents
Remarks at Junior G8
June 7, 2007
16:00
Heiligendamm, Germany
Vladimir Putin: I will be very brief. I would like to thank our young colleague from Britain for raising the issue of companies’ social responsibility, especially that of big business. This is one of the issues I wanted to discuss with my colleagues, but we simply did not have time and I was unable to do so. Now she has raised this issue for me. I have almost nothing to add to what she said. The only thing I would like to draw to your attention is the fact that Russian companies are starting to work more and more on the world markets today.
As I told my colleagues, by 2006, Russian companies had invested around $140 billion around the world. This investment is already becoming noticeable. Russian companies are increasingly active abroad, including in Africa. Unfortunately, we also encounter tragedies in our work. Just recently, terrorists abducted six employees of a Russian aluminium company operating in Nigeria. We do not even know their demands yet, for they have not yet set them out. But these kinds of things happen, in part, because all companies, not just Russian companies, need to take a socially responsible approach in all the countries where they work. Such incidents would be less common if local people saw that companies are pursuing not just global aims but are also working to solve the specific problems facing people in this or that country.
Our companies are drawing up plans for specific work of this kind, and I am very pleased to see this. They are presenting their proposals to the Government, and we, for our part, will do everything we can to support them. I am very grateful just for the fact that has issue has been raised.
Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 7, 2007, 16:00
Text version