Events
Beginning of Meeting with Secretary General of the League of Arab States Amr Moussa
February 7, 2007
19:28
Novo-Ogaryovo
President Vladimir Putin: Mr Secretary General, Colleagues,
It gives me great pleasure to welcome you to Moscow. The League of Arab States is one of the world’s oldest international organisations. It was formed in 1945, as I recall, the same year as the United Nations Organisation.
Russia has traditionally had good relations with all the Arab states. Today, we have no problems with any of the Arab countries. Furthermore, unlike in past decades, we have no economic, ideological or any other kind of contradictions in our relations today. Russia’s relations with the Arab countries are either good or very good, and our cooperation with the League of Arab States has always been of great help in this respect.
I recall very clearly the warm reception you gave me and my delegation in Cairo in 2005. We are very pleased to have this chance to exchange views with you on developments in the situation in the Middle East and other parts of the world, and to talk about our cooperation within international organisations.
Welcome!
Amr Moussa (Translated from Russian): Thank you, Mr President. I am very pleased to visit Moscow and to have this chance to meet with you. We all remember your historic visit in the League of Arab States. Relations between Russia and the Arab countries are flourishing today and we greatly value Russia’s policy in the Middle East. The policies of other countries regarding our region have not proven as successful, perhaps. Russia is one of the few countries whose policy is distinguished by an understanding of the reality of our region.
You are indeed right, Mr President, when you say that Russia’s relations with the Arab countries are either good or very good today. There are no problems between us, and what’s more, we are working today to improve our relations – our political and economic ties and our investment relations. We are working in this area. The League of Arab States understands the need to not only strengthen political cooperation with Russia but also to develop the full spectrum of our relations in the aim of pursuing our common interests.
Today’s meeting is a very important event for me. I am very pleased to have this opportunity to exchange views with you, Your Excellency, and I am ready to answer any questions you may have. I am ready to listen to everything you wish to say to me, because an exchange of views at this very important and critical stage for our region is particularly significant.
Thank you, Mr President.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: February 7, 2007, 19:28
Text version