Events
Russia and APEC: Towards Sustained and Stable Development in the Asia-Pacific Region
The article is published in mass media of the APEC member states
September 7, 2007
05:53
Next year will mark the tenth anniversary of Russia's becoming a fullfledged member of APEC. It was a committed and strategic choice for us, based on objective economic factors and geopolitical circumstances. Life itself has since then convincingly demonstrated that the decision made then was timely and well-founded.
Today, on the eve of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Summit in Sydney I would like to share with you my vision of the prospects for Russia's participation in this influential regional association.
APEC has entered the 21st century as a major and authoritative regional structure with a uniquely broad membership of countries situated on both sides of the Pacific. Represented in it are Asia, the Eastern American continent and the Southern Pacific. Russia has been successfully cooperating within its framework.
Due to the rapid development of the Asia-Pacific Region, APEC can be called the most promising economic association of the planet. Even now the Member States of the Forum account for 57percent of the world's gross domestic product, 48percent of world trade and over 40percent of direct foreign investments. And according to expert estimates, these figures may go up in the coming years. Such a prospect is also held out by APEC’s basic priorities aimed at improving the trade environment in the Asia-Pacific Region as well as broadening regional integration.
Active and multifaceted participation in the work of APEC is becoming an increasingly important aspect of Russia's foreign policy on its eastern frontiers. Accordingly, our interaction with the Forum has been growing every year. For instance, APEC's share in Russia's foreign trade has increased now to reach 18.1percent including up to 16.6percent in Russian exports. Such influential APEC members as China and USA are among our top ten partners, and if combined with Japan, they are among the top ten leaders of investment cooperation with Russia.
Our key task is to make use of APEC's possibilities so that Russia could join the Asia–Pacific integration mechanisms in a most effective and efficient way. This naturally complements Russia's national plans for social and economic development. Top priority is given to projects of intensive development of Siberia and the Far East. Alarge scale modernization of leading economic sectors, industrial and transportation infrastructure is being pursued, notably, by the Program for the Development of the Far East and Trans-Baikal Regions, i.e. the areas that directly belong to the Asia–Pacific Region.
Russia has officially stated its readiness to chair APEC in 2012. And it is not by chance that we have suggested that the Associations' Summit be held in the eastern part of our country– in the city of Vladivostok. We believe that this meeting will allow a detailed discussion of the future of the Asia–Pacific Region and its progress towards a sustainable and stable development.
I would like to emphasize that this would not be the first time that important APEC events have taken place in the Russian Far East. We have hosted a major APEC Investment Fair as well as meetings of the APEC Working Groups on Transportation, Energy, Industrial Science and Technology. An active and substantive dialogue took place during the First Asia-Pacific Congress that focused on deepening business links between the Russian Federation and APEC.
We are confident that Russia's presidency of APEC can be of great benefit both for our partners and us, primarily in terms of further strengthening mutually beneficial business links and the free trade space as well as in deploying innovative technologies. It would make a substantial contribution to the development of regional and world cooperation and provide an incentive for bilateral and multilateral cooperation between the APEC economies.
It is evident that APEC’s current activities go beyond addressing economic problems only. The task of countering threats and challenges in the area of development remains relevant. It includes neutralizing terrorism, preventing natural calamities and manmade disasters as well as epidemics. The problem of corruption and money laundering continues to be a serious obstacle on the way to economic stability in the APEC region.
The Russian Federation is consistently strengthening its positions in these important spheres of regional cooperation. Our country has been making a notable contribution to APEC counter-terrorism activities. This year, for example, we have put forward an initiative to set up a system to protect critical energy infrastructure facilities against terrorist attacks. We actively cooperate with the other Forum Member States in elaborating joint steps to cut off financial channels feeding terrorists and to counter corruption. Finally, starting from last year our country has been co-sponsoring a broad dialogue between civilizations within APEC. This dialogue is meant to protect our societies, particularly the youth, from xenophobia, ethnic or religious intolerance.
Russia pioneered here the work on managing the consequences of natural and manmade emergencies and designing a system of information sharing and coordinated action in case of epidemic and pandemic outbreaks.
Moreover, we have unswervingly supported the progress towards regional energy security based on partnership beneficial for everyone.
We believe that strengthening interaction between APEC official and business circles is of utmost importance. Russia has vigorously supported the industrial dialogue on nonferrous metals engaging businesspeople from 12APEC countries. By all accounts, its threeyear work was mutually beneficial and made it possible to achieve serious progress in creating more favorable conditions for the relevant APEC markets. Now, this dialogue is being reshaped to a new, more powerful institution with a broader scope, whose activities, I hope, will be as effective.
The effort of CEOs of large Russian companies within the APEC Business Consultative Council is also worth paying close attention to. The constructive cooperation between the Council and Forum is being consistently and steadily strengthened, bringing together the interests of the private and public sectors. Iam referring to the promising joint work that has a direct practical effect on the development of the participating economies.
* * *
In conclusion, I would like to stress once again that Russia strives to actively broaden its participation in APEC. It is of fundamental importance to us that all activities of this association are carried out on the basis of consensus and discretion in the implementation of the decisions made, as consistent with one's national interests. It is this very approach that both secures regional progress and allows each participant to address the specific tasks it has set for itself.
The focus of the current summit in Sydney – Strengthening our Community, Building a Sustainable Future – fully lives up to the logic of the APR economic development which is based on consolidating mutually beneficial cooperation, expanding large-scale trade and investment, and strengthening common security. I am convinced that the meeting of the APEC leaders in Australia will contribute to the achievement of these strategic goals, the main one consisting in ensuring a sustainable and predictable future for all countries and peoples of the region.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: September 7, 2007, 05:53
Text versionEvents
Press Statement Following the Meeting with American President George W. Bush
September 7, 2007
18:31
Sydney
President Vladimir Putin: First of all, I would like to say that I am very glad to have the opportunity to meet with the U.S. President within the framework of the APEC summit. And I began our meeting today with words of gratitude for the very warm welcome we received during our recent visit to Kennebunkport.
We talked about various matters on our bilateral agenda and about important international problems, first and foremost, about missile defence. We noted that it is necessary that our experts meet again very soon and make another trip to the Gabala radar station in Azerbaijan. We can, therefore, see that joint work in this direction is continuing.
We discussed Russia's WTO accession plans. We hope that this work will have positive results and that work at the expert level will continue.
We also talked about the Iranian nuclear problem. I would like to say that Russia intends to continue to work with our partners and colleagues within the framework of the IAEA and the United Nations. We hope that we can find a solution for the benefit of the both: international community and of the Iranian people.
We also covered our economic relations. We discussed various major economic projects whose implementation is in the interests of both countries' business communities.
We also discussed environmental issues, particularly in light of the forthcoming APEC summit. I must say that our positions on this issue are very close.
I would like to thank the President of the United States for today's very constructive and open dialogue. This gives me reason to believe that our countries relations will develop in a similarly positive way in the future.
Thank you.
PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH: Vladimir, thanks. For a minute, I thought he brought up the Kennebunkport visit to remind me that he was the only one who caught the fish. But in fact, it was our — my family's great pleasure to welcome my friend the President of Russia to Mother and Dad's home.
I have nothing much more to add than what Vladimir said. We did discuss a variety of issues that are of importance to our respective countries, and I found the conversation to be cordial and constructive. We are results-oriented people. We want to help solve problems. And we recognize that we can do better solving problems when we work together.
So I appreciate your time, appreciate your friendship, and appreciate the chance to dialogue on important matters.
President Putin: And we also agreed that we will go fishing not only in the United States but also in a Siberian river at some point.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: September 7, 2007, 18:31
Text versionEvents
Speech at an Official Breakfast Hosted by Australia’s Prime Minister John Howard
September 7, 2007
20:33
Sydney
President Vladimir Putin: Dear Mr Prime Minister, Mrs Howard, ladies and gentlemen.
I want to say first how delighted we are to have this wonderful chance to visit your country. We have been greatly impressed by the goodwill and hospitality of Australians and, of course, by the unique colours of the natural world in your country, and by the sophisticated creations wrought by human hands. All that we have seen has been done in a relatively short period of time, and done on such a scale, with such good taste. I am sure that this first state visit by a Russian president will help stimulate a whole range of bilateral cooperation initiatives. Our mutual efforts have enabled us to open a new chapter in our partnership.
Exactly one month from today Russia and Australia will celebrate the 65th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations. It is well known that the historical links between our peoples go much farther back. Both Prime Minister Howard and the leader of the opposition have spoken about the history of our relations. Different people from Russia have visited Australia at different times. Even Prime Minister Kerensky, the Head of the Provisional Government [in 1917], visited here. Even more surprising is the fact that he went on to marry an Australian journalist. This is a sort of unnatural union, even for a former Prime Minister. I don’t know exactly why he did it. Perhaps he was overcome by grief after losing power, in a state of temporary insanity. Or maybe this is just the result of some internal disposition that led him from one mistake to another: first he lost power, then he lost it again.
But, in addition to Mr Kerensky, many distinguished Russian travelers such as Bellingshausen, Lazarev, Kruzenshtern, and Vasilev have visited here. I know that in your country there is still great respect for Nikolai Nikolaevich Miklouho Maclay, a distinguished [nineteenth-century] Russian scholar who passionately loved Australia.
Thanks namely to such bright, talented, courageous people and their interest in the new and the unknown, Russians have long had a lively interest in your wonderful country. Today this interest provides the basis for a profound mutual understanding and the rapprochement of our nations. In Russia we will never forget the glorious and heroic pages of our history, which have already been mentioned here. I mean our alliance during World War II. In our country we recall with profound gratitude the achievements of Australian veterans and their contribution to the defeat of Nazism.
Today we admire the extraordinary perseverance and hard work of Australians. In a relatively short period you have succeeded in creating a dynamic and prosperous nation, a country in which a modern economy and high-tech industry coexist harmoniously with traditional structures, a country that cherishes its historical, cultural, and ethnographic heritage by conserving all of its diversity.
Your country is very like our Russian homeland. For centuries people of different nationalities and faiths have lived there. Russia is organically linked with the West and East. In historical terms we are allied to the traditions of our pan-European home and to the vast Asia-Pacific region.
Here in the Asia-Pacific region large and promising prospects for cooperation are opening up. Russia is ready to actively cooperate with Australia in the international arena, including within the framework of the APEC forum, whose summit the Prime Minister and I will be attending tomorrow. The results of meetings and talks have confirmed the proximity of our positions on energy security and trade links. An extensive range of opportunities for cooperation is opening up in the areas of culture, education and science.
Once again I want to emphasize that the current visit is just the beginning of a great movement that will bring Russia and Australia closer together, help achieve new and specific results, and bring to fruition joint plans and initiatives for the benefit of our two peoples.
Unfortunately, in our large delegation there are no representatives of the opposition, although we do have an opposition in Russia. Moreover, ours is a presidential not a parliamentary republic. Therefore, permit me to have the audacity to speak for the whole Russian people in wishing all our Australian friends prosperity and every success, and in expressing my hopes for the development of our future relations. Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: September 7, 2007, 20:33
Text versionEvents
Press Conference Following Russian-Australian Talks
September 7, 2007
19:50
Sydney
Australian Prime Minister John Howard: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all to this joint news conference. The President and I have had a very lengthy discussion about bilateral relations, about world affairs. I'm delighted to welcome him as the first ever Russian head of state or head of government or indeed any head of state or head of government to visit, under a former constitutional iteration in Russia, ever. And that gives the visit a great importance.
As well, we have just signed a new nuclear safeguards agreement which completely updates the arrangements for nuclear safeguards between our two countries.
Russia is an important player in the affairs of the world, a very significant force and a very significant country of influence, not only within the European sphere, but within the Middle East and within our own part of the world.
Mr President I very warmly welcome you to our country. We have long held a deep interest in Russia. We understand the extraordinary history and the extraordinary suffering over many years for many reasons of the Russian people. We respect your modern economy, your modern nation and I hope that this visit plays a significant part in furthering the good bilateral relations that exist between our two nations.
President Vladimir Putin: Dear Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! From the outset I'd like to thank the Australian leadership for the opportunity to hold separate meetings with our Australian partners within the framework of APEC.
This is an important year. It marks – and I've already told Mr Prime Minister about this – 200 years since the first contacts between Russia and Australia, the 150th anniversary of our consular relations, and 65th anniversary of our diplomatic relations. The volume of our mutually beneficial ties is growing in practically all directions. We are cooperating quite well on the international scene on major issues on the international agenda. We're working actively in various international organisations, namely the United Nations and APEC, whose summit begins tomorrow.
Our volume of trade is also growing. In absolute figures it is still not considerable but its growth rates are remarkable. This bears witness to our untapped potential. Last year our trade grew by just over 80 percent. In the first half of 2007 we also witnessed significant growth – about 40 percent, more than 40 percent. We have many good prospects for cooperation. Mr Prime Minister mentioned nuclear energy, and this is far from being the only sector we are interested in. Our trade is growing and 25 percent of this trade involves agricultural products. Mutual investments are also growing, and today Russian investments in Australia are bigger than Australian ones in Russia. We have accumulated about half a billion dollars of Australian investments and Russian investments in the Australian economy amount to one and half billion USD. We have good prospects in hi-tech spheres, including in exploring outer space.
It was a great pleasure for me to see that our dialogue was extremely open, substantial and warm. I would like to thank Mr Prime Minister for this atmosphere.
Question: President Putin, how do you evaluate cooperation between Australia and Russia in the nuclear sphere, especially in light of the so-called uranium agreement signed today? And, Mr Prime Minister, what is your attitude to recent declarations in the Australian press that Russia will use this uranium for nuclear weapons?
Prime Minister Howard: Well my attitude to these assessments is that they are wrong, that any uranium that is sold to Russia will be sold subject to very strict safeguards, and the President in our discussion made the point that I think is relevant, that Russia already has an enormous amount of military nuclear material which it is selling principally to the United States for reprocessing. So if you apply logic to the allegation, it lacks substance.
President Putin: I consider our cooperation in nuclear energy to be promising. We will work on a bilateral basis and on a multilateral basis, especially considering our proposal to set up international centres for enrichment. We have all the necessary technology and the raw materials for this. And, as you know ,Australia is country number one in terms of reserves: 40 percent of known reserves are in Australia.
Russia has enough of its own materials to implement military programmes. Moreover, we have an excessive amount of materials that can be used as weapons. For many years now we have sold enriched uranium to the United States where it is reprocessed and then sold on the North American market. To better explain, I can say that to produce one nuclear weapon you need about 20 kilogrammes of enriched uranium. We sell 30 tonnes per year of such uranium to the United States. And the overall volume of our sales to the U.S. amounts to about 500 tonnes. So those who say that Russia will use Australian uranium for military purposes simply do not understand the issue or they are purposefully distorting it in order to hinder further cooperation between our countries.
Question: Mr President, what assurances can you give that Australian uranium sold to Russia would not be used for military purposes or resold to third countries, such as Iran? And, secondly, there are concerns of a regional arms build up, fuelled by your recent arms deals, in Indonesia, for example. What's your response to those concerns?
President Putin: Indonesia is a full-fledged member of the international community. Thank God the country is under no sanctions and, therefore purchasing and selling weapons on international markets cannot be negatively affected by cooperation between Indonesia and Russia in this area. These are legal and open transactions and it is our firm conviction that they will have no negative consequences, nor will they somehow disturb a presently existing balance in the world.
And as to using uranium for weapons, I have already answered this question in enough detail and I hope that you will consider my previous comments in order to find the answer to your question.
We need to sell 500 tonnes of uranium together with our American partners on the North American market. Why would we spend money on enriching Australian uranium to weapons-grade uranium?
As to Australian uranium, we are going to buy it simply for economic considerations, and in light of our plans to develop peaceful nuclear energy. In the Soviet era we built about 30 major nuclear units in the nuclear power plants of the Russian Federation. In the next 15 or 20 years we're planning to build the same amount again. And it is for these purposes, and only for these purposes, that we need this Australian uranium.
As to selling uranium to other countries, if this were to be necessary then our own resources would be sufficient.
Question: Mr Prime Minister, how can you evaluate the participation of Russia in APEC and the possibility that the APEC summit in 2012 will be held in Vladivostok, Russia? And a second question to President Putin: do you think that Russia is ready to take up this presidency and host the summit?
Prime Minister Howard: Well, I evaluate Russia's participation in APEC very positively. Russia has been a member of APEC for a number of years now and I have attended every APEC meeting during the Russian period of membership and it's been extremely positive. And I have no doubt that the Russians would be very gracious, convivial, entertaining and enjoyable hosts and I think it would be a great APEC meeting, particularly if it were held in St. Petersburg.
President Putin: If our APEC partners give us the honour to hold the APEC presidency in 2012 we'll do our best to execute it in the proper way. Of course we'll take into account the wishes of our partners. If you would like, we can hold the meeting in any city of the Russian Federation. But if this summit takes place in Russia we would like to hold it in the Asian part of Russia, for example in Vladivostok. It is this part of Russia which is an organic part of Asia. The region has a lot of resources which our APEC partners really need. And I think that meeting in that part of Russia would be a correct and symbolic step that will help us develop our business ties.
Question: Is it possible that you would stand down soon?
Prime Minister Howard: I would refer you to the answer I gave two days ago.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: September 7, 2007, 19:50
Text version