This year is an anniversary year and marks 60 years since our countries established diplomatic relations. We have marked this anniversary by intensifying our contacts in the widest range of areas. Looking at the results, the Prime Minister and I gave a positive assessment of our colleagues’ work, including that of the intergovernmental commission for trade and economic, scientific and technical and cultural cooperation, and the intergovernmental commission for military-technical cooperation.
I note also that our humanitarian contacts have gained in substance. As you know, the Year of Russia will take place in India in 2008, and in 2009, the Year of India will take place in our country. Around 150 different events have already been planned to mark the Year of Russia in India, and I am sure an undertaking of this scale will help to bring our peoples closer together.
Our discussions of global and regional issues reaffirmed the common or close positions we share on all of the key issues. We discussed in detail the situation in the region and the most pressing international problems. We reaffirmed that the primacy of international law and the central role of the United Nations must remain our reference points.
We have agreed to continue our work together on eradicating terrorism and fighting crime and drugs trafficking. The agreement we signed today on fighting illicit drugs trafficking will make our joint efforts to prevent these activities much more effective.
We will continue to work together in close coordination in the international organisations, including the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation, in which India has observer status, in the interests of ensuring global and regional security. We think it is important to expand our cooperation within the framework of this organisation.
We think there are very good prospects for expanding ties within the trilateral Russia-India-China format and within the BRIC group: Brazil, Russia, India and China.
In conclusion, I would like to say once more that we are happy with the results of this meeting, and I would like to thank the Prime Minister for a constructive and very frank conversation and for the concrete proposals our Indian colleagues made during the discussions today.
Thank you very much.
Prime Minister of India Manmohan Singh (as translated):
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen,
This is the eighth annual Indian-Russian summit and my fourth visit to Russia as prime minister of India. I am truly happy to be visiting this wonderful country once more.
I would like to thank you, Mr President, for the warm welcome and the hospitality that I and my delegation have received.
I am very pleased with the discussions with President Putin. These discussions were distinguished by their warm spirit and the common and similar views we share on all the different issues.
We made considerable progress on many of the issues that were discussed at the last summit back in January. We had a wide-ranging discussion and outlined areas for further cooperation between our two countries.
I also had a very useful exchange of views with Prime Minister Zubkov. We discussed ways of significantly expanding our economic relations in order to consolidate our partnership and cooperation. We agree that there are immense opportunities for cooperation and we discussed recommendations for setting up a joint focus group to make these opportunities reality. I am pleased that we have succeeded in finding a solution to the old problem of using the rupee debt.
We also agreed to double our efforts to increase our bilateral trade to $10 billion by 2010. I will be meeting today with Russian business leaders and will make an earnest appeal to them to invest in our very important relations.
The symbol of our cooperation is the joint agreement we have signed on launching an unmanned spacecraft to carry out scientific research on the Moon.
We continued our dialogue in the energy sector. I would like to thank His Excellency the President of Russia for his constant support for our nuclear research programme and for his help in lifting the international restrictions on nuclear cooperation with India that are still in place today.
Defence sector cooperation is one of the pillars of our strategic partnership. The decisions we have made on working together to develop a fifth-generation fighter aircraft and a multi-purpose transport aircraft are important steps in this sector.
We had constructive discussions of regional and global issues and noted the closeness of our views and interests. We greatly value Russia’s role in international affairs and its role as a global leader on key issues.
Our two countries are preparing enthusiastically for the Year of Russia in India in 2008 and the Year of India in Russia in 2009. We want to show the whole world the new Russia in India and the new India in Russia. I would like to invite President Putin and Prime Minister Zubkov to visit India.
Ladies and gentlemen, our two countries have a strategic partnership that has stood the test of time, and our talks today have strengthened and cemented our commitment to cooperation in a wide range of areas. I am really very pleased with the results of my visits and I would like to thank President Putin for this. Thank you.Events
Beginning of Meeting with Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh
November 12, 2007
17:36
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin:
Good afternoon, Mr Prime Minister, colleagues,
I would like to start by recalling my visit to your country in January this year, when you invited me to take part in the celebrations of your national holiday.
I hope that, despite the wintry Moscow weather, you will feel the warmth of our hearts, Mr Prime Minister, and the most warm and friendly feelings we have for your country.
Our relations go back a long way and are showing excellent development today.
We are very pleased to see you here in Moscow. I wish you welcome.
Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh (as translated):
Your Excellency, our friendship with Russia has stood the test of time. Everyone in India recognises our friendship with your country. We all share the view that Russia is our great friend. You have made an immense personal contribution to strengthening our relations.
I want to say that your presence as the main guest during the Republic Day celebrations in India was a great honour for us and made the event all the more memorable. I would like to thank you for finding the time in your busy schedule to be with us during our celebrations.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 12, 2007, 17:36
Text versionEvents
Beginning of Enlarged-Format Russian-Indian Talks
November 12, 2007
17:39
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin:
Mr Prime Minister, colleagues, let me once again wish you a warm welcome to Moscow.
At our one-on-one talks just now the Prime Minister and I discussed the most important aspects of our bilateral relations and international issues.
I would like to begin these enlarged-format talks by saying that we are happy overall with the rate at which our economic cooperation is growing, but I agree with the Prime Minister that the level of our cooperation in absolute figures still falls short of our countries’ real potential. Today we have the opportunity during these talks and during informal discussion to examine all the issues of mutual interest, especially in the area of economic cooperation.
You have the floor, Mr Prime Minister.
Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh (as translated):
Your Excellency President Vladimir Putin, members of the Russian delegation,
Thank you very much, Your Excellency, for your generosity and your warm words, and for the hospitality you have shown my delegation and myself.
India and Russia have traditionally had a special relationship. A strategic partnership was established during Your Excellency’s first visit to India, and it has become a tradition to hold annual summits, which give our relations a unique and stable status in our foreign policy. The government and the people of India are grateful for your personal contribution to developing and strengthening the relations between our countries.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 12, 2007, 17:39
Text version