Events
Answers to Questions from the Russian Media following a Visit to the Middle East
February 13, 2007
14:00
Amman
M.Petrov (ITAR-TASS): Russia has always had a presence in one way or another in the Middle East. Was this visit a continuation of those past traditions, or does it signal a new direction in Russia’s policy in the region?
President Vladimir Putin: It continues past traditions and at the same time, it expands our contacts in the region. During the Soviet years, we had fairly cool relations with Saudi Arabia and Qatar, and even with Jordan our relations were not as good as they could have been. The situation has changed immensely over recent years. We are now developing active ties with these countries and the time has come to cement and build on these results. I am very happy with the outcome of this visit. We have not just reviewed the results of our work over recent years but have also outlined joint steps for continuing to develop our relations in the future.
We have signed a number of agreements, which I would divide into two categories. First, there are the agreements that strengthen the legal foundation for our cooperation with these countries, and second, there are the agreements on carrying out specific projects. These projects include plans for work together in the high-technology sector, in aviation and space. We have also agreed on a project that would see the assembly of Russian motor vehicles here in Jordan.
We place great importance on coordinating our work on the global energy markets. In this respect, Saudi Arabia and Qatar are both priority partners.
Our contacts have also been very productive in terms of developing humanitarian ties. There has always been great interest in the culture of the Middle East in Russia, and our country has an excellent school of Arab studies. We spoke about this during our meetings. And finally, here in Jordan we had the opportunity of visiting the River Jordan. I think that the Russian Orthodox Church will have good facilities here for welcoming pilgrims. All of this together gives me reason to say that this visit has been a success.
O.Osipov (RIA-NOVOSTI): I would like to come back to the events of a few days ago. Your speech in Munich is still being much discussed. What prompted you to make such frank statements right at this moment? Why did you choose this time to set out your views on the situation in the world? Judging by the publications and responses to your words, your colleagues in the West consider your statements to be confrontational.
Vladimir Putin: The theme of the conference in Munich was “Global crisis – global responsibility”. For many years now, for more than a decade, we have been listening to what our partners say on issues in various areas. Of course, it is true that statements of the kind that were made also have a bilateral dimension in terms of Russian-U.S. relations. We have seen many positive developments in our relations with the United States, but we are becoming increasingly convinced that often the action taken by our partners in different areas, and the instruments they use with regard to Russia, pursue the sole purpose of furthering their own interests with regard to our country.
We take a patient and tolerant approach to this kind of policy, but we have the impression that some of our partners do not understand us and are turning up the pressure more and more. Things have got to the stage where the non-existent Russian threat has started being used as a pretext for getting the U.S. Congress to increase defence spending – defence spending that will be used to carry out military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, and to build an expensive missile defence system.
But these are not our problems and they are not connected to Russia in any way. We simply do not understand the need to play the anti-Russian card in resolving domestic political issues. Personally, I have come to the conclusion that it does not matter what we do – provide answers and explanations or simply sit tight and keep silent – there will always be someone who comes up with some pretext for attacking Russia. In this situation, it is better to simply be frank and direct in setting out our views.
But I also want to point out that what was said in Munich has been said before in one form or another in direct discussions with our American colleagues. There was nothing unexpected or out of the ordinary for them in what I said. I was pleased that representatives of the U.S. administration and the parliament, U.S. senators, in particular, where sitting in the front row in the conference hall in Munich, because I would not have wanted to make such statements in their absence, behind their back.
These issues are being discussed not only in Russia but in places all around the world, and this has been the case for a long time now. The difference is that some countries do indeed take a very blunt and confrontational approach, actually, insulting the United States and its leadership, and I think this is counterproductive and unacceptable in general. Other countries say the same things, but only in whispers, only behind the scenes. I think that Russia is a country that should not act behind the scenes nor have a grudge against anyone, but on the contrary, should state its views frankly, openly and honestly. I think that it is through this approach that we can open the road for normal, honest and candid dialogue, and I think that there are people in the United States who will hear our voice and will try to build relations with us based on friendly equality and without a lecturing tone.
Finally and most importantly, I am deeply convinced that what I said is the truth, and that the situation I referred to really is what is happening in the world. I have no illusions or hopes that everything will suddenly change overnight after my speech in Munich. Of course this will not be the case. But let us remember that here in Jordan we visited the biblical lands, and in the Bible it says that, “In the beginning was the Word”. I believe that gradually we will see correct, needed and positive changes in the world, and that we will build a fairer and more democratic world, working together with the direct participation of our American partners.
V.Terekhov (INTERFAX): What kind of response do you expect from your foreign colleagues and partners? After all, you practically said that the balance and the system of relations in the world have been upset…
Vladimir Putin: This has long since been the case. We did not build a new world order but for the most part just went on living in the conditions of a bipolar system based on confrontation between the two big superpowers and their camps, and we did not build a new and democratic world order. My hope is, as I just said, that my frank and honest words have been heard. As I said, this is something everyone is talking about, only behind the scenes, and I decided to speak about it openly and directly.
A.Nikolayeva (VEDEMOSTI): During your visit you discussed the idea of an OPEC-type organisation for gas, but you said that at this point Russia is only ready to coordinate work in this area. What did you mean exactly by this? Also, many people are writing and saying that Russia is actively promoting this idea of a ‘gas OPEC’ and was even the initiator of this idea. Can you comment on this?
Vladimir Putin: We are not the initiators of the idea of creating a gas cartel. As for the initiative of our partners in Qatar, this event is taking place for the fifth time and there is nothing new here. Our deputy energy minister took part in previous meetings under this initiative, and I think that the time has now come to raise our participation to the level of minister. Perhaps the head of Gazprom will also come. It is in our interests to coordinate our activities on world markets.
I would like to draw your attention to the fact that energy consumers coordinate their activities, including through international organisations such as the International Energy Agency. There are also other forums in which the main consumers coordinate their activities. Why should the producers not also coordinate their work? I do not think that such activity is aimed at undermining energy security – quite the opposite. In any case, we will take part in this process that aims at strengthening world energy markets.
Question (NEZAVISIMAYA GAZETA): You have said nothing during this visit about military cooperation, but the Russian delegation included representatives of the Russian defence industry. Could you say a few words about cooperation in this area with the Arab countries?
Vladimir Putin: Yes, our cooperation in this area is showing good development and we are setting new records all the time for sales volumes. This is a natural process. There is fierce competition in the world today on these markets and Russia has had some very good and visible results in this sector.
We would like to consolidate our presence on markets where we are already established, but we also want to expand markets for selling our high-technology military goods. We did indeed hold very productive talks on these issues and we have reached a number of agreements.
But I must point out that military-technical cooperation is a very sensitive area and we can really only talk about concrete deals once the contracts have been signed. We have not signed any contracts as yet, but I have reason to believe that the agreements we have reached with our partners have every chance of being implemented. Once actual contracts and agreements have been signed, you will be informed. The agreements I refer to concern our traditional areas of cooperation: high-technology equipment, aviation, light arms, air defence systems – offers are on the table in all of these areas, but now it is a matter of choosing what is best suited to our partners’ needs.
Question: You discussed with your partners, and perhaps also with Mahmoud Abbas, the idea of holding a big conference on the Middle East. What was their reaction to this idea? Also, I know that there were objections at one time to the idea of Iran taking part. Was something said about this, and is it realistic for Iran to take part?
Vladimir Putin: If we are talking about achieving a comprehensive settlement it would probably not be right to leave someone outside these negotiations. But we are not stubbornly going to push just our initiative. We work in other formats – in the ‘Quartet’ and directly with our partners in the Middle East.
We think this initiative is a good idea, but we are not obsessed with it. We are aware of the view of a number of our friends in the Arab world who think that it would be good to know first exactly what outcome the conference hopes to achieve. But if we knew the outcome, we would perhaps not even have to hold a conference in the first place. It would be enough to just sit down and sign everything straight away. We think that the conference could be a good idea to get this cooperation process moving. But at the same time, I have every reason to think that our work within the ‘Quartet’ will result very soon in real progress in the settlement process.
A.Gamov (KOMSOMOLSKAYA PRAVDA): What did you feel and what were your impressions after visiting the holy river and site where Jesus Christ was baptised?
Vladimir Putin: First of all, the setting itself makes a strong impression. I don’t know about you, but personally, right from the start, I had the feeling that I was really here in the biblical lands. There were two main aspects to my thoughts and impressions. First, of course, is the spiritual aspect. It’s hard for me to comment on this because these are very personal feelings and I don’t think I need describe them in detail for you and your colleagues. Second, there are the pragmatic considerations. As you know, the King of Jordan and the Prince, who is responsible for developing this site, have given Russia a hectare of land right on the banks of the River Jordan, close to the site where Christ was baptised. I would like to appeal to our business organisations to help the Russian Orthodox Church to build a guest house here for Russian pilgrims. I think this work could be done quite quickly.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: February 13, 2007, 14:00
Text versionEvents
Beginning of Meeting with President of the Palestinian National Authority Mahmoud Abbas
February 13, 2007
13:59
Amman
President Vladimir Putin:
Mr President, colleagues and friends,
I am very pleased to have this opportunity to meet with you here in Jordan. This meeting with you today is a natural conclusion to all of our work during this visit to the Middle East, because no matter what the discussions with our partners during this working visit, we always began with and practically always ended with the Palestinian issue.
I know what a difficult time you have been having lately. We have been watching the situation in Palestine and the conflict that broke out within Palestinian society with grave concern. We are very pleased that the King of Saudi Arabia succeeded in bringing all the parties to the negotiating table and played a successful mediation role in helping you to reach an agreement.
We have met on many occasions now and are in regular contact with each other. I very much hope that these latest agreements will bring you closer to the goal you have set, namely, that of forming an effective government in Palestine. And I hope that the conditions will be created rapidly for lifting the blockade, and that the blockade will be lifted so that you can move on to the next step. The next step is that of a full-fledged settlement with Israel. For this to take place, it is essential that the agreements reached be respected within the Palestinian authority, in order to create the conditions for subsequent steps to achieve a settlement with Israel. In this respect, the return of the Israeli soldier captured earlier would be an important step.
Russia, as you know, is an active member of the quartet of international mediators. We will continue to work in this direction, making use of our special relations with the Arab countries and the people of Palestine.
Mahmoud Abbas:
Thank you very much, Mr President.
We are very pleased to have this opportunity to meet with you. Our last meeting took place in Sochi. This meeting is our fourth top-level meeting, yet another contact since you began your visit to Germany, Saudi Arabia, Qatar and Jordan. This meeting is taking place at a very timely moment.
As you noted, several days ago, we reached an agreement in Mecca, under the patronage of Saudi Arabia, on calming the situation in order to form a national unity government. I think that this agreement marks a very important step, because it has returned us to the road forward. We therefore give this agreement great significance and have the utmost respect for the efforts the guardian of the two holy sites made to ensure that this agreement was reached.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: February 13, 2007, 13:59
Text versionEvents
Press Statements following Russian-Jordanian Talks
February 13, 2007
11:00
Amman
King Abdullah II of Jordan (simultaneous translation):
Ladies and Gentlemen,
I wish you a warm welcome, Mr President and the members of the Russian delegation. We welcome you to our country on this, your first visit.
Our two countries are developing excellent relations and we hope for fruitful development of our cooperation with Russia.
The President and I discussed many bilateral issues during our meeting, especially economic issues. I thanked President Putin for Russia’s participation in our Forum of the Future in 2006, and for its scientific and technical cooperation with the King Abdullah II Design and Development Bureau.
A number of important agreements have been concluded during the President’s visit. They include agreements on facilitating protection of investments and on establishing a joint business cooperation council between the chambers of commerce and industry in Moscow and Amman. This will help strengthen relations between the private sectors in Jordan and Russia.
We also discussed regional and global security issues. Here in Jordan, we place great value on Russia’s contribution to ensuring security in the Middle East. Today we are witnesses to a unique opportunity to renew efforts to achieve a comprehensive peace settlement in the region. As a member of the ‘Quartet’ [of mediators in a Middle East peace settlement], Russia has an important part to play. I spoke to the President of the importance we place on resolving the Israeli-Palestinian conflict – the key regional conflict – and on how important it is that the ‘Quartet’ support the peace initiatives of the Arab countries. The President and I agreed that negotiations on creating an independent and viable Palestinian state should be given new impetus.
We expressed our deep concerns over the situation in the occupied Arab territories and the unilateral action taken with regard to Muslim holy sites. We also expressed our deep concerns with regard to Iraq and we reaffirmed our common commitment to ensuring unity, stability and security in Iraq.
We discussed the international tensions over Iran’s nuclear programme and we consider that diplomatic efforts to resolve this issue must continue. Russia and Jordan likewise agree on the need to prevent the proliferation of nuclear and other types of weapons and to achieve the goal of a Middle East without weapons of mass destruction.
I set forth our new initiative to transform and accelerate economic growth in countries with medium or low revenues. The Group of Eleven is a group of countries whose economies encounter a number of problems that can only be resolved with the help of the developed countries. The Group of Eleven will meet during the World Economic Forum in Jordan in May. We would like to create an institutional framework for cooperation with the G8, and we hope that Russia will support us in this initiative.
President Putin, thank you very much for visiting Jordan and thank you for the productive discussions we have had. We sincerely value our partnership with Russia. We also value greatly your personal courage and leadership and we are hopeful that our ties will continue to strengthen.
Thank you very much.
President Vladimir Putin:
Your Majesty, Ladies and Gentlemen,
Today’s talks continue the fine tradition of summit meetings between partners from Russia and Jordan.
This visit was all the more meaningful for me as it is my first time in Jordan as a guest of the King of Jordan. I would sincerely like to thank His Majesty for his hospitality. Jordan’s national poet, Arrar, called this country “a home where no one feels as if they are in a foreign land”. Today, we can see that this is indeed the case. Despite the brief nature of this visit, we have seen for ourselves how true these words are.
Pilgrims, scholars and travellers from throughout the world have been coming to Jordan for decades now. The holy places of Jordan are open to all, no matter what their faith or nationality. Christians also have deep reverence for these places. I would like to take this opportunity to thank His Majesty for the decision to give Russia a plot of land on the banks of the River Jordan.
Our talks with His Majesty took place in a friendly and constructive spirit. We analysed in detail the state of relations between our countries and outlined specific steps to develop them. In particular, we have adopted a Joint Declaration on deepening the friendship and cooperation between Russia and Jordan.
Furthermore, agreements have been signed on encouraging and providing mutual protection for investment, and on creating a Russian-Jordanian business council.
These agreements are all part of the foundation we need to develop active cooperation between our countries’ business communities.
The agreements signed today on the possibility of organising assembly production of Russian motor vehicles and helicopters testify to the considerable potential our business communities have for developing a new level of partnership.
I note too that our humanitarian ties have also been developing rapidly of late, and I am pleased to inform you that the Russian Scientific and Cultural Centre in Amman will begin its work again this year.
As my visit to the Middle East comes to a close, I would like to say a few words about my impressions from visiting this region, which is strategically important for Russia.
The meetings and talks in Riyadh, Doha and Amman confirm that Russian-Arab business cooperation has immense potential. Successful economic development in our countries opens up broad new opportunities, and we intend making full use of them.
The big Russian companies are already working more actively on the Middle Eastern market, and we also note the growing interest our Arab partners have for the Russian market. I note too that the Russian Chamber of Commerce and Industry has given a considerable boost to this mutually beneficial business cooperation. The Russian-Arab Business Council was established here three years ago on the initiative of the chamber’s chairman, Mr Primakov, and it is working successfully. Now it is very important to make all-round efforts to build on this positive economic cooperation with the Arab world.
Russian-Arab political cooperation is also becoming more concrete and multifaceted. It takes in practically all the key aspects of issues in the Middle East and North Africa, the Persian Gulf region and the Arab and Muslim world in general. The meetings with the leaders of Saudi Arabia, Qatar and Jordan have confirmed the common views we share on the complex processes underway in these parts of the world.
Regarding Russia’s priorities in the Middle East, they are focused on helping to achieve peace, stability and security in this region, and facilitating the search for solutions that are in the genuine interests of all the peoples of the region.
At the same time, we are very much aware that we can achieve these goals only if the Middle East countries themselves unite their efforts, and, of course, if the other members of the international community, international and regional organisations, also provide their balanced and tactful participation.
We think that Russia’s initiative to hold a broad-based international conference on the Middle East remains a timely and useful proposal. We made this proposal two years ago and we know that support for it is growing. Of course, we would need to prepare very thoroughly for a forum of this kind that seeks to provide collective solutions for a Middle East peace settlement, and the agenda of such a conference would need to encompass all areas of the settlement process – the Palestinian, Syrian, and Lebanese tracks.
In our talks with the leaders of Saudi Arabia, Qatar and Jordan, we paid particular attention to cooperation in the fight against international terrorism. We expressed the common view that this threat has no ethnic or religious identity. All healthy forces in the world should work together to counter this threat.
This visit to the Middle East has not only opened new horizons for our multifaceted cooperation with the Arab world, but has also been very useful in strengthening mutual understanding and consolidating common approaches to key issues in both bilateral and international relations.
I am very grateful to His Majesty for the spirit of understanding, friendship and warmth that prevailed at our talks and meetings.
Thank you very much.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: February 13, 2007, 11:00
Text version