Events
Beginning of a Meeting with Chinese President Hu Jintao
July 9, 2008
20:45
Toyako, Hokkaido, Japan
Russian President Dmitry Medvedev: Dear Mr President, I am glad to meet you again. There have been quite a few meetings lately, which is evidence of the special nature of strategic relations between Russia and the People’s Republic of China.
I made my first foreign trip [as Russia’s President] to China, which I view as proof of the high level of relations between our countries. I would like to thank you once again for the excellent organization of the visit. Today we can discuss practical issues related to the results of my visit to China.
We are drafting an action plan for 2009–2012. I hope it will be ready by the end of August this year, just as we agreed. We will then be able to coordinate it during our meeting at the SCO summit in Bishkek.
I am really glad to meet you again.
President of People’S Republic of China Hu Jintao (as retranslated from Russian): Mr President, I am glad for this opportunity to meet you again barely six weeks after our previous meeting.
Mr President, I would like to use this opportunity to once again thank you personally and the Russian government and people for your condolences and generous relief aid to the earthquake victims. It came at a critical moment.
Mr President, during your visit you invited school children from the earthquake affected regions for rehabilitation to Russia. This is a vivid proof of Russians’ friendly feelings for the Chinese people. The stage of coordination is over, and a decision has been made to send one thousand Chinese children to Russia. In this connection, I would like to once again express heartfelt gratitude to you, Mr President. I am convinced that this move will have a positive effect on our relations, and will help to carry on friendship to future generations.
You have said that your recent visit to China was successful. China also holds a high opinion of it. We have instructed relevant ministries and departments to work energetically to implement our agreements.
As far as I know, China has presented a renewed action plan to implement the Chinese-Russian treaty of neighbourliness, friendship and cooperation. We will do our best to facilitate agreements by working jointly with our Russian colleagues.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 9, 2008, 20:45
Text versionEvents
Beginning of a Meeting with Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh
July 9, 2008
21:56
Japan, Hokkaido, Toyako Onsen
Russian President Dmitry Medvedev:
Mr Prime Minister,
I’m very pleased to meet you during the international events, in which we have just taken part.
I consider this scheduled meeting as a prelude to my visit to India and as continuation of the meaningful dialogue that our friendly countries have conducted on all urgent questions on the agenda.
Our countries have a very close, long-standing and trust-based partnership, and I consider its further development one of my priorities.
Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh (as retranslated from Russian):
Mr President,
India and Russia have been close partners since we became independent. For us, relations with Russia are full of emotions. Russia has always helped us, particularly when we launched industrialisation; it has always supported us in times of trial.
It is very important for us to receive Russia’s full-scale support in military cooperation, which includes technical cooperation. Owing to economic contacts with Russia, we are making steady headway in the production of hydrocarbons. I could quote a whole list of areas in which cooperation with Russia helped our progress, but I’m afraid it would be too long.
We are hoping for very close, strong and productive relations with Russia in the future.
I think that the new era of our bilateral relations began in 2000, when we launched strategic cooperation between our countries during President Putin’s visit to India. Since then it has been a tradition to hold annual meetings at top level. I believe that this summit [G8] will further facilitate our cooperation.
We are looking forward to your visit to India later this year during which you will close the Year of Russia in India (as you know, it was opened by Russian Prime Minister Viktor Zubkov). Welcome to India.
Dmitry Medvedev:
Mr Prime Minister,
Our two countries are facing a number of threats. Terrorism is one of the most fundamental dangers, and in this context I’d like to express my condolences in connection with the death of Indian diplomats in the recent explosion in Kabul.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 9, 2008, 21:56
Text version