Events
Opening Remarks at a Meeting with the Security Council on Russia’s Space Exploration Policy for the Period through to 2020 and Beyond
April 11, 2008
18:40
The Kremlin, Moscow
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
Today we will examine our long-term policy in the field of space exploration. The most important thing here is to establish our priorities and set concrete goals. We must not forget that space exploration means a defence shield for our country, modern standards of communications, navigation, the ability to get advance warning of global cataclysms, and a platform for obtaining new materials and cutting-edge scientific results.
Furthermore, an effective space programme can serve as an important element in promoting innovative economic development and creating entire new areas of scientific research that meet the demands of global development.
Today, a growing number of countries see outer space as a zone of their geopolitical and economic interests, and they spare neither money nor effort to consolidate their positions and ability to compete in this area.
Over these last years, thanks to the new financial opportunities that have opened up, we have succeeded in stabilizing to a considerable extent the situation in the space sector. Overall, the sector has maintained its production potential and has a good base of scientific work for the future. We have launched a process of restructuring and creation of integrated and competitive organizations in the sector. Russia is an equal partner in international space cooperation and has established a substantial foothold on the market for space products and services.
Today, we have the chance to really move beyond using and maintaining the space exploration capital that was built up during the Soviet era and start carrying out new and truly ambitious space sector projects.
Above all, we must ensure that Russia has guaranteed access to outer space, that is, we must have the ability to carry out all kinds of space launches from our own territory – from automated satellites to manned spacecraft and interplanetary stations. In this context, I ask you to pay particularly close attention to the development of space launch centres in Russia, and that includes stepping up work on establishing the new Russian space launch centre, Vostochny [in Amur Region, Russian Far East]. We discussed this matter just yesterday at a meeting with the Government ministers responsible for economic issues, and we decided that we should begin this work straight away. The funds needed for the design of this major installation will be allocated this year.
Second, we need a clear blueprint for building up the number and possibilities of Russia’s orbiting groups. This blueprint should be drafted for the period through to 2020 at the minimum. I am referring to all different types of apparatus here: military and dual-use, socio-economic and scientific. These should all be state-of-the-art or thoroughly modernised apparatus, the kind that will be able to compete with foreign equivalents in terms of effectiveness, and, most importantly, reliability and durability.
We need to pay particular attention also to the project to develop the new Angara rocket complex and to the full deployment of the GLONASS Global Navigation Satellite System and the extensive use of the corresponding ground-based navigation equipment among users.
This system is already up and running now, but we still need to put in more effort to make it truly global and competitive in all aspects.
Third, we need to substantially increase our presence on the world market for space apparatus and services. We need to be able to offer the market not just our launch vehicles for putting foreign apparatus and payloads into orbit, but also to offer an increasing number of high-technology space-related developments and services. This covers space sector equipment itself, communications services, navigation, meteorological monitoring and remote Earth probes. We need to greatly increase Russia’s market share in this promising and profitable sector.
Fourth, in order to carry out the above-named tasks, we need to make an intensive effort to rebuild the sector’s human resource potential and carry out thorough technological modernisation. If we do not do this, even generous funding for the sector will not bring the results we need and expect.
Fifth, we need to make effective use of the scientific and resource potential of related scientific programmes. We are currently investing heavily in nanotechnology, and the results obtained, according to the experts, will soon find extensive applications in the space sector.
Finally, we need to take a serious look at how we can make use of not just the state’s new possibilities but also the growing possibilities of Russian business in the space sector.
In many of the countries with a presence in space, space sector developments and projects have become profitable ventures for private investment. Venture funds, incubation firms and large companies are all actively developing this field of work. I mentioned just before telecommunications services and remote Earth probes, and these are things that can be used to help search for the resources the world economy is in such need of today, that can be used to provide other services. This is profitable technology today.
I think that Russian business has already developed sufficiently to become a reliable partner and serious participant in Russia’s space exploration programmes. Incidentally, many of our companies are already expressing interest in this sector and are already becoming involved in this joint work.
I would like to conclude by congratulating everyone working in the space sector – workers, engineers, designers and cosmonauts – on the Cosmonautics Day holiday, and to wish them all new achievements in consolidating Russia’s status as one of the leaders in outer space.
I wish you a happy holiday!
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 11, 2008, 18:40
Text versionEvents
Beginning of a Meeting with Prime Minister of Monogolia Sanj Bayar
April 11, 2008
16:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
Russian President Vladimir Putin: Dear Mr Prime Minister! Dear colleagues and friends!
Allow me to welcome you to Moscow.
Shall we do this without translation?
Prime Minister of Mongolia Sanj Bayar: Sure.
Vladimir Putin: I am very pleased to see you. You worked a long time in the Russian capital as Mongolia's ambassador, and it must be said that during that time our relationship has been strengthened, including in the economic sphere.
We have not yet reached the level that it was in the Soviet period, but trade is increasing at an impressive rate: 20–25 percent annually. And the scope of activities in various areas is expanding. Today Mongolia has tremendous capacity in the field of livestock — more than 40 million cattle — and these are now in demand on world markets and in Russia.
It is gratifying to note that during your visit to Moscow more than ten agreements were signed concerning our joint efforts, including cooperation in the field of agriculture. I am sure that the goal the President of Mongolia [Nambaryn Enkhbayar] and I set at our previous meeting in Moscow in 2006, a trade turnover worth a billion dollars, can and will be reached in short order.
We are very glad to see you. Welcome.
Sanj Bayar: Thank you, Mr. President. I am delighted with this opportunity to see you again in a new capacity.
We have spent two working days in Moscow, days of meetings and intensive negotiations. We are very glad that the talks have been conducted in a businesslike manner: we have signed a package of important agreements. They will expand our traditional cooperation in various fields.
Overall political dialogue between our countries has reached a very high level, and there is a continuous exchange of delegations. We also note with satisfaction the intensification of military and technical cooperation.
On this occasion, I would like to express on behalf of the government of Mongolia our gratitude our for Russia's assistance in upgrading and modernising our armed forces and for training our military personnel. This is very important for us. We have a record of good relations, and we are interested in developing this area of cooperation.
I was telling the Prime Minister [Victor Zubkov] and would like to extend to you our immense gratitude for the grain deliveries last winter. We asked our Russian friends to supply us with grain, and to supply us with petroleum products at reduced prices. Winter has passed and the people are happy.
We were glad to hear that the government of Russia has decided to provide Mongolia with 100 thousand tonnes of grain at a favourable price. Previously Mongolia supplied its own wheat. We are no longer able to do so, but we hope with the help of Russian farmers and our friends in Russia's Ministry of Agriculture that in the coming years Mongolia will become a self-sufficient country, at least in the area of wheat.
Within the framework of the Intergovernmental Commission, chaired by the Minister of Agriculture Aleksei Gordeev, who enjoys the status of a special representative of the President of Russia, we are addressing many issues facing Mongolia today, including investment in new areas.
The Mongolian Government is planning to put into circulation some of the country's mineral deposits. We have not made much progress with a law on mineral resources. In the absence of a sound legal basis it is difficult to come to an agreement with our partners on the conditions of cooperation. I hope that this spring we will finish the job, and that we will have a solid, reliable legal framework.
Vladimir Putin: When are the elections?
Sanj Bayar: They are in late June, but we have a agreement in principle with the various political parties that the issues surrounding the development of these deposits should be resolved according to the rules set out in current policies. That is, we don't want to raise issues during the run-up to the elections that are directly linked to the partnership of cooperation and development with Mongolia.
Vladimir Putin: Our experience of concerted action in these fields has been very positive. Three of our joint enterprises — Erdenet [Mining Corporation], Mongolrostsvetmet [a fluorspar and gold mining company] and the Ulan Bator Railway provide almost 20 percent of Mongolia's GDP. This is a good example of effective cooperation. Nevertheless, much needs to be done so that the facilities available are used more effectively and our joint experience can be used in the development of new deposits. And here I agree with you: we should have a good legal basis for long-term cooperation in this field.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 11, 2008, 16:30
Text version