Events
Beginning of a Working Meeting with the First Deputy Prime Minister Igor Shuvalov
July 11, 2008
22:36
The Kremlin, Moscow
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Igor Ivanovich [First Deputy Prime Minister Shuvalov], I’ve given two instructions to the government. The first was regarding small business. I requested that a package of measures be taken to improve the situation in this sector. The second was about the board of directors of state-run companies. Please, report on what has been done.
First Deputy Prime Minister Igor Shuvalov: Dear Dmitry Anatolyevich, under this presidential decree, which you signed on May 15, the government cabinet was requested to develop a package of bills and then submit it to the State Duma within two months. These bills would promote the development of small- and medium-size businesses making life easier for those who are engaged in them.
In general, we have accomplished this work. On Monday, July 14, the cabinet’s presidium will meet to review this package of bills. It will then be submitted to the State Duma. We believe the Duma and the Federal Assembly could endorse this package before October.
(Shuvalov went on to give details of the bills which will provide for the opening of certain types of business by notification, limit the rights of internal affairs departments to conduct inspections, introduce liability insurance replacing a licenses for certain types of activities, and a declaration of compliance instead of mandatory certification for certain goods, plus new privatization and renting rules for small and medium-sized companies).
We have discussed all drafted bills with the following public associations: the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, the All-Russian Non-Governmental Organization of Small and Medium Business – OPORA RUSSIA, and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of the Russian Federation. We have also held hearings in parliament. We believe we enjoy public support on these issues, which allows us to fine tune these bills, and even encourages us to introduce beneficial changes in the bills which are basically ready.
Dmitry Medvedev: You should pass this package first, because small business has been waiting for too long. You should do it quickly, and once this is done, we will decide what changes are necessary.
Igor Shuvalov: Dmitry Anatolyevich, I would like to reassure you that the cabinet
has drafted this package of bills in a timely manner as directed by your May 15 decree. These instructions will be fully carried out.
Now I’d like to tell you how we have carried out your instructions on the board of directors. We were told to do this promptly. We have worked with 11 joint-stock companies with 100% state capital. In line with your instructions, we saw to it that joint-stock companies should be headed by a government member, or high-ranking official of the Presidential executive Office; we made sure that all other directors were either professionals or work under contract with the Russian government or represent some other public organizations. Above all, we wanted to make sure these officials were independent, that they would care for their joint-stock companies, and that there would be no conflict of interest, that they would not be affiliated with competing businesses. A list of such individuals has been compiled and approved by the government cabinet. We have talked with these people, and they have agreed to work with the government. We have suggested their appointment to the board of directors of the joint-stock companies.
Dmitry Medvedev: You may choose them from among some excellent professionals who know the market well, or who are experienced in related areas. You may also look at former government officials with an impressive service record, who are now working in public associations or business. We should use their experience because this is our “golden fund.” Please, think about the final version of this list.
Igor Shuvalov: We will then make decisions on the joint-stock companies, which do not yet have a new board of directors, and I will report to you the results in the next few days.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 11, 2008, 22:36
Text versionEvents
Beginning of a Meeting with Pyotr Latyshev, Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoy to the Ural Federal District
July 11, 2008
19:03
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Dmitry Medvedev: Pyotr Mikhailovich, we have one “dear” project, which we have been dealing with for quite a time. I mean the Ural Industrial – Ural Polar program. This is a serious and large program with an eye to the future. Could you please update me on its implementation? What decisions have been made, what projects have been started, what projects have yet to get underway, and what should be done to step up the efforts?
Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoy To the Ural Federal District Pyotr Latyshev: “We have started carrying out this project. Now we are designing the main railroad from the Polunochnaya station to Obskaya station in the north. This work will be completed by next March. It is being done by Lengiprotrans and Uralgiprotrans in cooperation with our German colleagues. They are using modern innovation methods such as laser sensing and three-dimensional modeling, so the design should be finished quickly.
Medvedev: Could you remind me what distance will be covered?
Latyshev: The road will be 890 km long (553 miles). At the same time, we are designing a railroad to link Salekhard and Nadym, which will cover 380 km (236 miles). That project will be also ready in 2009, which means that we can start building the railroad in 2010.
Medvedev: How will we fund it?
Latyshev: The government has already taken a decision on its funding, and approved the investment project. We are expecting to receive the first four billion rubles allocated for design works soon.
We are more worried about the financing of the railroad construction in 2010–2015. Every year, we will have to spend about 25 billion rubles ($1.07 billion) on its construction. Needless to say, we are doing our best to include investment fund appropriations in the budgets for 2010 and subsequent years. I’d like to recall that 105 billion rubles ($4.5 billion) for the railroad’s construction will come from the federal investment fund, while private investors will contribute another 359 billion rubles ($15.3 billion).
Medvedev: How much private money have you raised? What is its share in the project’s funding?
Latyshev: So far this year we have signed 176 billion rubles ($7.5 billion) worth of investment agreements. That is private money.
Medvedev: That is guaranteed funding. I understand, the companies involved are ready to fund the project on the principles of public-private partnership. Is this right?
Latyshev: They are ready to do this while the state will be resolving its infrastructure project – the railroad’s construction. Negotiations on nine license deposits will be completed before the end of this year.
Medvedev: What regions will take part in the project?
Latyshev: All the regions of the Ural Federal District are taking part in this project. Our industrial areas, notably, the Chelyabinsk, Sverdlovsk, and Kurgan regions will receive major contracts under this project. Their value has already exceeded 200 billion rubles ($8.5 billion). These contracts provide for the manufacture of bridges, rail-tracks, and power equipment.
Construction of iron-ore plants may further increase the value of these contracts. Importantly, our Urals industry can meet the entire demand for machines, metal, and equipment for the development of these iron-ore deposits.
Medvedev: This is very good. As you know, we consider infrastructure to be the key factor for the development of the Russian economy up to 2020. Such major projects as “Ural Industrial – Ural Polar” should be the foundation of our work in the next few years.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 11, 2008, 19:03
Text version