Events
Beginning of the meeting with Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Alfa Group Consortium Mikhail Fridman
October 6, 2008
20:27
Gorki, Moscow Region
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Alfa Group is a big group working at national level, and you have financial assets too. I would like to hear your views on the current situation, including with regard to your bank, Alfa Bank. And I would like to know your view on possible additional steps for stabilising the situation given the serious international financial crisis that is still going on at the moment.
chairman of the Supervisory Board of Alfa Group Consortium Mikhail Fridman: The situation on the markets is indeed not very calm. Yesterday morning brought new fluctuations on the international markets and on the Russian market too. I believe that the Russian financial system is better protected against fundamental upheaval than is the case in many other countries. I think that overall, the country’s leadership, the Government and the monetary authorities, are taking entirely rational and effective measures to deal with these financial problems.
The main trend on the financial market as I see it, above all in Europe and the USA, is continued consolidation of financial institutions. We are seeing the emergence of supersize super-powerful global financial players.
Dmitry Medvedev: Maybe we should also buy something while it’s not too late?
Mikhail Fridman: I think this will happen quite objectively, because Russian financial institutions today are in a position to be able to bid realistically for some of the assets out there. This is certainly the case in Eastern Europe, and perhaps in more ambitious Western Europe and in America and so on. I think that consolidation of financial institutions will take place in Russia too. This will be consolidation based around the big players, above all the state banks, and private banks too.
I wanted to present to you my views and proposals regarding these processes that will take place on the financial market very soon.
Dmitry Medvedev: Good, what about news in general? What interesting international projects is the group currently involved in? Despite the crisis that has hit the international financial markets, there are nonetheless some good opportunities for concluding investment deals and acquiring useful assets for the group’s development and Russia’s development in general.
Mikhail Fridman: This is absolutely correct and I fully share your view. Indeed, the crisis creates difficulties of course, but it also creates some new opportunities. We are looking now, for example, at opportunities in the telecommunications sector, especially in developing countries. Seeing as we have links with the big Russian telecommunications players – Vimpelcom and Megafon – we have a very aggressive policy, in the positive sense of the word, for expansion into the markets in developing countries.
Dmitry Medvedev: What are your plans?
Mikhail Fridman: We want to take part in Asian markets above all, in countries such as Iran and Afghanistan, so long as it complies with international laws and rules and is in keeping with Russia’s national economic objectives overall.
Dmitry Medvedev: I have said in the past and want to say again now that in cases where, as you just said, everything is in compliance with international laws and rules, the Russian authorities will support private business in its efforts to enter markets abroad.
Mikhail Fridman: Thank you very much. This is very important to us.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 6, 2008, 20:27
Text versionEvents
Working Meeting with Governor of Kaliningrad Georgy Boos
October 6, 2008
13:00
Gorki, Moscow Region
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Georgy Valentinovich!
The last few times I visited you we talked practically only about the programme 15 Plus 15 concerning housing for military personnel. You had quite good results a year ago. I would like to know what has been done at present and what is planned for the future.
Governor of Kaliningrad Georgy Boos: Dmitry Anatolyevich, you are absolutely right to point out that the general problems facing servicepersons have received considerable attention in recent years. We are currently building a large water park with a swimming pool in Baltiysk, where the headquarters of the navy's Baltic Fleet are located. A lot of housing is being built and we have designated large amounts of land and outfitted them with infrastructure for the construction of a modern military village that would act as service military housing within the framework of the new programme. According to the programme 15 Plus 15 we were instructed to build fifteen hundred apartments. We have built them all. <…>
Dmitry Medvedev: As far as I understand they were built the same way as the living facilities we visited together. This is modern decent quality housing. It has a normal layout and is fully finished.
Georgy Boos: Yes. And people are very happy and are waiting for more because this has already helped significantly to defuse the situation.
Dmitry Medvedev: How much housing do you still need to build for the military?
Georgy Boos: In principle, the situation is such that every year the Baltic Fleet is replenished with young officers.
Dmitry Medvedev: This is a good thing.
Georgy Boos: Yes, and in this regard every year we must build about as much as we are building now to allow the situation to develop normally.
Dmitry Medvedev: How much housing should be built each year, so that we have a benchmark?
Georgy Boos: About a thousand.
Dmitry Medvedev: Around a thousand housing units annually?
Georgy Boos: Yes.
Dmitry Medvedev: Over how many years?
Georgy Boos: Approximately the next 5 to 7 years. We will then reach a normal situation.
Dmitry Medvedev: In other words, to resolve all the problems in Kaliningrad, in the region, it takes about 5 thousand apartments.
Georgy Boos: Around 7 thousand.
Dmitry Medvedev: We are sure this programme will continue. I recently spoke with Minister of Defence about this subject, because all the tasks that were set both relating to permanent housing and office accommodation have not been removed. They will be implemented at the pace that was planned. Indeed, I think that today there are additional financial opportunities in the Ministry of Defence. I am not yet ready to cite the figures – we will see at the end of the year – but I hope that they will be even better than planned. This will provide a foundation for further work at the same pace.
With regards to specific instructions, I will give them on the facilities that you have already created.
Good. In general, how is the situation?
Georgy Boos: In general, I can simply name you a figure and you'll understand everything for yourself. The Gross Regional Product (GRP) in 2005 was 81 billion and this year we expect the GRP to be around 182 to 184 billion, somewhere in that range. That is an increase of more than a 100 billion. It has more than doubled; true, not at current prices but the growth is nevertheless comparable.
Dmitry Medvedev: Even with comparable prices that is very respectable growth.
Georgy Boos: Of course, for such a short period of time it is quite considerable. So of course this translates into a significant improvement in the socio-economic environment and people feel this.
Dmitry Medvedev: Current conditions are not the simplest ones because of the financial problems that have emerged in the world. I think that you need to pay more attention to the development of the social sphere and avoid seeing these indicators deteriorate simply because we are obliged to follow a plan that we have already laid out some time ago.
Georgy Boos: We will do everything necessary. We will not miss this chance.
Dmitry Medvedev: Agreed.
Georgy Boos: Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 6, 2008, 13:00
Text version