Events
Beginning of the Meeting with Chairman of the Board of the Eurasian Development Bank Igor Finogenov
October 23, 2008
22:32
Gorki, Moscow Region
President of Russia: Hello Igor Valentinovich!
The Eurasian Development Bank has already been established for more than two and a half years ago and its main purpose is financing large investment projects. Despite the complexities of the current global financial situation, I believe that the bank is nevertheless one hundred percent able to perform the tasks it has been assigned.
I would like you to tell us what projects have been implemented and what is in the pipeline.
chairman of the Board of the Eurasian Development Bank Igor Finogenov: Indeed, two years have passed since the Bank was created and during these years we have implemented and considered a number of major projects. One of these projects has been completed – you opened the chromite mine on September 22. This is an important and ambitious project.
Dmitry Medvedev: This is our state project and we opened it in Kazakhstan …
Igor Finogenov: Yes, in Kazakhstan, in Aktyubinsk. We are implementing another major project in Kazakhstan, that of reconstructing the Ekibastuz State District Power Station. This is an important major integration project because the electricity produced at this plant is delivered to both Kazakhstan and Russia.
We have several other projects in the nuclear sector and in infrastructure. In particular, we are implementing a project to build a new terminal in the port of Ust-Luga. We have a portfolio of projects in the pipeline that are worth four billion dollars.
We are moving forward without pausing and we have the opportunity to vigorously pursue our work.
Dmitry Medvedev: Good. Then it is necessary that you nevertheless pay attention to all the provisions included in the Bank's charter, the tasks that the public authorities have set you and, of course, monitor the situation on the financial markets.
At the same time, it is very important for us that major investment projects do not stop, but rather develop. Investment institutions such as yours are another guarantee that they will be implemented. Keep working.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 23, 2008, 22:32
Text versionEvents
The Latest Video Message in Dmitry Medvedev's Blog Deals with the Global Financial Crisis
October 23, 2008
21:26
Moscow
Dmitry Medvedev: Hello!
I would like to talk about the global financial crisis that is affecting the entire world. Most countries are faced with the fact that the gross errors committed by several states (especially America) have created serious problems. The U.S. financial market and its impact on the world economy are both very large. Therefore, the crisis that occurred in the U.S. has had a knock-on economic effect on virtually every country.
If this had happened five or seven years ago, perhaps the crisis would have had less of an effect on Russia. Today the situation is different: we are a country with an open economy. On the one hand, this is a great advantage for us; on the other, it compels us to react and deal with the problems faced by other leading nations. Now everyone is working on a single issue: how to extricate the world from the financial crisis and limit the damage it is causing.
What is happening in the world? The sharp decline in the availability of credit has led to a decline in demand, markets themselves have tightened up, there is less use of production capacity, workers are being laid off, which in turn leads to more reduction in demand. Investment programmes and plans for expanding production have been put on hold.
I can say in all honesty that Russia is not yet caught up in this difficult cycle. We can avoid it and we must avoid it.
Governments and central banks of major countries around the world are now doing a great deal to improve the economic situation by providing the necessary resources. We have also taken several measures that should restore confidence in the nearest future in the financial sector and normal lending. In addition, we have set in place measures aimed at sustaining retail trade, agriculture, construction, engineering and the defence industry. We are trying to help small business. Due to the drop in global demand and the difficulties involved in obtaining credit, these are the areas that require our priority support. By and large, our actions should offset these negative factors.
Gold and currency reserves and the Stabilisation Fund were set up for precisely such difficult periods. And we have an opportunity to avoid the foreign exchange, banking and debt crisis. We can meet today's challenges without losing all the potential for development that we have created.
But now it is important not only to protect ourselves from these problems, but also to make the maximum use of the opportunities created by them. And there are a lot of such opportunities.
First, inevitably, new competitive companies will emerge, also by consolidating assets in various sectors of the economy (including banking, retailing and construction). We will be ready to take the necessary measures and to provide additional funding for this purpose. Sustainability of development in these areas will contribute to the creation of new jobs.
Second, financial institutions should become more efficient and pay more attention to reliability indicators. This will improve the stability of our banking sector, making it more attractive to investors and depositors.
Third, in response to falling demand, Russian companies will have to reduce the costs of production. And to do this it is important to modernise production, technology and management as quickly as possible. This way energy efficiency and productivity can rise to the level that will compete with the most successful foreign companies. The state will support the establishment of real jobs and provide tax incentives for innovation and retraining personnel.
Fourth, we should use the current situation for modernisation in those areas where we have previously acted too slowly. This applies to education and health, judicial reform, technical regulations and the transition to digital technology.
And, finally, we must actively participate in formulating new rules of the game in the global economy, in order to maximise benefits for ourselves and to promote a new ideology that will ensure the democracy and stability of the global financial architecture. There should be more financial centres, more reserve currencies and more mechanisms for collective decision-making (I mentioned it quite a few times). This would be beneficial for everyone – for us and for our partners.
On November 15 the heads of the world's leading states will meet in Washington to discuss these issues. Russia intends to actively promote its ideas.
Let me conclude by explaining how I plan to develop my video blog. Of course I looked at your responses to the first entry from October 7. Many of you would like to post your comments. I think that this is the best kind of response. Thank you for your interest, for your interested and responsible approach to discussing topics that are important for our entire society.
It is really great and we are definitely going to develop this interactive dialogue. But please understand that it is difficult to process large amounts of incoming information. Since we take this seriously, at least no less seriously than you do, we must be prepared. By the way, you can already write to me now, including through this site.
Thank you. All the best.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 23, 2008, 21:26
Text version