That said, Bulgarian exports to Russia look very good, as I pointed out to our colleagues during the wide-ranging negotiations today. Machinery and equipment make up more than 30 percent, and winemaking products 22 percent.
Of course improving the export structure is one of our key objectives. We believe that our joint efforts should be focused on promoting major bilateral projects. In this context. I would stress in particular the importance of the agreements signed today aimed at the practical implementation of the gas transportation construction project Southern Stream, the Burgas-Alexandroupolis oil pipeline and the Belene nuclear power station.
Let me point out to the press and the public in our countries that we have set aside 3.8 billion euros in the Russian Federation budget for the implementation of plans to construct a nuclear power station in Belene. Should it be required, we are prepared to extend credit to the Bulgarian side.
We are confident that the successful implementation of all these projects will bring not only tangible economic dividends, but greatly enhance energy security in the Balkans, Europe in general and of course Bulgaria. Carrying out projects in the energy sector of Bulgaria has indisputably become one of the key links in the European energy chain.
There are good prospects for bilateral cooperation open to us in other sectors of the economy: in the field of transport, tourism, investment cooperation and regional cooperation. There is also room to grow in the area of military-technical cooperation and small and medium businesses.
Russian-Bulgarian relations have traditionally been characterized by the very rich potential of our cultural links. Using this valuable capital to the maximum will facilitate intergovernmental agreements in the fields of culture, education and science.
In general, I would like to note that the substantial number of agreements signed during this visit constitutes an excellent basis for the sustained development of mutually beneficial relations between Russia and Bulgaria.
We discussed in detail today our cooperation in the international arena and strengthening security in the Black Sea region on a multilateral basis.
In conclusion, I want to thank the Bulgarian leadership, the entire Bulgarian people and the residents of Sofia for a very warm and genial reception.
We feel it and we are grateful to you for it.
Question: Good afternoon! I have a question for both leaders. Today, an agreement was signed concerning the construction of the Southern Stream gas pipeline. How did you come to sign this agreement? What does this agreement mean for Russia, Bulgaria and Europe as a whole?
Vladimir Putin: Expanding transport infrastructure for the supply of energy to Europe is an absolutely vital task. And our European partners have confirmed this. They have a vested interest in this.
I want to stress in particular that the construction of new infrastructure opportunities does not mean the reduction or phasing out of our cooperation with other transit states. Work on the new routes will provide security, enhance stability and create new transportation capacity for increasing amounts of energy supplies to European consumers.
I will say something that everyone in principle knows: there has been a bruising battle among European countries concerning Russia’s construction of such facilities. The existence of such infrastructure in the territory of another country, of course, increases its political and economic importance for Europe. And, among other things, it supplies revenues for the budget.
I want to thank all of our experts who worked on the preparation of this agreement. Today we created a special-purpose joint structure between Gazprom and Eni for the Southern Stream gas pipeline system and the construction of its marine component.
We understand that this is a major international project, and we will do everything to ensure that it is successfully implemented. For Russia, this of course means an increase in our capacity for the direct delivery of our products to consumers in major European countries.
President Georgi Parvanov: Let me add a few words of my own. It should be noted that each of these projects has a large economic and social dimension. I would also draw your attention to the issue of security. The project will greatly contribute to the security of the Balkans and of all European countries, especially our neighbours.
We greatly appreciate the position of the Russian side, which agreed with the Bulgarian proposal in connection with the ownership of the pipeline on Bulgarian territory. I personally believe that this decision will meet with public approval in our country. And the signing of the agreement between Gazprom and the Italian company Eni shows how fast the project is moving.
Question: Mr Parvanov, will you will be able to succeed in pleasing your European partners and the Bulgarian public? And a question for the Russian side: Mr President, will you be able to convince other countries that the Southern Stream pipeline will not get bogged down on Bulgarian territory?
Vladimir Putin: We do not need to convince anyone of this. We are asked about it every day, especially during the autumn and the winter. All of our core consumers have problems with deliveries.Events
Beginning of Meeting with Bulgarian Prime Minister Sergei Stanishev
January 18, 2008
20:07
Sofia
Sergei Stanishev: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the delegations, allow me to wish you a warm welcome to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria.
I would like to begin by saying how exceptionally high an evaluation we give this visit today. It is evidence of the atmosphere that has been created, the results we have achieved, and the trust we feel towards each other.
I am certain that your visit will give a new impulse to developing our economic relations, especially as concerns the energy projects that have begun with your visit, and also our spiritual and cultural ties.
Your visit has given a particularly strong and convincing start to the Year of Russia in Bulgaria, and I am sure that both of our governments will do everything possible to make this year rich in events in the cultural and economic life of our country. We will also work hard on preparing the Year of Bulgaria in Russia.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister,
For my part, I would also like to say how well our relations are developing and how happy we are to see this.
Bulgaria is without a doubt one of our privileged partners. Our visit has been successful and has produced results. This is above all, of course, the result of the work carried out by our governments, by the specialists from the Russian Government and by your own colleagues. I would like to thank you, Mr Prime Minister, and all of our Bulgarian friends, for this constructive work together.
I would like to note that we are talking about not just big energy projects of importance to our own countries but of importance for Europe as a whole. We are also talking about infrastructure projects, about establishing a new ferry link, for example. We are talking about high technology, true, also related to the energy sector, nuclear energy in this particular case.
I agree with you that we also need to reflect on how to diversify our ties, and we have the possibilities we need to accomplish this. Big Russian companies such as Gazprom, Lukoil, Atomstroiexport and Siloviye Mashiny are already working in Bulgaria. We are talking about deliveries of all different kinds of equipment. We could also look at projects, and I agree with you that we need to reflect above all on developing investment activity. Russian companies’ investment potential is growing today, and growing very fast.
The amount of Russian companies’ investment in Europe will soon be equal to European investment in Russia. The taxation decisions the Bulgarian Government is implementing are making the Bulgarian economy more and more attractive for foreign capital.
In this respect, we see the intergovernmental commission’s work as very important. The commission is due to hold its next meeting in Moscow and we will be prepared.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: January 18, 2008, 20:07
Text versionEvents
Beginning of Russian-Bulgarian Talks in Expanded Format
January 18, 2008
17:50
Sofia
President Vladimir Putin: Mr President, colleagues,
First of all, I would like to thank you for the invitation.
Our visit is taking place as Bulgaria celebrates the 130th anniversary of its liberation from the Ottoman yoke and the restoration of its statehood. As you just said before during the talks in narrow format, this visit has an important and substantial agenda. A large number of agreements have been drafted that will lay the foundations for developing relations between Russia and Bulgaria for decades to come.
I cannot but mention in this respect our projects in the energy sector. I am very pleased to see the successful conclusion of talks on setting up the project company for the Burgas-Alexandropoulis pipeline project and the signature of the intergovernmental agreement on the Southern Stream project, which will deliver greater volumes of gas to Bulgaria itself and onwards, via Bulgarian territory, to the rest of Europe. It is for this reason that our delegation includes the first deputy prime minister of the Russian Government, Mr Dmitry Medvedev, who also holds the post of chairman of Gazprom’s board of directors.
I know that Bulgaria is interested in signing long-term gas supply contracts and of course you, the Bulgarian Prime Minister and Mr Medvedev will have the opportunity to discuss all of these matters at a bilateral meeting. But this is not the only focus of our attention. Nuclear energy, diversification of our economic relations, and humanitarian contacts are also issues to which you paid particular attention, and I fully agree with you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: January 18, 2008, 17:50
Text versionEvents
Beginning of Meeting with Speaker of the Bulgarian National Assembly Georgi Pirinsky
January 18, 2008
19:11
Sofia
Georgi Pirinsky: We especially value the fact that you have come to Bulgaria just as we prepare to celebrate the 130th anniversary of our country’s liberation from the Ottoman yoke. We are very pleased to have this opportunity to express our gratitude to the Russian people, in your person, for the unforgettable part in our country’s liberation played by Russian soldiers, who shed their blood in order to bring Bulgaria freedom.
I would also like to say how genuinely happy we are with the results of your visit. This is clearly a good example of a pragmatic approach based on genuine partnership.
You are well aware that one of Bulgaria’s greatest resources is its geographical location, and of course Bulgaria must use this resource as responsibly as possible.
I think that our countries face a number of challenges. Our citizens hope for a better life and social problems have become vitally important. In this respect, we in Bulgaria have much work to do in the upcoming period. I am sure that we can find solutions to these problems at the bilateral level too. The strategic agreements that we reached today will probably be of great importance.
These agreements concern cooperation in the social sphere, in healthcare and culture. In this respect, parliamentary groups from our respective parliaments can play an active facilitating role.
I also cannot overlook the part parliaments can play in economic life. In this respect, we are looking at how to develop our bilateral trade and are discussing investment issues, their current balance, and the prospects ahead.
Mr President, we will be celebrating this anniversary year on March 3, and you are aware that this is a special date for us. We would be happy to welcome to Bulgaria Mr Mironov, the speaker of the Federation Council.
I would like to say once more how pleased I am to have this opportunity to meet with you.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. I am very pleased to be able to meet with you and your colleagues.
As I have already said publicly, the relations between our countries are showing positive development in practically all the main areas, and this also includes ties between our parliaments.
Mr Mironov, the speaker of the Russian parliament’s upper house, plans to come to Bulgaria at the beginning of March, and he will represent the Russian leadership at the official ceremonies marking the signature of the San Stefano Peace Treaty.
As you know, we have held very productive talks today. The agreements reached as a result of today’s work will undoubtedly be very important for developing not just our bilateral relations but for cooperation in Europe in general. In this context, it is extremely important for us to have the support of the parliament and the various parties represented there. We hope that the cooperation process will enjoy genuinely broad-based support in our countries and will be free of all political speculation.
In this respect, I very much hope that the plans for developing relations between civil society in our respective countries (which I spoke about today with the President, Mr Parvanov) will be carried out as quickly as possible. On our side, this work is being organised by Mr Draganov, a member of the Russian parliament. He is not only a member of our parliament but is also an ethnic Bulgarian. This gives him the best hand to play, as they say, and we will do everything we can to help him in his work.
There is another area in which we hope for active work between our two parliaments, and that is in establishing the legislative basis for our cooperation. In this respect, the importance of the parliaments’ work cannot be overestimated. There is quite a lot to be done in this area.
The Bulgarian parliament is a unicameral parliament, while we, with our federal system, have a bicameral parliament, but I want to assure you that both houses of the Russian parliament will work most actively and attentively on developing relations with the Bulgarian parliament.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: January 18, 2008, 19:11
Text version