Events
Beginning of Meeting with President of the People’s Republic of China Hu Jintao
August 27, 2008
20:28
President of the People’S Republic of China Hu Jintao (retranslated from Russian):
I am very pleased to meet with you again, Mr President.
The closing of the Olympic Games took place in Beijing three days ago. It was thanks to the support of the entire international community, including Russia, that we made the Beijing Games a success.
Russia, its government and people, gave us great support and help throughout the preparations for the Games and during the event itself. I would like to take this opportunity to thank you.
I also want to say what a fine performance Russia’s athletes put on at the Beijing Games.
I want to take this opportunity also to assure you that China will give Russia its firm support in holding the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi. We will continue to expand our cooperation with Russia in organising the Olympics.
I give you the floor to speak to our friends.
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Mr President, I am also very pleased to see you. The frequency of our meetings reflects the intensive contacts between the People’s Republic of China and the Russian Federation. I am sure we will have the chance to discuss a wide range of issues.
But before turning to business I would like to offer my sincere congratulations on your brilliant organisation of the Olympic Games in Beijing. There has probably been nothing like it in the Olympic movement’s history in terms of the level of organisation. I congratulate you too on the outstanding performance of China’s athletes. You eclipsed everyone, and I congratulate you sincerely on this.
Our athletes also tried hard. Unfortunately, I was unable to be present at these Games, but I will definitely meet with Russia’s Olympic team very soon and congratulate them on their performance, and have the chance too to hear them tell me their impressions of their time in Beijing.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: August 27, 2008, 20:28
Direct link: en.kremlin.ru/d/48297
Text version