Events
Beginning of meeting with French President Nicolas Sarkozy
July 7, 2008
19:53
Toyako Onsen, Hokkaido, Japan
Dmitry Medvedev: Mr President,
I’m glad to have the opportunity of meeting you. You called me literally 12 hours after my election as President, and these things are never forgotten.
Our contacts in trade, the economy, and the cultural sphere are making steady headway. Now we have finally approached the discussion of a new agreement on Russia-EU relations. We are hoping that during your French presidency we will move on in preparing the relevant documents and start working on the basis of the new agreement.
But there are numerous challenges, which we should consider together, including those which have brought us to the G8 summit. I am prepared to discuss all these issues.
Nicolas Sarkozy (as retranslated from Russian): I am very glad to meet you for the first time, Mr President.
France wants to have a relationship of trust with Russia. I will do all I can for Russia and the EU to develop the most productive partnership during the October summit.
Russia is selling 80% of its energy to Europe. We need Russia’s energy resources. We are neighbours and we share many values. The interests of international stability require that Russia should find a befitting place in the world, in particular, have its say on the Iranian problem, and on Darfur. We need Russia, which is doing very much to promote peace and confidence all over the world.
Dmitry Medvedev: We have started working to this end. Literally several hours ago, we were actively working on one of these problems.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 7, 2008, 19:53
Text versionEvents
Beginning of meeting with German Federal Chancellor Angela Merkel
July 7, 2008
18:46
Toyako Onsen, Hokkaido, Japan
Dmitry Medvedev: Ms Federal Chancellor,
I’m glad to see you again. We have already developed full-scale regular contacts, and this is good. We are not slowing down and meet almost every month. Today, we will talk not only about resolving global issues (which are on our Hokkaido agenda) but also about bilateral relations with a view to expanding our contacts.
Our economic contacts are extremely productive. Our trade is huge. This is why we should meet from time to time and synchronise our watches. The cultural aspect is also very important. We have already spoken about a number of issues, and I hope we will continue our discussion.
Angela Merkel (as retranslated from Russian): Many thanks. I am grateful to you. I am also very pleased to have the opportunity to talk with you. Your recent visit to Germany was very successful, especially regarding continued development of our economic contacts. I think we can continue following this road.
I am convinced that we will have an opportunity to discuss bilateral issues here as well, but, of course, we will first concentrate on the G8 agenda. We occupy different positions here. Russia has oil and gas, whereas Germany needs to buy them. We will have to discuss very important aspects of the demand, on the one hand, and the supply, on the other. This subject is becoming increasingly important. I think it would be useful to discuss the development of these markets in the future.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 7, 2008, 18:46
Text version