Events
Speech at a Gala Evening to Celebrate the 85th Anniversary of the Founding of the Central Sports Club of the Army
April 24, 2008
22:07
Moscow
Russian President Vladimir Putin: Dear friends, respected athletes, dear veterans!
Let me congratulate you with all my heart on the approaching 85th anniversary of this legendary and – as been has already been rightfully said – unique Sports Club of the Army (CSKA). I congratulate you on this auspicious occasion.
In fact, this is not only a celebration for athletes and fans of the CSKA but also a great event in our country’s sporting life. The Sports Club’s traditions are very rich indeed. As a previous speaker has said, I don’t think there is another Club in the world that has won more than a thousand medals at the Olympic Games alone, and almost half of those medals have been gold. This is a unique achievement. Congratulations to all the athletes of all generations on this unique achievement.
Your swordsmen and gymnasts have been applauded in famous stadiums all over the world. Indeed, CSKA athletes were the backbone of our legendary hockey and basketball teams. And three years ago, CSKA players delighted us with yet another victory: for the first time in the history of Russian football, we won a famous trophies, the UEFA cup. I congratulate you on this as well.
But it is equally important to note that during these 85 years hundreds of thousands, perhaps even millions of our citizens have been trained by the CSKA, improving on their athletic achievements and strengthening their character. And this is an equally important achievement for the CSKA during these 85 years. Today I extend my warmest wishes and thanks to your coaches and educators.
This is a dedicated team with very talented people. They are not only responsible for improving athletes' skills: it is no less important (and perhaps the most important) that they produce leaders and winners. And this is probably the most important thing that they do. A low bow to them.
Modern Russian sports are growing steadily. We are constructing new stadiums, swimming pools, and skating rinks. I think you will agree with me that it is no accident that the 2014 Olympics will be held in Russia. This amounts to a recognition of Russia's achievements in sport, a recognition of merit.
I am sure that the CSKA athletes will continue to be in the vanguard of Russian and world sports. I am confident that you will continue to delight your millions of fans, and will stand on the highest steps of award podiums.
Good luck to you! Congratulations on the anniversary!
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 24, 2008, 22:07
Text versionEvents
Beginning of the Meeting with the Prime Minister of Luxembourg, Jean-Claude Juncker
April 24, 2008
18:07
The Kremlin, Moscow
Russian President Vladimir Putin: Dear Mr Prime Minister, distinguished colleagues. Please allow me to warmly welcome you to Moscow. I know that you have just had a meeting with the newly elected President of Russia, Mr Medvedev. In turn, I would like to express my confidence that the development of relations between Russia and Luxembourg will continue to evolve as successfully as they have in recent years.
Luxembourg is, of course, not a very large state, but nevertheless has $30 billion of investments in the Russian economy — not a bad figure.
Our trade is developing and we would like to further diversify it. We would like to see Russian companies invest more in Luxembourg and in the Belgium-Luxembourg Economic Union. I also know that there are very promising plans for joint activities, such as the production of high-tech products. And we could use this to enter the markets of third countries and, of course, European markets.
Of course, in the political sphere, we very much expect that Luxembourg 's positive attitude towards Russia will help develop Russia-EU relations.
And in general, I want to tell you, Jean-Claude, that I am simply glad to see you. Welcome.
Prime Minister of Luxembourg Jean-Claude Juncker: Yes, Mr President, dear friend. I am indeed very happy to be here again in Moscow.
Relations between our two countries are excellent and, of course, the quality of these relations is largely thanks to President Putin himself. The fact that our trade and political contacts have improved in recent years bears witness to this.
I came here shortly before the month of May in order to thank you. There has been a history of cooperation between Russia and Luxembourg and, more recently, a history of relations between Russia and the EU. I always believed that Russia is part of Europe and I was always certain that we needed a strategic partnership, in which we could agree on essentials, consider general trends, and develop relations so that they could be more productive for the people we represent. We should not hide our disagreements or differences if they arise. We must speak frankly and openly with each other.
I shall always remember, in both my head and my heart, the spirit of friendship that unites us. After my long meeting with the newly elected President, I have every confidence in the continuity of our relationship.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 24, 2008, 18:07
Text version