Events
Speech at a Gala Evening to Celebrate the 15th Anniversary of Gazprom’s Incorporation
February 11, 2008
14:16
Moscow
President Vladimir Putin:
Good day, dear friends!
First of all, I want to congratulate you and all Gazprom employees on the 15th anniversary of the company's founding.
I wish you every success and new achievements for the benefit of Russia.
Gazprom’s impact on the country's economy, the social sphere and our position in global markets has been enormous. In the 1990s the company played a stabilising role during Russia’s difficult transition to a market economy. Our strong resource base and productive capacity have become one of the factors driving the national economy.
Today Gazprom is a modern, open, dynamic company. In just the last five years, the amount of tax it pays has more than doubled and it accounts for nearly 20 percent of the country's budget. Gazprom’s capitalisation has reached a new historic high, surpassing the 350 billion dollar mark. It is one of the largest companies in the world.
Incidentally, I have just met with some veteran employees and some of their younger colleagues, and I reminded them that at this podium five years ago I said that we were not going to break up Gazprom but strengthen it. As you can see, that is what has happened.
Gazprom is not just a vital component of our national energy system. Its growing potential, the expansion of gasification in Russia and the increase in energy exports have greatly increased Russia’s credibility as a reliable supplier for the CIS countries and abroad. This has also improved international energy security.
I want to mention in particular the company’s participation in our country’s social programs. Supplying gas to Russia’s regions has become a nationwide project. Between 2005 and 2007 Gazprom allocated 43 billion rubles for the implementation of this programme. As a result, three years later gas is being delivered to 13 million citizens in 53 regions of Russia. And the overall level of gasification of the country has risen from 54 to 62 per cent. In three short years that is a considerable accomplishment.
Obviously, the success of the company has been in large part due to intelligent and flexible policies, not only Gazprom’s but also those of the government and the state. Such close cooperation is in full accord with the current trends in the global oil and gas industry. Moreover, it provides the company, the industry and the entire economy with additional opportunities for long-term development. Given Gazprom’s strategic importance for Russia, the state will continue to keep the situation under its direct control.
Dear friends!
Today our priority task is to further enhance Gazprom’s effectiveness and competitiveness in international markets. And for that we need to encourage new investment, use modern corporate governance standards, and implement advanced technologies for the production and processing of raw materials.
Already in the short term Gazprom is planning to develop very rich reserves in the Yamal Peninsula, the Far East and Eastern Siberia, and to explore complex offshore fields on the submerged margins of continental plates in the northern seas.
Economic logic and Russia’s export interests require us to proceed more boldly and energetically in the most promising and fastest growing markets. And not only in Europe, where Gazprom now plays a leading role. While increasing market share in Europe, Gazprom should more aggressively seek out new markets for natural gas, in the Asia-Pacific countries, North America and on other continents.
I am sure that you will exert your utmost efforts to make the company more effective and multifaceted.
I congratulate you on this anniversary, on this holiday, and I wish you new successes for the benefit of Russia!
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: February 11, 2008, 14:16
Text versionEvents
Beginning of Meeting with King Abdullah II Ibn Al Hussein of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
February 11, 2008
18:18
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: Allow me to wish you a warm welcome to Moscow.
We last met exactly a year ago in Jordan. I remember what a warm welcome I received from you and from your family and colleagues.
Looking at our trade relations over this period, I must say that the figures are still modest in absolute terms, but the volume of trade between our countries has more than doubled in percentage terms. We are also developing our relations in other areas, including in quite sensitive areas such as military-technical cooperation.
I am very glad to have the chance to exchange views with you on the situation in the Middle East.
Welcome!
King Abdullah II: We have warm recollections of your visit to Jordan and we highly value your part in strengthening the relations between our countries.
Your personal involvement has contributed to a dramatic improvement in relations between Jordan and Russia. This has been made possible by the part Russia is playing today in international affairs and by your personal initiatives. This has had a positive impact on developments in the international situation in general and in the Middle East too.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: February 11, 2008, 18:18
Text versionEvents
Transcript of Meeting with the Government Cabinet
February 11, 2008
20:39
The Kremlin, Moscow
Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Zhukov on the opening of the Year of Russia in India
Alexander ZHUKOV: A delegation headed by Prime Minister Viktor Zubkov is flying to India today. The opening ceremony for the Year of Russia in India will take place tomorrow. I think this year will be marked by a substantial programme of events, especially as far as developing trade and economic cooperation is concerned. During the delegation’s visit, a Russian-Indian trade and investment forum will take place with more than 100 of Russia’s biggest companies taking part.
We are actively developing cooperation with India in the energy, aircraft manufacturing, metals and communications sectors. We are currently examining possibilities for setting up joint high-technology enterprises and organising reciprocal investment in both countries.
A big cultural programme will take place throughout the year, like last year in China. Next year, 2009, will be the year of India in Russia.
First Deputy Prime Minister Sergei Ivanov on the Ministry of Information Technology and Communications’ results for the year
Sergei IVANOV: I took part today in the meeting the Ministry of Information Technology and Communications held to review the year’s results. This sector is showing strong growth in the different segments. The information and communications technology sector grew by 20–30 percent last year, though we have to remember that we began at quite a low starting point. We have not yet joined the world leaders in this sector but we have nonetheless achieved concrete results. In particular, 75,000 new payphones were installed last year and 16,000 public Internet access points set up. The work to connect all schools in Russia to the Internet has been completed. A new information system has been developed to manage the national projects. This experience will be used to develop management systems for other sectors.
Tariffs for communications services have risen little and in a number of cases even decreased last year.
The next two years will see active work to implement the Electronic Russia federal targeted programme. It is already up and running at federal level and will now be extended to regional and municipal level.
The meeting also discussed ways to make our microelectronics sector more effective and create the modern new components the IT industry needs in order to develop.
Economic Development and Trade Minister Elvira Nabiullina on measures to develop small and medium business in Russia
Elvira NABIULLINA: We will have this package of measures ready within two weeks. I have scheduled meetings with people representing small business in various sectors. The proposed measures address numerous different issues starting from setting up a business to scratch to getting the business registered.
Our objective is to greatly simplify everything relating to inspections and to propose a financial insurance mechanism. Businesses face problems such as finding premises, getting connected to the electricity grid and obtaining financial resources. We are drafting the package of measures and I hope we will be ready to report back to you in two weeks time.
President Vladimir PUTIN: Please remember that most of our small and medium businesses are concentrated in the services and retail sectors, but we also need to develop these kinds of businesses in production and high technology.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: February 11, 2008, 20:39
Text version