Events
Beginning of a Meeting with the Plenipotentiary Presidential Representative in the Southern Federal District Vladimir Ustinov
August 16, 2008
18:17
Bocharov Ruchei Residence, Sochi
President Dmitry Medvedev: On the whole the situation in the district is stable. Nevertheless, with regard to the humanitarian disaster that has occurred in South Ossetia, there are a large number of refugees in the area, in particular in North Ossetia. I would like you to report on what is being done, how the various departments and regional authorities are coordinating efforts to help refugees and homeless people in the regions of the Southern Federal District.
Plenipotentiary Presidential Representative To the Southern Federal District Vladimir Ustinov: Currently the refugees in the district are being provided with shelter. We expect others to arrive. They are being settled not only in North Ossetia — Alania, but in other regions of the Federation. Today, according to our most conservative estimates, about 6 thousand refugees have already been housed. We will be providing housing for others as well. We have sent the bulk of the humanitarian aid coming into South Ossetia there. According to our most conservative estimates, more than 400 tonnes of food have already been sent. We have building materials for reconstruction. Therefore, I hope that soon everything will be up and running for the refugees and in South Ossetia generally. At any rate, the leadership of the Southern Federal District and of the regions of the Russian Federation are doing everything possible to ensure that all of these things happen.
Dmitry Medvedev: Is there anything else that can be done, maybe a shortage of something specific that we should address?
Vladimir Ustinov: To date we have nothing as acute as that. But the fact that the level of destruction is very great means that we are expecting that internally displaced persons will be living in the Southern Federal District for at least six months, so we are drawing up timetables for providing food and personal hygiene items well into the future. We are in close contact with the Russian Ministry of Emergency Situations. We are also working closely with the Ministry of Regional Development of the Russian Federation. In particular, Minister Dmitry Kozak has come to see us, and I think we will be helping them with their plans. I am very grateful to the leaders of the regions of the Southern Federal District and to civilians who have donated their belongings and food. The regions of the Russian Federation have sent an enormous amount of construction materials there. And I think that the socio-political advances that have been made in the Southern Federal District will continue to have their effect on socio-political life. And the concerns about extremism that we had in times of peace are practically non-existent now. To a considerable extent this has mobilised everyone, all the residents of our district. Of course, we cannot make long-term projections, but nevertheless the fact remains that the number of crimes being reported has dropped considerably.
Dmitry Medvedev: Let's go to work on this.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: August 16, 2008, 18:17
Text version