Events
Beginning of Working Meeting with Plenipotentiary Presidential Envoy to the Far East Federal District Oleg Safonov
June 2, 2008
16:00
Gorki, Moscow Region
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Hello Oleg Aleksandrovich!
I hope you aren't finding the jet lag too difficult?
Plenipotentiary Presidential Envoy To the Far East Federal District Oleg Safonov: I've already adjusted, thank you.
Dmitry Medvedev: Do you remember that we recently had a meeting on the whole Far East region, on the region's development potential and its problems.
In light of this meeting I would like to discuss how work is going and how certain orders are being carried out. First of all as relates to transport and infrastructure development, which is the most difficult, the most pressing theme.
Second are the major investment projects without which no development will occur and which represent the region's main business potential.
And third, something that concerns our citizens very much is the state programme to 
construct housing in the different regions of the Far East.
What is being done? What are the problems today?
Oleg Safonov: If I may, I will begin with the housing problem. There remains some serious problems with the introduction of new housing in the Primorsky Region. There are open questions with regards to Sakhalin (a lot of dilapidated housing) and the Kamchatka region.
(Then Oleg Safonov went on to say that the housing sector grew by 72 per cent in 2007 and 352 thousand new square metres of housing became operational. However, he said that without federal grants this problem will not be resolved.)
Dmitry Medvedev: You are dealing with this. It is good that there is growth but the figure you just cited is roughly half of the average growth in housing construction in the Central Federal District.
Of course there are a great many problems in the Far East but you nevertheless need to accelerate work in this area. You need to prepare proposals for co-financing. Perhaps we need to look for any separate arrangements for the Far East. I worked on precisely this issue with regards to the national projects. Understandably, these projects may not be of the same magnitude, but they must nevertheless move forward.
Oleg Safonov: Two words on transport. It is heartening to see that we already have national aircraft carriers this year. I am referring to Aeroflot.
We believe that this will in large part allow us to solve the problem of tariffs on transportation.
Dmitry Medvedev: You need to keep your eye on two issues, on what we talked about together with the Minister of Transport. I am referring to, on the one hand, the development of competition in the transport sector in the Far East. So that there are more carriers and, naturally, normal, certified, full-value ones, and that also operate at low prices.
And secondly, you need to oversee certain special programmes for the Far East and there are also a number of ideas that are now being reviewed by the Ministry of Transport. They must be monitored.
Oleg Safonov: We are constantly in contact with the Minister of Transport and monitor these issues.
Dmitry Medvedev: And one more very important topic on which we need to work together with our colleagues the regional governors is not federal transport but rather domestic, local transport.
The situation with regards to transport at the federal level is developing and in general is moving in a positive direction. This is because in some places the cost has been reduced and it is clear who is doing the transport. However, local transport links within regions have simply collapsed. You know the conditions of our airports. In fact, often the planes simply don't fly and yet this is the only way to get to the Far East.
It is clear that this problem is not an easy one. Together with the regions we must prepare a programme for the development of local transport within one or more regions, a programme that, perhaps, combines airports and carriers which do local flights.
Oleg Safonov: Speaking about the development of infrastructure projects, I would like to report that the construction of the road between Vladivostok and Moscow might be completed by 2009. Initially, we talked about 2011.
It is heartening that Gazprom is working actively on the Kamchatka shelf. And Rosneft is starting to drill. And there is a promising position for drilling on the shelf of the Lesser Kuril Ridge, near the island of Iturup.
A significant gasification project Sakha (Yakutia) — Far East is underway and you know about the Eastern Siberia – Pacific Ocean pipeline project and the plan to build an oil terminal.
There remains a number of problematic issues for Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) summit. In general, we are working closely with the government cabinet and with all ministries involved in this field. I think that we will be able to directly handle the tasks you set.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 2, 2008, 16:00
Text versionEvents
Beginning of Meeting with Prosecutor General Yury Chaika
June 2, 2008
14:17
Gorki, Moscow Region
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Good afternoon.
Yury Yakovlevich [Chaika], you are directly involved in preparing the big national corruption prevention programme. I have several questions for you in this respect. First, you know that we have various situations as far as work on statutes and laws in the various regions go. There are problems at both federal and regional level. I am referring to the corruption potential that often finds its way into legal provisions. Sometimes this is done quite deliberately with a view to putting loopholes and problem areas in these provisions to subsequent profit. Sometimes these problems are simply the result of poor legal skills and shortcomings in legislative work. Whatever the case, laws and statutes, whether at regional or federal level, should conform to the current legislation and be examined to ensure they are not going to create the potential for corruption.
Second, an issue I want to discuss with you separately, following the State Council meeting on small business, I issued a number of instructions, including instructions regarding the powers of the Prosecutor’s Office and its involvement in supervisory activities. Please inform me on what is being done in this respect.
Finally, taking into account the work I have just referred to, the Prosecutor’s Office must be fully armed for carrying out all of its main duties. In this respect, I have signed a decree that will enable the Prosecutor’s Office to exercise its powers as fully as possible, and I wanted to inform you about this.
Prosecutor General Yury Chaika: Thank you, Dmitry Anatolyevich, for your support, for your understanding of the problems facing the Prosecutor’s Office and for putting us in a stronger position to be able to address these important state objectives.
Acting on your decree concerning small and medium business and the instructions you issued at the meeting on preventing corruption, the Prosecutor’s Office has already taken several steps.
First, we have examined the corruption potential of legislation in a number of the country’s regions. This was the first time such work has been carried out. We identified more than 100 laws and statutes that do create the potential for corruption to flourish. <…> At our demand all of these laws and statutes have been brought into line with the current legislation.
I must say that the Prosecutor’s Office began quite effective corruption prevention work around a year ago. Now that the entirely correct decision has been made to strengthen our position we are making a renewed effort. I have met with the leaders of Business Russia [a national entrepreneurs’ non-governmental organisation]. We have also launched a website. On May 29, we started up a new webpage – Supervision by the Prosecutor’s Office of the Rights of Small and Medium Businesses.
Dmitry Medvedev: What does the webpage offer? What opportunities does it give small businesses?
Yury Chaika: We receive between 30 and 40 reports each week about instances of corruption in this or that region.
Dmitry Medvedev: So, people are writing directly to you and telling you about various infringements?
Yury Chaika: They write to us and we send our officials to check. I have also decided to establish public councils attached to the regional Prosecutor’s Offices to protect small and medium business. These councils will soon begin work.
Dmitry Medvedev: We must not forget what I specially pointed out about the situation with inspections. You know that businesses are subjected to numerous inspections. Many of them are unmotivated, or rather, they are motivated by one thing, and that is to get entrepreneurs to cough up money, whether in large or small amounts. I think you must therefore pay attention to this matter and perhaps raise the level at which inspections in a number of cases are authorised. At regional level, say, it could be the regional Prosecutor’s Office that is responsible for authorising inspections, so as to cut short any temptation to manipulate inspections and so that inspections do not come automatically one after the other as is the case today.
Yury Chaika: This is absolutely correct, Dmitry Anatolyevich. I have given an instruction to analyse all inspections carried out by the inspecting authorities over the last three years. We will analyse how many inspections were made and in what areas, and we will then take measures based on this analysis. The most important thing is that, following on your decree, we will soon issue an order on our cooperation with small and medium business and on bolstering the Prosecutor’s Office’s supervision in this area of work.
Dmitry Medvedev: Good. Keeping in mind all I said, I ask you to continue work in this direction.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 2, 2008, 14:17
Text version