Events
Beginning of Meeting with Minister of Regional Development Dmitry Kozak and Deputy Plenipotentiary Presidential Envoy in the Urals Federal District Viktor Basargin
October 14, 2008
21:53
Gorki, Moscow Region
Dmitry Medvedev: Colleagues, I have just come from a meeting of the State Council Presidium and the Council for Sports and Physical Culture, where we discussed sports and physical culture development issues, including issues related to preparations for the 2014 Olympics.
The Government has proposed some changes to the government structure. As you know, I have given my support to these proposals and will soon sign several decrees.
Dmitry Nikolayevich, as we discussed already, I will sign a decree not only on the new post of deputy prime minister, but I will also sign a decree appointing you to this post and releasing you from your post of regional development minister. I want you to concentrate most of all on preparations for the Olympics. This is a big and complex matter. If we look back at the Soviet experience, when preparations were underway for the Moscow Olympics in 1980, we see that a deputy chairman of the Soviet Government was specifically responsible for overseeing this work. I think that, with some changes of course, we should follow a similar organisational scheme in our preparations for the Olympics now.
At the same time, as I just discussed with you, Viktor Fyodorovich, I will sign a decree appointing to Viktor Fyodorovich Basargin to the post of minister for regional development. You have been working as the deputy plenipotentiary presidential envoy in the Urals Federal District. You are familiar with the issues because over these last eight years you have been directly involved in the district’s social and economic development and know the situation on the ground. We have discussed this situation many times during videoconferences and meetings that I held when I was working in the Government. I hope you will be able to get right into your new work straight away and start addressing all the different issues that are part of the Ministry for Regional Development’s responsibilities.
One of the most complex and important issues today is the situation on the housing market. We have accomplished much of late and I hope that we will be able to maintain and build on these results despite the difficult financial situation.
What I am referring to in particular is overall stabilisation on the housing market (Dmitry Nikolayevich discussed this today with the Prime Minister and I know that several proposals have been prepared, which you will report on now), and ensuring the market’s stable development and support for developer companies. I would like to hear now about the agreements you reached today, and then I will sum up the results.
Dmitry Kozak: Dmitry Anatolyevich,
In accordance with your instruction and the Prime Minister’s instruction, we are analysing and monitoring the situation on the housing market. We have information from the different regions about how the situation is normalising. There is no cause for alarm at the moment, but the developers and construction companies in this area are looking for support in the event that the situation on the financial market worsens.
What conclusions have we reached through our monitoring and analysis? First of all, the proposal is to support the housing market by using state, federal and regional funds earmarked for social programmes to provide housing for various groups of people this year and in the coming years.
We do not need to start up new state construction projects, but should channel the money into buying housing on the market at what are fair but regulated market prices. In this respect we request support for amendments to law 94 on state purchases. Everyone knows this law. We need these amendments in order to be able to make targeted selection, using an absolutely transparent government-approved procedure, of companies with big individual-stake-funded construction projects. The plan is to buy up apartments in buildings near completion for people who are to be resettled from dilapidated old housing. We have earmarked funds for this purpose. There are funds in the Housing and Utilities Reform Facilitation Fund. These subsidies will be made available to the regions. The Prime Minister supported this proposal, but the funds will be allocated using a special government-approved procedure and keeping in place all of the conditions that applied to previous subsidies and conditions related to reform of the housing and utilities sector.
We also have a fairly large-scale programme for military housing. We have full understanding with the Defence Ministry. Some of the funds set aside for use this year have not been disbursed yet and were to be used to fund the start of new construction. We will put them to acquiring housing on the market instead. Added to this will be at least 10 billion roubles that were to have been allocated next year but will be used this year instead to buy up housing on the market ahead of time now and thus resolve two tasks at once – tackle social problems without delay, and support the housing market.
These are the main measures we propose. Added to this is the money already earmarked in the federal budget law – 60 billion roubles for paying costs on mortgage loans in banks in order to support the banking system. But we want to put some conditions on this money. We want the banks that receive these funds for mortgage loan costs to continue making credits available for housing construction projects that are financed by individual stakes and are close to completion. This is the third issue we will address in order to support the stakeholders in construction projects and ensure that no one suffers.
Dmitry Medvedev: This all sounds reasonable. We need to inject money in order to support the financing of housing construction. In this way we support not just the construction sector, which is in itself important, but also contribute to our crucial social objective of providing our citizens with housing. This applies to people who purchase housing themselves, and people serving in the Armed Forces and other security and law enforcement agencies and who purchase housing through special state programmes. These measures will help to stabilise the situation and enable us to keep up the decent pace of making housing available that we have set over these last years. We must not lose hold of what we have built up over these last years. This is vital for resolving Russia’s most complicated social problem.
You know this problem well. We have been working on this constantly together, and I therefore hope, Viktor Fyodorovich, that you will get straight into this work. And you, Dmitry Nikolayevich, I hope you will concentrate on the preparations for the Olympics and on issues related to the other big sports projects we have at the moment.
I wish you success.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 14, 2008, 21:53
Text versionEvents
Beginning of the Working Meeting with Governor of Moscow Region Boris Gromov
October 14, 2008
18:47
Odintsovo, Moscow Region
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Boris Vsevolodovich, we have been here before as your guests to look at how physical education and sport is developing in the Moscow Region.
I want to say that things are developing very well, a lot of facilities are being replaced by different kinds of major facilities, both bigger and smaller ones. Please give us the details about what you have recently been able to do.
Governor of The Moscow Region Boris Gromov: Thank you very much, Dmitry Anatolyevich, for having already come to see many of our facilities, including facilities that we are very proud of such as Kolomna and the sleigh and bobsleigh track that you opened. In fact, generally over the past few years, over the past 5 to 6 years, we have built and established a very strong material basis for physical culture and sport.
Almost all of the region's cities – medium and small – have their own indoor sports venue that includes a playing field with stands for a thousand spectators, a 25-metre pool and three large rooms, including training rooms and generally a range of facilities. In the region in small towns such as Protvino, Pushchino, Taldom, Troitsk, Zvenigorod and so on we have 18 such sports palaces.
And we also have major facilities including stadiums, the most modern indoor stadiums. We have built 16 ice stadiums and sports palaces including, as I said, in Kolomna which has already hosted the European Championships and World Cup in skating.
And now perhaps the most important thing is a huge number of children's playgrounds: normal ones as well as small, medium and larger ones.
Dmitry Medvedev: How many have been built? Or are they already innumberable?
Boris Gromov: I cannot answer precisely but a lot, very many. We also have a programme associated with improving cities. In the Moscow Region almost all cities now look quite differently – they look beautiful, like Odintsovo, for example. And the grounds inside the neighbourhoods that we are working on must contain a sports area which has basketball and volleyball facilities and places for children's games in the summer, and in the winter we absolutely need hockey and hockey facilities.
Dmitry Medvedev: A lot is being done in the Moscow Region. I want to say that we now have to discuss at the meeting of the State Council Presidium and the Council for Sport how we can ensure that the pace of construction of physical education facilities, recreational facilities and sports facilities develops just as well in the other regions of our country.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 14, 2008, 18:47
Text versionEvents
Beginning of Meeting with Directors of Federal Television Channels
October 14, 2008
21:51
Gorki, Moscow Region
Dmitry Medvedev: Good afternoon,
Colleagues, we have been working on developing television and radio broadcasting and introducing digital format broadcasting for some time now. This is the road that all progressive countries are taking, and we will take this road too. But to do this we need an approved plan to guide our steps forward. We have just such a plan – the television and radio broadcasting concept. It has received the government’s approval. I was personally involved in this during my time in the post of deputy prime minister.
I think we now need to begin practical implementation of this plan, draft the relevant programmes and resolve a number of complicated social and technological issues. On the basis of this work, we can take all the necessary executive decisions.
The commission is currently headed by Sergei Sobyanin, and Minister for Telecommunications Igor Shchegolev is responsible for overseeing the whole process. Let’s discuss now the next steps to take. Our goal remains unchanged: we must create a quality television broadcasting system that will give our people broader opportunities for receiving interesting programmes, not narrow them. It is digital television that can expand these opportunities, and this is the goal of our work.
I would like to hear from you about the current state of progress and the steps you propose.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 14, 2008, 21:51
Text version