Events
Beginning of Meeting with President of Azerbaijan Ilham Aliev
February 21, 2008
21:22
Novo-Ogaryevo
President of The Russian Federation Vladimir Putin:
Ilham Geidarovich,
First of all, I would like to thank you for coming to Moscow to attend this informal summit. Of course, I also want to take this opportunity to discuss our bilateral relations. Frankly speaking, there are no real problems in our relations and we have made considerable progress in our economic ties. The increase in our bilateral trade was not as impressive last year as the year before last, but overall the positive dynamic remains strong. We are pleased to see that Russian investors are investing ever more actively in Azerbaijan’s economy, and we are grateful to you for the conditions that your country’s government offers Russian companies. I will not list them all now, they are well known. Our investment activity is developing and our cooperation in the energy sector is also growing stronger. There are several issues I would like to discuss separately with you today. We are very happy to see you here in Moscow. Welcome!
President of Azerbaijan Ilham Aliev: Thank you, Vladimir Vladimirovich. Thank you for this invitation to visit Moscow and for this opportunity to discuss our bilateral relations. I fully agree with you that we have no problems. We are making steady progress in all areas. Our countries are working together very effectively in political, economic and humanitarian cooperation. Overall, our relations, which we see as those of friends and good neighbours, are growing stronger. You noted the good investment climate in Azerbaijan and the fact that Russian companies find a comfortable working environment in our country. They enjoy the same rights as local companies. We welcome increased Russian investment in Azerbaijan. I note too that many companies are now taking part as subcontractors in various construction and infrastructure projects. We are very happy with the level of business relations that has been established. Our business communities look to our countries’ leadership as a reference and rightly so. They see the active political cooperation between our countries and this gives them greater confidence and comfort. Azerbaijani companies are also working on the Russian market and enjoy full rights there. I am satisfied with the way our relations are developing. During today’s meeting I would like to examine bilateral issues and also regional cooperation issues and the events taking place in the world that need to be discussed.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: February 21, 2008, 21:22
Text version