Events
Beginning of Meeting with British Prime Minister Gordon Brown
November 15, 2008
23:30
Washington
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Mr Prime Minister,
The G-20 summit has just ended with very positive results. The countries taking part have shown the will and desire to overcome the crisis (that has spread through the financial system today and has perhaps not yet reached its peak), and we need to double our efforts now in this work.
Some steps have already been taken but we still have the bulk of the work before us. We will meet again soon and continue to discuss all of these problems and continue our efforts to resolve the issues that we discussed today.
This kind of event also gives us the chance to discuss the bilateral relations between Russia and Britain. There is great potential in our relations and there are also problems that have built up.
I am pleased to have this opportunity and I would like to discuss with you all of the issues of concern to our countries.
British Prime Minister Gordon Brown (Retranslated from Russian): Mr President,
First of all, I want to say I am grateful for this chance to meet.
There is indeed a wide range of problems and issues that we should discuss, including issues concerning our bilateral relations.
I want to note that today’s G-20 summit is a historic event, a historic meeting. We have succeeded in bringing together the leaders of countries representing different continents to discuss the economic crisis that is affecting us all. I am worried about how this crisis is spreading in many countries, especially in the developing markets.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 15, 2008, 23:30
Text versionEvents
Beginning of the Meeting with Federal Chancellor of Germany Angela Merkel
November 15, 2008
18:30
Washington, USA
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Madam Federal Chancellor!
I welcome this opportunity to chat!
We came to Washington to solve a very complex problem that faces our two countries and other states as well. I hope that we will be able to do so.
Our bilateral relationship is very well developed. Yesterday the Russia–EU summit took place, something that helped promote certain fields of cooperation. I think that we could discuss these themes as well. Time is short – I won't say anything else here.
Federal Chancellor of Germany Angela Merkel (retranslated from Russian): I would like to thank you for this opportunity to meet. This is a very important summit, the first time that we are meeting in this format. I am expecting it to be a success. We have worked very closely on preparing this meeting.
I am glad that yesterday's Russia–EU summit was very successful and think that cooperation between Russia and the European Union should be developed and strengthened. We also need a new agreement and we certainly will hold talks on this issue here.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 15, 2008, 18:30
Text version