Events
Beginning of a Meeting with the General Secretary of the United Nations, Ban Ki-moon
April 9, 2008
13:02
The Kremlin, Moscow
Russian President Vladimir Putin: Dear Mr Secretary-General! Dear colleagues!
Allow me welcome you to Moscow. We recently had the opportunity to speak briefly in Bucharest. I am very pleased to have the opportunity to welcome you to Moscow.
Relations between the Russian Federation and the United Nations are very close. Russia is not only a founding member of the UN but also a most active participant in all of its processes. Russia is also a permanent member of the Security Council.
We believe that the UN is the only universal international organisation. Today it is a key element in the entire international system. That is how we approach the work of this organisation and the problems associated with its development.
I am very glad to see you, dear Mr Secretary-General. We are pleased to have this chance to talk to you about current activities and the prospects for development.
Secretary-General of the United Nations Ban Ki-Moon: Mr President!
It is a great honour to meet with you again. As you know, we recently had the opportunity to speak briefly in Bucharest. And now I come to Moscow as Secretary-General of the UN. You will recall that immediately after I was elected to this post, I visited Russia and met with you in the Kremlin.
I want to thank you for the support and continued cooperation you and your country have given the United Nations, and pay my respects to you.
I hope that during this visit we will be able to discuss with you, the head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs [Sergei Lavrov] and the country's top officials the major issues of concern to the United Nations and all humanity. I am counting on your support and cooperation in the future.
I would like to point out the enormous contribution you have made: under your leadership, the Russian Federation has taken its place on the international scene, and you have significantly enhanced its role in the eyes of the international community.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 9, 2008, 13:02
Text versionEvents
Beginning of Meeting with Minister for Civil Defence, Emergency Situations and Disaster Relief Sergei Shoigu
April 9, 2008
16:10
Moscow
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: First of all, I would like to thank you, Sergei Kuzhugetovich [Shoigu] and everyone who took part in this work. This is indeed an exceptional event. This work took more than a year and has been performed to a high and modern standard.
Indeed, this centre is practically the only one of its kind in the world. Other countries have their own centres, but probably only our country, only Russia, has one of this level. This allows us to carry out our main task more effectively, namely, to help people in difficult situations, minimise economic losses and reduce to a minimum the economic damage resulting from manmade or natural disasters.
We have a vast country and all sorts of events caused by human activity or natural phenomena such as spring floods and fires can happen here. We see today that fires have begun in Siberia, despite the fact that the rivers have not yet opened. Your work is especially important in a country like Russia. The primary task is to minimise human losses in these difficult situations. Another important task is to increase the ministry’s role in ensuring safety on the roads. We have some plans and I hope that we will start implementing them very soon.
The opening of this centre can also help us to establish more effective cooperation with our colleagues abroad. We just had the opportunity to speak with our colleagues in Geneva, and we can develop work not only with the UN agencies but also with other countries’ national centres. There is a need for this work, and not only because Russia increasingly often finds itself helping other countries (last year, we helped put out fires in Europe) but also because we can also benefit from our colleagues’ help. Speedy decisions on these matters at the top level are therefore very important.
Aside from all this, this work is also a perfect example of an area where our achievements in space and in information technology can be put to use. I hope that development will also take place at the regional level. The public warning system, especially in places where large numbers of people gather, remains a relevant area of work and is a matter that should be addressed speedily in contact with your colleagues from the other ministries and from the Academy of Sciences.
We spoke about how the system can be used to warn up to 60 million people. The country’s population is much bigger than that and we need to use modern technology, all the newest possibilities available, including modern telephone systems – practically everyone has a mobile phone. These possibilities exist. In general, we need to make use of all these different possibilities in order to ensure our population’s safety.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 9, 2008, 16:10
Text versionEvents
Beginning of a Meeting with Executive Secretary of the Commonwealth of Independent States Sergei Lebedev
April 9, 2008
12:57
The Kremlin, Moscow
Russian President Vladimir Putin: Sergei Nikolaevich! Let me begin by wishing you a happy birthday: please accept my very best wishes for good health and success.
Obviously we are going to talk about current affairs.
Executive Secretary of the Commonwealth of Independent States Sergei Lebedev: Thank you, Vladimir Vladimirovich, for your kind wishes.
I want to say in recent weeks there have been some important events in the life of the CIS: 28 March there was a meeting of the Council of Ministers for Foreign Affairs, and on 4 April a meeting of the Economic Council, at which issues of economic cooperation were discussed.
All these activities were focused mainly on the preparations for the meeting of the Council of the CIS heads of state to be held in Minsk on 23 May. It is very important that at this meeting issues relating primarily to the economic state of the CIS countries and improving economic cooperation be discussed. These issues are very important.
We are currently working on preparing a strategy for the economic development of the CIS countries and on 23 May we will be reporting on it.
We also hope to hold the business forum of CIS countries in St Petersburg under the auspices of the St Petersburg Economic Forum.
Of course cultural cooperation is also an important area. In Minsk on 25 April there will an important event to improve cooperation in this sphere.
Thank you for your expression of support on 22 February with regards to the Mir television company. We are now actively working to improve the performance of this company.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 9, 2008, 12:57
Text version