Events
Answering journalists' questions after examining part of the highway that is being built around the city
February 5, 2008
10:25
Sochi
Question: Vladimir Vladimirovich, what are your impressions of the Council meeting [Council for the Development of Physical Culture and Sport, Top-Level Sport, and Organisation and Preparation of the XXII Winter Olympics and the XI Winter Paralympics in Sochi in 2014] and of the way preparations for the Sochi Olympics are going?
Vladimir Putin: I am happy with the way the work is progressing. Many problems still need to be sorted out: making land available, other administrative issues. But as far as the actual construction and the selection of the facilities themselves go, everything is more or less settled now. The specialists once again confirmed today that everything is possible and assured us that all the work would be of a high standard and completed on schedule.
As for the results of today’s meeting, we approved the timing, that is, the step-by-step schedule for work on the sports and infrastructure facilities. It was a useful meeting and I am happy overall.
Question: Vladimir Vladimirovich, it seems to me that it was easier to win the right to hold the Olympics in Sochi than to build everything we need, all the more so within a four-year period.
Vladimir Putin: I don’t know which is easier and which is more difficult, because we have not yet completed the second half of our task. We have completed only the first half – winning the right to hold the Games, and this signals the International Olympic Committee’s confidence in Russia and recognises our country’s possibilities, above all our economic possibilities. This is an unquestionable boost to Russia’s authority, but it is not this that is most important. As I said once again at the Council today, our most important objective is to create the conditions that will allow millions of people throughout our country to practice sports.
This is not just about building sports facilities in Sochi. We also plan to establish nine new federal training centres in different parts of the country – in the east, the north, the south, in the European part of the country and in the Urals. We will set up ten boarding schools with state-of-the-art technology for training the talented children who will become our Olympic athletes in the future.
Furthermore, 30 regions will set up regional training centres. Carrying out all of these plans will give our country a completely new foundation for sports, both at the top-level and for the general public.
If you recall, I said a few years ago that our economic goal was to double the GDP within ten years. There were many sceptics who said this was an impossible goal. There are fewer sceptics today, all the more so as we completed the last year with a good result – GDP growth of 8.1 percent. We have not had such a good result for a long time.
After this goal of doubling the GDP in a decade was set, the federal authorities and the regions set about making it reality. This became a sort of general movement. It was a goal that was formulated correctly. We are seeing the same thing now. We have set the goal of doing a worthy job of holding the Olympic Games, and the infrastructure preparation has been distributed throughout the country. This will give a big boost to creating a truly positive attitude to sports, physical culture and public health.
Question: Vladimir Vladimirovich, yesterday, you visited three of the North Caucasus republics. What is your assessment of the general situation there and the state of affairs regarding protection of our southern borders?
Vladimir Putin: The situation is complex overall. This is especially true of the social and economic situation. These regions all depend on federal subsidies. Unemployment is the biggest problem, but we are seeing changes for the better in the economy, in the social sphere, and as far as security is concerned. There are, however, still many problems to resolve.
When I first visited Botlikh [Dagestan] in 1999, I discussed the situation with the military officials in a tent. Battles were going on in the mountains and we could hear gunfire.
Today, the situation has changed completely. Much has been done to protect our economic interests and national security in this region. We have carried out a huge amount of work: a completely new infrastructure of 119 facilities and 72 new posts has been established on the state border, none of which existed before. These new facilities are all equipped with the latest technology and offer good living standards for the servicemen and their families.
What I was looking at yesterday was the second stage of this work, providing the military cover for the state border. The Interior Ministry’s mountain brigades and specialised units will not just provide the troops to protect the state border but will also actively combat the remnants of the armed groups. In other words, this is also a big step forward for our counter-terrorist work.
Overall, I am happy with the way the military builders have handled their work, despite all the difficulties of construction in mountain areas.
The local people are also benefiting from these projects and I hope very much that this work will provide new economic development opportunities in the areas where this infrastructure is being built.
In the case of Botlikh, for example, the Prime Minister and I discussed today the completion of a road in this district. Completing this road requires the construction of a large tunnel, which is expensive. The money will have to come from the federal budget.
The district is being connected to the gas network. All the settlements in the area will be connected to the gas network. I hope very much that this will help improve the level of security in the areas where our military and border units are stationed.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: February 5, 2008, 10:25
Text versionEvents
Opening Remarks at a Meeting of the Council for the Development of Physical Culture and Sport, Excellence in Sports, and the Preparation and Realization of the 2014 XXII Winter Olympics and XI Paralympics in Sochi
February 5, 2008
20:04
Sochi
President Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, distinguished Council members!
The main issue on our agenda is the preparation for the 2014 Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games here in the south of Russia, in Sochi.
I note that a number of priority issues have already been resolved. We have created a federal law that defines the basic terms for organising and conducting the Games, and for developing the city of Sochi as a mountain resort. We have established a long-term programme for the construction of the various sites, including 243 sports, transport, engineering and other facilities. The state corporation Olympstroi is already up and running.
We are now ready for the practical implementation of our ambitious and large-scale Olympic projects, which will be designed to meet the highest international standards.
Let me remind you of another important aspect involved in preparations for the games. The Russian Federation has undertaken these preparations for the international Olympic movement, and for the institutions and individuals involved in the development of the modern world of sport. We have a great responsibility to satisfy a whole range of high expectations. There is also the quality of work, completing it on schedule, and of course the final result.
Our immediate challenge is planning and adopting a detailed schedule for designing, constructing and putting into operation the Olympic sites.
A number of additional projects will be linked with the need to improve the tourism, hotel and restaurant sectors in the city.
Experts think that about a million participants and guests will be coming to Sochi. We have to provide them all with comfort and security, high-speed links, transportation, financial and other services, and these must meet international standards. At the same time, we have to take into consideration living conditions of Sochi residents and of the staff needed for the Games. We should take the necessary measures in advance.
Particular attention must be paid to creating the proper accessibility for people with disabilities. We are obliged to fulfill all of the additional requirements for the success of the Paralympics.
Our cities are still poorly suited for the needs of people with disabilities. Municipalities and construction firms often fail to observe mandatory requirements concerning the design of special handrails, ramps, lifts, and elevators. There is a lack of specialised transport and much else that these people need in their daily lives.
I want to stress that in Sochi we must not only learn from international experience but also integrate the newest social standards.
Now a word about the quality of the preparatory work.
First, we must use the most advanced technologies and engineering solutions for the design and construction of the sports facilities. Our goal is to build a new generation of sports facilities that will be competitive for years and decades to come. The luge and bobsled track, the jumps and courses for skiers and the biathlon complex must be built to comply with international standards.
Secondly, during the Games we must use the most sophisticated visa and customs controls for the accreditation of participants and ensuring their access to the sites. All these measures must guarantee a high level of security without creating undue inconvenience.
Next, the provision of transport, infrastructure and energy supplies must be done according to the highest technological standards. I want to draw your attention here to the importance of using only environmentally friendly and energy-saving technology.
Finally, the third set of challenges related to the unique circumstances of preparing Olympic and Paralympic Games in 2014 involves our national sports development.
Creating new sports and recreational facilities in Sochi and environs is clearly in the long-term interests of Russia and its citizens. While building stadiums for sport at the highest levels, we must keep another goal firmly in mind: namely, the creation of better conditions for physical education classes and sport in general, for the recreational activities and the fitness of the entire nation.
Our preparations for the Olympic Games must include a programme for the preparation of our athletes. And this requires systemic changes in Russian sport, which is another subject for today's meeting.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: February 5, 2008, 20:04
Text version