Events
Beginning of the Meeting with President of the People's Republic of China Hu Jintao
November 23, 2008
19:54
Peru, Lima
President of the People'S Republic of China Hu Jintao (Retranslated from Russian): Mr President,
I am very pleased to see you again.
A couple of days ago we talked in Washington, but we did not cover all the subjects. Today, I am ready to continue the exchange of opinion on issues of common interest.
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Mr President,
I am also very pleased to meet you.
Although this is the second time we are attending forums which focus on the financial crisis, this will not prevent us from discussing the other aspects of our full-fledged strategic partnership. Now we have an additional opportunity.
I would also like to inform you that following our meeting we have approved the plan [the Russian-Chinese Plan of Action] for 2009–2012. I have already made the relevant instructions, and work is underway.
Hu Jintao: Today, the international political and economic landscape is going through the most profound and complicated changes since the Cold War. In this context, China and Russia should continue promoting their strategic cooperation.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 23, 2008, 19:54
Text versionEvents
Beginning of the Meeting with U.S. President George W. Bush
November 23, 2008
14:23
Peru, Lima
U.S. PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH: It's an interesting moment because I've had a lot of meetings with Dmitry Medvedev and Vladimir Putin. This will be my last meeting as the sitting President with the leader of Russia. We've had our agreements, we've had our disagreements. I've tried to work at making it a cordial relationship though, so that when we need to work together we can, and when we disagree we're able to do so in a way that is respectful to our two nations.
I thank you for coming today and appreciate your time.
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Thank you, George. And in general, though we agree on some points and strongly disagree on others, I would like to say that we have worked well and will continue working well now.
U.S. PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH: Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 23, 2008, 14:23
Text versionEvents
Beginning of the Meeting with Japanese Prime Minister Taro Aso
November 23, 2008
16:15
Peru, Lima
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Mr Prime Minister,
I am happy to have this opportunity to see you. We met briefly in Washington. I would like to say that I was very impressed by your speech there. It was interesting and meaningful. You made several insightful statements describing how Japan extricated itself from difficulties.
At this summit we are discussing different issues, first of all, the global crisis which has hit the whole world. But this does not prevent us from discussing our bilateral relations. This is good.
We regard Russian-Japanese relations as a key factor of stability in Asia and the Pacific.
Japanese Prime Minister Taro Aso (Retranslated from Russian): Mr President,
I am very happy to work with you. As you noted I had to deal with the financial crisis as soon as I assumed office. Additionally, in my first programme speech in parliament I pointed to the importance of our relations with Russia. I said that we still have outstanding issues. I would like to exchange opinion with you to resolve them.
As you said, Japan and Russia are important neighbours in Asia and the Pacific but our border issue remains unresolved. We must delineate the border because this problem is destabilising the region.
I know that as a lawyer, you are familiar with this problem. I would like our bilateral relations to become normal. Importantly, the values which you are going to promote coincide with ours. I am convinced that this factor will provide new opportunities to our bilateral relations.
Dmitry Medvedev: There are no insoluble problems. You can see what representative delegations we have here. Let them do something useful; let them make an effort with this.
Taro Aso: Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 23, 2008, 16:15
Text version