Events
Beginning of the Meeting with the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Evrokhim Company Andrei Melnichenko
October 15, 2008
23:25
The Kremlin, Moscow
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Good afternoon Andrei Igorevich!
I want you to tell me how your company’s work is going: are there any new interesting projects at home or abroad? And I am referring, of course, to the problems associated with the international financial crisis. How much has this affected the activities of your group – do you have any ideas on how to minimise the harmful effects of this process?
chairman of the Board of Directors of Evrokhim Company andrei Melnichenko: A few words about the fertiliser industry in which our company operates. Our sector has a turnover of 300 billion rubles a year. It provides approximately three percent of foreign exchange earnings for Russia. Accordingly, the industry has seen major changes since the early 90s. At that time the level of production was approximately 17 million tonnes. We were able to maintain those levels – today the industry produces more or less the same amount. However, there has been a general decline in demand…
Dmitry Medvedev: More or less the same as the Soviet period?
Andrei Melnichenko: In the Soviet period we produced approximately one million tonnes more. Along with this there was widespread reduction in demand during the mid 90s in the domestic market and the sector was faced with the following situation: domestic demand was reduced by nearly a factor of 10, so instead of supplying 10,5 million tonnes we supplied only about 1, 5 million. Such was the situation.
But the industry has found its place. Today Russian companies produce 20 percent of global exports, that is they have a large volume of sales on a global scale and a real impact on the problems of food security. That's where we are.
Accordingly, what issues have accumulated and where have problems arisen? Over the past 20 to 25 years it is by and large true that no new company in our sector was built in Russia. In other words, the investment process itself did not develop. This is one of our big problems.
A second big problem is linked to the fact that the system of bringing our products to consumers on the domestic market and to agricultural businesses was almost destroyed – a lack of storage facilities is a limiting factor that prevents us from meeting the needs of agriculture. Perhaps this is the main problem that our industry has faced so far, a lack of investment.
Dmitry Medvedev: This is certainly linked with historical problems. This has nothing to do directly with the problems occasioned by the current liquidity crisis. Has the crisis nevertheless affected you and, if so, to what extent?
Andrei Melnichenko: If you want to talk about the current situation, about the current financial crisis, then for example now is the time for Brazil to buy fertiliser. In normal times such countries import a large amount of our product. At this time they would have already purchased about seven million tonnes of fertiliser, whereas now they have purchased slightly more than one. In other words, this means that …
Dmitry Medvedev: … there is a decline in consumption, and quite an important one.
Andrei Melnichenko: A large decrease in consumption and it is very difficult to predict what the yields of certain countries will be next year. And this causes an excessive amount of goods including for Russian producers – and this is also a big problem.
Dmitry Medvedev: And the domestic market does not alleviate these problems, that is you cannot operate in the domestic market more intensively than you did before?
Andrei Melnichenko: We are ready to meet any potential demand in the domestic market. There are also problems in the domestic market. That is, the country has had a great grain harvest, but again the financial crisis has affected this in a negative way. There are certain problems concerning the export of grain, in other words there are now problems with using the grain that has accumulated. And as a result of well-known events our farmers are denied access to financial resources and of course this is also a source of concern.
However supplies for the domestic market are growing and we will do everything we can in that direction.
Dmitry Medvedev: Good. Despite these difficulties what major projects do you have?
Andrei Melnichenko: Despite the difficulties we have major projects. With regards to our company in particular, we produce about 20 percent of Russia’s fertilisers. However, over the past five years we have contributed 40 percent of all the investments that have been made in the industry in Russia. We will continue to do so. For example, our investment programme over the next four years amounts to about 150 billion roubles.
Two large landmark projects that we are implementing include building a new plant for the production of potash fertiliser from scratch that will produce 4 to 6 million tonnes of production in the Volgograd region. This represents two and a half billion dollars in investments. This is something that has not been done either in Russia or abroad over the past 20 to 25 years. Our work is in full swing.
The second large project is being implemented in the Republic of Kazakhstan and in general we will focus primarily on the CIS markets. Last week I reported on our project to the country’s leadership. We have their full support. We plan to start mining phosphate ore in the Karatau deposits, where they also have certain difficulties. Since Soviet times the volume of production has dropped by about a factor of 10. So we plan to procure raw materials in the Republic of Kazakhstan and deliver them to our Russian companies. We also plan to build a complex that could produce fertiliser for Russia and other CIS countries. This is a real integration process, i.e. two and a half billion dollars over six years.
Dmitry Medvedev: Good. Large projects are certainly useful, both for us and for Kazakhstan. Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 15, 2008, 23:25
Text versionEvents
Opening Remarks at a Meeting of the Council for Science, Technology and Education
October 15, 2008
21:56
The Kremlin, Moscow
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Good afternoon, colleagues,
This is the first meeting of the Council for Science, Technology and Education in its new membership. Also present here today are invited colleagues: teachers, experts, representatives of the regional authorities and members of public school councils. We are meeting in this format because systemic change in schools is the issue on the agenda today, and this is something that concerns practically everyone in our country and is one of the key elements of our national development.
I think that our meeting needs not only to produce theoretical justifications but also practical results that are directly tied to the needs of those for the sake of whom we have come together today.
There are several questions we need to answer. First is that we need to decide what is genuinely relevant for ensuring a high quality and new content of education in our schools. This is something we come back to regularly, and this is perfectly natural, because changes of a systemic nature take place in education practically every 10–15 years, and you know this as well as I do.
The second question, which follows on from the first, is what kind of schools do we need in the future, and what demands should we make of these schools? Finally, if we have settled on the kind of schools we need, what steps do we need to take to implement this model in practice?
Public opinion surveys show that around 70 percent of Russian citizens say that changes are necessary in our schools. More than half think the quality of education is declining, and the same number say that inequality in the education system is increasing. These are worrying figures. I do not want to agree with them immediately, because impressions are always subjective, but the fact that these figures are rising is a worrying sign.
We currently have 13.7 million people studying in general education establishments throughout the country. This is a huge figure – a tenth of our population. Of the almost 60,000 schools in our country two thirds are in rural areas. I will not give further figures now. All of you here know the situation rural schools face, the problems with central water supply, sewerage and so on. They face serious problems. Around 18,000 schools are in need of complete overhaul, and around 1,000 schools are in a seriously dilapidated state and require urgent measures. This is something we will come back to.
You all know that our education system has been going through constant change over the last two decades. This is partly due to the fact that previously there was not so much reform (during the Soviet years). The urge to reform emerged after the formation of a new state. I do not think this is something bad in itself, but the results vary greatly.
Schools went through several waves of reform until finally, at the start of the decade, in 2001, a long-term education modernisation strategy was adopted for the period through to 2010, and in 2004 development priorities for the country’s education system were drawn up. This created a foundation for work for the future.
I think the Education National Project has been a good idea (this is something I worked on personally and I head the Council for National Projects now). In any event, it has enabled us to give impetus to work in a number of different areas, and this is already a good thing. As I have said before, yes, these are only fragments of the whole, but they are very important fragments. Programmes such as the Class Director, Best Teacher, Innovative Schools, Talented Youth, Internet, Teaching Equipment, School Canteen, and Village School Bus programmes have all produced results without a doubt. These are all needed programmes because previously the situation had reached critical point. It is important too that along with these programme’s implementation a new system for controlling expenditure was put in place. Of course, all sorts of problems came up during the implementation of these programmes, but the mechanism we created enabled us to make rapid decisions to resolve them. I think this is all valuable experience we can build on. I call on all of you in this respect. In itself, I think this experience has been quite good.
One of the basic issues to address is that of providing a healthy and comfortable environment for school pupils. This covers a wide range of areas including design and construction standards for school buildings, modern equipment, good quality food for students, and finally, creating a modern, open and creative learning environment.
Much has been said already now about schoolchildren’s health as one of the biggest problems we need to address. We heard some sad figures yesterday at the meeting of the Council for Sport and the State Council Presidium. Unfortunately, this is a problem we still need to address today.
The results of routine health checkups at national level show that the 10–17 age group is in a critical situation as far as their health is concerned. Clearly we need to develop the medical assistance system and create normal conditions for physical education and sport, because the situation in this area worsened greatly in the 1990s. Of course, we also need to reflect on how best to distribute the learning load in school.
Colleagues, you all know that probably teachers’ main task is to teach children how to learn, how to obtain knowledge. This is an age of ongoing and independent education. It is equally important to develop robust creative thinking and give students a sense of self-confidence and confidence in their abilities. These are also issues we can discuss today.
We need to provide incentives for the work of teachers (this is a subject we will also discuss separately) and also attract into schools specialists from other fields, who have higher education and an aptitude for teaching work. I am sure that graduates of our various universities, including research universities, have much to offer schools, but for this we need to make the prospect of working in schools attractive and not off-putting.
This is not easy. Different solutions can be envisaged. I think the situation is most complicated in the cities. In the rural areas it is perhaps easier to resolve this problem because the rural schools offer a basic package of benefits that could attract young graduates.
What conclusions can we draw? First, we really do need to help schools with their human resources, and aside from the human resources issue we also need to support schools in developing areas such as remote technology for distance learning. We also need to create the possibilities for independent and modern education. I think that we need to work on developing various tracks in school programs, but we must not forget about fields such as maths and science, fields in which we have long excelled, and which create opportunities and lay the foundations for our country’s development. We should not forget President Kennedy’s often quoted words about how the USA lost the space race to Russia in the classroom.
We will discuss all of the different points I have raised. I think this meeting will help us to define our priorities. I hope that some of them, the priorities in the key areas, will be set out too in the Annual Presidential Address to the Federal Assembly, which will take place soon.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 15, 2008, 21:56
Text version