Events
Beginning of Meeting with Chairman of the Central Electoral Commission Vladimir Churov
October 13, 2008
15:10
The Kremlin, Moscow
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: I would like to hear how the elections went yesterday in our country, what are the preliminary results, and was everything in keeping with the laws?
chairman of the Central Electoral Commission Vladimir Churov: Elections to regional parliaments took place in five regions yesterday. The elections were declared valid in all five regions. The main point to note is that in all of the regions, except Sakhalin Region, the voter turnout was much higher than for regional parliamentary elections in the past. Voter turnout was up by several dozen percent in Kemerovo Region and by 7–8 percent in the other regions. This shows that voters are becoming a lot more politically active.
The elections went calmly and without serious incident in all five regions. We are examining all complaints or remarks coming in. This work began yesterday, we continue to work on them today, but they could not affect the preliminary results. The final results will come in from the regions very soon and will arrive at our information centre.
We had an information centre running yesterday in Moscow for the first time on a common regional election day, and this enabled all voters, not only those living in the regions where the elections were taking place, to see the results as they came in. This was possible in large part thanks to the work of our colleagues in the regions and in the municipal electoral commissions, where elections were taking place for mayors, city assemblies, Dumas and councils – they all have different names in the different towns.
The experiment in the town of Novomoskovsk to test a prototype for electronic voting using the Internet was a success. Our most optimistic estimate was that around 10 percent of voters in the district would take part (this involved making a voluntary repeat vote after the general vote), but in actual fact 25 percent of voters on the list, that is to say, 62 percent of those who actually came to cast their vote, took part in the experiment.
Dmitry Medvedev: So, you can draw some conclusions now based on the results.
Vladimir Churov: Yes, furthermore, we have already compared the data from the electronic exit poll using the Internet with the data from the preliminary count of votes, and the difference is only 1–2 percent. No one managed to disrupt Internet traffic or hack into the programme. Everything worked as planned.
Dmitry Medvedev: You say no one managed. This means there were attempted attacks?
Vladimir Churov: Some small attempts did take place. The hackers were ready and waiting ever since we announced that we would be conducting this experiment, but we managed to establish close ‘cooperation’ with some of them.
Dmitry Medvedev: I see. But still I suggest that you work with them within the limits set by the law, the general and administrative laws on elections, and the criminal legislation.
Vladimir Churov: Unfortunately, we do not as yet have election laws making it possible to conduct regular voting by Internet, but the results of this experiment could serve as a basis for reflection.
Dmitry Medvedev: This technology definitely should be developed because it will inevitably start being used quite soon, including with the right of the casting vote, I mean the real vote that will count when summing up the results. But we will have to make changes to our legislation of course to make this possible, and ensure that every citizen has the possibility of expressing their will using these means, because at the moment this is not the case.
I hope the results achieved yesterday, and what you have reported today, will help to ensure that the authorities can continue effectively carrying out their functions and give maximum transparency to the decision-making process.
Vladimir Churov: Thank you, Dmitry Anatolyevich.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 13, 2008, 15:10
Text versionEvents
Beginning of Working Meeting with Presidential Aide Arkady Dvorkovich
October 13, 2008
20:28
The Kremlin, Moscow
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Arkady Vladimirovich, I have just signed a package of laws that were prepared quite rapidly on my instruction and on the Government’s initiative, and have been passed by the State Duma and approved by the Federation Council. They concern one issue, namely, stabilising the financial market in the context of the complicated processes at work on international financial markets at the moment, our dependence on these processes, and the need to avoid any more serious consequences for our country. The Government will now begin implementing these laws. I want this implementation to go ahead in coordination with the Presidential Executive Office, and I want you to report now on the points you think require our attention above all.
Presidential Aide Arkady Dvorkovich: Yes, the laws were all drafted and adopted in a very short space of time. All of the draft regulations from the Government, Vnesheconombank and the decisions by the Supervisory Board [of Vnesheconombank] have been prepared now and they will be approved over the next two days.
Dmitry Medvedev: What you have just said is very important. I have signed the laws today and the regulations needed for these laws’ enforcement will come out tomorrow.
Arkady Dvorkovich: Yes, this is the case. The work was completed in three days and the regulations are ready for signing. After this, the banks in need of capital, the banks counting on being able to raise capital, will prepare their proposals for the sums, the proposed capital increases. This concerns Sberbank, VTB, Rosselkhozbank, and also private banks, where the private shareholders will have to put forward their co-financing proposals.
Dmitry Medvedev: As I understand it, they are already drafting these proposals because they knew about our plans. All the meetings were open.
Arkady Dvorkovich: This is indeed the case, but the concrete parameters will be set over the coming days and weeks for the banks that do not have such immediate needs right now.
The second aspect is requests for refinancing of foreign debts. These requests are already coming in. The situation remains difficult on the world markets and there are problems with debt refinancing. What we are doing therefore is replacing money that previously was raised on the world markets. These funds will be set aside in the volumes needed in accordance with the decisions made on requests. This work can begin as soon as the Government regulation is signed, that is to say, in two or three days.
The third aspect is an ongoing system of refinancing from the Central Bank. For the first time, the Central Bank will be able to accord collateral-free credits of up to six months to all banks that have a rating. This is not just an anti-crisis measure. Essentially, this replaces the system of refinancing abroad that existed up till now. This measure will continue to work on an ongoing basis even after the situation has returned to normal. This is an important measure so that everyone will be able to see that the financial markets will continue stable functioning in the future. The Central Bank is ready to begin this process in the coming days and will gradually replace the Finance Ministry’s mechanism for provision of funds.
Finally, another measure is the decision to invest funds from the National Prosperity Fund on the domestic financial market. A Government regulation is sufficient here and it has already been drafted. It is now going through the approval procedures and will be signed in two or three days’ time. This way, money from the Fund will enter the domestic market for the first time. We think that many of the assets on the domestic market are more reliable than assets on markets abroad. This will enable us to improve the quality of the National Prosperity Fund’s portfolio, protect pensioners’ money, including that of future pensioners, while at the same time maintaining liquidity on the Russian financial market.
Finally, and most important of all perhaps from the point of view of the system’s reliability, there will be 100-percent insurance for deposits of up to 700,000 roubles for all depositors in banks that are part of the deposit insurance system. This rule is in effect since October 1, 2008.
Dmitry Medvedev: So, it is retroactive?
Arkady Dvorkovich: Yes. That is to say, it has already entered into force in fact and will officially enter into force after the law is promulgated. Even if a bank has problems (this has happened in past years when some banks have left the market) depositors will receive compensation for their deposits within a few days, within literally two weeks.
Dmitry Medvedev: This is certainly a very important guarantee for our depositors, who need to be confident and have a sense of stability at this time of difficulties on the international financial markets.
Good. I want you to keep me regularly updated about the situation and work together with the Government, using the mechanisms that exist in the Presidential Executive Office. If there is a need for additional decisions they will be taken. The main thing now, as I said at the last meeting, is to take decisions rapidly. With the laws and regulations passed, we need to get the money into the banking system as quickly as possible.
Arkady Dvorkovich: Good.
Dmitry Medvedev: Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 13, 2008, 20:28
Text version