Events
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev’s message to readers on the occasion of his first visit to the People’s Republic of China
May 23, 2008
19:16
I send my sincere greetings to this publication’s readers on the occasion of my first visit to the People’s Republic of China as President of the Russian Federation.
We can feel deserved pride in the friendly and mutually beneficial ties that bind our two peoples. We treasure our ability to resolve problems together and we feel sincere joy at each other’s successes and achievements. This unique historical experience has become our common heritage and will, I am sure, always serve us well.
The strategic partnership between Russia and China is founded on mutual respect, a desire for active cooperation, and the closeness of our foreign policy positions on issues on today’s international agenda. This enables us to give full embodiment to the great potential of the Treaty on Good-Neighbourliness, Friendship and Cooperation between the Russian Federation and the People’s Republic of China of July 16, 2001.
The holding of the Year of Russia in China in 2006 and the Year of China in Russia in 2007 marked an important new stage in realising this potential. The decision to continue holding on an ongoing basis the events in the National Years programme most popular with the public, and also the decision to hold Russian Language Year in China in 2009 and Chinese Language Year in Russia in 2010 will enable us to maintain the rapid pace at which our bilateral ties are developing.
I am certain that our countries have truly inexhaustible potential for continuing to expand our political, economic, scientific, cultural, education and sports cooperation.
I would like to take this opportunity to wish all readers and all citizens of the People’s Republic of China new achievements, peace and prosperity, and also success in holding the 2008 Beijing Olympics, which will without doubt be a memorable and unforgettable event.
DMITRY MEDVEDEV
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 23, 2008, 19:16
Text version