Events
Beginning of the Meeting with Ukrainian President Viktor Yushchenko
February 12, 2008
20:47
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Vladimir Putin: First of all, I would like to welcome you to the Kremlin.
We hosted the Intergovernmental Commission last year — almost exactly a year ago today. We had planned to do so before, but you decided to postpone our meeting in view of pre-election campaign in Ukraine. I am glad that we finally got together. Despite the internal political processes in Ukraine our trade is increasing, and nothing is preventing it from growing, at least nothing substantial.
We are diversifying our relations in all areas. There are issues that require special attention. They include, first and foremost, issues relating to cooperation in aviation, space, and certain other areas.
I know that our ministries of foreign affairs are in contact on some border issues. The situation is currently being discussed at the expert level. And I very much hope that we will move forward on this topic. So far, we have managed to solve questions of this nature not only at the expert level, but also at the political level, and reach interstate agreements. We have a lot to talk about and I am very happy to see you. Welcome.
Ukrainian President Viktor Yuschenko: Thank you. First of all, I am very pleased to visit Russia and to meet with you. And I think that our evaluations of the present situation coincide. I think that during this period we have created a good plan of action: about 26 items that comprise a wide range of economic and other matters in different sectors.
Of course there are issues that we have to discuss separately, and perhaps they are the most sensitive matters. We are ready for this dialogue and to proceed from the premise that Russia was, is and will continue to be our strategic partner. And we will conduct all business with Russia in light of this understanding, in light of these values.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: February 12, 2008, 20:47
Text version