Events
Beginning of a Meeting with King Juan Carlos I of Spain
June 19, 2008
18:08
The Kremlin, Moscow
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Your Majesty!
I am delighted to welcome you to Moscow! I am glad to have this opportunity to get acquainted with you. You are always a welcome guest, and you have visited our country often and been to a number of different areas.
I would like to say immediately that recently the ties between Russia and Spain have become much closer. To cite just two examples: first, over just the past three months, trade between our countries has increased by 62 per cent. This is a good indicator.
Second, there is our cultural cooperation and all the contacts between people. We have learned how to arrive at satisfactory results in a variety of situations: even at the European Championships we were both able to qualify in the first round and go through to the quarterfinals. That is an estimable achievement.I am glad to see you in Moscow.
King of Spain Juan Carlos I: I think we should congratulate each other.
Dmitry Medvedev: On our football results, absolutely.
Juan Carlos I: I am very grateful to you, Mr President, for having me here today. I would like to convey my best wishes on behalf of my family, as well as from the government of Spain.
For me it is always very gratifying to be in your country. Following recent developments in Russia I did not want to miss the opportunity to come and personally meet with you.
I want to congratulate you and say that my presence in Russia should help the further the development of our private, cultural and economic relations.
I think that we have many opportunities ahead and that we have a lot to do. We have many areas to explore, a large number of fields for action. Our willingness to do this is clear. Our people love each other, our leaders know each other, and now all we have to do is get down to work.
Dmitry Medvedev: That's exactly right.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 19, 2008, 18:08
Text version