Events
Interview with Television Channel Euronews
September 2, 2008
23:31
Pyotr Fyodorov: Welcome to Euronews, Mr President. What is your assessment of the outcome of the EU’s extraordinary summit for future relations between Russia and Europe?
Dmitry Medvedev: I followed closely the development of events at the summit. I will not make a secret of the fact that I had preliminary talks with my colleagues. I think the results are two-fold in nature. First of all, they show that Russia’s motivations in deciding to respond to Georgia’s aggression and recognise South Ossetia and Abkhazia as independent subjects of international law have unfortunately not been fully understood. This is sad but not fatal, because everything can change in this world. This is one situation.
The second situation is a lot more positive in my view. Despite the different views that exist to a certain extent in the EU member countries, a reasonable and realistic approach prevailed on this issue. A number of countries were calling for some kind of mythical sanctions and punishments, but this did not go ahead, and I think that this is in the interests of Europe, the interests of the European Union above all.
Pyotr Fyodorov: People are saying that by recognising South Ossetia’s and Abkhazia’s independence Russia has isolated itself. Do you agree with this point of view?
Dmitry Medvedev: There is no isolation, Russia does not want isolation, and it is essentially impossible. It is another matter that now that recognition has been given [to South Ossetia’s and Abkhazia’s independence] we really should reflect on the security architecture we want for our complicated world over the coming years. It is absolutely clear to me that the events that began with Georgia’s aggression on August 8 have put this issue firmly on the agenda. The former security architecture has proven its ineffectiveness.
Pyotr Fyodorov: But people are saying some kind of sanctions could be imposed on Russia or that it could be excluded from the G8 or refused entry to the World Trade Organisation. How will Russia react if such measures are taken, and — a question that worries ordinary Europeans — will the ‘hot summer’ in the Caucasus turn into a ‘cold winter’ for Europe?
Dmitry Medvedev: The issue of sanctions is always complicated because sanctions are a sword that cuts both ways. I think the European Union decision shows how dangerous the sanctions road can be. Reason prevailed and the result is plain and clear. Regarding other international instruments such as the G8, the G8 is not viable without Russia. The G8 itself is fully aware that without involving countries like China and India, without using the ‘outreach’ format, many decisions would not be fully effective. This is all the more true if decisions are made without Russia’s participation. The G8 cannot therefore exist without Russia. And if it does try to take this road, it would not be in the interests of the world order, absolutely not in the interests of the order that exists in the world today.
The World Trade Organisation is a separate economic issue. We do indeed would like to join the WTO, but not at any cost. We have been engaged in negotiations for a long time now. Unfortunately, they have not been successful in all areas. Our position is straightforward. If we do not manage to reach agreement soon, we will be obliged to withdraw from a number of agreements that imposed additional commitments on us within the WTO framework. We will probably take such a decision if progress towards the WTO remains out of sight. It is not only we who want to join the WTO; other economies need to have us there too. As for how events will develop, time will tell.
There are other means of influence. You know, I do not think that Europe should fear a ‘cold winter’ or anything else of this sort, because this would not be in anyone’s interests.
Pyotr Fyodorov: I had in mind oil and gas supplies to Europe.
Dmitry Medvedev: I realise what your question implied. We will of course continue to carry out in full all of the obligations we have taken on as the main supplier of oil and gas to Europe.
Pyotr Fyodorov: Analysts are saying that the ‘Caucasus crisis’ has turned the final page in Russia’s post-Soviet history and is the starting point for the new world order you mentioned in part. What kind of relations will Russia build with its closest neighbours, in particular Ukraine, and with the outside world in general?
Dmitry Medvedev: We will build our relations with all countries based on common criteria. You are right, and I already said that the events of this August have proven the current security architecture’s shortcomings. We need to build it anew, taking into consideration the reality today. I recently set out five principles that will form the guidelines for Russia’s foreign policy. I will repeat them now.
First, Russia will comply in full with all of the provisions of international law regarding relations between civilised countries.
Second, Russia believes in the need for a multi-polar world and considers that domination by one country is unacceptable, no matter which country this may be.
Third, we are naturally interested in developing full and friendly relations with all countries, with Europe, Asia, the United States, Africa, with all countries in the world. These relations will be as close as our partners are ready for.
Fourth, I see protecting the lives and dignity of Russian citizens, wherever they may be, as an indisputable priority for our country, and this is one of our foreign policy priorities.
Fifth, I think that like any other country, Russia pays special attention to particular regions, regions in which it has privileged interests. We will build special relations with the countries in these regions, friendly relations for the long-term period.
Pyotr Fyodorov: Is there a danger that recognition of South Ossetia and Abkhazia could incite separatist feelings in other parts of the Caucasus, in Dagestan and Ingushetia, for example?
Dmitry Medvedev: I do not see any such danger so long as people abroad do not meddle in these issues, thinking up various scenarios for dismembering Russia.
Pyotr Fyodorov: What are the main conclusions you draw from the latest crisis in Russian-U.S. relations, are there lessons to be learned?
Dmitry Medvedev: I would not call this a full-scale crisis of the likes of what existed during the Soviet period, but there is tension today. We certainly did not want this tension. It is the result of the not entirely reasonable policy the United States has pursued in Georgia. At some point they gave the Georgian leader the impression that he could do as he pleased with impunity. He seemed to think he’d received carte-blanche to take any action he wished, and we can all see now where this has led. I think there is a certain amount of frustration now in the United States at the failure of this virtual project, ‘Free Georgia’. The leader has bankrupted himself, the regime is on the brink of crisis, and the situation is tense. The sooner our American partners sort out this issue the better it will be for Russian-American relations. We are ready to restore the best possible relations and develop our ties in full with the United States.
Pyotr Fyodorov: Thank you very much for this interview, Mr President.
Dmitry Medvedev: Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: September 2, 2008, 23:31
Text versionEvents
Interview with Italian Television Channel RAI
September 2, 2008
22:16
Sochi
Gianni Riotta: Mr Medvedev, after the conflict in Georgia some European countries and also the United States have called for measures against Russia. The European Council has decided to wait and not take any decision for now. Nonetheless, Russia’s relations with Europe and the United States are at their lowest point in recent years. Who do you think is to blame for this?
Dmitry Medvedev: Not us in any case. As far as Russia’s relations with NATO go, they are not going through the easiest time now, but I would not dramatise the situation. I think that all the calls to limit cooperation between Russia and NATO can cut both ways. Speaking frankly, this would be a greater blow for the NATO countries. I have already expressed my views on this subject. We do not see anything dramatic or anything so difficult about ending these relations if this is what our partners want, but I think our partners would stand to lose more.
Regarding relations between Russia and the European Union, the European Council’s decision yesterday shows two things. First, the EU’s members do not understand all of Russia’s actions, and this is obviously a cause of concern for us. But I think that we can explain our position and make clear that the actions we undertook were for worthy aims. At the same time, the decisions taken show that many EU members want constructive cooperation and see no need to increase tension in our relations. The common sense and logic that were shown yesterday have prevailed on this occasion.
Gianni Riotta: In an interview with CNN, Prime Minister Vladimir Putin said that American representatives were present in Georgia during the conflict in an attempt to somehow influence the American election. On August 26, you said that Russia could make a military response to the construction of a missile defence system in Europe. Should we fear confrontation of a kind we did not see even during the Cold War years?
Dmitry Medvedev: First of all, that American advisers or specialists were present in Georgia is an established fact. The United States actively helped Georgia build up its military machine, pumped in money and arms. Unfortunately, at some point they gave Mr Saakashvili carte-blanche for any action, including military action. This took form in the aggression that began on the night of August 7. This is very sad and I think that in this situation it is time our American partners reassessed their relations with the regime in power there, if only because these people have put Georgia in a very difficult position, created serious destabilisation and unleashed aggression that has led to the deaths of many people.
Concerning the situation in Europe, I call our partners’ attention to the fact that it is not we who are expanding the extent of our military presence in Europe, but NATO. We are not establishing new bases, NATO is. We are not deploying new missile defence systems, NATO is. Russia has taken practically no steps in response to these actions over recent years. On the contrary, we have been engaged in constant dialogue. We asked, “why do you need this?” But if the decision to deploy missiles is made and the radar is turned on, we will have to respond, because we have received no reasonable explanation of these actions’ purpose. But you are absolutely right in noting that all of this does nothing to make Europe more secure.
Gianni Riotta: Following the conflict in Georgia, some countries that border Russia, in particular the Baltic states, Moldova and Ukraine, have expressed concern. Taken into account recent events and the American missile defence plans in the Czech Republic and Poland, how will you respond to the concerns of your closest neighbours?
Dmitry Medvedev: We are not going to respond to anyone’s concerns. We would like answers to our own concerns about NATO expansion and the emergence of a new encirclement of arms around Russia. As for our partners, as far as the Baltic states go, I think they are suffering from ‘phantom pains’. No one is threatening them. This is just their way of keeping the political elites in a bit of an excited state.
Ukraine is a separate issue. I think our closest neighbour has a perfect opportunity today to answer one simple question: what is the best way of ensuring its own security? If they think the best means of guaranteeing their security would be to join NATO, then let them give the Ukrainian public the chance to vote in a referendum for their country to join NATO. At the moment, work is going on behind the scenes, documents are being signed, but the Ukrainian public has not made its voice heard yet. Where is the democracy in this?
Finally, on Moldova, I think there is a completely different situation there. President Vladimir Voronin came here just recently and we discussed together the prospects for settlement in Trans-Dniester. I think there are good prospects for reaching a settlement. I will meet with representatives of Trans-Dniester tomorrow. This is a separate issue and an area where Russia is willing to act as a mediator.
Gianni Riotta: Some in the West are calling for Russia to be excluded from the G8. The Russian commodities exchange has reacted to this situation. Some big investors in the West are also said to be unhappy. Will Russia have to pay an economic and financial cost for this conflict?
Dmitry Medvedev: The G8 is not really viable without Russia because its decisions can be effective only if they reflect the views of the world’s leading political players. We do not fear any exclusion from the G8. Moreover, we think that there are many issues even a functioning G8 cannot effectively address without involving other countries too, and this is why all sorts of enlarged formats have been used in the G8’s work. There should be no illusions on this point. We need each other. I think election campaign technologies explain the current calls, attempts to boost one’s rating with the help of a conflict somewhere: if Iran is not enough, let’s take up the Caucasus issue. Recent events confirm this, though I am not a supporter of conspiracy theories.
As for the economy, of course the economy always suffers in a conflict. But as far the market indexes go, I think they have been hit not so much by the conflict in the Caucasus but by the situation in the world’s biggest economy – the American economy. I already said to our American partners that it would be better if they concentrated more on this area, worked on reviving their mortgage system, injecting liquidity into the financial market and simply keeping watch on stock market indicators, because war, as a rule, does not improve the situation. What is happening on our stock market is 80 percent due to the negative processes underway in America and other places that form supporting pillars of the global economy. Only 20 percent, perhaps, can be put down to the consequences of the problems that have arisen.
Gianni Riotta: Mr President, you are also Commander in Chief. Could you explain to our listeners the division of roles between you and Prime Minister Putin?
Dmitry Medvedev: This division of roles is based on the Constitution, which states the duties of the President and the Prime Minister. The situation is different to that of Italy. Italy is a parliamentary republic, while Russia is a presidential republic. The President has great powers here, including the power to decide to use the Armed Forces. This is my responsibility and in some situations I am obliged to make such decisions.
Gianni Riotta: In order to resolve the crisis in Georgia, Italy proposed holding a mediation conference in Rome. In an interview with our television programme President of Georgia Mikhail Saakashvili gave his agreement to take part. Will you come to Rome to discuss peace issues?
Dmitry Medvedev: I want to say first of all that Italy has maintained its traditionally balanced and reasonable position throughout this conflict, including during the recent European Union summit, and we are grateful to our Italian partners for this.
Second, we are ready of course to discuss all different issues at conferences and at the different international forums, but we want at the same time for the international community to remember who began the aggression [against South Ossetia], who is responsible for people’s deaths and what price has been paid for this. As for the Georgian authorities, the current regime is bankrupt in our eyes. President Mikhail Saakashvili no longer exists for us. He is a ‘political corpse’. But we are ready to discuss all different issues, including post-conflict settlement in this region.
Gianni Riotta: Thank you, Mr President.
Dmitry Medvedev: Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: September 2, 2008, 22:16
Text version