Events
Beginning of Meeting with President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko
February 3, 2008
20:23
Bocharov Ruchei, Sochi
President Vladimir Putin: Alexander Grigoryevich [Lukashenko], it is a pleasure to see you here in Sochi.
I am happy that you have found the time to take a little break here. I am sure that as Sochi’s resorts develop and preparations for the Olympic Games continue, you and others from Belarus and the other CIS countries, and from Europe and the entire world, will come to Sochi more and more often. Our plans – the development plans we showed you – are truly a large-scale undertaking.
You and I have the chance now to make use of the time you will be spending here to discuss current matters too.
I am very happy to see you and I wish you welcome.
Alexander Lukashenko: Thank you, Vladimir Vladimirovich, for the invitation to visit the new sports facilities. Frankly speaking, I was very impressed by what I have seen over these three days.
Vladimir Putin: You liked what you saw?
Alexander Lukashenko: It all looks very impressive. I have not seen anything like it elsewhere in the world. But what struck me most of all was how clean and orderly, how well run and safe for the public everything is, and the very comfortable environment, so convenient for families and children. There were certainly a lot of people there. Thank you for this opportunity.
I had a meeting with the Prime Minister and the First Deputy Prime Minister today and we discussed this very issue of building facilities. We agreed that our plans should be coordinated with you and we will tell you now about the agreements we have reached. It looks as though Belarus should probably build some facility or other for the Olympics independently. There are more than seventy facilities, after all, enough for everyone, I think. What’s important is that all the facilities be original and of a high standard.
We have presented our ideas, our builders and materials. We would like to create a little corner of Belarus for the Olympics here in Russia. Our ideas have met with a lot of interest. We agreed that we will coordinate this matter with you, and if satisfactory arrangements for both sides can be made, then we will begin this project and take part in this construction work.
I think that the facility we built with your help could be expanded in the future. It is already working today, including for the Olympics. Officials stop over there, and this is important and useful for Russia. We are prepared to expand this facility, all the more so we now have the opportunity at hand.
Vladimir Putin: The weather was just what you hoped for?
Alexander Lukashenko: There was a good snowfall just before we arrived. The weather was really fantastic.
Vladimir Putin: That’s good to hear.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: February 3, 2008, 20:23
Text versionEvents
Beginning of Talks with President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko, Prime Minister Viktor Zubkov and First Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev
February 3, 2008
20:30
Bocharov ruchei, Sochi
President Vladimir Putin: (Speaking to Prime Minister Viktor Zubkov) As I was just saying to Alexander Grigoryevich [Lukashenko] before, and as he noted himself too, our bilateral trade hit a record high of $25 billion last year. As far as I know, you discussed this in quite some detail recently with the Belarusian prime minister.
Viktor Zubkov: Our bilateral trade is indeed on the increase and I think that we can push the figure even higher than $25 billion.
Vladimir Putin: (Addressing Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko) Alexander Grigoryevich, what is your evaluation of our cooperation over the last year?
Alexander Lukashenko: Good. We were able to settle any issues that came up.
Good luck also played its part a little. As you know, food prices have jumped up all around the world and, unfortunately, they have been rising in our countries too, but people in the countryside nonetheless had the opportunity to make some extra income, and we have therefore been able to settle practically all the issues regarding supplies from Belarus.
In fact, demand is growing all the time and Russians are now proposing themselves that we sign contracts. In this area, everything is on track as far as agricultural machinery and trucks are concerned. Work is going ahead as normal.
As for the economic side of things, the situation is levelling out, but we still see rising energy prices in our country and around the world in general. We are keeping the situation under control, keeping particular close watch on some areas, regulating things where necessary. There is no alternative, after all, until the situation stabilises. I can but thank you for showing understanding with regards to these issues.
I met the day before yesterday with Sergei Stepashin [president of the Russian Chamber of Auditors]. We agreed that both control agencies would examine our border, on your side and ours, examine the situation in full, so as to be able to remove unnecessary barriers within our union state.
Vladimir Putin: There are a lot of barriers still in place today.
Alexander Lukashenko: Yes, they realise this and they are working on this issue. We instructed them last year to look into this and they have now begun work.
Vladimir Putin: (Speaking to First Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev) Dmitry Anatolyevich, do supplies from Belarus come under the Agriculture National Project?
Dmitry Medvedev: Our priority, of course, is to invest in our own agricultural sector, because that is the project’s goal – to make our agricultural sector more productive.
Vladimir Putin: No, what I mean here is when agricultural enterprises take out loans, say. Are they buying agricultural machinery from Belarus?
Dmitry Medvedev: Yes, they are, because it is of a high quality and competitively priced.
Alexander Lukashenko: The prices are two times as cheap and the quality is decent.
Viktor Zubkov: We have opened all the local dairy plants. During the autumn supplies from Belarus stopped. Now we have begun working quite well. We have our two deputy prime ministers, Sergei Naryshkin and Andrei Kobyakov, and we now have permanent commissions that are examining all the issues related to foodstuffs and agricultural equipment. A positive process is underway.
Dmitry Medvedev: Agricultural businesses are buying quite a lot of equipment now. This is a direct result of the fact that decent money is coming into the sector, sizeable investment, and the domestic market is growing.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: February 3, 2008, 20:30
Text version