Events
Dmitry Medvedev spoke about his upcoming address to the World Policy Conference in Evian in his first video address to the site's visitors
October 7, 2008
10:00
Moscow
Dmitry Medvedev: Hello, dear friends,
This is the first time I have used this method of addressing you through my site, and I want to talk about some of the urgent issues facing the world today. World Policy Conference will take place on October 8 in the French town of Evian. The heads of many European countries will be taking part. I also plan to present my views and ideas on solutions to the global problems we face today.
We all need reliable security guarantees and mutual trust. This is important for each of us, and for the whole world, in order to live and develop.
People in the world want to be confident in a decent future for them and their children, want to work in peace and calm and enjoy the comforts of civilisation. They want to have contact with each other and make their voices heard and understood. I and my fellow politicians therefore have a duty to work in constant contact with each other on finding answers to the most difficult questions.
I have said on many occasions now that the old security system has proven itself to be extremely ineffective. Existing agreements no longer reflect the real situation in the world today, as can be seen by events in Iraq, Kosovo, the Caucasus, Afghanistan and many other regions where conflicts exist.
The international politics problems and the crisis of the world financial system require urgent joint action. It is absolutely evident that the time for new decisions has come. I first spoke about the need for a new treaty on European security in June, when I was in Berlin. Since then I have discussed the need for this document with many leading world political figures, my colleagues. I believe that we now need to take the next step and discuss its concrete details.
This, and the need for joint responses to the global upheavals in the economy, is what I will talk about in Evian.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 7, 2008, 10:00
Text version