Events
Beginning of a Meeting with Chairman of the Board of Gazprom Alexey Miller
November 20, 2008
18:33
The Kremlin, Moscow
Russian President Dmitry Medvedev: Alexey Borisovich, as I understand it, you are now conducting negotiations with our Ukrainian partners to sign contracts for next year. This has to be done. We certainly are already in the run up to the new year.
The situation is a bit complicated. Of course I am referring in particular to current oil prices, the overall financial and economic situation in the world, and its consequences for our country. I wish to draw attention to the fact that our Ukrainian partners owe us a pretty substantial amount of money. I think it's in excess of 2 billion dollars, something like 2.4 billion. That is a lot of money for any state or for any company, Gazprom included. We agreed with them that the money will be paid in due course. I would like you to tell me how things are going, where the money is, and what the situation is concerning the signing of a contract for the next period. Because we have agreed: the Prime Minister [of Ukraine Yulia Tymoshenko] came to our country, we held talks, and a general agreement was reached. Is it being implemented?
Chairman of The Board of Gazprom Alexey Miller: In the last few days, we have been negotiating with a delegation from NAC [Naftogaz of Ukraine] here in Moscow. I can say that long-term contracts to supply gas to Ukraine and the long-term contract on the transit of Russian gas through Ukrainian territory are both ready to be signed. At the corporate level, we have prepared all the necessary documents. It is a long-term contract to supply gas to Ukraine and it includes a transition by 1 January 2011 to sell gas supplies to Ukraine at a price determined by a formula that has been accepted by all European countries. To date, the debt issue is not resolved, and the question that you asked — where is the money? – is apposite. The sum is absolutely astronomical, 2.4 billion dollars. However, to date there has been no progress in negotiations with the Ukrainian side concerning when we might receive this money.
Dmitry Medvedev: Then you need to take all measures available within the framework of relations between our countries. I am thinking of the ones in various treaties and administrative measures. You are in contact with our partners. Bring me up to date on how things are going because, as I recall, this is an agreement that was reached some time ago. That is, it is part of a package that was agreed to during the Ukrainian Prime Minister's visit to Russia. Is that correct?
Alexey Miller: Yes. During the time that has elapsed since the visit of the Prime Minister of Ukraine to the Russian Federation, not only has the debt not diminished – it has actually increased.
Dmitry Medvedev: I see. So as far as the debt is concerned, we have to decide once and for all and recover it whether voluntarily or forcibly, as determined by the relevant legislation that governs our bilateral relations.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 20, 2008, 18:33
Text version