We have two main goals. The first is to completely remodel our Armed Forces, develop new types of weapons and put them on combat duty so that they can be used in practical work. We will ensure the funds are available for this because it is extremely important for maintaining our Armed Forces’ combat readiness.
Our second goal, no less important but simply in a different area, is to ensure decent social conditions for our servicemen. This is a many-faceted task and it also includes wages, of course. You know that wages are due to increase as from January 1, 2009, for permanent combat ready units, and your ship is one of them. This will bring wages closer into line with the wages servicemen receive in other developed countries. Subsequently, all units will go over to this new scale of wages as they go over to permanent combat readiness in accordance with the programme we outlined and the decisions that I have approved as Commander in Chief.
The second component of the social package is housing, which we just spoke about. All the decisions regarding housing have already been taken. The main thing is to implement them on time and ensure a supply of quality housing. The housing that was made available 3–5 years ago was, unfortunately, Soviet-era small apartments, not very attractive and not very comfortable for living in. But we have already made all the agreements and taken all the decisions, and the housing being built now is all of a new kind. In the future we will continue to build housing using new technology.
Overall, of course, the social package should also cover another aspect of servicemen’s living environment, namely normal facilities and infrastructure in the military garrisons. These settlements should offer normal living conditions: schools, kindergartens – this is also very important and is something for which we need to make funds available.
So these are two plans that we have for the modernization of our Armed Forces and the Navy as well of course.
And now that we have got through the mandatory programme you can ask whatever want. As you think about what you want to ask let me say that I was very happy to tour around this aircraft carrier. Of course it makes a very powerful impression. I am here for the first time and this power is now felt everywhere. I will not speak in platitudes. We need to build new aircraft carriers. This is obviously the most important area for the future development of the Navy. This is how things are developing throughout the world: all major states with powerful defence systems and a powerful navy are doing this and we will also do so. Naturally this will not be completed in a year, but all necessary decisions on this subject will be taken.
Why do I say this? Because you serve in such a big house and you live here for a long time, away from home. Therefore it is certainly important that you benefit from normal living conditions. We went in and looked at the gym. The gym is normal, but still not ideal. Therefore I want to tell you that we will finish equipping the second part of the gym – the one underneath — with modern training equipment. If you need something else there tell me about it directly and we will do it.
Reply: Thank you.
Dmitry Medvedev: What else do you need there? Are there any ideas?
Of course you should have no doubt that the exercise machines we’ll install there will be absolutely modern and very comfortable. I myself use them a little bit so I will personally be involved in the selection. You should have no doubt that the machines will be good ones. You will all be able to go there – whoever wants to can go every day and work out everyday – and those who just want to build up their muscles a little bit can use it less.
But this is very important. Even though I already said to the Commander that simply walking around the cruiser is enough to feel like you get some exercise every day. 300 metres when you run from one side to the other, and you know that everything is fine.
Please, do you have any ideas or questions?
Go ahead, ask…
There are a lot of bosses.
Reply: We’re bothering them.
Dmitry Medvedev: Of course you are: they would ask me a question but they are afraid of you.
Reply: No, we are not that easily scared.
Dmitry Medvedev: Please, go ahead.
Question: Comrade Commander in Chief! You said that new aircraft-carrying ships will be built in Russia. And can you say approximately how long it will be before the first such ship, another beautiful aircraft carrier, will be assembled?
Dmitry Medvedev: That’s right: take the bull by the horns.
The question, in fact, is a very good one. We lost a lot in the 1990s – you are also well aware of this – and, unfortunately, did not build anything new. For that reason we now need to rebuild the very foundation of our fleet of aircraft cruisers and, in fact, the entire Navy because in addition to cruisers we also need more submarines. As a matter of fact, in the near future we will introduce two new ones and these will be very important events: Yuri Dolgoruky and Alexander Nevsky. Yuri Dolgoruky will be operational already very soon, as of next year. We are already running tests. Therefore we are rebuilding the submarine fleet.