Events
Beginning of Working Meeting with President of the Chechen Republic Ramzan Kadyrov
August 28, 2009
11:07
Sochi
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Mr Kadyrov,
Thankfully, life consists not only of difficulties, but happy events as well. A new school year will start on September 1. Is the Chechen Republic prepared for it?
President of The Chechen Republic Ramzan Kadyrov: This year, we are truly proud because we have built and restored 140 schools through a Chechen programme, and we have built 45 new schools through the federal target programme.
We are certain that no other region has prepared for this school year as well as we have. I met with school directors and with Ministry of Education officials and they all confirm that we are 100 percent ready, the schools are technically equipped, and we have all teachers we need.
This year, in Chechnya there will be over 20,000 first grade pupils, 213,000 schoolchildren, and 50,000 university students.
Our republic is progressing both economically and politically. Following your address, we are focussing on spiritual and moral education of the youth, which is an extraordinary job. Still, there are some shortcomings too, which we discussed earlier today. I am certain that we can correct all our mistakes and hence very soon you will no longer have any reason to worry about us as a troubled region.
Dmitry Medvedev: I remember when I was visiting a few years ago, you showed me a very good school in Gudermes, which had Internet access and was equipped with the latest technology. I am sure the newly built schools are also modern, convenient, well-lit, and fully ready to welcome the pupils.
Ramzan Kadyrov: All of our schools now have access to the Internet, but at times there are interruptions in communication. Nevertheless, we have computer-equipped classrooms at all our schools. Our school teachers get proper education and further training to improve their qualifications.
I think when you come to visit, you will see for yourself that there are many positive developments in our republic.
Dmitry Medvedev: Very well.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: August 28, 2009, 11:07
Text version