Events
Speech at Moscow City Day Celebrations
September 5, 2009
18:34
Moscow, Tverskaya Square
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: For many years now we have celebrated Moscow City Day, our capital’s birthday. Especially since the capital played a role in the most important events of our national history. The successes of our capital will largely determine our future as a nation.
Moscow’s unifying power and historical attraction have grown from century to century, making it the true centre of the political, business and spiritual life of our country. We often say that Moscow is a symbol for Russia. A symbol of its great destiny, unity and unique diversity and, most importantly, a symbol of constant renewal and development.
Our capital city is a city with huge prospects and tremendous opportunities. A world-class city, a centre of international development, a city with a unique internal energy.
It is interesting to live, study and work in Moscow. We are banking on active and intelligent people here, but right now, as our country is faced with accomplishing strategic goals linked to its modernisation, these people should be especially in demand.
Of course, there are difficulties involved. The economic downturn is making itself felt. Everyone is feeling it, and Moscow is no exception. But despite this, everything is being done here to mitigate the effects of the crisis and find extra opportunities to develop the city’s economy, transportation, housing and utilities sector, and social infrastructure. Very significant decisions are taken in our capital, decisions that affect every person living here. Decisions are taken to help pensioners, large families, young people, and people with disabilities. It is no accident that this year is the Year of Equal Opportunities in Moscow. Tomorrow the third Moscow Paralympic Games will open.
These are our most important social policy priorities and I am sure that it will remain this way in the future.
Dear friends, Moscow, our capital, is twinned with several cities, both in Russia and abroad. It shares deep economic, business and cultural ties with them, and has repeatedly demonstrated that it is willing to lend a hand to those who need it.
Muscovites are able to respond not only to celebratory events, but also to other people’s problems, other people's misfortunes. When the war destroyed peaceful Tskhinval, in just a year Moscow developers built a new neighbourhood in the capital of South Ossetia, a neighbourhood which, incidentally, is called Moscow. A school is already open there and two kindergartens will soon open as well. This is an example of truly human, fraternal support.
Moscow has been and remains a model for development, an example for the entire country. It is for this that we appreciate our capital city, are proud of her and love her. I am sure that we will always be proud of Moscow.
Happy holiday!
Happy City Day!
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: September 5, 2009, 18:34
Text version