Events
Beginning of Meeting with Secretary of the Security Council Nikolai Patrushev and Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoy to the Southern Federal District Vladimir Ustinov
October 30, 2009
19:25
Gorki, Moscow Region
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: I held a meeting in Stavropol on the situation in the Caucasus and the need to introduce additional material incentives for those directly involved in fighting crime and terrorism in the region, those who travel there for work assignments and are at the cutting edge of our counterterrorism efforts. I gave instructions to the Government on this point. I know that the Government has acted on these instructions. I was briefed on this matter by [Finance Minister Alexei] Kudrin. Mr Patrushev, I would like to hear about the final results.
Secretary of the Security Council Nikolai Patrushev: In accordance with the decisions at the Stavropol meeting and the instructions you issued, we have taken steps to make the law enforcement agencies’ and special services’ work more effective. The heads of these agencies met and presented proposals on the measures they think would increase effectiveness. These proposals were then summarised and coordinated with the officials responsible for the economic side of the Government. One of the measures decided on is indeed to extend the system of material incentives that used to apply to law enforcement and special services personnel working in Chechnya to other regions in the area. The relevant changes have been made to the Government resolution, and these incentives will now apply in Ingushetia, Daghestan, Karachayevo-Circassia, Kabardino-Balkaria and North Ossetia-Alania. In other words, we have extended the resolution’s provisions to cover the regions where the situation is problematic.
Furthermore, not only law enforcement and special services personnel working in these regions will qualify for these incentives, but so will those who are sent there from other regions, and this is very important. The Government will allocate 6.1 billion rubles [around 210 million USD] next year for these purposes. Given the economic crisis this is a considerable amount of money, but the Government has found ways to make this possible.
Dmitry Medvedev: As I instructed the Government and the Security Council, this money will be spent on providing greater material incentives for those involved in fighting crime and terrorism in these republics. In other words, what this means in practice is that servicemen and law enforcement officers, that is, the FSB, Interior Ministry, Investigations Committee and a few other agencies, should see their wages increase. That is the case?
Nikolai Patrushev: Yes, the Government resolution’s provisions cover all of this. Furthermore, an order has been drafted extending these incentives to staff in the Prosecutor’s Office too. The order is ready for you to sign now.
Dmitry Medvedev: Good. This is not the only step we can take, perhaps, but it is nonetheless an important measure, because many of our colleagues working in the Caucasus risk their lives daily in the fight against crime and terrorism. They need to be paid decently for their work and service. We have taken this step now and will continue to work on this matter.
I also want to inform you, and inform everyone connected to this subject, that I have signed an order increasing social welfare provisions for the children of military servicemen and the personnel of some of the law enforcement agencies, whose parents have been killed or gone missing while carrying out their professional duties. Starting from November 1 this year, these children will receive a monthly benefit of 1,500 rubles until they turn 18. If they are students, they will continue to receive this benefit until they turn 23 or until they finish their studies. This benefit will be paid monthly and will be indexed in accordance with the indexation of the wages of military servicemen and law enforcement personnel. I think this is one of the guarantees we have a duty to provide.
Nikolai Patrushev: This is a very important guarantee.
Dmitry Medvedev: Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 30, 2009, 19:25
Text versionEvents
Memory of National Tragedies is as Sacred as the Memory of Victories
October 30, 2009
12:18
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Today is the Remembrance Day of Victims of Political Repression. Eighteen years has passed since this day was inaugurated as such in our calendar.
I am convinced that the memory of national tragedies is as sacred as the memory of victories. And it is extremely important that young people have not only historical knowledge but also civic spirit. That they be able to empathize with one of the greatest tragedies in the history of Russia. Regretfully, it is not always so.
Two years ago, sociologists conducted a survey and nearly 90 percent of our young citizens aged 18 to 24, failed to name famous people who suffered or died during those years of repression. And this, of course, cannot but be disturbing.
It is impossible to imagine now the scale of terror which affected all the peoples of our country and peaked in the years 1937–1938. The Volga river of people's grief, as Alexander Solzhenitsyn called it, the endless stream of repressed at that period.
For twenty years before the World War II entire strata and classes of our society were eliminated. The Cossacks were virtually liquidated. The peasantry was expropriated (or 'dekulakised') and weakened. Intellectuals, workers and the military were subject to political persecution. Representatives of absolutely all religious faiths were subject to harassment.
October 30 is a Remembrance Day for millions of crippled destinies. For people who were shot without trial and without investigation, people who were sent to labour camps and exile, deprived of civil rights for having the 'wrong' occupation or 'improper social origin'. The label of 'enemies of the people' and 'accomplices' was then pasted on whole families.
Let's just think about it: millions of people died as a result of terror and false accusations – millions. They were deprived of all rights, even the right to a decent human burial; for years their names were simply erased from history.
But even today you can still hear voices claiming that those innumerable victims were justified for some higher national purpose.
I believe that no national progress, successes or ambitions can develop at the price of human misery and loss.
Nothing can take precedence over the value of human life.
And there is no excuse for repression.
We pay a great deal of attention to the fight against the revisionist falsification of our history. Yet somehow I often feel that we are merely talking about the falsification of the events of the Great Patriotic War.
But it is equally important not to sanction, under the guise of restoring historical justice, any justification of those who destroyed our people.
It is true that Stalin's crimes cannot diminish the heroic deeds of the people who triumphed in the Great Patriotic War, who made our country a mighty industrial power, and who raised our industry, science and culture to top global standards.
The ability to accept one's past for what it is, is the mark of mature civic culture.
It is equally important to study the past and to speak out against indifference and the desire to forget its tragic aspects. And we can only do this ourselves.
A year ago in September I was in Magadan where the Memorial Mask of Sorrow by Ernst Neizvestny made a deep impression on me. It was built not only with public funds but also with donations.
We need such commemorative centres to pass on the memory of historical experiences from generation to generation. Of course we should continue to work to find mass graves, recover the names of the victims and when necessary to ensure their vindication.
I know that subscribers to my blog are very concerned about this topic.
Without an understanding of our complex history, of the contradictory history of our country, we cannot grasp the roots of many of our problems and the difficulties of today's Russia.
But once again I would like to say: only we can resolve these problems. We need to bring up our children and foster their respect for the law, for human rights, the value of human life, and moral standards which originate in our national traditions and our religion.
Only we can preserve this historical memory and pass it on to future generations.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 30, 2009, 12:18
Text version