Events
Beginning of Meeting with Prime Minister of India Manmohan Singh
June 16, 2009
23:40
Yekaterinburg
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Mr Prime Minister,
Today's long day is at its end and it is ending on a positive note because we did a very good job at the SCO summit, the BRIC summit, and because of our bilateral meeting – we are strategic partners, countries that have very warm relations. And it is always a pleasure to finish work on such a positive note.
I would again like to congratulate you on the excellent results of the elections and your reappointment as Prime Minister of India.
Of course I would also like to say that our countries are linked by thousands, one might even say millions, of invisible ties: both business and simply human ones. And our task is to help these relations on all fronts.
I recall with pleasure my first visit to India, your warm welcome and the results we achieved. I am confident that there will be many more bright and positive moments in our relationship in the future.
Prime Minister of India Manmohan Singh (as translated into Russian): Your Excellency, India and Russia have a unique relationship that is impossible to describe in conventional terms. We have a very deep and undying love for Russia. We are grateful for all that Russia has done for us.
We remember how the Soviet Union was the first country to assist us with the industrialisation of our country. It was the first country that helped us to take advantage of our hydrocarbon potential. It was the Soviet Union, now Russia, who helped us in 1971 when U.S. President Nixon sent its seventh fleet into our waters.
I could endlessly list the many different ways in which the Soviet Union and Russia have always helped us. So we have a very emotional relationship with Russia, just as there is between our two peoples. So you are continuing a good tradition.
We are very grateful for our meeting at the bilateral level. We have very good memories of your visit. It was a very successful and memorable visit. Our good tradition of annual summits simply reinforces the very close friendly relations that exist between our two countries.
<…>
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 16, 2009, 23:40
Text version