Events
Speech at Gala Night Celebrating National Security Services Day
December 17, 2009
18:32
The Kremlin, Moscow
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Colleagues, security services veterans,
I am happy for this opportunity to personally congratulate you on your upcoming professional holiday and to wish you health, luck, and success.
The Russian security services have been and remain a key element in guaranteeing our nation’s security and sovereignty. You are in charge of preventing domestic and external threats and addressing a range of issues that all fall under the term ‘national interests’.
Your service requires not only profound knowledge, but a great deal of stamina and personal courage as well. These are precisely the qualities that have always distinguished security services officers. Today, I would like to specially say a few words of thanks to the veterans of the security services.
Next year, we will be celebrating the 65th anniversary of the Great Victory. Security agencies made their important contribution to the defeat of Nazism as their officers were among the first ones to resist the enemy strikes at the very borders of the country, they uncovered Nazis’ plots, and staged most sophisticated operations behind enemy lines. Their fearlessness and selflessness serve as an example for today’s generation of security services officers.
Comrades, colleagues,
The Government has recently taken some steps to strengthen the security forces: they now have better financial and technical support and greater operational and analytical capabilities. However, the modern world is constantly changing. There is greater competition in it for economic markets, political influence, and information dominance. The stakes in this struggle are quite high, and the competition gets tougher with every year.
The global challenges that stand before Russia today mean that we are facing some rather difficult problems; they require precise, coordinated, effective work by all the security services. Certainly, the priorities include counteraction against terrorism, combating nationalistic and religious antagonisms and extremism, and improving facilities at state borders. It is imperative for you to provide careful analysis and oversee safety at all sorts of public events. All of these are priority tasks for the security services which celebrate their professional holiday today.
I would like to particularly note that the challenges of modernising our economy, which I outlined in my Presidential Address [to the Federal Assembly], mean greater demands for ensuring economic security of our nation, protecting strategic or critical technologies, and guaranteeing steady development of our economy and its air, space, and other science-intensive industries.
Furthermore, given the dynamic processes currently taking place in the world, every security agency must accurately anticipate and essentially predict the likely consequences of the unwrapping events, always thinking several steps ahead.
Friends,
In their operation, the Russian security services must protect our national interests, the rights and freedoms of our people. They must be strong, and therefore they must be modern, effective, well-trained, and well-equipped. Active officers must be paid decent salaries that are adequate compensation for the complexity of their duties while the government must resolve their pressing social problems. We will take care of all of this.
I would like to once again sincerely congratulate you on your professional holiday. I wish you, your families, and your relatives health and prosperity.
Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 17, 2009, 18:32
Text versionEvents
Speech at Meeting on Ratification of Protocol No. 14 to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms
December 17, 2009
16:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Colleagues,
We have to consider an issue of relevance to both international law and our national interests. I refer to the ratification of the so-called Protocol No. 14 to the [European] Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. I have repeatedly discussed this matter with my foreign colleagues.
This document is quite important. It was offered for signature in 2004. Its goal was to increase the efficacy of the European Court of Human Rights due to an increase in complaints filed with that court. No doubt, as a responsible party to the Convention and all European processes, Russia also deems it necessary to further improve the performance of this institution, as it is a very important institution. However, our country is the only one that has not ratified this Protocol, and hence it has not come into effect. The reason for this is a range of collisions which we have been discussing quite actively with our partners over the course of several years.
On September 23, 2009 the State Duma passed a statement explaining the causes preventing the Protocol ratification and listed ways to resolve the problem. Subsequently, relevant consultations were held and certain solutions found. I cannot say that all of these solutions are absolutely universal, but in any case, they were reflected in official clarifications by the Secretariat of the European Court [of Human Rights] issued this November, and in a consensus resolution by the Council of Europe’s Committee of Ministers in mid-December.
Thus, there has been some convergence of our positions. I think that today we can discuss the degree to which Russia’s requirements were met, how significant this convergence was and whether it may now allow applying relevant international judgements in our country. If following the consultations among such agencies involved with the matter as the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the Presidential Executive Office we conclude that the solutions offered are generally acceptable, then I will request the State Duma to once more review this document and specifically the amendments in the interpretation thereof.
This is the topic for today’s meeting. I think that we will now share our views, and if we come to some specific conclusions, we can act accordingly.
<…>
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 17, 2009, 16:30
Text versionEvents
Speech at National Youth Winners’ Forum Proryv
December 17, 2009
15:58
Olimpiysky Sports Complex, Moscow
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Hello everyone,
Today, we are here at the Winners’ Forum. All of you – everyone present here – are winners, not only the winners of the awards presented here, but also in areas and fields where you are involved and in activities that you engage.
I am very happy to see such remarkable people standing here on this stage today. You know, when talking about youth, many older, serious people like to say things like ‘your lives are still ahead of you; you represent our future’. I must say you are also part of our present. You are already playing a very active role in the development of our nation and you are working for the good of our state. Perhaps what’s most important is for our nation to become stronger and more powerful. And this can only be accomplished by our youth.
Gathered here today is an enormous number of young people who are engaged in their favourite activities and professions – things that they enjoy doing in life. They include representatives of security agencies, people who protect our nation, as well as college students, graduate students, workers, researchers, entrepreneurs and people of arts. But all of you represent our vast and strong nation. I am very happy that we are presenting the Breakthrough awards here in this special atmosphere.
You know, we really strive hard to change our country, to make it modern and economically developed. Our progress must not be based on merely the natural resources we have in our nation, on extraction of oil and gas, although it is good that we have them. Our strength must not be based on missile arsenals alone, although it is good that we have them as they help us maintain our might, but on a modern, smart economy. Our entire state must comply with this smart economy and the state must also change on a daily basis, our political system, economy, and democratic institutions must all change. And it is up to you to demand such changes as the state will only evolve in line with your demands.
I would like to once again congratulate the winners on behalf of everyone present here, of everyone who passionately supported their fellows, of all the supporters. I would like to say that even though the Year of Youth is coming to a close, the accelerating national development will continue as it is not a result of time-framed slogans or declarations.
We will not cease our current efforts of making our nation strong and powerful. This will require your energy, the energy of young people such as the ones here today who are welcoming the winners.
I am certain that we can achieve new victories.
Congratulations. I wish you all happiness.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 17, 2009, 15:58
Text version