Events
Russia’s Role in Turbulent Times
November 13, 2009
21:00
Published in The Economist
Over the past few years the growing ambitions of “resurgent Russia” became one of the most actively debated topics in the international arena – and often the reason for concern and even alarm. Lately, as economic concerns globally proved to be a priority, the importance of this topic appears to abate. The crisis brings the opportunity to sensibly and rationally evaluate one’s own international strategies and the risks emerging from the actions of other states.
In Russia, our priority is to ensure the resumption of economic growth, and this growth should be sustainable, and based on a more balanced structure of the economy. In the course of 2010 we will continue our efforts to modernise the economy, encouraging innovation and diversification.
Globally, Russia will continue to be a reliable source of energy and other raw materials. As such, we will remain dependent on the economic well-being of our customers and countries that provide transit services for Russia’s exports. This is why Russia will continue its efforts to promote a legally binding agreement on international energy co-operation. Simultaneously, the task of modernization of the national economy requires that we remain large importers of new equipment, technology and services. In other words, Russia sees itself as part of the global trade system, and wants to build stronger, more friendly and comfortable relations with all our partners. WTO accession remains on our agenda: we hope to conclude talks in 2010.
I expect 2010 to be a turbulent year, financially and economically, both for Russia and the world: the depth of the current crisis, and the complexity of the problems that it has revealed, mean a protracted period of stabilisation and recovery. The green-shoots talk will be heard now and again, with many countries becoming the unexpected leaders of economic growth. Yet it is the quality of recovery that matters, not the pace.
In 2010 the efforts of governments will focus increasingly on post-crisis development. The foundations of a new economy will start to emerge, and I expect that a reassessment of values will precede this process. The issues of security and environmental protection, reduction in consumption of energy and other natural resources, accessibility of information, health, greater mobility – all of these will become increasingly pressing and urgent. Reflecting these challenges, government spending on research will remain a priority.
Russia will be no exception. We have already intensified our efforts to promote science and research in those fields that will be supportive of long-term sustainable development. We are also ready to invest in energy-saving technologies, research and development in the fields of nuclear power and alternative energy, further exploration of outer space, information technology, new medical technologies and medicines. It will create additional opportunities for global cooperation, and I am confident that Russia’s contribution will be in demand worldwide.
Needless to say we must rely on political and diplomatic, rather than military, tools in resolving conflicts. The role of regional cooperation will increase. The policies of the leading world powers will be more and more focused on strengthening global security, rather than securing the dominance of any particular nation. We welcome in this respect the evident willingness of the current US administration to follow this route.
It’s good to talk
Finally, a few words on the issue of global forums. Many have been saying lately that the new G20 format is replacing G8, making the latter redundant. Indeed, the G20 summits were some of the most important global events in 2009. In my opinion, there is little sense in comparing the influence of the G8 summit in Italy with the decisions of the London and Pittsburgh G20 summits. The interdependence of countries and regions means that new formats of dialogue will appear. G20 proved to be an effective format for discussion of global economic issues. However, G8 for the time being can remain the main forum for issues of international politics and security. Russia will continue to contribute to the work of both summits. Maintaining some specific summit format is not as important as creating favourable conditions for dialogue.
The experience of the past year has shown the importance of maintaining dialogue at the international level, and while it may not bring immediate results, it helps to reduce tensions and increase trust. This spirit of global co-operation must be carried into 2010. As the economic crisis in the largest economies becomes less acute, it is necessary to turn attention to tackling the global issues whose priority could have slipped over the past 18 months. We can be confident that the world has learnt from the crisis only if the work to reduce global inequality continues, if not intensifies.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 13, 2009, 21:00
Text versionWhat is the secret of APEC’s success? We can find the answer to this question in the concluding statement of the first APEC ministerial meeting that took place in November 1989 in Canberra. It emphasises that the organisation will build cooperation based on principles such as recognition of the differing social and economic systems and levels of development of the APEC’s Member Economies, voluntary choice, commitment to open dialogue and consensus, and equal respect for the views of all participants. Combining these principles has enabled APEC to stimulate investment cooperation, resolve international and regional trade issues and much more.
The dialogue on the global economic crisis further confirms the forum’s effectiveness, flexible approach and ability to make the needed responses to global change. Of course, each individual economy is battling the crisis based on its own priorities and possibilities, but it is always useful to study partner countries’ positive experience. APEC offers the tools we need to organise just this kind of active exchange of positive experience.
APEC’s agenda is not limited to economic matters alone. The forum’s participants are constantly engaged in the search for joint answers to the challenges we face today in guaranteeing security and social protection for millions of people.
Over the years, APEC has proven multi-polar diplomacy’s viability in practice. Joint efforts and equal involvement of its members in the search for solutions to our common problems is the basis of the forum’s work. I am certain that this is the guarantee of APEC’s success now and in the future.
Russia has built up invaluable experience of cooperation with its APEC colleagues since we joined the forum in 1998. We have always been actively involved in resolving the issues of greatest urgency and concern, not only at the summits and ministerial meetings, but also through the ongoing painstaking work in the forum’s various expert committees and groups. As in the other international organisations, we seek to be a reliable and responsible partner within APEC.
Russia wants Siberia and the Russian Far East to be directly involved in regional integration. We did not join APEC empty-handed. We have much to offer our partners, not just abundant reserves of oil, gas and various minerals, biological resources and fresh water, but also the no less competitive asset of the science and technology, industrial and intellectual potential that the eastern part of our country possesses.
We are open to diverse and mutually beneficial cooperation in the Asia-Pacific region. Our main reference point in this area is the preparation for Russia’s chairmanship of the forum in 2012. This honorary mission carries with it great responsibilities and comes with many obligations. We will do everything necessary to ensure that the APEC summit in Vladivostok is productive and of the highest quality.
“Sustaining Growth, Connecting the Region” is the slogan for APEC’s work this year. In Singapore, we will discuss a broad range of anti-crisis measures, most of them related to the decisions taken at their recent summit by the leaders of the G20 countries, where almost one half of APEC members took part. Discussions will examine, of course, the steps needed to reform the global financial system and make it fairer and more balanced. If we do not do this the global economy will remain in danger of more crises in the future.
Although the world has not put all the economic difficulties behind it yet, the forum will nonetheless examine optimum models for APEC’s economic development in the post-crisis period. I think this is a far-sighted and effective decision, for we need to prepare in advance for the next stage in global economic growth.
Like the other APEC leaders, I share the view that economic growth should be not only sustainable but also universal. We need to bring growth to all countries and all economic sectors, and bring its fruits to all members of society, above all the most vulnerable groups – children and the elderly, unemployed people, and people with disabilities.
I think the corporate social responsibility concept currently being discussed actively in APEC is vitally important. It has particular relevance for the companies and financial institutions receiving state support during the economic downturn period.
I also share the predominant view in APEC on protectionism in global trade. This kind of state support should be targeted and only a temporary measure. Each country makes a priority of supporting its own producers of course, but excessive protectionist barriers that create hothouse conditions for unprofitable businesses run counter to the principles of free competition and ultimately do more harm than good to a country’s business development.
Russia is ready to take part in continued regional economic integration and cooperate on other issues on the APEC agenda. We want to exchange experience and work together on innovative development and spreading the use of advanced technology and computerisation. In accordance with the commitment to the Bogor Goals – building a system of free and open trade and investment activity in the Asia-Pacific region – that we declared when we joined APEC, we will work with our partners on enhancing economic legislation, carrying out structural reform, ensuring transparency and preventing corruption, developing small businesses and micro-enterprises, and activating public-private partnerships. The review of Russia’s individual action in APEC, carried out in July 2009, showed that our country has made considerable progress in these and other areas.