Events
Beginning of Meeting with Chairman of Alfa Group Supervisory Board Mikhail Fridman
October 13, 2009
16:13
Gorki, Moscow Region
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Mr Fridman, how are things going in your consortium? What’s the situation in the enterprises that belong to your group?
chairman of the Supervisory Board of Alfa Group Consortium Mikhail Fridman: I just returned from a meeting of the Board of Directors of TNK-BP. It is the largest industrial company which we are involved with.
Dmitry Medvedev: Very directly involved.
Mikhail Fridman: For all intents and purposes, I currently have the temporary honour of being in charge of the company.
In principle, the performance results are very decent. Production has increased annually by around four percent, significantly higher than the average for the country, where there has been practically no growth and even a small decline. And we expect in the coming years to bring new fields on stream, thereby seriously increasing production – by tens of percentage points.
First and foremost we have two large deposits: the Uvat field, which we put into operation recently, and the Russkoe field. In addition, we launched a major facility upgrading programme at the Saratov oil refinery.
Although of course the crisis has affected everyone, all our companies, I can absolutely assure you that TNK-BP is in principle developing according to plan.
Dmitry Medvedev: What’s the mood among your staff, I mean among those who are involved in actual production?
Mikhail Fridman: We’ve had to lay off almost no one, and since we’ve put into operation new fields, there has even been an increase in the number of people …
Dmitry Medvedev: How many people do you have working in TNK-BP?
Mikhail Fridman: About 50 thousand. TNK-BP is a large employer, taking into account families and single-industry cities.
Dmitry Medvedev: That amounts to hundreds of thousands of people.
Mikhail Fridman: Absolutely. So I think that the mood there is very good, we are in constant contact with company representatives.
Dmitry Medvedev: Is there an opportunity to engage in investment or is it still difficult?
Mikhail Fridman: In my view, if we’re talking about the oil sector, in principle the current tax system allows making effective investments.
Less so than in previous years, but it is possible to invest and develop new projects, new fields and so on. It’s a question of management. I am confident that our companies have the resources to increase efficiency.
In this respect I think TNK-BP is one of the most efficient companies. All the same it is a joint venture, and through our foreign investors, our partners in this project we have obtained access to many new technologies. I think that today our company is one of the country’s leaders in terms of effectiveness.
Dmitry Medvedev: If it’s performing well then that benefits the country, the company and the people who work there.
For a while now I have been planning to meet with the RUIE [Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs]. I promised Alexander Shokhin [RUIE President] that we would do it. So in the near future we will be arranging this meeting.
I would like you as one of the RUIE executives to analyze how the country is now moving from a crisis phase into a developmental one, which scenarios are possible. Because of course we also need to listen to proposals from our big business representatives.
I regularly meet with small business, medium business, but you have many people working in your plants, and of course I would like to know which exit strategy you think is the right one, since this has been much discussed in a number of venues, including the G20 summits.
Mikhail Fridman: We will prepare everything for you without fail. This is a very important question that cannot be resolved without your participation. So we’ll be sure to report to you with the forecasts that we have put together.
Dmitry Medvedev: Good.
<…>
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 13, 2009, 16:13
Text versionEvents
Opening Remarks at Meeting with Security Council Members Held in Expanded Format
October 13, 2009
17:40
Gorki, Moscow Region
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Good afternoon, colleagues.
In addition to the traditional issues that we usually consider at our regular meetings of the permanent Security Council members, today we are going to look at issues we don't normally discuss in public. We need to consider some other topics about which we have already agreed in advance, including those related to the recent Chisinau summit of the CIS member states.
The summit has demonstrated its member states' interest in the development of the Commonwealth as the only structure that unites our countries, as the only institution that facilitates the development of interstate ties within the former Soviet Union, bringing together post-Soviet states. At the same time, there is a number of problems: economic issues, the problems of interstate cooperation, our joint efforts in overcoming the consequences of the global financial crisis – our Minister of Finance gave a very good report on this, triggering some real interest on the part of individual state leaders at the summit.
There are also some bilateral issues which I thought it would be appropriate to discuss, so I suggest that at the outset we talk about our response to the CIS summit, discuss certain problems that exist in foreign economic relations and in our economic cooperation with the CIS countries in general, and submit proposals. That's why I thought it appropriate to invite to this meeting our ambassadors to a number of CIS countries, namely Ukraine and Belarus.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 13, 2009, 17:40
Text versionEvents
Beginning of Meeting with U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton
October 13, 2009
11:14
Barvikha, Moscow Region
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Ms Secretary of State, U.S. colleagues,
I am very happy to meet with you again. Unfortunately, we were unable to meet during President Obama’s visit to Russia this summer, but I hope that your visit to the Russian Federation today will fill this gap between your visits to our nation. We are truly happy to welcome you.
I know that you have had productive, intensive talks with Mr Lavrov. The Russian Minister of Foreign Affairs has already briefed me on your discussion. I even had a chance earlier to watch part of your press conference, which was good.
And of course, there are several important points to note, including a symbolic one: in Zurich, you assisted together to the difficult task of finding common ground between the Turkish and Armenian sides in signing of protocols on renewing diplomatic relations, and the difficulties were successfully overcome. I see this as a great example of our coordination on international issues.
We have a bilateral agenda, too. During President Obama’s visit, we prepared a whole range of bilateral decisions and created a [U.S.-Russia Bilateral] Presidential Commission. It has begun working in a variety of areas and I hope that each of these areas will be interesting.
I believe that during this visit, you have had further discussions with some of our colleagues. This demonstrates that the level of our cooperation with the new Administration of the United States is gradually advancing.
Overall, I would like to note that the recent events – such as the summit in Pittsburgh and the United Nations General Assembly – demonstrated our common disposition toward seeking answers to various current issues on the international agenda, including very difficult ones. We discuss them openly and with interest, whether they concern the Middle East peace process, Iran, North Korea, or other matters that are relevant today in international relations. And we certainly continue promoting our bilateral relations, which, I think, have recently gained additional momentum.
Thus, I hope you have a fruitful visit to Russia. Once again, I am glad to see you. We are not meeting at the Kremlin today, but it is important to meet in different locations. President Obama visited my home, and now, we are at the state residence just outside of Moscow. Incidentally, it has its own interesting history, and a broad variety of complicated issues have been discussed here at this residence. I hope that you and I will also have a chance to discuss a wide range of topics.
U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton: Thank you very much, Mr President, for this meeting and for the invitation to come out here. It was a beautiful drive on an absolutely glorious fall afternoon, so it made this opportunity even more special.
I, too, want to express how pleased we are at the work that the bi-national commission that you and President Obama announced in July is already doing.
We are going to work hard in our sixteen working groups to come up with recommendations that we can then make to you and President Obama on a range of important issues, where we believe that we can deepen our bilateral relationship, work to benefit both of our people, as well as the leadership that we can demonstrate for the rest of the world on issues that you mentioned: Iran, North Korea, and nuclear non-proliferation and arms control – the important matters that the United States and Russia should be leading on, so that the rest of the world can see the level of cooperation and benefit from the results.
We had an excellent meeting today with Foreign Minister Lavrov and a number of your officials, and we are looking forward to really deepening and broadening this strategic relationship.
<…>
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 13, 2009, 11:14
Text version