Events
Beginning of Meeting with Israeli Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs Avigdor Lieberman
June 2, 2009
18:55
Barvikha, Moscow Region
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Mr Deputy Prime Minister, let me welcome you to Moscow. This is your first visit here in a new capacity. Congratulations on your party's success in the elections. I hope that the traditionally friendly relations that bind our nations together will be strengthened and continue to develop on all fronts.
After all, a lot depends on us. Of course we can hardly be indifferent to how things stand in Israel, a state in which a very significant number of our former citizens are now living. And of course a very great deal depends on Israel as well, since it is such a key player in the Middle East.
I would like to discuss with you all the issues that you feel are relevant to the Russian-Israeli dialogue: both bilateral and regional security issues, including the Middle East settlement, and other subjects of concern for us today, including the financial crisis. That is, assuming that it is affecting Israel as well.
Israeli Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs Avigdor Lieberman: Unfortunately it is affecting us too.
Dmitry Medvedev: But some time ago your former Prime Minister told me: “The crisis hasn’t touched us yet.” That was maybe six months ago.
Avigdor Lieberman: In point of fact, it hasn’t touched us in the literal sense, but it has had a serious indirect effect on the export sector of our economy. Most of our exports go to the United States and Europe. We have immediately felt the effects in those companies that depend on exports, where orders have fallen off sharply. Of course these are our most advanced companies, so unfortunately a chain reaction in the era of a so-called global village is inevitable.
Dmitry Medvedev: Then we have similar sorts of problems because unfortunately the Russian economy is also very much export oriented, and our exports have fallen off, so we have common problems in this regard. We can talk about this.
Avigdor Lieberman: Thank you very much for this opportunity to exchange views and to express our ideas.
From the very beginning we have seen Russia as one of our main partners in trying to reach a regional settlement and in dealing with the Palestinian issue. Indeed it is no secret that Israel has a very large Russian-speaking population, which – there’s no escaping the fact — came to Israel with its own cultural and historical baggage, its own mentality.
We will never forget that the Soviet Union was the first state to recognise Israel in 1948. Of course for us our common fight against Nazism during the Second World War is very important. In Israel there are thousands of Second World War veterans, including Heroes of the Soviet Union, who still remain in very close contact with their comrades-in-arms in Russia and around the world.
Of course in Israel part of the baggage that Russian citizens brought there is an important cultural agent. By the way this is true for more than just modern Israel: the founder and the first director of the Israeli National Theatre Habima was Yevgeny Vakhtangov. So there is much that binds us together. For these reasons of course some issues – cultural, military, political – will always be a priority for us, and we will try to resolve these issues in the most positive way possible.
The experience of recent years, including St Sergius Metochion [a pilgrimage site for the Russian Orthodox Church in Jerusalem], high level visits and cultural cooperation have of course contributed to improving relations both in the region and between our nations.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 2, 2009, 18:55
Text versionEvents
Excerpts from Working Meeting with Minister of Justice Alexander Konovalov
June 2, 2009
20:17
Gorki, Moscow Region
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Mr Konovalov, improving our country’s judicial system is still very much on the agenda. Everyone needs to do their part, including the Ministry of Justice, as one of the ministries most directly concerned by this work. The State Council Presidium held a recent meeting on the correctional system, that is, on how sentences for crimes committed are actually carried out in practice. Several recommendations were drawn up at that meeting. I would like to hear from you now what has been done so far, and what still has to be done to implement these recommendations.
Minister of Justice Alexander Konovalov: The State Council Presidium meeting at the start of the year was completely right in the problems it identified, problems that remain just as relevant now, unfortunately. The state pays too high a price at the moment for crimes committed. Even if criminals are punished fairly and with good reason, the disciplinary practices that are supposed to maintain order within the correctional labour institutions are clearly outdated and do not take into consideration aspects of society today, people’s personal circumstances, and quite simply are a hindrance to getting criminals ready to become a part of society once again. We do not think it necessary to liberalise the criminal laws. I think it is important to stress this point, because in a number of areas our criminal laws should be toughened, for crimes against minors, as you said, for example, and for some other crimes. But at the same time, there should be a greater range of sentencing options at the courts’ disposal. Unfortunately, over the last 15 years at least, the situation is such that the courts either send people to prison for real, or give them a suspended sentence, in which case the accused often does not even notice that he or she has been convicted of a crime at all. We need to place greater trust in the courts. I think that the courts are ready today overall for this and should be given greater choice in the range of sentences they can pass.
Dmitry Medvedev: When you say greater trust should be placed in the courts, you mean that there should be changes to the law making it possible for the courts to choose among a range of sentencing options? In other words, judges will have a number of sentencing options for one and the same crime.
Alexander Konovalov: The courts need to be able to take individual circumstances, the circumstances in which the crime was committed, and the current situation into account when passing the sentence. It is often said that one man commits the crime and another bears the punishment, because in between, many people rethink their attitudes to what they have done and realise their guilt. The courts should have more possibilities for choosing the most suitable sentence, including sentences that do not involve isolating the person from society.
Finally, the penitentiary system, where sentences involving isolation from society are actually carried out, is in need of serious change. As we reported to you earlier, we think that people with good prospects of becoming a normal part of the society once again should not serve their sentences together with hardened criminals. These people should benefit from a less strict regime in the detention centres, and the emphasis should be much more on education and rehabilitation work. As for those who do not want to become a normal part of our society, tougher provisions should apply to them, so as to prevent them from spreading and reproducing the criminal culture. I am talking here about imprisonment, which is used around the world.
Dmitry Medvedev: I see. When will these proposals be ready? We have already met, held special State Council Presidium meetings on this subject, even visited a prison. When will we see the results? When will all of this be on paper?
Alexander Konovalov: A number of the instructions you gave at the State Council Presidium meeting have already been carried out. The documents have been drawn up, as has a programme for developing the correctional system over the coming years. The measures I just spoke about require analysis, including criminology studies on the nature of today’s crimes, and in particular the people who make up the bulk of what we refer to as the special contingent within the prison population.
Regarding the prospects and possibilities for changing the rules and practices within the corrections system, this requires a serious study of the state of the correctional system today, its institutions, their types, location, and prison population rate. This is serious work and we hope it will be completed by the end of the summer, and we will then be able to draft specific proposals for amendments to the law.
Dmitry Medvedev: Good. I have one more question in this respect. In the Soviet Union, there was the concept of ‘especially dangerous recidivist’. Do you think we need this provision in our laws today, in some kind of amended form?
Alexander Konovalov: I think that we certainly need to separate the different groups of people within the prison population. Once people have served their sentences, there needs to be a competent assessment of to what extent they have actually reformed. There is no question of reviving the old system of administrative supervision [of dangerous criminals after their release from prison], but there certainly should be provisions for highly effective and timely work to monitor the behaviour of people who obviously did not reform during their time in prison, or who committed crimes so serious that there is a clear need for the authorities to keep watch on them for quite a long time. In this sense, reviving the status of an ‘especially dangerous recidivist’, whether under this or some other name would be a useful measure.
Dmitry Medvedev: Alright, thank you. I will think about it.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 2, 2009, 20:17
Text version