Events
Beginning of Meeting with Deputy Prime Minister Igor Sechin
January 11, 2009
18:27
Gorki, Moscow Region
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Igor Ivanovich, yesterday, you and the representatives of Gazprom signed a trilateral document, a protocol on the transit of Russian gas via Ukrainian territory. We have signed this document and in our view it sets out conditions that make it possible to resume transit. What is the situation today? Has the Russian Federation Government received the document signed by our Ukrainian partners? What do you plan to do now?
Deputy Prime Minister Igor Sechin: Dmitry Anatolyevich, as at 4 p.m. today, the Government has not yet received the document in full signed by our partners.
It is indeed the case that during the talks yesterday between Prime Minister of the Russian Federation Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin and Prime Minister of the Czech Republic (which currently holds the presidency of the European Union) Mr Topolanek procedures were agreed on for monitoring the transit of Russian gas to Europe. I signed this document on behalf of the Russian Government and Alexei Borisovich Miller [Chairman of Gazprom's Management Committee] signed it on behalf of Gazprom. These procedures were agreed upon with the European Union officials. Our Czech partners have initialed the document, for it is Energy Commissioner [Andris] Piebalgs who has to sign it on behalf of the European Union, and the Ukrainian Government and Gazprom’s partner Naftogaz are to sign it on behalf of Ukraine. We have not yet received the final document.
Dmitry Medvedev: In this context, I want you to act according to the following considerations. Our position regarding the situation that arose as a result of Ukraine’s illegal action and the theft of gas that has gone on for a considerable length of time remains unchanged. We will resume transit only on two conditions.
The first condition is that we must have a document that has been signed by all the parties and that is faithful to the text of the document drafted, approved and signed by Russia.
The second condition is the real presence of observers at the locations where monitoring will be conducted, that is to say at the Ukrainian gas measurement stations and underground gas reservoirs. If these two conditions are fulfilled, we will resume transit.
We are ready to resume transit as soon as these conditions are met. The sooner this happens, the easier it will be to resolve the problems that Ukraine has caused for European consumers and for everyone involved in this whole process. I ask you to act in accordance with these considerations and keep me regularly informed.
Igor Sechin: Yes, Dmitry Anatolyevich. Our expectation is that the document that we are waiting for will be precisely the one that was signed in Moscow. I can also inform you that yesterday, Gazprom organised a meeting with observers from European countries, and work with the observers has already begun in Russia.
Dmitry Medvedev: Good, but even if these conditions are met and transit resumes, our position will be of course that if the observers detect that gas is disappearing, that is to say being illegally siphoned off, or stolen, to put it into simple language, we will reduce the transit volumes accordingly. If this becomes a constant practice we could be forced to halt transit again. I just want you to keep this in mind and remind all the other parties involved.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: January 11, 2009, 18:27
Text versionEvents
Beginning of Working Meeting with Minister of Foreign Affairs Sergei Lavrov
January 11, 2009
21:23
Gorki, Moscow Region
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Sergei Viktorovich, yesterday a document was signed on monitoring the transit of Russian gas via Ukrainian territory. Russia has put its signature to this document. I asked for the updates from the Government today. I want to know if the document signed by Ukraine has been received yet.
Minister of Foreign Affairs Sergei Lavrov: Dmitry Anatolyevich, our representative at the European Union received the document with Ukraine’s signature today. But this signature is accompanied by a reservation that a certain declaration should be annexed to the document, and we have not received the text of this declaration. This declaration is in circulation however, and we have already seen it. Frankly, the text is very surprising because in part it contains false assertions (for example that Ukraine has no debts to Gazprom, that Ukraine did not siphon off gas, and that all of the gas Russia sent in transit to Europe was delivered) and it is half made up of provisions that simply contradict the sense of the document we and the European Union representatives have signed. Furthermore, it contains a whole series of demands that Russia deliver set volumes of gas to Ukraine.
Dmitry Medvedev: I see. I hope that the people who have signed the document with these reservations are fully aware of the legal consequences of their action. In this case we are forced to consider the document null and void. It will not be binding and we will not implement it until these reservations are withdrawn or in some other way annulled by Ukraine because these kinds of reservations cannot be seen as anything but a mockery of common sense and a violation of our earlier agreements.
This action essentially seeks to annul the agreements reached on monitoring the transit of gas. These steps are clearly provocative and destructive in nature. I therefore instruct the Government not to implement the document signed yesterday. That is my first point. Second, I want you to inform our European partners that they have ended up in a rather complicated situation, and that we would like them to talk with the Ukrainians in order to get Ukraine to withdraw its reservations.
If this is done we will not have any objections to the document’s content and its main provisions (I am referring to the document on monitoring transit) and we will be able to begin its immediate implementation. Observers have already gone to Ukraine and are ready to carry out monitoring at the necessary locations. We are ready to resume gas transit as soon as these reservations are withdrawn.
Sergei Lavrov: We will pass on this instruction to our representatives in Brussels this very day.
Dmitry Medvedev: Good, that is agreed then.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: January 11, 2009, 21:23
Text version