Events
Beginning of Meeting with Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki
April 10, 2009
20:02
The Kremlin, Moscow
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Mr Prime Minister, I am pleased to have this opportunity to meet you and welcome you here to the Kremlin. I hope that your visit to the Russian Federation will open a new page in Russian-Iraqi relations and will contribute to developing friendly multifaceted and mutually advantageous ties between our countries.
We hope that through the meetings and talks you are having today, and the talks you have already had with the Government, we can contribute to developing trade and economic cooperation, discuss various projects, quite big ones, that Russia and Iraq are considering at present, discuss developments in your country of course, and examine the question of restoring your country’s political status in full, in order to continue building up the contacts that we have today. In short, we will review all the different issues of interest to our countries.
Russia is ready to make its contribution to developing Iraq today, an Iraq on the road towards democratic development.
I wish you welcome.
Prime Minister of Iraq Nouri al-Maliki (as translated from Russian): Thank you very much, Mr President.
I want to thank you for this opportunity to meet.
We see our visit to the friendly Russian Federation as a historic visit. We also consider it important in terms of strengthening our bilateral relations on the basis of common interests and a common desire to see our relations grow.
We discussed many different issues at our meeting with the Russian Prime Minister today, issues regarding our cooperation in the energy sector, in economy, science and even in the area of security.
This visit was perhaps a little late in coming (you realise, Your Excellency, that extraordinary circumstances in our country were responsible), but we can speak today of real improvement in the situation in Iraq. The government has succeeded in stabilising the situation overall. Now, we are open to and are working in concrete fashion on strengthening and developing relations with all countries that seek to build up their ties with us.
You know, Mr President, that Iraq and Russia are bound by very close relations that go back a very long way and have developed in a wide range of fields.
As I just said, the situation in our country has stabilised and things have returned to normal. We achieved considerable results in our efforts to build a government of national unity. Today, we are ready to build on our relations with the Russian Federation, and give concrete form to the mutual desire for stronger relations between our countries. In this respect, we heard today the reaffirmation of Russia’s interest in developing these relations.
We agreed today that regular contacts and ongoing dialogue between our countries, including at expert level, is needed in order to continue developing our bilateral cooperation. In particular, we agreed in this objective to organise very soon the next meeting of the Intergovernmental Commission, which is jointly chaired by our country’s minister of foreign affairs, and by the Russian Federation’s minister of energy.
We also want to thank you for the Russian Federation’s decision to write off part of Iraq’s debt. We are interested in having Russia and Russian companies present on the Iraqi market and see them take part in various investment projects in our country.
Dmitry Medvedev: Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 10, 2009, 20:02
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko
April 10, 2009
23:29
Gorki, Moscow Region
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: You and I meet often, and that is good. It means that we can always verify our standings on a wide range of issues.
It was not too long ago that the G20 summit took place. I told you just a few things about it on the telephone, but I think it would be useful to discuss summit results, because they are relevant to the economies of nearly every country in the world, including the Russian and Belarus economies, especially since the two are very closely tied. On our bilateral agenda, there are always issues for discussion, and we have such discussions on a regular basis. I’ll say once again that I think this leads to direct, practical benefits.
I am glad to see you. Welcome.
President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko: Thank you. First of all, I would like to once again note your punctuality. You and I agreed to discuss a number of questions, and so we are meeting. I am very grateful to you for finding the time to meet, despite the fact that you have a full schedule, and that we did not have an opportunity to plan this meeting well in advance.
Indeed, I would like to say that our meetings have the effect of making our staff more active, or as you put it, keeping it tuned, so that in the run-up to our meetings many seemingly insurmountable issues are resolved. That is why such meetings are of great use for both Russia and Belarus.
I am grateful that you are able to find the time for our frequent meetings. We are, first and foremost, close as people, and it would be a shame not to meet if there is a chance for that. But since we are public figures (the fact not to be forgotten), our meetings are seen by the people as political steps. I think our meetings are to the benefit of everyone.
Dmitry Medvedev: I agree with that.
   Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 10, 2009, 23:29
Text version