Events
Beginning of Meeting with Prosecutor General Yury Chaika and Director of the Presidential Control Directorate Konstantin Chuychenko
November 10, 2009
14:32
The Kremlin, Moscow
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Last summer I issued a directive calling for an audit of state corporations. For us, these are new entities and there are a whole range of issues to be considered, so I instructed the Prosecutor General's Office and the Presidential Control Directorate to verify the status of these entities, assess efficiency of their performance, and identify any problems involved in their daily activities, in order to arrive at a clear ultimate decision on the future of this sort of corporate organisation.
I would like to hear what’s been done. Please go ahead.
Prosecutor General Yury Chaika: In line with your instruction, the Prosecutor General's Office in conjunction with the Presidential Control Directorate verified compliance of the state corporations with the respective laws. In general, their operation is in conformity with objectives set forth within the law.
However, our audit revealed that at times state corporations fail to comply with their statutory functions and purposes or engage in activities which are not envisaged in the respective federal laws on founding and operation of such corporations. We uncovered some cases of inappropriate and inefficient use by state corporations of financial and material government resources they manage. We established some facts of the state corporations breaching the legislation when performing their functions set forth upon their incorporation by respective federal laws.
As per a special federal law, Russian Corporation of Nanotechnologies [RUSNANO] was established on July 19, 2007 for the purposes of implementing projects in nanotechnology and for developing industry of nanotechnologies. Nevertheless, out of the funds of 130 billion rubles allotted to RUSNANO on November 29, 2007, which is 2 years ago, only 10 billion rubles was spent by July 1, 2009, of which 5 billion rubles was spent on the corporation’s operating performance. Hence, most of the respective government funds has not been used for its intended purposes, and has instead been placed in bank accounts as idle money.
Since RUSNANO incorporation, its Supervisory Council has approved 36 projects in nanotechnologies out of over 1,200 projects that have been submitted for consideration, and only eight projects, all of minor scale, have been actually funded.
Similar facts have been uncovered in operations of the state corporations Housing and Municipal Services Sector Reform Fund, Olympstroy, and Russian Technologies [Rostekhnologii].
Our audit revealed some facts of mismanagement and inefficient spending of the government financial and material resources by RUSNANO, Vnesheconombank, the State Deposit Insurance Agency, and Olympstroy state corporations.
There were cases of the unlawful disposal of assets allocated to state corporations. 22 criminal cases have been initiated into such unlawful alienation of assets managed by subsidiaries of Rostekhnologii, with some of these cases involving abuse of authority and deliberate bankruptcy.
As the legislation on state corporations lacks restrictions for certain decision making by their officials, and a detailed mechanism governing conflicts of interests, our audit uncovered situations of decisions being made to the benefit of the corporations’ employees or the entities affiliated with them, as was the case with RUSNANO.
State corporations are not subject to legislation on public procurement of goods, works and services, which results in a lack of transparency in orders placing and allows for tender rigging. This creates conditions for favouritism in selecting suppliers, aggravates corruption risks and consequentially causes inefficient use of allocated funds.
Such abuses have occurred in the state corporations Olympstroy, RUSNANO, the State Deposit Insurance Agency, and Rostekhnologii.
Even though state corporations have sufficient highly skilled and well remunerated specialists, substantial funds are paid to third-party companies and individuals to perform services which are within the duties of the corporations’ own employees. In particular, RUSNANO paid to Troika Dialog 130 million rubles for the works that should have been performed by the corporation itself. This also occurred at Rostekhnologii and the State Deposit Insurance Agency.
Federal laws concerning [state] corporations do not specify such basic elements as remuneration and legal status of employees, nor contain any restrictions appertaining to the specifics of their work. Left outside the legislative framework, executive bodies of state corporations allow very substantial and unjustified labour costs. This applies to RUSNANO, Housing and Municipal Services Sector Reform Fund, Olympstroy and Vnesheconombank.
In the absence of clear performance indicators, corporate employees are given unwarranted awards and bonuses, and provided with social benefits and compensation that are incommensurate with the privileges of public servants. This practice was followed at RUSNANO, Housing and Municipal Services Sector Reform Fund, Olympstroy and Vnesheconombank.
There is evidence of poor performance of executive bodies of state corporations and a merely ceremonial involvement of supervisory boards’ members. Thus, of a total of 21 meetings of RUSNANO Supervisory Council held between 2007 and 2009, 7 to 13 sessions -nearly two-thirds of all sessions — were not attended by 8 of its 15 members.
Reports of the executive bodies of state corporations are heard at meetings of the supervisory boards without prior verification of the information and data or any assessment of the feasibility of intended investments or their appropriateness. Sometimes these reports are approved by absentee ballot without the members actually being present. Thus, over the period from December 19, 2007 to September 1, 2009 the Supervisory Board of Rostekhnologii held 16 meetings, and 11 of these were held in absentia, at which more than 60 issues were considered.
There is evidence of inconsistencies between corporation purposes as identified in the federal legislation on their establishment and their actual practice. This is true for Rostekhnologii.
I think that Mr Chuychenko is now ready to report our overall conclusions.
Dmitry Medvedev: Okay. Please go ahead. What are your suggestions?
Director of the Presidential Control Directorate Konstantin Chuychenko: Further to the results of our audit we have formulated proposals that are embodied in a draft instruction. The essence of these proposals is as follows.
We believe the Government Cabinet should be requested to submit proposals on transformation of state corporations operating in a competitive environment into other sorts of organisational and legal entities, in particular into joint stock companies. Where there is no competition, the Cabinet should set a lifetime for the corporations, and in effect this period should be determined by the particular purpose of each state corporation.
The Cabinet must identify specific performance indicators for each of the remaining state corporations.
In addition, we propose to request the Cabinet to submit amendments to current legislation that would aim at ensuring transparency in the corporations’ activities, as well as at ensuring effective governmental control over their activities. These proposals are as follows.
We propose the Cabinet to be instructed to draft amendments to regulations on state corporations’ activities allowing application to the corporations of the legislation on public procurement.
Besides, we believe it is necessary to specify the legal status of state corporation employees and to subject them to certain restrictions applicable to public servants.
Dmitry Medvedev: In your opinion, what status should they have? Should their status be similar to that of private businesses employees or of public servants?
Konstantin Chuychenko: Since we assume that executives of state corporations operating in a non-competitive environment should pursue goals in the interests of the nation, we believe that the status of such executives should be similar to the status of public servants.
It is also necessary to establish a mechanism to avoid potential conflict of interests, a mechanism similar to the one that exists in the public service.
In our view, we should introduce such legal concepts as interested-party transactions and revenue intensive transactions. The examples cited by the Prosecutor General today show that, despite the fact that there have been abuses, from the viewpoint of the current corporate laws these abuses are not subject to what we might call tort law, since there is no concept of interested-party transactions, and since there have been cases of assignment of authority in which major deals were allowed to be approved by board of directors instead of supervisory board. For these reasons we believe it is necessary to introduce for state corporations the same sort of a legal concept that is applied to joint-stock companies, namely major deals or revenue intensive transactions.
Dmitry Medvedev: In other words, the degree of transparency [in state corporations] is less than in joint stock companies.
Konstantin Chuychenko: Yes, considerably less.
Dmitry Medvedev: While the transactions that occur are in their essence perfectly regular business transactions effected in the conduct of entrepreneurial activities.
Konstantin Chuychenko: Absolutely. We also propose to instruct the Cabinet to adopt provisions on government representatives serving on the supervisory boards of state corporations, which would regulate their activities, as well as their accountability to the government. We believe the remaining state corporations must be supervised by the Accounts Chamber, as well as other supervisory authorities. In our opinion, the deadline of March 1, 2010 gives sufficient time to meet this directive.
Dmitry Medvedev: Thank you. In my view, the proposals that you’ve made are quite reasonable. Of course I will look them over again.
As regards the general attitude concerning how we develop the appropriate legal institution [of state corporations], I will be ultimately defining and articulating it in my Address to the Federal Assembly.
Thank you, colleagues.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 10, 2009, 14:32
Text versionEvents
Award Ceremony for Outstanding Gun Designer Mikhail Kalashnikov
November 10, 2009
14:20
The Kremlin, Moscow
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Dear Mr Kalashnikov, colleagues,
I am very pleased to have this opportunity to congratulate you. Of course these days there has been a great deal of discussion: we've all been recalling what you've done, your glorious life. There have been a lot of different epithets used to describe the magnificent history of your work. This really is how the media are discussing your career, how you are being described on television. In effect what you have created has made Russia's weapons one of our best national brands.
The word Kalashnikov is truly one of the most famous Russian words, one of the best known things in our current life. And in all likelihood this is not a coincidence, because this kind of brilliant creative achievement is always helping our country, enabling our nation to move forward. And what you have done has long been an excellent example of how people can use their creative effort to create an impressive new sort of weapon, one that has been used for decades in our country, both the Soviet Union and Russia, and in large numbers by other countries as well. This shows just how extraordinary out nation’s creative potential is, shows what we can do. Your brilliant invention and all the work you have done to create other excellent weapons is an object lesson in how we should go on working in the future.
We are currently engaged in modernising our economy, in trying to change our lives. We really do not have enough inventions of the sort that you created, and this is true in every area of our lives. Obviously when we say we need to use you as our example, we are talking about more than just weapons, although this means our defence, our security, a very important area of our defence exports, and our military and technical policy, — we are talking about other areas as well. In my opinion, simply the fact that today we are celebrating this glorious anniversary, your 90th birthday, is for all of us an example of how a man who in his very early years took on both public and military service, has spent all his life creating weapons to defend his country, creating splendid examples of military hardware, and helping young inventors, and is still as we say serving in the ranks. Today you are celebrating your birthday with your friends and admirers, and you have a lot of them all around the world.
As a matter of fact, there are very few examples in the history of our country of the kind of achievement that you are responsible for. I mean not only the Kalashnikov rifle, but a national brand, something that gives every Russian citizen, every inhabitant of our country, a sense of pride, a sense of belonging to history and a desire to work for the future.
I would hope that a significant number of young inventors, Russian arms makers, and those who are expending their creative energies in other industries will take with you an example and will try to serve their country as selflessly as you have.
Once when we were talking, you said something that I found very memorable, to the effect that if this sort of weapon had been created abroad, perhaps your destiny would have been very different and the country would have paid you for this work in a very different way. We had a different sort of economy and different criteria for judging success in life, but you were not complaining that all your life you had served our beloved country. Any assessment of your work means recognising our nation's love for you as an Inventor with a capital “I”, an honoured citizen of our country, a patriot of our Fatherland.
Let me once again cordially congratulate you on your birthday. We very much hope that you will go on working, go on exerting yourself. I wish you long life and continued strength. I hope that the upcoming holidays, the celebration of the Kalashnikov anniversary, will really be part of Russia's national pride. I think that it is only right that on this day your Fatherland once again takes special note of your contributions. I have signed a special executive order to this effect and will now ask that it be read out.
Reading of The Order: By order of the President of Russia Mikhail Kalashnikov is hereby awarded the title Hero of Russia for outstanding service in strengthening the country's defence.
Mikhail Kalashnikov: Mr President,
You have awarded me the nation's highest honour, Russia's highest award. I have served, am serving and will continue to serve my beloved Fatherland to the end of my days. I think that in Russia we can still create new designs that will gain the world's respect and stand guard for peace and labour.
I created a weapon to defend the borders of the Fatherland. It is not my fault that it has been used where it should not have been used. It is politicians who are to blame, not the arms designer. What I have created was designed to protect our borders and that is the goal it should serve.
Thank you for all the glowing praise you have bestowed on my work. In addition to making weapons, I have worked at educating our younger generation to love their Fatherland, to respect the older generation and to respect our past. Not everything we did in the past was bad. We should rid ourselves of the bad and let the good multiply.
I have written six books about this. The most recent one has just come off the press and still smells of printer's ink. I would like to present this book to you, Mr President. If you'll allow me, here it is. It's called “All the Things Needed are Simple.”
Dmitry Medvedev: Thank you.
Let me once again congratulate you most cordially. Today there are many people here: your work colleagues, regional leaders, those who are engaged in the manufacture of arms, the Chief of General Staff, and a large number of journalists. We heartily congratulate you because you really are a hero of our country.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 10, 2009, 14:20
Text versionEvents
Speech at Police Day Celebratory Event
November 10, 2009
16:41
The Kremlin, Moscow
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Friends, colleagues,
I am very happy to be with you on this occasion. I would like to wish all staff and veterans of our nation’s law enforcement agencies health, success, and prosperity.
You have always resolved the most difficult problems of our country, which are important in order for our nation to develop as a strong, powerful state. You have upheld law and order. And today, the law enforcement agencies must protect the rights and freedoms of our citizens, their right to peacefully live and progress.
I think all of us can agree with famous statement by our outstanding writer Boris Vasiliev that being a police officer is a moral profession. The statement really is true, and it is precisely why law enforcement agencies have so much power. It is also the reason why we have such high demands toward the work of each individual officer and the entire police force.
The efficacy of your work is measured through such concrete results as the fight against crime and, to a great extent, the respect and trust of citizens, as well as the overall atmosphere in our nation. No one is as close to our people and to the frontlines of protecting their rights and interests as you are.
It is also clear that this kind of respect can only be earned through honest, selfless work and the impeccable performance of your duties. The majority of the Ministry of the Interior officers are absolutely committed to their work. We see many examples of this every day, because unfortunately, life in our country is not always as calm as we would all like it to be. We have several hotbeds of tension that are very complicated, so there are many examples of heroism by police and law enforcement officers, who sometimes sacrifice their lives in skirmishes with bandits and terrorists. These officers truly value their personal reputations, and these people – people who calmly and honestly perform their duties – are shaping the image of the police force.
The fight against crime is still one of today’s priorities. This will most likely remain a priority for the Ministry of the Interior forever, or at the very least, for a very long time.
You all know quite well firsthand that today’s crime situation is particularly complicated because of the financial crisis that is gripping our planet, which has had a major influence on the situation in our nation. We cannot allow any wrongdoers to take advantage of these difficulties. The duty to protect the health, lives, and property of honest people is an immutable edict for the police officers.
That is why the operation of law enforcement agencies must match the current situation. Police officers must make more effective use of all the most modern means available, including high-tech equipment, maintain a high level of discipline, and keep their training up-to-date.
Even though life is currently difficult, we will continue to invest money into re-equipping technical arsenal of our law enforcement agencies with most advanced devices. We will certainly gradually improve social conditions and raise social status of law enforcement officers.
Clearly, one of our greatest challenges is to prevent crimes from happening. At the same time, I must emphasise that impeccable behaviour by police officers serves as one of the best methods for deterring wrongdoing and improving our citizens’ legal culture.
We must give the issue of countering corruption our utmost attention. As you know, we have enacted respective laws and have just started to employ them. They are not ideal, but we should learn to apply them. I must tell you honestly that these efforts will not cease. In cases when it is required to swiftly amend the Criminal Code, the Criminal Procedure Code, the Administrative Violations Code, the Law On the Police Force, or any other government regulations, I will make those amendments, because life does not stop moving forward and we must create a modern police force and modern law enforcement agencies.
Our fight against terrorism also remains implacable. The bandits who are committing crimes will receive an adequate response wherever those crimes occur, particularly in the North Caucasus.
Dear friends,
Your service certainly requires extreme self-control, composure (which is a very important quality), bravery, and perseverance. It requires a readiness to risk your lives and health, as well as the ability to constantly respond to the most difficult situations.
I wish you success, and I wish you good results in your very important job. I would like to once again sincerely congratulate you, esteemed colleagues, on your professional holiday, and thank you for your service, on behalf of all Russians.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 10, 2009, 16:41
Text version