President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: I specifically decided to record this here in Africa, in Namibia, to share my impressions of my visit to Africa, to the African continent. I want to give you my impressions and, more importantly, talk about the prospects for the development of our relations with African nations.
If we look at relatively recent history, we can draw a number of conclusions. First, we have always tried to help countries in Africa. Even at a time when others were busy colonising them, we always tried to help and sometimes even fought on the side of Africans for their independence. In any event, that was the case during the Boer War.
Secondly, although we were once very active in Africa it seems that at some point we have lost interest in the development of the African continent. And now our challenge is to make up for what we have lost. What do I mean by that? We have a lot of good, exciting plans and interesting ideas about how to develop our cooperation.
Over the past few days I was able to travel across Africa from north to south. My visit to the African continent began in Egypt, where we discussed a variety of issues, starting of course with economic cooperation and ending with the Middle East settlement, the Arab-Israeli conflict. All this is very important, very complicated. And most importantly there are some things that just cannot be understood without immersing oneself in the actual atmosphere of a place. I also had the opportunity to speak to the League of Arab States, which was the first time ever and an unprecedented opportunity for the government of the Russian Federation to interact with Arab countries with whom we enjoy very friendly relations. Arab countries are an important part of the African continent.
The next stop, the next stage of my visit to the African continent was Nigeria. It is the largest nation in Africa, with a population of 150 million enjoing very different lifestyles. It is also a country that has developed rapidly of late as a result of the discovery of large deposits of oil and gas. And of course our links with Nigeria involve a whole range of projects. Some of them, such as oil and gas projects, are usually measured in billions of dollars. And for us this is not only an investment opportunity but also a business that can be carried on for years to come. Our country must play an active role on different continents; we must implement business projects, especially in oil and gas, in other countries besides Russia. If we don't, we will not be major international players in the oil and gas industry. For these reasons Nigeria was also an important destination, a very important part of my trip.
Namibia. This is where we are recording this blog. It is a fantastic country, which is practically in the south of Africa. It's winter here now and “very cold” by local standarts, with temperatures around 22–23 degrees, and at night it will probably go down to zero. The local colour is absolutely unique. But most importantly it is also a friendly country with whom we enjoy close ties. For a long time it fought for independence because it was a territory that was occupied by the former Union of South Africa. Now it is an independent nation, a nation with a small population and a vast territory. Here there are many mineral resources and a large number of projects that we would also like to develop with our colleagues.