Thanks to the cooperation of civil society, United Russia and government authorities at every level, the negative effects of the global crisis have been alleviated to a very significant degree. Of course we would all like to reduce those effects to zero, to eliminate such consequences entirely. Alas, no country in the world can do that, and we are no exception. Yet we were able to minimise the damage. The government – and by that I mean all of us here – has successfully met its social obligations, and that is what is most important.
I must stress that carrying out such commitments is of course essential but is not in itself enough. We need to ensure the resumption of economic growth and increase in incomes of our citizens. How? I spoke to this issue in my Presidential Address [to the Federal Assembly] and so there’s no point in simply repeating myself.
Nevertheless, I will say a few more words about the state in which we currently find ourselves. A backward commodity-based economy, which in the modern sense of the word can hardly be called an economy, cannot guarantee substantial and sustained national prosperity. Our social well-being is highly dependent on factors over which we have no control, on the fluctuations and vagaries of global market conditions.
True, other countries are in a similar position to some degree. But our country's dependence on global situation and foreign markets is extremely high. And this is bound up with the structure of our economy. That is why our country needs a new economy, a smart economy based on intellectual superiority and the production of highly specialised information, aimed at continuously improving our quality of life through the creation of new technology. Such an economy is crucial if Russia is to remain a global power. We simply have to create one.
This will help us achieve a decent standard of living for everyone. Really, if we remain a supplier of raw materials, we’ll just go round in circles and begin to deteriorate as a result. Therefore, to maintain its dominant position in the political system, the challenge for United Russia is clear: it must not only stabilise the situation in the country but also modernise the economy. That is your main task.
Dear colleagues,
Being the ruling party entails great responsibilities. I hope that everyone here understands that such situation is not life-long privilege. It can only be maintained by hard work, adapting to life’s changing circumstances and responding to new challenges.
United Russia is not an ordinary non-governmental organisation. Rather, it represents real political power: it is a party of leaders and managers, the party in power. Practically all our government elite are in your ranks, as well as outstanding scientists and artists, public figures and entrepreneurs, representatives of all ethnicities, professions and religions, veterans and young people. For this reason Russia’s citizens justifiably expect you to do more than simply promote modernisation, or merely party or parliamentary supervision of what happens – we have enough supervisors. Citizens have the right to demand specific results.
I believe that party representatives should play an active role in projects that have social importance such as improving energy efficiency, the domestic production of medicines, broader access to information networks, and setting up e-government.
Once again I would like to draw your attention to the need to revamp the entire system of social relations. Government bureaucracy should refocus on the search for talent individuals and encourage people to become modern citizens. Support for gifted pupils, students, stimulating the creativity of scientists and entrepreneurs – all this is the foundation of an innovative economy. It will not be established by bribes and kickbacks, but rather through the creation of new competitive advantages.
Only well-trained, prepared, modern, smart people, inventors of new products, services, and technology are capable of creating a knowledge-based economy, while government and business must be both customers and the direct consumers of these innovations. They must also provide jobs to those who can invent new things. And as you yourselves know perfectly well, thank God there are many such people in our country.
Dear colleagues and friends,
Our political system must match the interests and convictions of intellectually curious, free, enterprising, socially aware, talented people. During the first few years of the new century, we strengthened and organised the institutions of our democratic country, and succeeded in this. This year, together we took important decisions designed to modernise our country’s political system.
Now I would like to once again thank all members of United Russia who supported my proposals. I expect the same support in further work on developing democratic institutions at the regional level. I recently laid out the main vectors for this work in my Presidential Address [to the Federal Assembly]. United Russia will be able to make changes only to the extent that it can change itself – I think this is self–obvious. The party must always be modern so as not to become obsolete, keep up with life and its own voters.
Unfortunately we have to admit openly that some regional representatives of both United Russia and other parties are guilty of this. They occasionally show signs of a retrograde mentality and reduce political activity to intrigue and games. Elections are intended to be an expression of the popular will, a contest of ideas and programmes, but as a result they sometimes turn into exercises in which democratic procedures are confused with administrative ones. We must simply get rid of these people and at the same time these bad political habits as well.