Events
On Great Patriotic War, Historical Truth and Our Memory. New Video on Dmitry Medvedev's Blog
May 7, 2009
21:32
Moscow
President Dmitry Medvedev: In each of our lives there are holidays and memorable dates that are of particular importance. And there are cases when the boundaries blur, when the personal becomes public, when the general is seen as very intimate, very personal. May 9, Victory Day, is a perfect example of such a celebration. This is our common holiday, a holiday for all of us, a holiday for every Russian family. Naturally we each have our own associations with this holiday. And as a rule this is because of our close relatives, our grandparents and great-grandparents who fought, who went through the crucible of war.
Both my grandfathers fought in the war. One of them, Afanasy Fedorovich Medvedev, fought at Malaya Zemlya [a famous battle in 1943 by a small contingent of the Soviet Naval Infantry to defend a city of Novorossiysk that lasted 225 days]. And when he reminisced about that time, tears always came to his eyes, because every time he was reliving the battle. It was a period in his life that was fraught with high drama. And my other grandfather, Veniamin Sergeyevich Shaposhnikov, also fought in the war. Fortunately as it turned out they both came back from the front. I still remember when I was a child talking with both of them about the Great Patriotic War. For me at that age it was fascinating to hear them talk about both the terrible things and the very ordinary ones that characterised their experiences in the war. In this sense they were an invaluable source of information. They were my link with the war, but of course all of us have loved ones who can serve as sources of such information.
I remember when as a child I first went to the Blockade of Leningrad Museum. And of course I was shocked by the avalanche of grief caused by that blockade and the enormous, unparalleled courage shown by the residents of our city. This moment will stay in my mind forever. The same is true of some of the heartbreaking exhibits that are always on display in this museum.
In January this year I spoke with Daniil Granin [a Russian writer, best known as the author of stories about Soviet intelligentsia] when I presented him our highest state award. He talked about the lessons of that tragic time. He said that those who survived were the ones who, with no thought for their own lives or their own health, went about saving other people. There is a great truth here, a very simple truth.
Every year Victory Day takes on a new meaning. And unfortunately it is not always of a celebratory kind. We have become increasingly confronted with what have to be called historical falsifications. Moreover — and I am sure many of you have noticed this — such attempts have become increasingly determined, malicious and aggressive. It would seem that as time flows inexorably onward, it distances us further and further from the war. Nevertheless the number of interpretations of this period, some of which are very controversial, continues to grow. Why is this happening? Of course, every subject can be reinterpreted over time, but perhaps in this case it is because there are fewer and fewer people who fought in the war, who saw it with their own eyes. And this vacuum, this gap – either through ignorance or often deliberately – is being filled by a new vision, new ways of representing the war.
And indeed we find ourselves in a situation where we need to defend the historical truth, and even to reiterate those facts that have up until very recently seemed totally obvious. It is difficult to have to do this, sometimes it is actually repugnant, I have to admit. But it needs to be done.
We must not close our eyes to the terrible truth of war. And, on the other hand, we will not allow anyone to impugn the great heroism of our people.
Today those of us who are 30, 40, 50, 60 years old are in effect contemporaries of the veterans of the Great Patriotic War. It is from them that we have heard stories about what happened, I just talked about it. And of course first and foremost we congratulate them on this sacred Victory Day. However, we are the only ones who can pass on this memory to our children, our grandchildren and our great-grandchildren. And while that memory lives, Victory Day will always be one of the greatest holidays of our people.
I would like to say a few words as well to those who are under twenty. I think Vasily Klyuchevsky [a Russian historian] was absolutely right when he said that history teaches us nothing but only punishes us for not learning its lessons. That's why it is very important not just to be interested in history but to know it as well. Not so you can make a brilliant display of your knowledge with friends. You need to know it for your future and therefore for the future of our country. We must preserve our historical memory. Our shared memory.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 7, 2009, 21:32
Text versionEvents
Opening Remarks at Meeting with Great Patriotic War Veterans Awarded the Title of Hero of the Soviet Union
May 7, 2009
20:32
The Kremlin, Moscow
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Dear veterans! Dear comrades and friends!
I am very glad to be meeting with you today. Of course first and foremost I would like to congratulate you on the upcoming great holiday, Victory Day. And I want to wish everyone here long life, health, and of course a cheerful disposition. I think that on this day your moral principles and the powers of endurance that you developed during your service and that have marked your whole lives will help you to stay ‘in the ranks’ and to communicate to the young what you experienced. And I would like to thank you as well for the energy and spiritual dedication with which you carry out this work and to say how important it is for all of us.
I think that today we are going to talk about the upcoming Victory Day, about how this Victory was forged, and how it was viewed immediately after the Great Patriotic War. We will be talking about how people occasionally try to reinterpret these events. I believe that we must respond to such things. In any case, in 1945 our nation proved that nobody can impose its will on us and that any act of aggression would be fiercely repelled. I have to say that these were without doubt the most important and the most difficult events of the past century.
With us here today there are veterans of the Great Patriotic War, members of other armed conflicts and wars, and representatives of various veterans' organisations. I would also like to hear from you about your current problems and about what you think it would be appropriate to do in anticipation of the 65th anniversary of Victory.
For my part I would like to say, or perhaps it would be better to say I would like to assure you, that of course we will continue to deal with veterans' problems – obviously first and foremost social problems – related to transport, drugs and medical services, and we will work on developing high-tech medical assistance. All of this is a normal part of the state's obligations and the state will meet them. There must be no talk of cutting corners here, even in the difficult period in which we find ourselves, even in the crisis, including the economic crisis, that not just our country but the entire world is facing; on such expenses the state will not economise.
By the anniversary of the Victory the state must resolve the series of issues to which I referred, and one of the first executive orders that I signed was about housing for veterans of the Great Patriotic War. I believe that we have everything we need, including material resources, because the designated funds, including an increase required by changes in the plans concerning the size of apartments, were included in the budget. Of course we will meet all these challenges, including the challenge of providing housing, by the date that I have indicated, namely the 65th anniversary of the Victory.
We have organised this meeting because this year marks the 75th anniversary of the establishment of the title Hero of the Soviet Union. Over the years in total 13,000 people had been awarded this title, most of them — 11,695 people — for feats performed in the Great Patriotic War. And in this room today there are heroes who received their awards during the Great Patriotic War.
There is another issue to discuss. I recently signed an executive order On the ‘65th Anniversary of Victory in the 1941–1945 Great Patriotic War's Jubilee Medal. At the upcoming celebration these medals will be awarded not only to veterans from the Russian Federation but also to those from the countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States, citizens of other countries that contributed to the Victory, and those who have received awards of the Soviet Union and the Russian Federation. I think this is a just way of proceeding, because it was a very difficult page for all of us in our history, in our common history.
Dear veterans! Dear colleagues, dear comrades!
I will now ask the heads of federal ministries to say a few words. Of course I'll be giving the floor to veterans, to representatives of the Russian Association of Heroes and to leaders of veterans' organisations throughout Russia. And I hope that the ministers will be reporting on what has been done and what will be done in the lead-up to the 65th anniversary of Victory in the Great Patriotic War.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 7, 2009, 20:32
Text version