Events
Meeting with Secretaries of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation Member States’ Security Councils
May 20, 2009
18:07
Barvikha, Moscow Region
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Colleagues, we are all busy preparing for the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation summit. Your meeting, this meeting of secretaries of the SCO member states’ security councils, is part of this work.
I am sure that you have examined the most important current issues concerning security in our countries, and not just in our countries but in the different regions in which the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation works. There are a good many issues on the agenda. You are all very familiar with the problems and challenges our countries face. They include fighting crime, including drug-related crimes and offences, ensuring regional security in the context of problems affecting a number of neighbouring states, problems that also create tension in our own countries too, and a large number of other issues. Of course, the economic crisis also affects that general security situation, and also has to be taken into consideration as one of the factors that has a direct impact on security.
I am sure that you have discussed all of these different issues, and we will make use of the conclusions from these consultations at the SCO summit. I hope we will be able to go through this list of issues during today’s meeting too.
Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 20, 2009, 18:07
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Egyptian Foreign Minister Ahmed Aboul Gheit
May 20, 2009
20:35
Barvikha, Moscow Region
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Mr Minister, I am pleased to have this opportunity to meet with you and discuss the outlook for developing cooperation between Russia and Egypt in all different areas.
Our countries have really taken their dialogue to the strategic level now, and I hope that the upcoming summit will be evidence of this. I am preparing for it with great interest. I hope it will give us the opportunity to discuss economic issues, regional security, and the global situation, including issues concerning the global economy. Most importantly, I hope it will strengthen the foundations of the friendly relations between Russia and Egypt.
Egyptian Foreign Minister Ahmed Aboul Gheit (translated from Russian): Thank you very much, Mr President. It is a great honour to meet with you today. I know you are heading for Khabarovsk soon, and I wish you a successful trip. For this reason, I do not want to take up too much of your time.
We are also preparing for the Russian-Egyptian summit and consider this upcoming event very important for developing our bilateral relations and in terms of your personal contact with President of Egypt Hosni Mubarak.
My colleague, Mr Lavrov, and I have been working together on the text of the new Russian-Egyptian agreement that will cement a new level, a strategic level, in our countries’ cooperation.
Unfortunately, this is just a brief visit. We know what a busy schedule you have. I hope that after this busy trip you are about to make you will find the time and opportunity to spend a few days in Sharm el-Sheikh. If for some reason you are unable to come to Sharm el-Sheikh, I very much hope that you will visit another of Egypt’s resort areas on the Red Sea coast, where you will see a huge number of Russian tourists enjoying their holidays.
Dmitry Medvedev: Thank you for the invitation, Mr Minister. It would be a great pleasure to take a few days’ holiday, of course, and sooner or later I will certainly do so, but I think that now we need to concentrate on preparations for the summit. At the same time, I take this opportunity to ask you to pass on my warmest wishes to President of Egypt Hosni Mubarak.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 20, 2009, 20:35
Text version