Events
Beginning of Meeting with President of China Hu Jintao
November 14, 2009
16:26
Singapore
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Mr President,
I am very glad to meet you again. I greet you and welcome our Chinese colleagues.
We have met many times this year. That's good – it means that our relations are developing and that we have things to discuss. This means that almost all questions of Russian-Chinese cooperation remain in the purview of the leaders of our two countries. Your visit to Russia in June this year went very well. During that state visit, you and I discussed all the issues that have arisen between our two countries and reached real agreements. Not so long ago we met in the United States and agreed to implement a cooperation programme between Russia’s regions in the Far East and eastern Siberia and northeast China. I have already given all the orders for the implementation of these agreements.
Recently, our Prime Minister was in China and was very well received. And now the Year of Russian Language in China is coming to an end – next year is the year of Chinese language in Russia. So our relations are very dense and will, I hope, remain so. Once again I am pleased to welcome you.
President of China Hu Jintao (as translated into Russian): Mr President, I am also delighted to meet with you again. This is our fourth meeting this year; each one was very productive and acted like an important catalyst for developing Chinese-Russian relations, maintaining and developing cooperation in all fields.
Last month the 14th regular meeting between our heads of government was held in Beijing; there parties reached a number of new agreements that contributed to the new development of Chinese-Russian cooperation in trade, economic, energy and investment spheres, and in new high-tech fields as well.
As you already pointed out, all events within the Year of Russian Language in China are being completed with full success. In the very near future the 4th round of consultations between China and Russia on strategic security issues will take place in our capital, and I am sure that those consultations will have positive results.
In order to further develop our relations in this new situation, I propose that next year we focus all our attention on the following endeavours. First of all, I propose to take full advantage of high-level meetings and forums, exchange views in a timely fashion, and coordinate our positions on all critical issues that hold a common interest for us.
Next year you, Mr President, will visit China. This will be an important event in our bilateral relations. Next year, our Prime Minister Wen Jiabao will come to Russia for a visit.
We will also have many opportunities to meet on the sidelines of multilateral events.
<…>
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 14, 2009, 16:26
Text versionEvents
Excerpts from video link-up with Interior Minister Rashid Nurgaliyev and First Deputy Emergencies Minister Ruslan Tsalikov
November 14, 2009
18:54
Singapore
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: We talked yesterday about the accident which occurred in Ulyanovsk and agreed that we would touch base again today. I decided to use a video link-up which I always have with me.
Mr Tsalikov, on my behalf please thank all the fire brigades, all those who risked their lives to extinguish a fire at a time when there was a real risk of another blast, and all the rescuers who were involved in fire fighting operation and neutralising the problem. The possibility that even more dangerous incidents and serious developments could happen has remained until now. So please transmit my thanks and, if need be, make suggestions regarding those who particularly distinguished themselves.
Please thank all Interior Ministry personnel who participated in relief efforts following this incident, ensured the rule of law and order in places that were evacuated, and simply did not allow looting to occur. In fact, this is also evidence that they are able to work and have had normal training. They acted as they should in an emergency situation.
And the last thing I wanted to say: I instruct the Defence and Emergencies ministries to identify the causes of the accident at the arms depot. That is the first thing. Second, I want them to check the compliance of similar facilities with fire safety requirements and rules governing their operation. You have two weeks to do this. At that time you should submit a report signed by the relevant ministers.
Thank you once again for your prompt settlement of the situation, for the discipline you demonstrated. Please transmit my greetings to members of the Interior and Emergencies ministries. Thank you, until soon.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 14, 2009, 18:54
Text version