Events
Beginning of Meeting with Mayor of Moscow Yury Luzhkov following a Visit to the Lubyanka Metro Station, the Site of One of the Terrorist Attacks
March 29, 2010
21:52
Moscow
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: We just were down to the metro station, the site of the tragedy, the scene of the crime committed this morning. Clearly, this was very hard – it was emotionally difficult to look at.
People died. It was a disgusting criminal act that demonstrates the impotence of those who commit such crimes against ordinary citizens busy getting to work in the morning.
But now is not the time to get emotional. Our primary task is to help those who were injured – those who are currently in hospitals. And as far as I understand, such help has already been provided to a considerable degree.
Mayor of Moscow Yury Luzhkov: We dispatched all the necessary ambulances and all those injured have been taken to hospitals, ten facilities altogether. We have enough of everything – materials, doctors, blood. We have 80 tonnes of blood. I would like to report that all the necessary work is being done competently – sadly, Moscow has already had prior experience with similar unfortunate incidents.
We will be providing help to everyone who was affected by these crimes, including the families of the victims, those who sustained injuries – serious injuries as well as lighter injuries – and those who simply need support following these tragic events, this horrendous act of terrorism, which is entirely unacceptable in a civilised society.
Following your decision, this help will be provided regardless of who was a victim of these terrorist attacks. We will provide medical help, as well as financial assistance to the families of the victims, regardless of whether or not they are Moscow residents. In this regard, everything will be done in a humane, sympathetic manner.
Dmitry Medvedev: It is true that we have grown convinced that these individuals cannot even be called normal people – they are animals. Regardless of what motives they may have, their actions are a crime under any law and or any moral code.
I have no doubt that we will track them down and eliminate them all, just as we eliminated all those who were behind the Nevsky Express blast – we recently destroyed every last one of them.
But that is not the point. We cannot bring back the people we lost – that is what is most tragic and most painful, and what is most difficult for each one of us. So our task now is to explain to our citizens, to Moscow residents how to act in such a situation, and at the same time, do everything that we – the city and federal government – can, to create a modern transport control and warning system.
Today, I will give the Government instructions to work on this. Soon, I will also sign an executive order on this matter in order for us to organise this work at the national level. We cannot put up with this any longer. We have to take care of this.
As for the people who suffered, I am certain that you will provide them with all the assistance needed. Moscow has a strong and efficient medical system, and those currently in hospitals will receive good care. We will hope and pray for their recovery.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: March 29, 2010, 21:52
Text version