Events
Beginning of Meeting with Head of Russia's Border Guard Service Vladimir Pronichev
March 16, 2010
20:46
Gorki, Moscow Region
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Mr Pronichev, let's begin with an event from last year, when we visited the Kazakh section of our national border. It was in the Kurgan Region: we examined what was being done, looked at the technical equipment being used. How do things stand now? What's new?
Head of Russia'S Border Guard Service Vladimir Pronichev: We have taken steps to implement the general plan for strengthening state borders based on decisions made by the government and resolutions of Russia’s Security Council adopted in 2003. Your suggestions were fully incorporated into the new plan, and we enhanced the key areas along our border with Kazakhstan and the borders themselves.
With our colleagues from neighbouring countries, we are working together to prevent threats at remote border crossings. The equipment we currently use is manufactured domestically and developed in our design bureaus, and we believe that the hardware we use today to protect our state borders fully meets up-to-date requirements.
Dmitry Medvedev: This is a good thing: we absolutely must invest in our defence and special equipment. You demonstrated some samples of technology, although it is only fair to say that some of them still require refinement.
We ourselves know what our weaknesses are, so we need to coordinate activities with other agencies to strengthen precisely these technical and technological components, so that everything works the way it does in other countries. When a camera turns on and works for just five minutes and then goes to sleep, we both understand that it’s not the way it should be.
Nevertheless, work in this area must continue, as well as work on giving the Border Guard Service new features. I would like to inform you that to create the appropriate regulatory framework I just submitted to the State Duma some draft amendments to the Federal Law on the State Border of the Russian Federation, amending articles 30 and 35.
This draft clarifies certain wordings, keeping in mind the basic idea of the original legislation, which was reforming border troops and establishing the Border Guard Service of Russia. I hope the State Duma will consider this bill in the near future.
<…>
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: March 16, 2010, 20:46
Text versionEvents
Opening Remarks at Meeting on Overseeing Execution of Presidential Instructions
March 16, 2010
18:58
Moscow
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Dear colleagues,
We agreed some time ago to hold periodic meetings of this kind. They relate to the execution of presidential instructions. This doesn’t mean that my instructions are not being carried out if our committee doesn’t meet – of course they are, and the Government of the Russian Federation, heads of various departments and agencies, regional governors and other institutions that receive such instructions all play a part in this. But we have not yet tried this mode of working.
I think that it makes sense to meet in this format to see how instructions were carried out last year. We have some relevant statistics on which the Head of the Presidential Control Directorate [Konstantin Chuychenko] will be reporting.
In general, I think that the situation with execution of instructions is quite difficult, because despite the fact that as President I regularly receive reports from the Cabinet, the regions, and other organisations, these reports are often not particularly meaningful.
Very often these are simply formal replies: seeking to meet a certain deadline, our colleagues report that they have done so and so. For all intents and purposes – and you begin to understand this – in effect they haven’t done a thing.
Strengthening managerial discipline is without a doubt the order of the day: it is a necessity. And I hope that this kind of videoconference, this kind of meeting, will facilitate this. We will be holding them regularly, so that there will be no significant time lapses and we can look everyone taking part in the eye.
Videoconferencing gives us some very nice options. Some of our colleagues currently on the job are with us on live video from different cities and even from different countries.
In addition to strengthening managerial discipline – this need is constantly invoked because unfortunately such discipline has always been poor in Russia – we need to look at the contents of these instructions and what is actually done.
Usually these presidential instructions do not take the form of state of the art innovations; on the contrary, I often find myself signing an order that quite frankly will change absolutely nothing, will bring about nothing new, but is rather a reiteration of something we’ve already said.
In this regard, everyone here, the Presidential Executive Office, presidential plenipotentiary envoys and the Cabinet should appreciate the power of presidential instructions. We don’t need a lot of them but they must be valid and they must be strictly enforced.
Finally, the third thing that we have to discuss today is the actual form in which presidential instructions are implemented, including the introduction of electronic government and other advanced technologies related to documentation.
<…>
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: March 16, 2010, 18:58
Text version