Events
Beginning of Meeting with Vice President of the Russian Academy of Sciences and Winner of the 2000 Nobel Prize in Physics Zhores Alferov
March 15, 2010
13:07
The Kremlin, Moscow
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Mr Alferov, I offer you my sincere best wishes on your birthday. You have reached a ripe old age and are meeting this celebration in excellent physical and intellectual shape. It gives me great pleasure to congratulate you, not only as President of the Russian Federation, but also simply as a citizen of this country, because you really are one of the individuals with whose names Russia’s scientific achievements are so closely bound. The work to which you have devoted your life became one of the building blocks in Russia’s scientific capital during the Soviet period, and has remained over these last years.
You remain at the forefront of scientific work today. We are in regular contact, take part in the meetings of various scientific councils together, and discuss issues concerning the development of our Academy of Sciences, academic and applied science. The last time we met we had a rather interesting discussion, in my view, during the meeting at the Academy of Sciences. I think the fact that you take such active part in all the work going on, in these discussions, in policy making, and stand up for your point of view, is very important for our country and for you personally.
I take this occasion to congratulate you on your birthday and present to you this decoration, thus far absent from the collection of decorations you have received from our country. This is the Order for Services to the Fatherland IV degree, and with the award of this decoration you now become a full cavalier of this order. I think this is a deserved addition to the list of awards you have received. I congratulate you sincerely and propose that we carry out the presentation ceremony now.
Vice President of the Russian Academy of Sciences, Nobel Laureate Zhores Alferov: Mr President, thank you for your birthday wishes, your kind words, and for this decoration. Now I am indeed a full cavalier of this order, having earlier received the third, second and first degrees…
I think the greatest task facing our country today is indeed to revive the high-technology industry. This is a task for the country, and it also has huge importance for science, but at the same time it shows that scientific research is in demand. We have managed to preserve the Academy of Sciences as our country’s highest scientific organisation throughout these difficult years. We need to develop it now, and develop university science too, but as you are well aware, these must not become opposing objectives, but must be developed together.
Many years ago now we met and discussed development of microelectronics – one of the most important fields in scientific and technological progress. Unfortunately, we did not succeed in reaching all our goals at that time, but I think that today this field is not only the engine of scientific and technological progress, and not only a factor of social change, but is also a driving force in science and an excellent source of demand for our scientific research.
Dmitry Medvedev: Absolutely.
Zhores Alferov: I think that the kind of academic university that we have founded and developed, a research university, in essence – and we claim this title too – is precisely an example of the way we can unite science and education.
I want to make one other very important point. An old friend of mine, unfortunately a late friend now, George Porter, president of the Royal Society in London, once said that all science is applied, the only difference being that some applications emerge very quickly, while others take 50 or 100 years to emerge.
Dmitry Medvedev: Very well said indeed.
Zhores Alferov: But in the field I am talking about now the applications develop very rapidly.
Dmitry Medvedev: Practically overnight.
Zhores Alferov: So, let’s hope that with your help and the Russian Government’s help we can properly develop this field and other important areas too. For my part, I am ready to work as hard as I can on these endeavours, which I consider to be our country’s biggest priority now.
Dmitry Medvedev: We are certainly counting on your help.
Once more, I congratulate you sincerely and wish you the best of health. We will keep on working.
Zhores Alferov: Thank you.
Dmitry Medvedev: Actually, we have been meaning to get together and talk for a while now, and now we have the perfect occasion.
I think that, despite the difficulties that we have indeed faced over these years of our recent history, you are absolutely right in saying that we have managed to preserve the backbone of the Academy of Sciences. Now it is essential that we do what we discussed during the last meeting at the Academy, namely, prepare the future by bringing young talented people into science. In specific terms, what I mean is doing what we talked about actively at that meeting – offering young scientists a package of social protection measures. You have been working in science a long time now and you know that we do not always manage to hold on to talented people here. They either simply vanish somewhere or leave for abroad, unfortunately. I think that today, regardless of whatever crises are out there, our country and our economy have enough resources to resolve this problem. What do you think?
Zhores Alferov: I think this is the most important thing. But I do not think that people who have left and made successful careers abroad will return.
Dmitry Medvedev: Probably. In any case, we cannot expect to see them return on a mass scale.
Zhores Alferov: Those who have achieved success abroad will not return. As for those who have not found success abroad, perhaps they are not the ones we really need to be worrying about here. This is certainly an extremely important matter, but people will always leave. They leave even the most advanced countries in Europe.
Dmitry Medvedev: Of course, this is all part of scientific mobility, and this is essential in today’s world.
Zhores Alferov: Europe is experiencing this brain drain too. Our task is to lessen its extent. Our task is to create demand for these scientists here at home. Actually, a few of my former students, who left to set up small start-up companies abroad, are now returning and setting them up here too. But the most important thing for creating these sorts of opportunities is that there be demand in the economy and in society for the results we produce. I think this is what we need to focus on above all now.
Dmitry Medvedev: To be honest, this is the most important and also the most difficult task.
Zhores Alferov: That is true.
Dmitry Medvedev: We discussed together the issue of how to get our industry and our business sector to focus on innovation. This is not something you can do by decree, not something you can achieve just by passing laws. But we do need to create the kind of environment that will incite business to invest in new technology, new solutions.
Zhores Alferov: I am at an age now when I look back on how much time has passed, and if I take the last five-seven years, there are two things that sadden me greatly: the first was our failure to establish what would have been for its time a truly modern microelectronics company. You remember that moment.
Dmitry Medvedev: Yes, this is something we discussed.
Zhores Alferov: And the second is that we failed to take the opportunity to establish the Northwestern Division of the Russian Academy of Sciences. I was not ripe for this decision myself at that time and I reproach myself to this day for that, because we have such huge potential in the Northwest, in St Petersburg above all, and we should not always… As they say, in science we do not need a completely vertical hierarchy.
Dmitry Medvedev: That kind of vertical structure is a dangerous thing in general in science, because it could lead to orders being given that completely go against the way science works.
Zhores Alferov: I think in this respect… Well, you are from St Petersburg…
Dmitry Medvedev: There’s no denying that.
Zhores Alferov: In this area, in order to organise cooperation with the university, cooperation between science in the universities and in the Academy of Sciences, we need a certain…
Dmitry Medvedev: Organisation independence.
Zhores Alferov: That’s exactly right.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: March 15, 2010, 13:07
Text versionEvents
Speech at Meeting with Officers Appointed to Command Positions and Promoted to Senior Military (Special) Rank
March 15, 2010
14:31
The Kremlin, Moscow
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Officers, generals, and admirals,
I am happy to congratulate you on your appointments to new senior positions and on conferment of your senior and special military ranks. You are assuming your duties at a fairly dynamic time – a time when the Armed Forces are being modernised and a time of serious change within the law enforcement agencies of our nation.
Our key goal is to build a modern, effective, efficient army and a well-functioning law enforcement system. I am counting on you to be active participants in all of these processes and changes, and to achieve measurable results and success in serving your homeland and the people of our nation.
Our nation has all the necessary opportunities to create exactly this kind of Armed Forces and law enforcement system. Still, it must have all the modern instruments that will guarantee its sovereignty and national security – instruments that can help maintain international security and a strategic balance in the world.
You know well that a lot has been done recently to strengthen the Armed Forces. We have initiated a series of purchases of high tech weapons for high alert units, we are strengthening our strategic nuclear deterrent force, and we are creating an integrated aerospace defence system. Russia is regaining its status of a full-fledged maritime power. And recent events made it clear that we have correctly indentified and formulated the key tasks of giving our Armed Forces new features.
One of the main measures of effectiveness of any state is its ability to ensure security for its citizens. All of Russia’s security agencies face challenges in countering one of the most dangerous threats in modern times: terrorism. This involves particular approaches and plans, which we discussed at the recent expanded board meetings of the FSB and the Interior Ministry. Nevertheless, the situation in the North Caucasus remains complicated – I also spoke about this during my Presidential Address to the Federal Assembly last year – which means that staff at the FSB, the Interior Ministry, and other special agencies will be facing increased demands. We must continue our anti-terrorist activities in all of these areas.
The internal affairs agencies have been allotted a serious task of protecting the rights and lawful interests of our citizens. Today, the Interior Ministry is undergoing major reforms in all areas of its activity; measures are being taken to optimise the Ministry’s staff and structure and organize its functions. Naturally, all this must be done without losing any efficiency of the Ministry’s performance in the key areas of its activity, without compromising the agency’s efficiency but rather improving it. We must work really hard to detect crimes, bring order and improve safety on the roads, fight corruption with an iron fist, including inside the system, and counter criminal pressure on business. Naturally, we must also work to prevent crimes from occurring.
The Government has been instructed to approve the concept of our correctional system development until 2020; the key goal of this concept is to create a modern penal correction system, improve detention conditions for suspects and defendants and bring all criminal legislation in line with international standards. Our society expects the Federal Penitentiary Service to take effective measures for rehabilitation and subsequent social adaptation of convicts. Furthermore, we need to make greater use of punishments alternative to imprisonment.
The Federal Intelligence Service faces some very important tasks. Its analytical and operational work is a factor that significantly influences the process of making key domestic and foreign policy decisions. Foreign intelligence agencies must constantly be aware of new trends emerging around the world and keep track of the complicated processes occurring internationally.
The Federal Drug Control Service must really focus on detecting drug trafficking routes, especially at Russia’s southern borders, and curbing drug-related activities by criminal gangs. At the same time, it must work unremittingly to prevent drug use, particularly among young people. Its staff must work in collaboration with colleagues from other agencies engaged in similar tasks to create an effective national system for monitoring these processes. The Federal Protection Service also plays an important role in the functioning of the higher bodies of state power. This service must do everything to carry out its work well and effectively.
Also present today are representatives from Russia’s Ministry of Emergency Situations, which constantly and repeatedly confirms its high level of professionalism. Well-coordinated and efficient work by its rescuers was especially necessary in the aftermath of the accident at the Sayano-Shushenskaya Hydroelectric Station and during tragic events in cities throughout our nation. In addition, they are in frequent demand abroad, as our rescuers are highly regarded in other countries.
Colleagues, we will soon be celebrating a very important event in our nation’s history: the 65th anniversary of our Victory in the Great Patriotic War. 65 years ago, our grandfathers and our fathers saved our nation and the entire world from the threat of Fascism, and our nation knows no greater honour than a ‘Soldier of Victory.’ The heroic military feats and moral examples of that victorious generation remain extremely important for the patriotic education of today’s young people.
I am certain that we have all the opportunities we need to make the service in our Army, Navy, and security agencies something to be proud of, so that our people strive to take on this work, to love it, and to fulfil all of their duties with honour.
I would like to once again congratulate you on your new posts and ranks. I wish all of you success and good health!
* * *
Colleagues,
We do not often hold events of this kind in this hall, a place that is special for every person and every citizen in our nation. These events are infrequent, that’s why they always remain in people’s memories. First and foremost, they are memorable to those who receive a new military or special rank, or those appointed to a new post. But that is not the only purpose of these undertakings. Their purpose is for all of us to clearly understand the tasks that stand before each and every one of senior officers present here today, and the challenges that must be addressed by your agencies. I already spoke about this, but I want to just add one important consideration.
In recent years, in spite of our current economic problems, we have made a major, positive step forward. This does not mean that we have resolved all our problems – we still have a great deal of them, and every senior officer present here can name a significant number of troubles faced by his or her agency. But we recognise that our nation’s Armed Forces, law enforcement agencies, and special services are nevertheless better off and have greater opportunities than they did just a few years ago. Now, what can we do next? We must do more than simply maintain our recent achievements; we must also significantly improve our work.
I know that each of you has support from a large number of staff. I would like you to convey to them my wishes for success in their service as the head of state and Commander-in-Chief. We will certainly continue our policy – formulated some time ago – to support our Armed Forces, law enforcement and security agencies, because without their effective work, we cannot have an effective government, we cannot guarantee sovereignty, and therefore, we cannot ensure the security of our nation. We will continue not only to improve our professional opportunities, but to resolve social problems as well. This is extremely important for our servicemen, as well as every law enforcement or special service officer, because everyone here has their own families, and all of your subordinates have their own families, and all of them follow closely on the decisions that we are making.
It is true that we were recently able to make headway one of our more difficult problems – the problem of providing housing to servicemen – since this was one of the oldest and most complicated problems that we inherited. I would like you all to know that we will continue working in this area both in regard to our Armed Forces and our law enforcement agencies and special services. Everyone who is serving their homeland should have decent living conditions – normal conditions that correspond to those provided by the world’s leading nations. After all, Russia is a leading nation, even in spite of the fact that we are currently resolving difficult challenges in modernising our economy and creating a modern society.
I would like to once again sincerely congratulate you on this day. This truly is a special day for everyone here. I congratulate you, your families, and your loved ones, and I wish you all success in your service!
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: March 15, 2010, 14:31
Text version