Events
Beginning of Meeting with the First President of Namibia Sam Nujoma
February 5, 2010
19:08
The Kremlin, Moscow
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Mr Nujoma,
I am very pleased to see you. This time, we are meeting in Russia. In June of last year, I visited Namibia, and we had a very nice exchange of opinions on how our bilateral relations are developing, how things are going in the world, and what we can do to further expand Russian-Namibian relations.
Now, you have a very good, positive reason to be in our nation: you will be taking part in the celebrations marking the fiftieth anniversary of the People’s Friendship University of Russia. I hope that you have had some good meetings with your colleagues and friends.
I am happy to have a chance to meet with you and to continue the talks we began last time, during my trip to Namibia. I would like to welcome you to Russia with all my heart.
First President of Namibia Sam Nujoma (in Russian): Thank you, Mr President.
(In English) It is a pleasure for me and my delegation to visit you now in the Kremlin, after you visited our country. Our visit on this occasion is to renew our friendship and strengthen our friendship and future cooperation.
I was invited by the rector of Russia’s Friendship University, which used to also be known as Patrice Lumumba University. This university is now fifty years old. It was launched specifically in support of the peoples of Africa, Asia, and Latin America. And also, we in the National Liberation Movement then benefited. Most of our students studied at Russia’s Friendship University and we are really grateful for this educational support, which was denied to us in our own countries, which were occupied by the forces of colonialism and imperialism. So we are very happy to be here again.
My head of state, comrade, President Hifikepunye Pohamba of the Republic of Namibia, assigned me the task of delivering a friendship letter to you, which I believe you have already received. So he mandated me to exchange views with you on matters of common interest and commissioned trade between republic of Namibia and the Russian Federation. Already, there is initial contact at the high level – you and him – on the question of uranium exploitation.
  Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: February 5, 2010, 19:08
Text version