Events
Opening Remarks at Meeting on Investment Climate in Russia
February 2, 2010
17:34
The Kremlin, Moscow
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Colleagues,
We agreed to meet and discuss measures for and prospects of improving investment climate in Russia.
Creating comfortable investment environment is essentially the most important goal that we have yet to achieve, even though everybody here understands that investments are a crucial factor of innovative development, and one of the main variables for successfully modernising our economy. For us, this is a key challenge for the immediate future and for the upcoming years.
We have taken certain measures in this area which allowed us to maintain relative investment stability during the global financial crisis. Nonetheless, in comparison to the previous year, the overall volume of capital investments into the Russian economy has decreased by 17 percent – this is the real rate, adjusted for inflation. With the overall drop in the volume of direct foreign investments into the global economy last year, the influx of investments into Russia fell by 41 percent. Clearly, this is a saddening figure.
As a result, the share of direct foreign investments into our nation was 3.6 percent last year constituting a drop of about one percentage point against 2008 figure. If we compare it to the results of other BRIC countries, it is about average in terms of drops in direct investments – roughly speaking, things are slightly better in Brazil and slightly worse in China and India.
Still, while all of us saw a decrease in direct investments volume, the drop in Russia seems rather substantial. At the same time – and this is clear – we were able to avoid a panicked capital flight from our nation.
Thanks to our anti-crisis measures, as well as earlier decisions, we have been able to create the basic conditions for a favourable investment climate, and to ensure political and macroeconomic stability. Overall, our economy is open to investment – this is an undisputable fact.
Our national tax system is quite good and meets certain criteria of an innovative economy thus allowing for the investment activity development. I will not remind you of all its key factors, but low tax rates are certainly important. In particular, the corporate profit tax rate has been reduced to 20 percent while Russia’s personal income tax rate has been the lowest among developed economies and has not changed for the past eight years.
Furthermore, several years ago, we liberalised foreign exchange regulations, lifted restrictions on flow of capital, and reduced the number of activities requiring licenses.
The procedures for auditing small businesses (this is something we discussed extensively and made important decisions on) are now regulated more clearly, to say the least. We have not had any major breakthroughs in terms of improving procedures themselves, but it is evident we have improved the regulations.
We have established transparent rules for allowing foreigners to invest in strategic industries. This is something that was repeatedly requested of the Government of Russia by foreign investors.
Nonetheless, despite these positive shifts, investors’ assessments of our nation’s business climate is still quite poor and quite low. Furthermore, due to the recent developments, Russia’s standing in a rating of nations with favourable business environment has dropped by two further points, and we are now ranking 120th out of 183 countries – in other words, we are in the bottom third of the list.
It is imperative to overcome negative influences on our investment climate, such as our nation’s poor federal and local governance, ineffective law enforcement, corruption, economic crime, excessive administrative, technical, and information barriers, as well as high monopolisation.
Our challenge today is to effect substantial changes in each of the areas I have listed and all state and local bodies must apply consistent efforts on their respective level. I will soon convene a special meeting to discuss this issue.
We must all understand: every investment project that is blocked by bureaucracy is a loss in income and a lost opportunity to create new jobs.
A post-crisis recovery in the global economy offers favourable conditions for foreign investments growth resumption. Our economy will only be able to attract sufficient investments when the conditions for investing in Russia become better than in nations that stand as our direct competitors in attaining international capital. True, we cannot hope for some absolute improvement or offer competitive advantages once and for all, making Russia the number one choice for investments and making our nation a more attractive place. However, we are obligated to permanently improve such conditions.
Incidentally, I would like to note that our closest partners Belarus and Kazakhstan are ranked in 58th and 63rd place, respectively, in the rating of countries with favourable business environment, and, unlike Russia, they are moving up the list, which, too, is something to reflect on.
Our current goal is as follows: we must develop a set of measures to stimulate investment activity in the country. I will name several such measures, and I hope that in your speeches, you will expand on this list.
The first of these measures should be abolishing quotas on hiring highly qualified foreign specialists. Second, we must ensure timely reimbursement of VAT in major construction and export of non-primary products. Third, we must optimise mechanisms for administrating scientific research and development expenditures and we have already discussed this within the framework of the Commission for Modernisation [and Technological Development of Russia’s Economy]. Fourth, we must introduce simplified customs procedures for companies that manufacture mechanical, technical, and high-tech products. Clearly, this is only a preliminary set of measures.
I would also like to remind you that the tariff preferences we introduce in particular areas of investment apply to large companies as well.
In the past year, the Government has supported the development of large companies, specifically in the raw materials sector, as well as others. To subsidise these companies, we had to spend a significant amount of money from reserves that the government had accumulated before the crisis. These companies were therefore not only able to preserve their assets, but to acquire some new ones as well.
Thus, the government is entitled to expect that the companies which enjoyed government support will engage in investment projects and invest in modernisation of Russian economy, rather than simply continuing their earlier policies of increasing raw materials exports. For the moment, they are lying dormant, so to speak. I think that the government needs to monitor these kinds of processes accordingly.
It might also be appropriate to discuss the suggestions on attracting “long-term money” to the Russian economy – first and foremost, the private savings. This is a sophisticated issue – one that is significantly influenced by psychological factors – because it is related to trust in our economy and our policies. For the moment, this money plays a fairly small role, at least on the investment market. The reason for this is a lack of trust, as well as underdevelopment in our infrastructure and negative outlooks toward this idea on the part of the financial institutions themselves.
Finally, I would like to mention the excessive attention auditing agencies give to our most successful corporate tax-payers. No doubt, it is important to audit everyone, including those who pay lots of taxes. But it doesn’t look good when the number of inspections increases pro rata a company’s economic growth: the better the performance, the stricter the requirements and the greater the number of inspections. This is something for us to keep in mind.
That is why we have representatives from the law enforcement and auditing agencies who are participating in this meeting. I would like them to show professionalism and competency in helping to create a favourable investment climate in our nation.
This is our common challenge, regardless of everyone’s specific duties. This is the challenge for the ministers in charge of economy, for senior officials of auditing and law enforcement agencies, the Central Bank officers and for the Presidential Executive Office. We must all strive to achieve the goal.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: February 2, 2010, 17:34
Text versionEvents
Beginning of Meeting with President of Guyana Bharrat Jagdeo
February 2, 2010
18:21
The Kremlin, Moscow
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Mr President, I am glad to have this opportunity to meet with you and get to know you better.
You know our country well, and the occasion that you are here to celebrate is the anniversary of the founding of the university from which you graduated, the Peoples' Friendship University of Russia. Of course this is also an opportunity to exchange views on global concerns and international issues, as well as to discuss bilateral relations and to outline our plans for the future.
I think that this is a good opportunity to meet, get to know each other and to touch base. So I cordially welcome you and your delegation to our country. Let me say again that although you are very much at home here that in no way diminishes the relevance of this sort of meeting.
Presdient of Guyana Bharrat Jagdeo: Mr President, I wish to thank you for taking some time to meet with us. I know you must be extremely busy.
I’m very happy to be back in Russia. Russia is a second home to me. Please forgive me for not speaking in Russian, but it’s been 20 years since I left and I don’t have the confidence to do so. I’m sure that in the next few days, I’ll probably pick up some of that.
I’m really glad for the opportunity to share with you some of our thoughts, because we would like to see Russia play a greater role in our hemisphere and in the development process that’s taking place there. So I want to take the opportunity to share with you some of what is happening in the Caribbean – the 50 countries of the Caribbean.
And as you may know, Guyana will assume the chairmanship of UNASUR [Union of South American Nations] in August of this year. So Guyana is now part of the South American integration process. We will chair that body for one year, so whatever we can do to strengthen Russia’s ties with Latin America and the Caribbean, we are willing to do so.
Dmitry Medvedev: In fact, last year the development of relations between Russia, Latin America and the Caribbean was quite active. During that period I visited the four countries; delegations from Latin America and the Caribbean visited Russia; and your colleagues came too. I am glad that it is now your turn to visit.
I will continue this policy this year – we have planned several activities in Latin America. Why do I mention this? Simply because Russia is a country that has long been absent in Latin America and the Caribbean. You are well aware of what happened in the 1990s. But now we have taken the strategic decision to develop our relations with Latin America and Caribbean countries. We believe this is very important in light of the balance of powers and interests in the world. Furthermore, it will help the development of economic, social, educational processes and, incidentally, help us address a range of global challenges such as climate change. I know that you too are interested in this issue and we can talk about this as well.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: February 2, 2010, 18:21
Text versionEvents
Beginning of Meeting with Presidential Commissioner for Children’s Rights Pavel Astakhov
February 2, 2010
15:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Good afternoon. Mr Astakhov, you have worked as Presidential Commissioner for Children’s Rights for a month now. We have met and discussed various issues. Of course we’re not expecting you to summarise the results of your work but you have identified and assessed the problems that exist. I’ve read a number of your presentations, and they struck me as both reasonable and accurate responses to the problems now confronting us. On what are you planning to focus? What do you see as the most important challenges in the current situation?
Presidential Commissioner For Children’S Rights Pavel Astakhov: First of all, Mr President, I would like to thank you for the confidence that you have shown in me. This is the first opportunity I have had to do that personally, officially. During my first month in the new position, unfortunately the main priority has simply been trying to save the children. Of course I would like to focus on other areas as well. There are a lot of them, including teaching families their responsibilities, which I believe should be one of the nation’s main priorities. We often see children and teenagers who grow up with no understanding of what constitutes a responsible approach to creating a family, to raising children in a family, because unfortunately many of them have never known it themselves.
Currently we are concentrating on trying to comply with your instruction that was explicitly set out in your executive order concerning the creation of regional commissioners for children’s rights across the country. In some places the results have been positive: the first commissioners appeared in 1998, as the result of an experiment that UNICEF suggested. This was successful in various places, for example, in Kaluga and Volgograd Regions there are still such commissioners, but elsewhere they have been abolished, for example, in Yekaterinburg and St Petersburg, though St Petersburg has now created a commissioner in compliance with your order. I think we need to complete this network of commissioners as soon as possible, because they have proven to be very effective units on the ground.
Dmitry Medvedev: I imagine so. The only thing I would like to warn you against is creating a bureaucratic system of commissioners, in the vertical form we know so well. But if they comprise efficient and independent people who are not unduly influenced by the local authorities and willing to work strictly within the law to protect the interests of the child and family in the broadest sense, that would be good.
Pavel Astakhov: That is exactly the sort of people that I want in these positions, because my previous profession has made the bureaucracy totally alien to me.
Dmitry Medvedev: I hope so. This is one of our most serious problems and you need to take up arms against it.
Pavel Astakhov: Generally speaking I am not a narrow specialist in children’s rights, but the more I deal with people, with professionals, the more convinced I am that it is more important to show children sincere love and respect than it is to teach them their rights. So precisely what we need here is not so much cool, calculating people who understand what to do, but people who care passionately about this problem. There are such people.
Dmitry Medvedev: You know as well as anyone, a knowledge of the law is still a very important thing. As lawyers we both understand this. Because after all in the regions and municipalities there has been a great deal of lawlessness. Nobody respects or bothers to look at authorised documents. At best, some papers get shifted from place to place.
So if the President sets the post of Commissioner for Children’s Rights and there are commissioners working in the field who will be addressing the same subject and drum into the heads of officials and other persons involved in raising and educating children some of the basic formulas of family law, this would be no bad thing. Of course that is not in itself enough. We need to respond to the situations you’ve described, but we also need to educate.
Pavel Astakhov: I absolutely agree. The latest developments in Izhevsk about which you probably heard …
Dmitry Medvedev: I did.
Pavel Astakhov: … They just confirm that even attempts to drum these things into people’s heads are sometimes not enough. One of our commissioners works in Izhevsk. She has been talking for a whole year about the terrible situation in this boarding school, and no one has been listening. Now they are involved in extensive meetings, they are making decisions. Perhaps I’m wrong but I’m recommending on the basis of the information at my disposal that we abolish this boarding school. Because we need to save children who have not been damaged by this internal contagion.
Dmitry Medvedev: As you know, we obviously have to look into this. It is indeed a very sad thing, a very sad event. We need to look into this. You have already given the necessary signal. We need to get in touch with the Prosecutor General’s Office and come up with a final decision: what to do with this boarding school and what actions to take against those who worked there and are still working there.
So my message to you and the Prosecutor General’s Office is to continue work on this incident. Find out what you can then report back to me.
PAVEL ASTAKHOV: I’ll report to you without fail. Because God forbid that we should ever have such a situation again. It will serve as an example of what must not happen. So we need to unearth all the facts; I understand your instruction and it will be carried out.
I also have to ask you to give me time – I would say a month – in order to come up with a detailed analysis of the existing legislation, because in principle I can say that the primary legislation in place is sufficient to protect children and to monitor adoption and foster families.
So now all we need to do is review law enforcement practices and see if there are any gaps and opportunities for improvement, additions or changes to the legislation, and I would ask you to give us that opportunity. I’ll report back to you in a month on what actions still need to be taken, particularly in so far as legislation is concerned.
Dmitry Medvedev: You know, I also agree with you on this because at some point I was involved in this issue when studying and assessing the laws. Our legislation is not that bad: it is actually quite modern and up to date – we changed it in the 1990s. So when the call goes out for drafting some totally new law, we know that this all stems from illusions about the nature of legislation. But of course we must take stock of what we have and adapt things if there are some gaps that need to be filled. And of course the most important and most difficult thing is enforcement, i.e. the way the legislation on the family must function in our cities, in schools and institutions, and in our families themselves.
Pavel Astakhov: Unfortunately these laws are not always well enforced. We know that.
There’s another thing I want to say in this regard – and I am speaking here of what is currently a general trend, something I have already seen in practice – without public organisations, without NGOs, without the non-profit organisations, in particular the socially-oriented ones singled out in recent legislation, we simply cannot succeed. Because there are some places that government authorities cannot reach: we cannot look everywhere or find out to what extent every child feels safe.
Dmitry Medvedev: And rightly so that there are places the government cannot reach. This is really the task of civil society. After all, the challenge for representatives such as Commissioner for Children’s Rights is to create momentum, to respond to the most complex situations, to propose measures to improve laws and enforcement practices, but all the basic, everyday work has to be done by civil society, by non-profit organisations. This is precisely why they exist all over the world: they keep an eye on how things are going in different families. Incidentally, they are responsible for mediation of various kinds relating to children, and in this way they develop relations with parents. So the better you build relationships with non-profit organisations – especially now that we have this new legislation on socially-oriented NGOs – the easier your work will be and, most importantly, the better its results will be.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: February 2, 2010, 15:30
Text version