Events
Speech at Ceremony Presenting State Decorations to Veterans and Military Servicemen
February 19, 2010
19:49
The Kremlin, Moscow
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Dear veterans, friends,
This ceremony is taking place with Defender of the Fatherland Day just around the corner, and I want to take this opportunity to sincerely congratulate all Armed Forces veterans and servicemen on the upcoming holiday.
Here today are representatives of different generations of servicemen. Once again, I welcome today the veterans of the Great Patriotic War. We will soon be celebrating together the anniversary of victory. Back then, in 1945, you saved the world, saved our country, defended our future achievements and proved that love for the Motherland and the greatest courage and strength of spirit are what make our army invincible. For various reasons, decorations awarded to our veterans back then, during the war years, have only years later finally reached the hands of the heroes who earned them. Today’s ceremony brings this important work close to completion, and I hope we will have completed it entirely by the Victory Day anniversary.
It was a very emotional experience to open the records on decorations awarded in those years. They constitute a unique testimony to your feats of frontline courage, and it was all these personal acts of bravery that together led us to our great victory.
You serve as moral examples for educating today’s soldiers and officers. Russia’s Armed Forces, along with their high level of professionalism and ability to respond to any challenge, are strong in their martial spirit and heroic traditions. Our Armed Forces today, as in the past, stand watch over our country’s defence capability and play a very important part in ensuring international stability.
Among those decorated today I want to mention Ilyas Daudi, a veteran of the military operations in Afghanistan, and Colonel Yevgeny Fedotov, who took part in the peacekeeping operations in South Ossetia. Their courage has earned them the highest decoration – the Hero of Russia Star.
There is something else about today’s ceremony that is of great significance, even for me personally. This is an absolutely unique event in that it is the first time ever that I have had occasion to award USSR decorations. It is a great honour, and at the same time an emotional event.
The Order of the Great Patriotic War I degree is awarded to Pavel Karnaukhov, a platoon commander in the war years and participant in the battles for Pskov, Narva and Tallinn.
The Order of the Great Patriotic War II degree is awarded to Yakov Ushko. As a motorised platoon commander he took command of a company at a critical moment and held on to a tactically important line. Our veterans were awarded these high decorations back in 1945.
The Order of the Red Star is awarded to Anatoly Gorchakov, a platoon commander during the war years, and Alexander Moskalets, a rifleman in a rifle regiment. Nikolai Novikov, one of the defenders of Leningrad, was awarded the Order of the Red Star and the Medal for the Defence of Leningrad for his military services during the war years. Two medals are awarded to Lidia Bushuyeva, a nurse in a mobile field hospital. In 1944 she was awarded the Medal for Services in Battle, and in 1945 the Medal for the Taking of Konigsberg. Signaller Alexander Mikhailov was awarded the Medal for the Defence of Leningrad in 1942, and the Medal for Services in Battle in 1945.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: February 19, 2010, 19:49
Text versionEvents
Beginning of Meeting with Director of the Federal Customs Service Andrei Belyaninov
February 19, 2010
21:06
The Kremlin, Moscow
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Mr Belyaninov, we have entered a new era. I do not know if you have felt this or not. I am referring to the creation of the Customs Union with our partners, Kazakhstan and Belarus.
Of course, speaking frankly, this is a far from straightforward task. The main international documents have been approved and I have signed them as head of state. But although these documents have taken effect, we still need to work on the Customs Union’s main framework and learn how to apply the unified customs rules – the Customs Code.
What are you doing to prepare for this? What have you done so far, and what are the problems that you think still lie ahead?
Director of the Federal Customs Service andrei Belyaninov: Mr President, you could say we have probably been in the vanguard when it comes to work on establishing the Customs Union. The member countries’ customs services were the first to start working on a new regulatory base, and we were directly involved in work on the documents that were signed on November 27, 2009, I mean a unified Customs Code and common customs tariffs. All this has been done with our direct involvement. A lot of work obviously went into preparing these documents. We had not had to work at such a pace before, but the deadlines were tight and the work very important in nature. Now we see that there are still a large number of issues remaining to be settled, but the timetable we have agreed on – until July 1, 2010 – makes it possible for us to settle all of these outstanding matters regarding improvements, enhancement and simplification (with simplification being most important, of course) of customs procedures, as part of our routine work.
There are still some serious matters to sort out, such as the three customs services’ common information space. We are 99 percent in coordination with our Belarusian colleagues now, working with them online, and our computing centres are operating as they should be now. There are still some problems with our Kazakhstani colleagues, but we think these are technical issues that we expect to settle over the next few weeks and months.
We have not yet seen officially approved decisions on how customs duties will be divided between the three parties to the Customs Union. In this context, a lot depends too on the presence of customs officers on the Customs Union’s external borders, on how many Russian Customs Services representatives will be present in customs clearance centres on the union’s borders, and in what capacity they will be there. These are matters we need to sort out as soon as possible, matters for which we need to put in place the appropriate technology.
The almost 15 years of positive experience gained through the Customs Committee board of the Russian-Belarusian Union State gives us the base we need for synchronising and facilitating our work. We are examining all of the procedural issues and have learned how to make timely responses to situations so as to settle any important questions that arise as rapidly as possible. Our Kazakhstani colleagues attended the last few board meetings in 2009. We think that establishing a working body such as a Customs Union board, in which the three parties’ customs services would work together, would enable us to speed up the decision-making process and be closer to each other. This is an idea we want to get across today, and the heads of the customs services in all three countries support it, because we have learned to understand each other at the technical and executive levels.
We have been following events in Ukraine these last days. We hope that change in the political climate there might create opportunities for closer ties with our Ukrainian colleagues. To give them their due, they were among the first to initiate this integration process and the idea of a Customs Union. We have maintained working contacts with our Ukrainian colleagues throughout these years, but we would like to work more closely with them, because we have a very high level of trade between our countries. We are ready, willing and able to work together.
Dmitry Medvedev: It is my sincere hope too that the new Ukrainian leadership, the newly elected president of Ukraine, Mr Yanukovych, will make an effort to help strengthen relations, trade and economic ties in general, not just with Russia but with other countries too. I think this would be entirely in the interests of Ukrainian companies and consumers. This work had indeed already started, and if you can continue it, with the requisite political will from the Ukrainian leadership, of course, this would be a good thing.
As for preparations in general for getting the Customs Union actually up and running, this requires intensive and rapid work. You were right to note that we have set a very rapid pace. On the one hand, we have to be careful to avoid problems arising from being too hasty in introducing the common customs regulations. These kinds of problems are possible, unfortunately, including at times for our companies too, companies importing goods. In this respect we need to act swiftly to settle any issues. This concerns not just the Customs Service, of course. This concerns decisions in general in this area, the decisions that the Government and the individual ministries responsible for import policy need to make.
At the same time, we realise that giving the Customs Union real substance through these decisions, and your coordinated work with your colleagues from the Belarusian and Kazakhstani customs services, and, I hope, eventually with your Ukrainian colleagues too, will create new and far more comfortable conditions for conducting business, movement of goods, performing work and providing services. We therefore need to analyse all of these issues very thoroughly and make rapid decisions where needed. If this requires intervention at presidential level, or approval of this or that decision at intergovernmental level, I would like you to inform me of this personally, and I will discuss these matters with my partners.
Andrei Belyaninov: Yes, Mr President.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: February 19, 2010, 21:06
Text version