Kjell Dragnes: On various occasions, you emphasised the great significance of private property and spoke on state regulation, corruption, personal freedoms, etc.
In the West and in Norway, some companies have expressed discontent with regard to Russia’s development. What measures can be taken to improve this situation?
Dmitry Medvedev: I would like to make a few comments. First, I do pay increased attention to property rights protection, because the property right is one of the most essential and fundamental rights of an individual. The laws of various countries declare property rights sacred and indefeasible within the limits set by the state, but the extent of those limits is one of the most perplexed legislative questions, and not just for Russia.
Second, I can tell you that we made a fairly big step forward by codifying our civil laws and adopting a new Civil Code, the process I was personally involved in. There, property rights are now governed by absolutely the same principles and subjected to the same approaches as in most nations where the Romano-Germanic law is applied. This Civil Code is an up-to-date legislation based on the best examples of European civil laws including fundamental codes such as the Napoleonic Code, and the German Civil Code. In the 1990s, we also passed a special Property Law, which was indeed one of the first laws in modern Russia. Thus, as far as the laws are concerned, everything is absolutely fine, and this is my second point.
The third point I want to make concerns law application and enforcement and associated difficulties. First of all, such difficulties are due to the fact that law enforcement practices have not yet produced model approaches that would be understood or interpreted by both judiciary and business community identically, which is merely a matter of accumulation of precedent rulings. The second component to that, and no less important, is the understanding by business community and authorities of what a property title is per se, from the legal viewpoint. The right understanding has not a purely legal dimension, but also refers to social mentality and psychology. On numerous occasions I have explained that the Russian society has a specific view of property title which is less privy and less private than in other European nations.
It is due to the fact that communes or village communities were the core of the Russian society up until the early 20th century. Later, as you know, we completely ceased to be part of global development process with private property being nonexistent or at least declared such by the communist doctrine and only public ownership and so called personal proprietorship allowed in the country. Therefore even the social habits in this regard require certain adjustment.
Another comment concerns corruption, which indeed hinders proper law enforcement and certainly disappoints foreign businesspeople and angers our own citizens. Demands for some surplus payments above set rates, extraction of bribes for whatever action by a public servant, including actions concerning property rights or even registering property title, for land lots allotments or assignments, etc. – clearly, this affects the investment climate and the overall legal environment in the country.
And finally, I do not think that all the negative points I just made should be over-dramatised, because every institution needs to be well established and incessantly improved as well. If the property rights in Russia the way they are now were the result of a 150 years long development process that would indeed be a tragedy. But I should note that it is only twenty years since private property, property titles, property laws and judicial proceedings on property disputes exist in our country at all.
If, for example, we look at the situation with protection of property rights in the United States of America or in any European nation as it stood at the end of the 19th century, I doubt we may find it any better than that in Russia now. Why am I bringing this up as an example? These are certainly different periods in history and for Russia this is a period of transition from one economic model to another. No doubt, living in a different century means different technologies, and even somewhat different regulations, but unfortunately, the difficulties with interpretation of laws in present-day Russia are similar to those in Europe and the United States those days.
That is what I could say on the subject.
Kjell Dragnes: Perestroika began in Russia 20 years ago. At that time …
Dmitry Medvedev: I would say it began 25 years ago, if you refer to Gorbachev’s Perestroika.
Kjell Dragnes: Yes, that was Gorbachev’s Perestroika in the Soviet Union. At the time, there was a lot of talk about the Swedish or Nordic social, political and economic development model. Is it true that you were in Stockholm for some practical study?
Dmitry Medvedev: It is true. Well, I found it to be a very interesting experience. Under a respective cooperation agreement between the government of Sweden and the government of the USSR, a large group of people from Moscow and St Petersburg, including myself, was sent to Sweden in 1990.
Kjell Dragnes: So what do you think of the Nordic or Swedish Model – has its useful life come to an end?
Dmitry Medvedev: I do not want to hurt anyone and my comment may seem offensive to some state or some political forces.
I will only say this: I do not really believe in universal development models. At one point, the Soviet Union was imposing its model on others and no good came of it for those on whom it was imposed, or for the Soviet Union itself. I therefore do not really believe in the possibility of reproducing any kind of model, including the so-called Nordic, left, socialist, or quasi-socialist model that some Nordic nations have followed. Although I want to give credit for what was done, particularly in the 1970s and 1980s, especially during the period when many countries were led by Social Democrats. These are serious successes that merit respect, but in my view, this model will not operate in Russia.