Events
Speech at Ceremony Conferring the Titles of City of Military Glory on Arkhangelsk, Kozelsk, and Pskov
January 12, 2010
14:51
The Kremlin, Moscow
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Friends, veterans,
First of all, I would like to wish you a Happy New Year. I am very happy to see all of you.
This new year is a special one for our nation, because this year is the 65th anniversary of our Great Victory. Perhaps, on the eve of this Victory, we are more acutely aware of its meaning for our nation and for the entire world, as well as the historic projection of what happened during that period.
Russia will always honour the memory of those who defended our nation’s independence and who restored it from the ruins during the difficult post-war period. And we will remember and celebrate the military feats by the Cities of Military Glory, which will be awarded corresponding certificates. We already have nineteen such cities in our nation. Today, three more cities – Pskov, Kozelsk, and Arkhangelsk – will also receive this honorary title.
For centuries, Pskov served as one of Russia’s outposts. It was essentially the first city to take a blow from the foreign troops arriving from the West, and throughout its history, it has withstood many sieges. Alexander Nevsky’s victory on Chudskoye Lake was fateful for our nation and proved the unprecedented resilience of the Pskov residents. They didn’t bend their necks during the Livonian War or in the early 17th century when invaders once again surrounded the city. Pskov also fought valiantly in the Great Patriotic War. The fierce battles near this city weakened the Nazis as they headed toward Leningrad. Pskov’s partisans were a mighty threat to the fascists, and it is no accident that Hitler maintained here one of his best fortified defence lines. Finally, at the beginning of this decade, Pskov paratroopers from the famous 6th squadron performed a truly heroic feat by engaging in an uneven battle with militants in the North Caucasus to defend our nation.
Kozelsk, one of the oldest Russian cities, earned fame in the 13th century for its unparalleled heroism in its resistance to Batu Khan: this small city withstood a long siege during which the Mongolian army suffered very considerable losses, as recounted in many historical chronicles. During the years of the Great Patriotic War, Kozelsk played an important role in defending our nation and particularly in protecting our capital. During the Kaluga offensive operation, Kozelsk was the place where a large group of enemy forces was blocked, and this had strategic significance for the counteroffensive near Moscow. Today, the missile division stationed in Kozelsk defends our citizens’ peaceful life and ensures our nation’s security.
Arkhangelsk, founded by Ivan the Terrible, has always been a sensitive area of national defence as Russia’s first sea port and shipbuilding centre. It contributed to Peter the Great’s success in the Great Northern War. In the grim 1940s, the city ensured uninterrupted movement of convoys carrying freight to the front, including freight delivered as part of the so-called lend-lease. The sailors of the White Sea Flotilla honourably defended their native city, and today, their descendants – the officers and sailors of Russia’s naval forces – are defending the northern borders of our Motherland.
I would like to once again sincerely congratulate all of the veterans and residents of Pskov, Kozelsk, and Arkhangelsk on being awarded the honorary titles of City of Military Glory.
I would like to wish everyone health and success in this new year and I would like to once again remind you that little time remains before our Victory celebrations. The federal government, the municipal and regional authorities all have some very serious responsibilities to carry out in a rather short period of time in preparation for the upcoming celebrations of the Great Victory anniversary.
* * *
Friends,
The history of Russia – the history of a large and very complicated state – has never been straight or simple, nor will it ever be. Naturally, our goal is to ensure that our nation develops along a set scenario, to provide normal living conditions for all our citizens, and to make life in our country comfortable and decent. At the same time, we understand that protecting and defending a nation like the Russian Federation is a very difficult task: we have the longest-spanning border, the largest territory in the world, a truly great supply of natural resources, and most importantly, a rich diversity of people. Thus, the history of our nation has always been quite dramatic. Nevertheless, we have been able to defend our country in the most difficult situations, repelling attacks by our enemies, eliminating those enemies and helping not only ourselves but our neighbours as well, including Europe, during the Second World War.
The cities of Pskov, Arkhangelsk, and Kozelsk are three different cities that have something in common though. They are truly ancient and well-known, and today, they are being recognised as Cities of Military Glory. I am certain that their residents will see events such as this one as another demonstration of the attention our nation pays to the problems in their regions and as another acknowledgement of the heroic feats of our predecessors, but not only our predecessors.
In my opening remarks I specifically noted that there are people living in each of these cities today who just recently performed military duty and services and who did so with honour. Some of them did not return home, and naturally, we honour their memory – it is sacred to us.
So, when the mayors of these cities spoke here and said that their cities were the outposts defending the interests of our Motherland, this was no exaggeration or figure of speech. This is a historical fact.
But our task is to ensure that the glorious history of Pskov, Arkhangelsk, and Kozelsk is not limited to the heroic deeds of our ancestors, our predecessors. We ourselves must continue contributing to this history. We must work to revive Russia and we must modernise our nation, our economy, and our society. This, too, is often a very difficult goal, but the future of our nation depends on how successful we are in achieving it.
I would like to once again wish all the veterans here a happy 2010, which is a special year for our nation. My address is, first and foremost, directed to you, and I wish you health and happiness. We will do everything we can to ensure that this year is remembered as a special, an anniversary year, and to ensure that it is a happy one for every family, particularly the families of veterans.
I sincerely congratulate all the residents of Pskov, Arkhangelsk, and Kozelsk on being recognised as Cities of Military Glory and I hope that together, we will see new labour and military achievements. I count on working together and achieving excellent results.
I have visited Pskov and Arkhangelsk, but I have not yet visited Kozelsk, so I will need to go there at some point. Sooner or later, the President must visit this well-known town, which has played such an important role in our nation’s history.
I congratulate you again!
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: January 12, 2010, 14:51
Text versionEvents
Beginning of Meeting with Prosecutor General Yury Chaika
January 12, 2010
15:02
The Kremlin, Moscow
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Mr Chaika, first of all, I want to take this opportunity to offer you and everyone working at the Russian Federation prosecutor’s office my sincere congratulations on your professional holiday. The prosecutor’s office has always kept watch over the country’s interests and I hope that it will continue to do so, and in accordance with our laws will make its contribution to strengthening the law in our country, maintaining law and order, investigating crimes and other breaches of the law, and in general fulfil all of the responsibilities the law on the prosecutor’s office places upon it.
Please pass on my warmest congratulations to your colleagues. I have many friends working in the prosecutor’s office. At one time I also had the offer to work in the prosecutor’s office, but back then I chose to follow an academic career instead. Perhaps I should have taken up the offer.
Apart from congratulating you, I wanted to remind you that I just recently signed a law on amending the tax legislation and criminal legislation regarding criminal prosecution of people who have committed tax crimes. I remind you that under these amendments people in such cases should be placed in detention only in strictly limited circumstances. In other words, as we discussed earlier, the idea is to apply other preventive measures in such cases.
I ask you to take the needed steps to oversee compliance with this law. We will continue to improve our criminal policy, criminal procedure and corrections law, including by moving in the direction that we discussed together just before the New Year. Proposals resulting from that meeting are in the process of being drafted right now. But I wanted to draw your attention to this particular law that I have already signed.
Prosecutor General Yury Chaika: Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I thank you sincerely for your congratulations and for taking the opportunity on this day of such significance for the Russian prosecutor’s office to congratulate the many thousands of people who make up its team.
You are absolutely right. For practically 300 years now the Russian prosecutor’s office has been entirely at the service of the country and the people, and this past year was no exception. We worked on resolving many of the key tasks you set on strengthening the law in our country, stepping up the fight against crime, terrorism and extremism, protecting people’s rights, especially labour rights, the rights of vulnerable groups of the population, and also small and medium business. In other words, we worked on many issues of importance for ordinary people and for our society as a whole.
Over the last year, the prosecutor’s office has brought to light more than 5 million breaches of the law, including 1.5 million in the social sector, more than 250,000 breaches of anti-corruption laws, and more than 2 million breaches of the law in areas such as inquiry, investigation and operational investigation activity. This work has enabled us to redress violations of millions of people’s rights. More than 2 million people came to us with their complaints and the prosecutor’s office gave satisfaction in a quarter of all cases, acting rapidly to redress people’s violated rights at no cost.
We produced some good results in cases of late wage payments: 4 billion rubles were returned to our citizens after the prosecutor’s office intervened and 26,000 criminal cases were opened following the checks we made.
The final task we worked on last year was to draw up a single comprehensive programme for inspections of small and medium business in 2010 based on the law on small and medium businesses that was adopted. This was a new undertaking for us. We had to analyse the statistics on inspections carried out by the supervisory bodies over the last five years. In other words, we had a huge amount of information to examine.
Furthermore, today, we have 4.2 million small and medium businesses registered as legal entities, and 3.9 million registered individual entrepreneurs. We analysed all of this information. We received 1.2 million proposals from the supervisory bodies for carrying out scheduled inspections in 2010. We excluded 570,000 of these as not conforming to the law and gave our approval to only 630,000 scheduled inspections over this year.
As for the tasks that you set, for example, on a more balanced approach to investigating criminal cases concerning tax law violations, these cases amount to only a drop in the ocean, a little more than 4,000 cases for the year as a whole. You are absolutely right. We need to take a very balanced approach to choosing the measures we apply in such cases. Our practice in this area is now in the process of taking shape, and we think that completely different measures should be applied in the case of economic crimes. I already gave you the statistics: bail was used in only 0.07 percent of total cases, and house arrest was used in just 0.02 percent of cases. You have set the task for us and I think that we can fulfil it.
I assure you that we understand the full measure of responsibility we bear, especially at this difficult time with all the economic complexities that we face. I think that the prosecutor’s office will resolve all of the tasks you have set. We have no doubt that this will be done on time, in quality fashion, and most importantly, in accordance with the laws in force. It is a matter of principle to ensure that the law is respected.
Dmitry Medvedev: You have given me quite a detailed account of the prosecutor’s office’s work. This is indeed important work, all the more so as we have been working on protecting people’s rights throughout last year. This is always part of your responsibilities, but it becomes particularly important during the crisis because it concerns practically everyone and their working conditions and basic rights such as the right to wages and so on.
The fact that the prosecutor’s office has been quite active in responding to breaches of the law in these areas (the Prosecutor General’s Office and the offices in the regions and cities throughout the country) has without doubt helped to ensure that wages and other benefits are paid on time, and in some cases have resulted in coercive measures being taken against those who refused to pay wages. The governors I met with yesterday told me about this, incidentally.
There is another thing I wanted to mention once again. Going through the areas the prosecutor’s office works on, you were right to note the particular nature of your responsibilities. Each country has its own unique legal system and system for protecting rights. Our country also has its own unique system, which, like any system, is in the process of development. We have a whole number of law enforcement agencies working with various degrees of effectiveness, though there are also plenty of complaints about them too. I am referring to the Interior Ministry, the Federal Security Service, the drugs control agency and other bodies. The prosecutor’s office holds a special place within this system. This has always been the case because we have no other agency that is responsible for ensuring respect for the law throughout the country in general, including by the law enforcement agencies. Do not forget this, take precise action and be attentive to all breaches of the law.
Yury Chaika: Mr President, first of all, I want to thank you for your understanding and support. The new powers we received through changes to the law last year made it possible for us to work more effectively, and we are grateful to you for this.
We held a conference on the role and place of the prosecutor’s office outside the area of criminal law, in which the prosecutors-general of almost all the Council of Europe member countries took part. Everyone studied our model and our experience very closely, and now we hope that the Council of Europe will adopt recommendations on the role and place of the prosecutor’s office outside the area of criminal law.
I fully share your position that the prosecutor’s office does indeed have a particular status (this has its roots in history as the prosecutor’s office has always been responsible for overseeing uniform and exact enforcement of the laws throughout the country), and this places particular demands on our agency in terms of respect for principles, scrupulous honesty, decency, and a high level of professionalism. On the whole, the people working in the prosecutor’s office today meet these criteria.
This is the first time in recent years that our work has received recognition from the country’s leadership on this symbolic day for us, and I want to thank you for this. This is the first time that 62 state decorations have been awarded to employees of the prosecutor’s office at all different levels.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: January 12, 2010, 15:02
Text version