Events
Meeting on economic issues
The meeting discussed implementation of the Presidential instructions on improving Russia’s investment climate issued following a March 30 meeting of the Commission for Modernisation and Technological Development of Russia's Economy in Magnitogorsk.
April 22, 2011
14:30
Gorki, Moscow Region
3 of 5
At a meeting on economic issues.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Colleagues,
Secretary-General of the United Nations Ban Ki-moon passes on his greetings to you all.
I propose that we come back today to the question of the investment climate. We discussed this on March 30 in Magnitogorsk at the meeting of the Commission for Modernisation and Technological Development of Russia’s Economy, and on that occasion I outlined ten measures for improving the situation.
I said at the Commission meeting and say again now that I think this is a vital issue for our country’s economic development. I am sure that you all share this view, all the more so as we simply cannot afford to delay a number of decisions that have long been ripe for implementation. It is time for us to take further steps to improve Russia’s investment climate. 
I propose that we look at three issues today that require rapid action, taking into account the deadlines that the presidential instructions set.
“I think the investment climate issue is absolutely vital for our economic development. We simply cannot afford to delay decisions long since ripe for implementation.”
The first issue is that of making one of the deputy prime ministers responsible for overseeing the quality of state services, control and supervisory functions, and other regulation functions, and this is why the Prosecutor General [Yury Chaika
] is also here at the meeting today.
I have already said on many occasions that businesspeople and investors make quite frequent complaints about problems in this particular area. There are too many complaints. They concern the performance of the customs and the postal service (I’m literally inundated with complaints about the postal service), the state of transport infrastructure, and problems with visa and administrative formalities, of course. I discussed this issue with most of the Government members here today during the preparations for the Commission’s meeting. 
All of these issues affect investors’ motivation to invest or not invest in the Russian economy, and this applies to foreign investors and to Russian investors and businesspeople alike. We therefore have to take comprehensive and systematic steps and accord the required powers, which should be properly distributed between the relevant officials.
The second issue concerns the draft law introducing special procedures for examining complaints about acts of corruption, and ensuring unavoidable prosecution of such offences. I think that we do need these additional mechanisms for handling complaints in this area. We spoke about the public exposure and personal liability that state officials bear; this is an issue I have discussed with the Prosecutor General, and he gave the idea his support too.
I think we need an effective and rather stringent law, but at the same time, it must be a law that does not paralyse activities of our honest civil servants and obstruct government functioning. Unfortunately, it has often been the case in our country that what are essentially good decisions send us from one extreme to another. This would only end up doing a disservice to the very people whose interests we are trying to protect in proposing this draft law.
The third issue is also important and has stirred quite a lot of discussion. It concerns my decision to have members of the Government involved in regulation matters, and ultimately all Government members, step down from their seats on state-owned enterprises’ boards of directors. The decisions here have already been made, and those of our colleagues with seats on the boards of directors in question have already stepped down or are in the process of doing so.
See also
Meeting of the Commission for Modernisation and Technological Development of Russia’s Economy
March 30, 2011
Presidential instructions following meeting of Commission for Modernisation and Technological Development of Russia's Economy
April 11, 2011
But this gives rise to a new problem that requires a proper solution. The people who replace these Government members must be professional, unbiased, not tainted by corruption, and with a good reputation on the market. It would be no good just replacing the outgoing Government members with clerks from the government ministries. They are not members of the Government Cabinet, certainly, but in choosing the replacements we are to send the right signals to the investment community. I therefore propose that we consider drawing up a list of the appropriate candidates. We should look through our talent pool, as we have the presidential pool of high-potential managers, for example, and the party personnel reserve, which we can draw on. We may consider the candidates from among the said pools.
Mr Naryshkin
[Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office] sends me the updated versions of these pools from time to time, and I see that they contain plenty of good young professionals with a modern outlook, working in private companies, municipal organisations, or in the regional governance bodies. We could give them a chance, train them, let them gain some new experience, and this could ultimately be of use when entering the civil service. In any case, this is an important issue, and I expect proposals from the Government on this matter, proposals that would enable us to keep the way things are managed in balance. 
These are the three issues on the agenda. This does not mean that we cannot discuss other matters too, but these issues are probably the most important as far as implementation of the instructions I gave at the end of March is concerned.
<…>
Topics
Economy and finance
Persons
Chaika Yury
Naryshkin Sergei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 22, 2011, 14:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon
Dmitry Medvedev and Ban Ki-moon discussed the state of affairs at the United Nations and the role of the organisation in ensuring international peace in the context of recent events in the Middle East, North and West Africa, and particularly in Libya and the Ivory Coast.
April 22, 2011
13:30
Gorki, Moscow Region
1 of 2
With United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon.
During the meeting contemporary international issues, such as ensuring nuclear security on the Korean peninsula, among others, were also discussed.
Dmitry Medvedev offered Ban Ki-moon
his condolences following the tragic deaths of UN staff in Afghanistan and Congo.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Mr Secretary-General, let me offer you a warm welcome.
I believe that your visit to the Russian Federation will be productive and useful. Naturally, I intend to talk with you about the role, place and current state of affairs at the United Nations as a leading global forum and the basis for global security.
Recently, many turbulent events have taken place in our world, some of which have been addressed by United Nations resolutions.
It makes sense to discuss the current global situation, and the situation at various flash points such as the Middle East and North Africa, as well as resolving the problem of the North Korean nuclear programme, among other issues. These are matters that have traditionally fallen within the remit of the United Nations and that are crucial, both for the world and for Russia.
I would like to take this opportunity to offer you, as Secretary-General of the United Nations, my condolences for the tragic deaths of UN staff in Afghanistan and Congo. These deeply sad events show that our world is not a safe place at all, and that we must truly intensify our efforts to improve the basis of the international rule of law and promote development of democracy and respect for human rights in every corner of our planet.
”It makes sense to discuss the current global situation, and the situation at various flash points such as the Middle East and North Africa, as well as resolving the problem of the North Korean nuclear programme, among other issues. These are matters that have traditionally fallen within the remit of the United Nations and that are crucial, both for the world and for Russia.“
Once again, you are truly welcome.
Un Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon (in Russian): Dear Mr President, I am very pleased to be here with you today.
Dmitry Medvedev (in English): Excellent.
Ban Ki-Moon: Thank you. I’m learning and trying to pick up some words.
Dmitry Medvedev (in English): You speak perfect.
Ban Ki-Moon (in Russian): Thank you.
Mr President it’s a great honour for me to pay this visit to you and have meeting on the matters of our common concerns and interests for the international community. As Secretary-General of the United Nations I cannot overemphasise the importance of strong partnership between the Russian Federation and United Nations. In that, your leadership is very much important and highly appreciated. It has been a great pleasure for me to work with you on all matters.
This morning I had a very good meeting with my dear colleague Foreign Minister Lavrov and I’d like to continue this discussions.
I’m coming from Ukraine where I participated in the 25th anniversary of Chernobyl accident and participated in the Summit for Safe and Innovative Use of Nuclear Energy. And I’m also coming from my meeting with world leaders on situation in Libya. I have convened the meeting with heads of international and regional ogranisations in Cairo where African Union, League of Arab States, Organisation of Islamic Conference, and European Union participated. I convened this meeting where we agreed that the international community should work together very closely and in accordance with Security Council Resolution.
I’d like to also discuss in more detail how we can work together on global governance issues. As G8 and G20 and BRICS member Russia has a special role to play in addressing all global and regional conflict issues, global challenges like climate changes, sustainable development, food crisis and also situations, as you said, in the Middle East, Libya, Cote d'Ivoire, again Korean Peninsula, North Korea nuclear issues, humanitarian issues. Those are some areas of my agenda and I would like to really count on your strong support and leadership guidance.
<…>
See also
Minister of Foreign Affairs Sergei Lavrov commented on Dmitry Medvedev’s meeting with United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon
April 22, 2011
Topics
Foreign policy
UN
Persons
Ban Ki-moon
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 22, 2011, 13:30
Text version