Events
Meeting with participants of the Bishops' Council
Dmitry Medvedev met with participants of the Bishops’ Council being held in Moscow on February 2–4, 2011.
February 3, 2011
14:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
6 of 7
With Patriarch Kirill of Moscow and All Russia before the beginning of state decoration ceremony.
President Medvedev stressed the special role of the Church in promoting interethnic and interreligious peace, the development of interfaith dialogue and preserving the fundamental values of tolerance, justice and peace among people, and specifically noted the contribution of the Church to the consolidation of the global Russian community, uniting compatriots abroad.
After the meeting, Dmitry Medvedev presented Patriarch Kirill the Order of Alexander Nevsky. Patriarch Kirill of Moscow and All Russia was decorated for his personal services to the Fatherland in maintaining spiritual and cultural traditions.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Your Holiness, 
Esteemed participants of the Bishops’ Council and this meeting, 
The Bishops’ Council has begun its work. Without doubt, this is not only a major event in the life of the Russian Orthodox Church, but also in the life of Russian society. Therefore, first of all I would like to wish you every success. 
Russian Orthodox Church is the largest and most influential institution in modern Russia. At the moment there are a number of very important processes going on right on the surface for all to see: the restoration of churches, an increase in the number of priests and, perhaps more importantly, a growing number of believers. 
For the first time in the history of our nation, in more than a thousand years of the existence of our state and Orthodoxy in Russia, the Government does not interfere in the activities of religious organisations and at the same time recognises the contribution of the Church in the formation of Russian statehood, the development of Russian national culture and the assertion of spiritual and moral values in society. We work together to address the most pressing problems in the lives of our people. The most important of these challenges is maintaining interethnic and interreligious peace. Throughout its history the Church has been the guardian of our fundamental values, such as love for others, tolerance, peace among people, and fairness, which has always been especially revered in Russia.
Perhaps more than ever before, we must join efforts to strengthen social stability today. At a recent meeting of the State Council, which took place in this hall, at this same table, I issued instructions to the regional governors to personally oversee interethnic and interfaith relations matters. I would like to take this opportunity to address the Russian Orthodox Church, the diocesan bishops and the rectors of institutions that educate future priests. Spiritual and moral education and enlightenment have always been a major barrier to evil and hatred. Today, a great deal depends on your views, your sermons, your teaching, the pastor’s word directly addressed to young people. I know that your work with young people is a major task of the Russian Orthodox clergy. 
Interfaith dialogue is an effective means of preventing interethnic conflicts, and the Church is a permanent and often the main proponent of this dialogue. The efforts of the Interreligious Council of Russia have also been productive in this field. Today, this experience is in demand as never before. I am also confident that the introduction of the basics of religious culture and secular ethics as a school subject, which was a landmark event that occurred relatively recently, will also serve to reaffirm respect for the historical and spiritual heritage of our country, its religious and cultural diversity. 
Another important initiative that I have not only supported, but also issued a direct order to the Defence Ministry to implement, is a phased introduction of military and naval clergymen. 249 experts have been employed by the Armed Forces to work with religious servicemen; the vast majority of them, 240, are priests. In this case, I believe that perhaps we should all be more proactive since personnel work is not moving forward as fast as we would like. As Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces, I will issue relevant instructions to the Defence Ministry to expedite these activities. 
A vivid sign of Russia’s spiritual revival is the social ministry of the Church, which is conducted throughout the country and covers a large number of directions. I would also like to acknowledge the support of family values, motherhood and childhood. In my annual Address to the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation, I made a major emphasis on this subject. I consider it extremely important for the life of our state, so that our country remains within its existing borders as a strong and unified state. It is vitally important that the position of the state on this issue coincides perfectly with the views of the Russian Orthodox Church. Perhaps it would be worthwhile to consider possible joint State-Church initiatives in this area. In general, there is great demand for the social ministry of the Church in present-day society and the state is ready to fully support these activities. 
Today, we are busy restoring our heritage, cultural and religious monuments, many of which were desecrated and destroyed, including the New Jerusalem Resurrection Monastery, Solovetsky Transfiguration Monastery, Verkhoturye Monastery and many others. I believe this work must also continue as previously agreed because it is very important for the state, for the Church and for the entire Russian people, for everyone who lives in our country. 
The state has made what I believe to be a very important step in strengthening the material base of the Church. A federal law has entered into force setting out the procedure for transferring religious property to the Church and other religious organisations with no pay. The work on this law was difficult and on a number of occasions I had to personally interfere in this process to ensure that in the end we have a law that can be enforced and not just a document that will remain on paper. I hope that it will make it possible for the Church to retrieve the property that was created by millions of people and many generations of believers. 
The Church is making an important contribution to the consolidation of the multi-million global Russian community, our compatriots living abroad, primarily in the Commonwealth of Independent States and in other parts of the world. As His Holiness has just informed me, bishops from 22 countries representing the Dioceses of the Russian Orthodox Church are taking part in the Bishops’ Council. 
Shared spiritual values is an effective rallying point for the entire Orthodox world, and churches are the centres of gravity for our diaspora, helping to maintain its spiritual and cultural ties with the homeland. I must admit that the state does not have many achievements in this regard so far. To be honest, the state is not very good at working with the diaspora. In this respect, we very much count on help of the Russian Orthodox Church in order to enhance numerous contacts with the Russian community around the world. 
In conclusion, I would like to express my confidence that the Government and the Russian Orthodox Church will continue their active and fruitful cooperation for the benefit of our state and our people. 
<…>
Topics
Interethnic relations
Religion
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 3, 2011, 14:30
Text versionEvents
Alexander Bortnikov and Alexander Bastrykin briefed the President on interim results of the investigation into the terrorist attack at Domodedovo Airport
The Federal Security Service has collected information about the perpetrator and the organisers of the terrorist attack at the Domodedovo Airport, reported Director of the Federal Security Service Alexander Bortnikov. Currently everything possible is being done to ensure a successful completion of the investigation and a speedy arrest of all those involved.
February 3, 2011
13:15
The Kremlin, Moscow
With Federal Security Service Director Alexander Bortnikov (left) and Investigative Committee Chairman Alexander Bastrykin.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Good afternoon, colleagues,
I invited you here to hear your reports on the investigation into the terrorist attack and recent related crimes. But before you begin, I want to say one thing. I think it completely unacceptable when people announce that a crime has been solved before the investigations are even complete and before the case has been tried and the court has passed its verdict and the sentence has taken legal effect. This is all the more unacceptable when we are dealing with crimes as serious as terrorism. 
You reported to me that some progress has been made in this case, and this is good news. But neither officials from the Prosecutor’s Office nor the Investigative Committee, nor any other officials, have the right to announce that such cases have been solved. This crime has not been solved yet. But progress has been made. Now I would like to hear about the work accomplished so far.
Mr Bortnikov, let’s begin with you. Tell us about the operations you have carried out.
Director of The Federal Security Service Alexander Bortnikov
: Mr President, the Federal Security Service, Interior Ministry, and Investigative Committee have set up an operations group that is working very hard on solving this case of terrorism. The operations and forensic work done so far have made it possible to identify the bomber who blew himself up at Domodedovo Airport. I will give his age only: he was a 20 year-old resident of one of the North Caucasus republics. According to the information we have, he went underground last August, joining one of the armed groups based in a difficult-to-access mountainous and forest-covered area.
I stress that, according to the forensic investigations carried out, the evidence shows a large quantity of powerful narcotic and psychotropic substances in fragments of the suicide bomber’s body. This is further evidence of the way the bandits prepare these people to carry out these kinds of audacious crimes. 
Our work has also identified the individuals who acted as accomplices and helped the suicide bomber. Search warrants have been issued for them. We have detained several people in possession of information on the bomber himself and on the preparations for this terrorist attack. This work is part of the criminal investigation underway. I am sure that Mr Bastrykin will speak about this.
We have established the chronology of events followed by the suicide bomber and his accomplices on their route from the south to Moscow. We are now actively going through all of the participants who had a part in delivering the bomber and the explosive device to their destination. As our information stands today, we have a good idea now of who organized this terrorist attack, and are taking the needed measures to pin down and find everyone who was involved in this crime.
Dmitry Medvedev: Continue your work, continue gathering evidence too, of course, and keep working in full coordination with the Investigative Committee.
Mr Bastrykin, what is the situation with the investigation now?
Chairman of The Investigative Committee Alexander Bastrykin
: Mr President, following your instruction, we established an operations headquarters to investigate this crime. As well as the investigators themselves, this group also includes experts and representatives of the intelligence services. We worked fast over the first two days to carry out the most urgent investigative measures and the first complex preliminary forensic investigations. This made it possible to identify the suicide bomber within the first two days. The complex forensic and criminal investigations carried out have yielded objective results that raise no doubts, all the more so as they were carried out by prominent specialists in these areas.
Acting on these results we then established another investigative and operations group that has been sent to the North Caucasus, where the active operations that Mr Bortnikov spoke about are now underway. This work has already produced its first positive results. The searches and criminal and explosives investigations carried out have given us the first objective proof that members of the bomber’s family and entourage were involved in making the explosive device and providing practical assistance and moral support for this terrorist attack’s organisation. 
I stress that all of the operational information we receive from the FSB and the Interior Ministry is thoroughly and objectively examined by carrying out the relevant expert investigations. We have a clear plan now for working with the FSB and Interior Ministry to take the next procedural and investigative steps needed primarily to identify all of the accomplices and, of course, the organisers of this terrorist attack.
The operations headquarters meets every day for a regular daily debriefing and setting the plans for the work ahead. The investigation is proceeding at a rapid pace now.
Dmitry Medvedev: As far as I know, you are also investigating the circumstances surrounding a crime that was planned to take place at the end of last year. What is the situation here?
Alexander Bastrykin: Mr President, we have quite good results so far, namely, ten members of a criminal group that was planning terrorist attacks in central Moscow have been detained and formally arrested now. Federal and international search warrants have been issued for six people.
The FSB has done a lot of operations work to identify the people involved, and the information they have provided has made it possible to get an idea of these people’s locations, distinguishing features, and potential departure routes from the Russian Federation. We have acted together with the intelligence services to take measures to prevent them from leaving the Russian Federation.
Active operations are also underway at the places of residence of their relatives, and we have every reason to think that these five wanted individuals will soon be detained and arrested. Along with the search underway for these people, we are also pursuing thorough criminal, forensic, and explosives investigations to gather more objective evidence of these people’s guilt.
Dmitry Medvedev: This work must continue. We need to find these scum, make the earth burn beneath their feet. But we need work, not PR. I therefore want this complex and meticulous investigative work to continue, and only after this should you report that criminals have been caught and the crime solved. This work must be carried out with maximum thoroughness.
Topics
Fight against terrorism
Persons
Bastrykin Alexander
Bortnikov Alexander
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 3, 2011, 13:15
Text version