Events
Working meeting with Governor of Kaliningrad Region Nikolai Tsukanov
Dmitry Medvedev and Nikolai Tsukanov discussed issues pertaining to the implementation of visa-free travel between Kaliningrad Region and bordering districts in Poland, and further talks on this topic with Lithuania. Particular attention was given to the development of transport and tourism infrastructure in the region.
November 29, 2011
16:15
Kaliningrad Region
With Governor of Kaliningrad Region Nikolai Tsukanov.
See also
All news about visit to Kaliningrad Region
November 29, 2011
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Mr Tsukanov, I suggest we discuss an issue that we have addressed many times in the past, and on which I have given instructions. I am referring to cross-border cooperation and visa-free travel arrangements with certain nations. This is an important topic for the development of economic activity in Kaliningrad Region, and for normal contact and communication between the residents of our region and Poland and Lithuania.
I expect the Foreign Ministry of the Russian Federation and its Polish colleagues to soon agree on a final draft of a document concerning the framework for establishing visa-free travel in new regions for this kind of intercommunication: namely, the entire Kaliningrad Region and provinces in Poland. I count on the Foreign Ministry to complete this work in December.
At the same time, we must continue talks with our Lithuanian partners. I feel that they should be carried out in the same manner as with our Polish partners. We understand that we are talking about obligations not only on the part of individual states, but within the framework of the European Union and corresponding Schengen agreements as well. Nevertheless, I think we must apply the same model everywhere. This will benefit all the residents of Kaliningrad Region. I would like you to continue this work as well, together with the Foreign Ministry. This is the first topic of our conversation.
Our second topic concerns what I just saw. I would like to congratulate you and the residents of Kaliningrad Region on the opening of a new section of road. Indeed, it is a good road; I saw it for myself. I expect that this will help improve transportation and supply lines, and ultimately, loop it into a ring road, 83 kilometres long, finally resolving challenges in Baltiysk and Kaliningrad itself, as well as other populated areas near the road. Progress has been rapid, so I hope this will be completed successfully.
Kaliningrad Region Governor Nikolai Tsukanov: Thank you, Mr President.
First of all, I would like to talk about cross-border cooperation. Indeed, all Kaliningrad residents have been awaiting this decision for a long time. I am very grateful to you, and would like to express gratitude on behalf of all Kaliningrad residents. This matter has been under discussion for a long time; it gets shifted around, but today, we have concrete dates. Following your intervention, when I asked you to get involved in this matter, an agreement was reached for preliminary approval. And the dates have been established, so perhaps it will be signed in December. Thank you very much.
Dmitry Medvedev: But we must prepare for it, because certain organisational issues will come up as well. I hope that you will resolve everything together with the Foreign Ministry.
Nikolai Tsukanov: With border patrol and customs agents, because we may have an enormous flow of tourists.
Dmitry Medvedev: Of course, and you must get other departments involved as well, such as the FSB’s Border Guard Service and the Customs Service.
Nikolai Tsukanov: As far as the ring road is concerned, this is truly a significant event that will certainly provide opportunities for resort cities to develop, so it is not just about building the road, but also an opportunity to develop tourism and recreational zones. We have brought new pieces of land into use, and we will have roads leading to them. They may be used for building health resorts, hotels, and a large children’s holiday camp that you gave instructions on earlier.
Dmitry Medvedev: As far as the children’s camp is concerned, I think it’s a good idea, because here in the Russian Federation, we have several seaside camps: one of them is the well-known Orlyonok camp on the Black Sea, and another is Okean in the Far East. But we need a large children’s recreational facility on the Baltic Sea. I think that in this regard, Kaliningrad is a better fit than any other region. Let’s plan on it.
Nikolai Tsukanov: And the Baltiysk military base. Do I understand correctly that you are ready to support continued construction of road leading to the Baltiysk military base?
Dmitry Medvedev: Yes, I think that soon we will need to link all the key communities, and Baltiysk is, of course, one of the most important of them. So let’s do that; I have already told the Government, Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Zhukov who is also in the region today, to get involved.
<…>
Geography
Kaliningrad Region
Topics
Regions
Persons
Tsukanov Nikolai
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 29, 2011, 16:15
Text versionEvents
Meeting with the leadership of the Armed Forces
Dmitry Medvedev held a meeting with the leadership of the Armed Forces in a Space Forces military unit.
November 29, 2011
14:30
Kaliningrad Region
Dmitry Medvedev held a meeting with the leadership of the Armed Forces
During the meeting, Dmitry Medvedev noted that the commissioning of the Voronezh-DM radar station is a signal of Russia’s readiness to give an adequate response to the threat posed by the missile defence system of NATO countries in Europe to Russia's strategic nuclear forces. The President stressed that Voronezh-DM is a tool for controlling the air space and is not a threat to neighbouring countries. Mr Medvedev stressed that the deployment of the radar station provides an opportunity to use the information collected by the station in the interest of European missile defence.
President Medvedev instructed the Defence Ministry to address the issues of the radar’s capacity parameters, to create good working conditions for the highly skilled professionals serving at the station and provide social benefits for the servicemen and their families.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Comrades officers,
We have all just witnessed the deployment of our early warning radar station, putting it on combat duty. The radar station will issue warnings of missile attacks, as well as perform other functions and protect our interests in the direction of the greatest missile threat.
We believe that the station can be used to build a positive relationship with our European partners as part of a joint anti-missile defence system on the European continent. I would particularly like to emphasise once again that we are ready to use the station's unique capabilities together with our partners to counter possible missile threats. Unfortunately, we do not sense the readiness of our American and European colleagues to join efforts with us. Moreover, the European missile defence system, which is currently being established, clearly encroaches on our interests and thereby causes significant problems for the security of the Russian Federation.
See also
Voronezh-DM missile attack early warning radar station assigned to Russian Aerospace Forces
November 29, 2011
All news about visit to Kaliningrad Region
November 29, 2011
In this context and in line with my decision, the Defence Ministry has launched the measures I announced on November 23 on countering the relevant plans. I hope that our Western partners will view this step as a signal of Russia’s readiness to give an adequate response to the threat posed by the missile defence system to Russia's strategic nuclear forces.
At the same time I would like to note that the Voronezh-DM radar station is an instrument for controlling the airspace and by itself it certainly does not pose a threat to our neighbours. Its deployment does not close the doors to dialogue, to continuing the discussion on those issues we are conducting with our colleagues. Furthermore, the station’s capabilities will make it possible to use the information gathered by the radar in the interest of a pan-European missile defence system. But I repeat, in this situation, the final approach should be formulated by NATO countries, the United States and our European partners.
In any case, the standard statements that the new system of the adaptive and phased transition to a European missile defence system is not directed against Russia can no longer satisfy us. These statements are made orally and unfortunately do not guarantee the protection of our interests. If other steps are made, naturally we will be ready to listen to them. However, it is not enough to issue oral statements. So when they tell us that the system is not directed against us, I would like to reply as follows: ‘Friends, the early warning radar station that was put on combat duty today is not directed against you either; on the contrary, it can work for you and towards achieving the aims we have set for ourselves’.
With regard to further actions, it is entirely up to those who make the relevant decisions today. If our signal is not heard, then, as I said on November 23, we will deploy other defence means, including the adoption of tough countermeasures and deployment of the main attack force.
The station has been put on combat duty, which means that it has begun to work as a finished facility, although a number of parameters are still to be built up over time.
Therefore, I instruct the Defence Ministry, first, to carry out all the tasks required to achieve that. Second, I expect that the servicemen on duty at the station will be our highly trained Space Forces, our new combat arm. We should create good conditions for their service.
The station is modern; it was put together fast, using the right materials. I'm not even talking about the electronics inside, which is hopefully also on the highest level. But we must also address everyday problems, problems related to placement, officers’ accommodation, as well as issues related to the employment of wives of the military personnel, providing kindergartens and transportation services for those who work here, improving the engineering infrastructure and building a good road. I think all of this may be done within a very short time. I have issued the relevant instructions to the Defence Minister and the Kaliningrad Region Governor.
Once again, I congratulate all of you on the deployment of a new radar system. This is an important step to protect the interests of our country and our citizens.
Mr Serdyukov, the floor is yours.
Defence Minister Anatoly Serdyukov
: Thank you, Mr President.
This is the third early warning radar station of high operational capacity. Earlier such radars were deployed in the Leningrad Region and in Armavir, and now in Kaliningrad.
The latest advances in science and technology have been used here. With each station we build, we increase our capabilities and look at ways to reduce their construction time. This station was built in less than two years, which I think is quite good for such a facility.
Dmitry Medvedev: In addition, the construction costs, without revealing the exact figures, are significantly lower than was the case with similar stations built in the Soviet times, including the existing stations, which is important in terms of cost saving as that is always a major priority for the Defence Ministry.
Anatoly Serdyukov: As we increase its capabilities, it will extend for up to 6,000 kilometres and keep track of 500 objects at a time: these are its design characteristics.
Starting from December 1, the Space Forces troops will begin to serve here. It will be a significant contribution to the development of these troops. For all the tasks you have set us, we will draft an action plan as soon as possible and submit it to you together with the deadlines for their implementation. That is, the plan will contain the dates, specific measures and full details of the steps we believe are necessary to carry out your orders.
Dmitry Medvedev: Thank you. You said 6,000 kilometres is the station’s maximum range. That is a very considerable distance. In combination with other radars they can tackle all the challenges facing the Space Forces to protect our state’s interests.
<…>
Additional
Statement in connection with the situation concerning the NATO countries’ missile defence system in Europe
November 23, 2011
Geography
Kaliningrad Region
Topics
Armed Forces
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 29, 2011, 14:30
Text version