Events
Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Charity Fund for the Restoration of the New Jerusalem Resurrection Monastery
March 4, 2011
14:30
Gorki, Moscow Region
3 of 5
At the meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Charity Fund for the Restoration of the New Jerusalem Resurrection Monastery.
Dmitry Medvedev chaired a meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Charity Fund for the Restoration of the New Jerusalem Resurrection Monastery
.
The meeting discussed, in particular, the progress of restoration works at the monastery and the restoration concept in general.
Mr Medvedev said that strict control must be kept over the money, including private donations, spent on restoring the monastery to its original appearance.
The President thanked everyone who has contributed to the restoration work.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Your Holiness, colleagues, today this board of trustees is meeting for the third time. We will review the results of the work accomplished so far this year, and last year’s results too of course. We will discuss the monastery’s restoration concept, which I hope will define our work over the coming year. 
I have been told that the concept has gone through all of the necessary approval procedures now and sets out the principles for restoring the monastery as a religious centre and cultural monument. Of course, the creative component will not end here, but the most important thing is to keep in mind just what a completely unique monument it is. It is a part not only of Russia’s historical and cultural heritage, but of the whole world, one of the most revered treasures of the Orthodox world and Orthodox culture. We must do all we can to preserve it and restore it to its full potential.
“The New Jerusalem Monastery is a completely unique monument. It is a part not only of Russia’s historical and cultural heritage, but of the whole world, one of the most revered treasures of the Orthodox world and Orthodox culture.”
We all know that this monastery’s fate has been a difficult one. The best specialists with the latest technology, in architecture and engineering, have been called in to restore the monastery to original state. Of course, we need to take a very careful approach to this restoration work.
I know that there has been much debate between restoration specialists over the restoration concept. This is normal. Of course, the important thing here is to take a balanced and thought-out approach based on history and technological advances. We must ensure at the same time that we preserve the site’s particular construction and landscape features.
The monastery is a protected site of federal importance, and we thus need to draw up the relevant documents setting out this protected zone’s guarantees and provisions. I think the expert council and the Ministry of Culture should do everything necessary here, and these decisions should obviously be thoroughly discussed and coordinated with the Russian Orthodox Church. 
The organisational matters have already been taken care of, and a large amount of preparation and emergency prevention work has already been done, because the monastery was in a very run-down state. In approving the restoration concept we will be setting clear guidelines for the specialists, who will prepare the final version of the project documents and estimates.
One issue related to the monastery’s restoration is the need to build a new building for the museum to move into. Mr Gromov [Boris Gromov, governor of Moscow Region] is working on this and I hope will inform us about the situation. Our task is to put in place all of the conditions for the monastery to live its full life, now, while the restoration work is in full swing, and in the future.
”I want to take this opportunity today to thank everyone who has donated money, everyone who wants to restore the New Jerusalem Monastery and has decided to help in this work.“
I am sure that the support the state authorities, the church, and all interested people are giving this project, along with the fund’s effective work, will create the conditions to ensure that we find timely solutions to any problems that come up.
Fundraising work is underway at the moment, and a considerable amount of money has already been donated. Of course, the fund’s managers must ensure strict control over these funds’ spending, because this includes donations from our citizens, and they have the right to know how this money has been spent. In any case, I want to take this opportunity today to thank everyone who has donated money, everyone who wants to restore the New Jerusalem Monastery and has decided to help in this work.
I think that the experience we will gain in carrying out this restoration of one of our country’s biggest sites of religious significance will be put to use in other cases in which the state authorities and the church work together on restoring monuments of Orthodox history and culture.
<…>
Topics
Religion
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 4, 2011, 14:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting on establishing international financial centre in Russia
The results of work done so far and the next steps in establishing an international financial centre in the country were the subjects on the agenda.
March 4, 2011
16:00
Gorki, Moscow Region
6 of 6
Meeting on developing an international financial centre in Russia. With Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Sergei Naryshkin (centre) and Presidential Aide Arkady Dvorkovich.
Dmitry Medvedev said that developing a centre of this kind will make the Russian economy more open and predictable and improve the country’s investment climate.
The President also announced at the meeting that he has signed an executive order attaching the Federal Service for Insurance Supervision to the Federal Financial Markets Service.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Colleagues, we met last December, but some time has passed since then, and I would like to hear now about what has been done over this period, and what concrete steps have been taken in developing the Moscow financial centre.
When the centre starts functioning we will realise how much it can help to expand our economic possibilities and how useful it will be for developing our financial markets, achieving our modernisation goals, pursuing our technological development, and ultimately, what a big contribution it can make to improving the lives of a majority of our people.
”Developing this financial centre remains a top priority for our country and depends directly on our efforts to resolve two issues.“
The big financial players from the G20 countries are all trying to increase their influence on the global financial system today, and we need to be ready to take part in this process too. The aim we all share is to ensure our own financial security and economic stability, and in this respect functioning financial centres at the international and regional levels are of course the most effective instrument for ensuring international influence and reaching the national goals that each individual country sets for itself.
We cannot afford to fall behind in the timetable we have outlined and in carrying out the instructions that have been given. Developing this financial centre remains a top priority for our country and depends directly on our efforts to resolve two issues. 
The first of these tasks concerns the international financial centre’s financial architecture. Russia must develop a centre offering all of the main types of financial instruments. We need to introduce in an optimum timeframe everything that we have been working on introducing over these last years, namely, international financial reporting and accounting standards for issuers and for the regulators and supervisory bodies. This will enable us to participate more effectively in developing the global financial system, and of course will also make our economy more open and predictable and improve our still far from ideal investment climate.
The second task is to develop the city infrastructure the financial centre will need. Our task is to put Moscow on the level of the world’s financial capitals. There are problems that we all know in the way. Of course we will use globally recognised criteria and standards. It is no good just saying that Moscow is a fine place in itself, a city offering a good life and many opportunities. We need to actually do something to make this reality. 
We need to make greater efforts to ensure public security in Moscow and resolve transport problems (which of course need to be addressed with or without the financial centre), because convenience for the public is the city administration’s top priority of course. But resolving Moscow’s transport problems and making it easier to get around the city are essential for developing the international financial centre too.
It is also essential of course to develop the required information environment too, so that those taking part in the financial centre’s work do not sense any digital gap between us and the countries and centres where they are used to working.
”Our task is to put Moscow on the level of the world’s financial capitals.“
The last thing I wanted to tell you today is that I signed the Executive Order on Measures to Improve Government Regulation of Financial Market. This order attaches the Federal Service for Insurance Supervision to the Federal Financial Markets Service (this is a matter we discussed). The Federal Financial Markets Service will take over the newly attached service’s insurance supervisory functions and obtain specific powers, including with regard to legal regulation, control and supervision of the financial markets, with the exception of banking and auditing activity. 
I hope this will strengthen work on the financial market and bolster the opportunities for legal regulation in this area. We must carry out everything that we agreed on, and the Government must ensure that this work continues uninterrupted, divide up the regulatory functions, and submit to the State Duma the draft federal law making amendments to the relevant legislation.
Let’s get to work.
<…>
Topics
Economy and finance
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Commissions and Councils
Publication date: March 4, 2011, 16:00
Text version