Events
Meeting with agriculture sector workers
Dmitry Medvedev discussed the agriculture sector’s problems and outlook with sector workers and also summed up the latest harvest campaign’s preliminary results.
October 14, 2011
14:00
Gorki, Moscow Region
1 of 4
Meeting with agriculture sector workers.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Friends,
I wish you all a warm welcome. You have come here from all around the country and represent the agriculture sector, and I hope we will see each other again today later at the [Agriculture Workers’ Day] gala concert.
But before we go to the concert and enjoy the celebrations, I propose that we first talk about how the sector is developing, the problems you face in the countryside – for the agriculture sector is never without problems – and also the sector’s outlook.
We cannot yet completely sum up the results of this year’s harvest, but can already give a fair assessment. Obviously, this year has brought people in the countryside and indeed all around the country in general far more positive emotions than last year. Last year was a particularly difficult year, of course. You have all worked very hard, and we too have had to act swiftly and keep apace of events in the measures we have been taking to support the sector. 
I think that these support measures have helped in some ways, perhaps not in all situations, but there has been no dramatic worsening in the sector, in any case. I am satisfied with these results. After all, it has been six years now that I have been involved in the sector at the management level. It would have been a great pity if all of our efforts over these last years turned out to be in vain. We have avoided this fate. What’s more, even taking into account last year’s exceptional situation with the drought and wildfires and lower harvest that resulted, we nonetheless managed to cover and balance domestic demand. True, we had to take some restrictive measures and imposed an export embargo, which of course had an impact on some agriculture businesses, though the effect was felt more in other sectors.
This year, we allocated state funds for supporting the agriculture sector, and we also extended the discount prices for fuel and lubricants, as we did last year and the year before. We allocated funds for buying farm equipment too. Rosselkhozbank and Sberbank have budgeted and spent 150 billion rubles [around $5 billion] in loans for this.
This year’s harvest has been a lot better. I took part in a number of the events marking the harvest, some of which had more of a holiday feel. I won’t hide that it was an enjoyable experience. The grain harvest currently comes to around 90 million tons, and perhaps this figure will come to a final total of around 95 million tons, but let’s wait and see what the final tally will bring. In any event, we now have solid reserves for the winter, enough to cover our domestic demand and make reserves, including reserves that will go over into the next year. We can also resume grain exports, though this is an area in which we will have to tread carefully. As far as exports go, it is good that we have this possibility once more and that Russia will again be able to deliver grain to the world markets. At the same time, however, we must remember that our livestock industry needs grain too, and so we have to keep a balance, all the more so as the more our livestock industry develops, the more grain it will consume, and this is also something to keep in mind.
We have had good harvests of soya, rape, and sunflower this year, record harvests, you could say, with around 8 million tons, which is up a quarter on 2009. The sugar beet harvest is also expected to bring an excellent result. It would be good to have the chance to see the work underway before the harvest comes to a close. We are expecting a figure of around 40 million tons, which is double last year’s result and indeed is higher than at any time in this crop’s history in our country.
We have started exporting sugar for the first time, with around 50,000 tons already sent abroad. These are all very big achievements and make us very happy, but let’s not forget that they are the result of the hard work of those in the countryside, the grain growers, machine-operators, agronomists, and the business managers too. And the weather has been on their side too this year. Most important is that they succeeded in making the best of these opportunities, because we have had many occasions in the past when the weather was decent but the harvest not great. The harvest is not completely over yet though, there is also the work ahead to sow the winter crops, and we hope that everything will go as planned. 
That is what I wanted to say by way of a few opening remarks. I invite you now to start the discussion, and once again, I congratulate you on the holiday.
<…>
Topics
Agriculture
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 14, 2011, 14:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with members of the Security Council
International energy cooperation was the subject of discussion.
October 14, 2011
16:30
Gorki, Moscow Region
Meeting with permanent members of the Security Council.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Colleagues, we have a serious matter on the agenda at today’s meeting of the Security Council’s permanent members. I will start with a few remarks. We are here today to discuss energy security and Russia’s energy cooperation with different countries, above all, with Europe. 
We view European countries as among our closest partners in this sector. Our relations as an oil and gas supplier to these countries go back a long time now. Overall, we have always taken the position that the existing legal foundation is optimum in nature, solid and sufficient. But a number of recent events prompted my decision to put energy cooperation on the Security Council’s agenda so that our country’s leadership can set the line that our government and big energy market actors will take in their cooperation with Europe in this sector. This is all with regard to the so-called ‘third energy package,’ which is an issue I and my colleagues in the Government Cabinet have repeatedly brought to the European Union leadership’s attention, asking them to consider the consequences that rigid implementation of the rules and procedures it entails would have.
”We view European countries as among our closest partners in energy cooperation. The existing legal foundation is optimum in nature, solid and sufficient. But a number of recent events prompted my decision to put energy cooperation on the Security Council’s agenda so that our country’s leadership can set the line that our government and big energy market actors will take in their cooperation with Europe in this sector. This is all with regard to the so-called third energy package.“
Sadly, a number of recent events have created problems for cooperation in the gas sector. They include normative, contractual, and also organisational issues. I therefore would like to hear today from the energy minister [Sergei Shmatko
] and Gazprom CEO [Alexei Miller
] on their proposals on how we should go about organising our relations with our European partners, taking into account implementation of the ‘third energy package’ and its rules. Naturally, we will fulfil all existing contracts and respect all of the agreements that have been in place for some time now and have always provided a solid basis for our energy cooperation. But in the interests of energy security, we need at the same time to think about the future.
Energy cooperation is not confined to Europe of course. The so-called ‘southern corridor’ has been the subject of much discussion of late, which is only natural given that individual countries, the European Union, and other partners, are all thinking about how to diversify their energy supplies. But I want to draw to your attention one of the matters we have discussed in the past, and with other colleagues, namely, the Trans-Caspian pipeline that will be laid on the Caspian seabed. This is a rather complex issue that depends directly on the Caspian Sea’s status as an internal sea and requires a coordinated position between all of the countries in the Caspian Summit forum. There are issues of legal status involved here, which we discussed at the last summit of Caspian countries, and also environmental security issues, which we cannot ignore, given what is happening today in the Caspian Sea basin. I hope that our partners, who are currently analysing various energy cooperation options, will also respect all of the earlier agreements.
In any event, the Russian Federation has to set out a position that it can present clearly to our Caspian partners depending on the decisions they make. So, let’s look now at these two energy sector issues.
<…>
Topics
Energy
Foreign policy
Russia–European Union
Persons
Miller Alexei
Shmatko Sergei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 14, 2011, 16:30
Text version