Events
Visit to Hong Kong
Dmitry Medvedev visited Hong Kong on what was the first visit by a Russian leader to the People’s Republic of China’s Hong Kong Special Administrative Region.
April 17, 2011
13:30
Hong Kong
12 of 18
With Chairman of the Hong Kong Stock Exchange Ronald Arculli.
Mr Medvedev held talks with Chief Executive of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China Donald Tsang. Investment cooperation, developing trade and economic ties, and strengthening humanitarian relations were the main subjects of discussion.
The President attended a luncheon with representatives of the Russian and Chinese business communities, and visited Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited, where he met with HKEx Chairman Ronald Arculli.
See also
Speech at meeting with Russian and Chinese business community representatives
April 17, 2011
Mr Medvedev and Mr Arculli specifically discussed the establishment of an international financial centre in Moscow. The President noted that Hong Kong’s experience could be useful for Russia and that cooperation with Hong Kong offers additional opportunities for expanding ties with China, and establishes a platform too for operating in the Asia-Pacific region.
Dmitry Medvedev arrived in Hong Kong the previous day, April 16, 2011.
***
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OF THE HONG KONG SPECIAL ADMINISTRATIVE REGION OF THE PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA DONALD TSANG: (retranslated): Mr President, it is a great honour to welcome you here to Hong Kong. I remember well our first meeting at the APEC summit two years ago in Singapore. Later, you invited me to visit Moscow, where we had fruitful talks.
Let me say again that we are very happy to see you in Hong Kong.
Over the two years since our first meeting bilateral relations between Hong Kong and Russia have come a long way. Our bilateral trade increased by 63 percent over the last year, and passenger turnover was up by 16 percent. I am sure that this is only the beginning.
I hope that our relations will continue to deepen and expand in trade, culture, sports, and many other areas.
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Mr Tsang, as I promised, I have come to Hong Kong. I think that this will give a substantial boost to the level of cooperation between Hong Kong and the Russian Federation.
I note that the ties between Hong Kong and Russia’s regions, and between our economies in general, strengthened considerably following your visit to Moscow.
You mentioned some of the figures reflecting the present level of our cooperation. They are good results, but it is too early to sit back yet, all the more so as we have huge opportunities for developing our economic ties and bolstering our humanitarian cooperation.
It is my hope, and that of the Russian delegation, that this first visit by a Russian President to Hong Kong will do much to advance our cooperation.
<…>
Geography
People's Republic of China
Topics
APEC
Economy and finance
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 17, 2011, 13:30
Text versionEvents
Speech at meeting with Russian and Chinese business community representatives
April 17, 2011
10:00
Hong Kong
Addressing a meeting of Russian and Chinese business community representatives.
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Mr Donald Tsang, friends,
First of all, I want to thank Mr Tsang for this very warm welcome. This chance to see Hong Kong has made a real impression on our delegation. We see here the scale and achievements of one of the world’s biggest business and financial centres.
”Our cooperation is becoming an important part of the overall strategic partnership between Russia and China, and, also very importantly, is having a positive effect on the economic climate in the Asia-Pacific region.“
You have succeeded in preserving your unique historical and cultural identity while at the same time designing a carefully planned and effective economic policy, above all through encouraging business initiative and investment, and this has brought you the excellent results that your key economic indicators reflect.
During the talks with Mr Tsang, we noted that our cooperation is becoming an important part of the overall strategic partnership between Russia and China, and, also very importantly, is having a positive effect on the economic climate in the Asia-Pacific region.
As I said today during the meeting in narrow format, Russia is now pursuing a course of modernisation and innovative development. Foreign investment has a big part to play in these efforts.
I recently outlined a number of measures to improve Russia’s business and investment climate. I will name a few of them now. By the start of this summer we will have established the direct investment fund that will co-finance foreign funds’ and companies’ capital investments in Russian projects. We also plan to simplify the procedure for overturning wrongful decisions by various agencies against entrepreneurs, set up the institution of regional investment ombudsmen, expand minority shareholders’ rights, and offer legislative incentives for foreign investment in some of our strategic sectors.
We will continue our efforts to reduce red tape in the economy. We will also continue resolute efforts to fight corruption. Hong Kong’s experience provides very useful examples in this respect. We must remove the excessive bureaucratic barriers in our economy, and I think that here too we can learn from Hong Kong.
”We will continue our efforts to reduce red tape in the economy. We will also continue resolute efforts to fight corruption. Hong Kong’s experience provides very useful examples in this respect. We must remove the excessive bureaucratic barriers.“
Our immediate priorities include the launch of joint economic and investment projects, above all in sectors such as high-technology machine building, energy saving technology, and alternative energy sources.
Hong Kong’s businesspeople could take part in cooperation programmes between Russia’s Eastern Siberia and Far East regions and China’s northeast regions. This cooperation programme covers 2009–2018. Regional development is part of our cooperation programmes, including preparations for the APEC summit that Russia will host in autumn 2012.
Research and development in the advanced technology sectors offer us many opportunities for cooperation. I also want to mention once again the Skolkovo Innovation Centre, which offers many promising opportunities.
Hong Kong companies’ experience in protecting patent rights and commercialising scientific developments has great importance for us. Hong Kong’s wealth of experience in this area, as Mr Tsang said in his remarks, could be of help in establishing the international financial centre in Moscow.
As for Russia’s companies, they are active and successful in listing on the Hong Kong stock exchange. We discussed this today too. One of our companies, RUSAL, represented here today, is a good example of a Russian company issuing its shares on this, the world’s fastest growing stock exchange. Other Russian companies are preparing to be traded at this stock exchange.
We want to expand our contacts in science, education and medicine, and develop tourism and youth exchanges. Cultural projects are important too, and we also discussed them today. This will all help us to learn more about each other’s traditions and modern life, and will strengthen our multifaceted cooperation.
Our solid economic potential and mutual interest in cooperation gives us optimism for the future. We have great respect for the business opportunities that Hong Kong offers, and for its entrepreneurs’ and financiers’ business acumen. Your ability to comprehensively assess the situation and obtain results has earned you great respect and trust around the world.
I am sure that our cooperation will bring us good results.
Once again, I want to thank our partners for their hospitality.
Thank you.
Topics
Economy and finance
Fight against corruption
Foreign policy
Science and innovation
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 17, 2011, 10:00
Text version