To answer that question we should probably touch on the traditional issue of elite sport management. Obviously, we have not yet created an optimal structure in that regard. The responsibility for training teams continues to be divided between several structures that I have already mentioned more than once: the Ministry of Sport, Tourism and Youth Policy, the Olympic Committee, various sports federations, the federal centre and the regions. Naturally, in any event all these structures will one way or another remain responsible for the preparation of national teams, but we still need to understand where the coordinating centre is. Today we will hear our colleagues speak to this issue.
A few points which, I believe, require our immediate attention.
First, the programmes for developing different kinds of sports which are conducted by the relevant sports federations. They are largely subsidised by the government and must be linked to clear objectives which are set for national teams. The sport ministry should make sure that these programmes are being correctly implemented by using a variety of mechanisms, including harsh ones such as suspension of activities and even recall of government accreditation from the federation if necessary.
Second, the sport ministry and sports federations must work more actively and more closely with regional authorities and municipalities. Where such contacts exist and cooperation occurs, athletes are very well trained. And there are enough such entities in our country. Tatarstan is a leader in this regard, and I am pleased to note this as we are in Kazan today.
Third, while making decisions with an important social impact, the sport ministry should take public opinion into account. Modern technology enables us to get easily feedback from our citizens, sports fans, and athletes and to analyse their input. Judging from my information sources, I can say that sports is a very popular topic. I am sure that all of you here receive similar messages.
”Attracting talented young people and improving the system for selecting and training an athlete pool remains a priority task.“
Fourth, attracting talented young people and improving the system for selecting and training an athlete pool remains a priority task. This issue is as old as humankind, but I'd finally like to hear what has been done in order to prepare a reserve pool of athletes, what is the fate of graduates of our sports universities, and what they do after graduating. This is not an idle question, especially since we have a considerable number of sports universities. Such universities exist only in Russia, and we have to understand their development prospects and what their graduates do. Other countries often lack these specialised universities, but perform no worse than we do. We must therefore understand how to improve their capacities and how to stimulate graduate employment. We must appraise how many coaches and professionals are trained abroad, how specialised schools for young people for the Olympic pool operate, a topic which we have repeatedly discussed together, and why their number is going down while funding is increasing. If this is a function of a desire not to spread money around it is probably commendable, but we still need to understand what is happening in this respect.
Another topic which has traditionally been raised at Council meetings is that of biomedical support for teams. We are currently spending quite decent money to achieve these goals. This spring we approved a corresponding three-year programme and we have to make sure that it has a maximum effect. Responsibility for implementing the programme lies with the Federal Biomedical Agency. Indicators of the health of our athletes and their results bear witness [to its performance].
I would like to announce to this eminent audience that several days ago I signed a law enabling the sport ministry to terminate the employment contract of any athlete who violates international anti-doping rules. I am sure that this bill, as well as earlier legislative changes, will represent an important contribution by Russia to the struggle for fair sport.
There remains an urgent need to promote modern national training facilities and sports equipment. I can tell you frankly that recently I have not seen facilities or equipment that would be competitive with their foreign analogues, with perhaps a few exceptions. This is very sad. It indicates that the relevant industry is not developing in Russia.
We need a single coordinating centre where we can effectively use the potential of our major academic centres. The National Research Institute for Physical Culture and Sport is not quite able to cope with this. It is for this reason that I am instructing the Cabinet to use it as a foundation for a Federal Research Centre for Physical Culture and Sport.
A few words on incentives for athletes, coaches and professionals. There are members and partners of the Russian Olympians Foundation here today. I would like to once again welcome all of them and thank them for their help. The Foundation plays a key role in establishing a system of financial incentives whose level is quite high, even by global standards. It is important to note that more than half of the Foundation's grants go to young people involved in various types of sports, and that support for children's and teenager's sports schools is consistently increasing.
”We need a single coordinating centre where we can effectively use the potential of our major academic centres. I am instructing the Cabinet to use it as a foundation for a Federal Research Centre for Physical Culture and Sport.“
I would conclude by mentioning an obvious thing that is no less important because it is plain to see. To achieve results in professional sports, elite sports, we must widely advertise popular sports and a healthy lifestyle, so that people adopt the habit of doing sports since childhood.