In addition, we talked about the problems of national inter-Palestinian reconciliation, where corresponding efforts are being made, and the role that the Russian Federation could play in this process. Furthermore, we discussed the unfair blockade that the Palestinian people in Gaza are subjected to. It is causing widespread suffering and deprivation. Thus, it is imperative for this blockade to be lifted as soon as possible.
As far as bilateral relations are concerned, I expressed our sincere gratitude to the President of Russia for supporting Palestine at all levels, be it our cultural and humanitarian ties, financial support or support of our security agencies.
Soon, the President of Russia and I will be opening the park complex in Jericho, which was built by the Russian Federation as a symbol of our friendship, a symbol of the strength of our bilateral relations and a Russian installation on our territory.
I also expressed our appreciation for the Russian Federation’s historic principal position on the Palestinian problem. Russia has always stood on the side of the Palestinian people, and it is no accident that the Russian Federation was among the first states that recognised our country back in 1988.
I want to once again express our feelings regarding your visit to Jericho. We feel joy and happiness – not only those of us here in Jericho, but all Palestinians, wherever they may be. We truly value your step.
Welcome, our true and faithful friends.
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Mr President Mahmoud Abbas, ladies and gentlemen,
I fully agree with what Mr President has just said. Our talks were held in the absolutely trusting and sincere tone that marks the relations between Russia and Palestine.
As I said to Mr President, this visit by the President of the Russian Federation is characterised by two symbolic features. First of all, it is taking place on the lands of ancient Jericho, which recently marked its ten thousandth anniversary, which gives our meeting historic symbolism. Second, this is the first visit by the President of the Russian Federation to Palestine which is not connected with a visit to another nation.
Certainly, our main topic of conversation was the Middle East settlement, as Mr President mentioned. We discussed possible prospects for renewing dialogue and what would be needed for this: maximum restraint and the observance of obligations. First and foremost, this concerns freezing Israel’s settlement activity in the West Bank and East Jerusalem. I believe that everyone present here today fully understands this.
As I already said, it is imperative to show maximum restraint; unilateral actions that could aggravate the situation are unacceptable. At the same time, it is imperative to use all the potential of existing international rules, Security Council resolutions, and decisions by regional organisations in order to reach a new level in resolving this problem. In any event, we are all hopefully awaiting the upcoming meeting of the Middle East Quartet that will be held in Munich; this is another matter that Mr President and I addressed today.
Meanwhile, Russia’s position remains unchanged. Mr President just spoke about this: Russia made its choice long ago, at the end of the 1980s. We supported and will continue to support the inalienable right of the Palestinian people to establish their own state – an independent, territorially unified, sustainable state with a capital in East Jerusalem. Everyone would benefit from the creation of a Palestinian state; naturally, the Palestinians will benefit, but so will the Israelis as well as the entire region – all the peoples of the Middle East – and that is precisely the goal to be pursued.
Still, our support of the Palestinian people is not limited only to the political framework and we have witnessed the signing of a number of agreements which means that bilateral relations are progressing in agriculture, sports and information exchange. It is good and I hope that the range of cooperation between Russia and Palestine will broaden with every year.
I would like to particularly thank my colleague, President Mahmoud Abbas, for his attentive attitude toward Russia’s efforts to revive its presence in the Holy Land with respective works already accomplished in Jericho. I hope that this will be a nice gift for Palestinians as well and attract tourists and pilgrims from Russia and other nations.
I’d like to once again thank our Palestinian friends for inviting us and for the opportunity to make this visit.
Question: A question for President Mahmoud Abbas. Everyone knows that you have very positive feelings toward the Russian Federation. Today, the President of the Russian Federation made remarkable, far-reaching statements in support of the Palestinian people. How do you, Mr President, assess these statements?
And for the President of the Russian Federation: is Russia planning to put forward an initiative to overcome the current stalemate in the peace process? We would all very much like that.
Mahmoud Abbas: Indeed, I have held feelings of love, respect and a high appreciation of the Russian Federation for quite some time. These feelings probably emerged over forty years ago.
At the beginning of the 1970s, I was the chairman of the Friendship Society – at the time, it was the Soviet-Palestinian Friendship Society. And today, I continue to consider myself the Russian Federation’s number-one friend among the Palestinians.