Events
Statement by Dmitry Medvedev on the situation in Libya
March 21, 2011
18:30
2 of 2
Statement by Dmitry Medvedev on the situation in Libya.
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: I want to say a few words regarding the situation in Libya. The Russian Federation hoped from the start that Libya’s internal problems could be settled through peaceful means. We followed developments there as closely as possible and resolutely condemned the actions of the Libyan authorities and Libyan leader with regard to their own people. 
Acting on these considerations, Russia supported UN Security Council resolution 1970, and abstained on UN Security Council resolution 1973 in the aim of protecting the Libyan population and preventing the conflict from escalating. Our unwavering position is that all UN Security resolutions must pursue the objectives of bolstering peace and ending civil strife, preventing escalation of conflict and protecting civilians’ lives.
Unfortunately, we see from the developments now unfolding that real military action has begun. This is something that cannot be allowed to happen. I hope that all of the countries currently involved in the operations to enforce the no-fly zone in Libya, and who are using their armed forces, act with the understanding that any steps they take must be in the Libyan people’s interests and in order to prevent further loss of life and Libya’s disintegration as a country.
At the same time, let us not forget what motivated the Security Council resolutions in the first place. These resolutions were passed in response to the Libyan authorities’ actions. This was why we took these decisions. I think these are balanced decisions that were very carefully thought through. We gave our support to the first Security Council resolution and abstained on the second. We made these decisions consciously in the aim of preventing an escalation of violence.
”I hope that the international community’s coordinated efforts will succeed in bringing peace to Libya, and that comprehensive measures will be taken to prevent the conflict from spreading further in Africa and into other countries.“
But subsequent events have shown that any decisions of this kind must be accompanied by consultations and the need to keep in mind that any use of force should be in proportion to events. Still, these operations have damaged civilian sites, and there are as yet unconfirmed reports that innocent people have been killed, and this shows that, sadly, the countries taking part in these military operations have not managed to achieve these goals.
I hope that the international community’s coordinated efforts will succeed in bringing peace to Libya, and that comprehensive measures will be taken to prevent the conflict from spreading further in Africa and into other countries.
Question: Why did Russia not use its power of veto? We do have this right after all, and we could have used it to veto one of the resolutions that you mentioned.
Dmitry Medvedev: Russia did not use its power of veto for the simple reason that I do not consider the resolution in question wrong. Moreover, I think that overall this resolution reflects our understanding of events in Libya too, but not completely. This is why we decided not to use our power of veto. This, you realise, was a qualified decision not to veto the resolution, and the consequences of this decision were obvious. It would be wrong for us to start flapping about now and say that we didn’t know what we were doing. This was a conscious decision on our part. Such were the instructions I gave to the Foreign Ministry, and they were carried out. 
Let me say again that everything that is happening in Libya is a result of the Libyan leadership’s absolutely intolerable behaviour and the crimes that they have committed against their own people. Let’s not forget this. Everything else is the consequences of these actions.
Question: What steps could Russia take from here? Are there any meetings planned?
Dmitry Medvedev: I think Russia’s actions are very clear. Russia will not take part in any of the operations to enforce the no-fly zone, and will not send any troops if – and we hope this will not happen – ground operations begin. At this stage, the possibility of ground operations cannot be ruled out. 
”I think Russia’s actions are very clear. Russia will not take part in any of the operations to enforce the no-fly zone, and will not send any troops. As for what we can do by way of mediation and peacekeeping efforts, Russia will be happy to put its possibilities to use in this situation if required.“
As for what we can do by way of mediation and peacekeeping efforts, Russia will be happy to put its possibilities to use in this situation if required.
We have good ties in the Arab world. I looked at the statement issued by the League of Arab States and the statements that other responsible political leaders have made. I think that we all must get involved in efforts to end this conflict through negotiations, not let it escalate, and try to bring it to an end. Overall, some of the terms of resolution 1973 follow these same objectives, and this was why Russia chose to abstain in the voting. 
Question: How do you think events will develop?
Dmitry Medvedev: Judging by the current developments, I think the situation is not going to be easy. The main problem in my view is that there is no coalition carrying out a coordinated policy. Some countries, some of our partners, are taking action of their own to try to bring order to the situation, but these are not coordinated, jointly organised actions. This is causing damage to various sites, and as I understand it, there is no common plan for how to establish peace and order in Libya. This is a big problem.
The other problem is who to talk with there. Most of the Western countries consider the current Libyan leader, who says he holds no state post, someone they cannot shake hands with, someone they will not have dealings with.
The Russian Federation has not officially severed diplomatic ties, and we could thus act as a mediator in this sense. We still have diplomatic ties with the Libyan leadership, but this does not mean that we do not see what this country’s authorities have done. This is something everyone, both inside and outside the country, should remember.
At the moment various words are being used to describe the events taking place. I think we need to be very careful in our choice of wordings. It is inadmissible to say anything that could lead to a clash of civilisations, talk of ‘crusades’ and so on. This is unacceptable. Otherwise we could see a situation far worse even than what is happening today. We must all keep this in mind.
Geography
Libya
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 21, 2011, 18:30
Text versionEvents
Speech at state decoration award ceremony
March 21, 2011
17:15
Shchyolkovo, Moscow Region
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Comrades,
I would like to begin by welcoming servicemen of the Zubr special purpose police unit and three regiments that are responsible for maintaining public order at major public events in the city of Moscow, the Moscow Region and other areas.
Our meeting today will also include a ceremonial element, as, while here, I would like to take the opportunity to award state decorations.
The activities of the Zubr detachment, as well as other units and regiments maintaining public order, involve enormous responsibility, and sometimes high risks; they certainly require serious special training, as well as a great deal of stamina, tact, and personal courage. In this context, the example set by your comrades such as your commander, police major general Alexander Ivanin, is very important. As a participant to lots of combat missions, he has substantial, truly vast experience, and judging by what I saw today, pays great attention and puts enormous effort into training his personnel. I am very pleased to present to him the Order of Honour.
I am presenting a Medal of Distinction for Protecting Public Order to police major Vitaly Vorobyev. He chose a difficult profession of a field engineer and has reached significant achievements.
Senior lieutenant Dmitry Savkin will receive a state decoration for the first time today, the Medal of Distinction for Protecting Public Order. I also wish him success.
As I Said, there are true professionals serving in the Zubr detachment and in the regiments maintaining public order, strong-willed, determined, decisive people who have successfully accomplished thousands of special operations and neutralised dozens of dangerous criminals.
Each of you serves our nation, our beloved Russia, our Fatherland, each of you serves it honestly and professionally. That is precisely why I decided to issue a commendation to your entire unit. I congratulate you and propose that we move on to the award ceremony.
* * *
Comrades,
I want to congratulate the award recipients one more time on their well-deserved decorations. I congratulate servicemen of the Zubr special purpose police unit on the commendation, a certificate of which has just been presented to you commander.
I would like to sincerely wish you all success, spirit, and good health. I hope that things go well in your families, because without that, nobody’s service can be successful.
I want to once again thank you for your service to our nation, for everything you are doing. Good luck, and thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: March 21, 2011, 17:15
Text versionEvents
Meeting on economic issues
Establishment of a fund to attract foreign investments to the Russian economy was the subject of discussion.
March 21, 2011
18:30
Gorki, Moscow Region
Participants in the meeting included First Deputy Prime Minister Igor Shuvalov, Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin, Presidential Aide Arkady Dvorkovich, Economic Development Minister Elvira Nabiullina, Central Bank Chairman Sergei Ignatiev, Vnesheconombank Chairman Vladimir Dmitriev, and Sberbank Chairman Herman Gref.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Colleagues,
We have reviewed the investment climate issues many times. This is one of the major priorities for the development of our state and activities of our country’s leadership, as the transition to innovative growth cannot be ensured without an up-to-date investment climate.
As we have discussed, the success of our modernisation efforts may only be guaranteed if the level of investments into the economy is no less than 30 to 40 percent of the gross domestic product which is convincingly evidenced by the experience of various nations, including such industrial giants and technological leaders as Japan, Korea, Singapore and China. In Russia, this figure is significantly smaller at somewhat 20 percent of the GDP, while the volume of direct investments attracted still remains at an unacceptably low level. I will try to return to this topic for a more extended analysis in the near future, while today I propose that we review ways to better use the potential of major international investment funds and long-term investment capital.
I know that Vnesheconombank management has had a series of meetings with the largest private and sovereign funds which manage enormous assets of about three trillion dollars. Many of them are ready to operate in our country. I met with executives of major funds and largest banks too.
”The investment climate is one of the major priorities for the development of our state and activities of our country’s leadership, as the transition to innovative growth cannot be ensured without an up-to-date investment climate.“
For this kind of partnership, a mechanism of a so-called special investment fund may be employed. I first mentioned this in my Presidential Address to the Federal Assembly. Subsequently, the idea was further considered by the Government and myself.
For setting the fund some resources of the National Welfare Fund could be used as in this way they may make greater contribution to the development of the industrial sectors of Russia’s economy. The money could also be invested in Russia on the terms of co-investments by other institutions, including leading international funds, which would ensure an adequate risk sharing in implementing such major projects. What’s most imperative is to generally improve the investment climate in the country, create new jobs, and attract additional money into development of the most advanced technologies, which in fact is exactly what we have been pursuing.
Today, we must make specific decisions on the pattern for shaping the fund, its functioning mechanism, its investment strategy, and the scope of possible and necessary state financing. These decisions should meet the investors’ expectations and be based on relevant global experience.
I expect that we may launch the fund in question by the middle of this year. By the way, we could demonstrate it to our partners during the St Petersburg International Economic Forum which is customarily attended by many of our partners, international investors, and numerous foreign leaders.
<…>
Topics
Economy and finance
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 21, 2011, 18:30
Text version