Events
Excerpts from transcript of meeting with National State Television and Radio Company staff
May 12, 2011
18:15
Moscow
Visit to VGTRK.
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Friends,
First of all, I sincerely congratulate you on the upcoming holiday: the 20th anniversary of your company’s creation. Twenty years does not seem like a very long time in the history of a nation, but in those twenty years, a great deal has been done. Moreover, the entire complicated history of modern Russia fits into those twenty years. In 1991, everything seemed entirely different. In these 20 years, we have witnessed a variety of problems, which have stood before our nation, many political disturbances, and even the dramatic events in the life of our state and the development of television.
I sincerely congratulate you. I wish you luck and success in the creation of new, modern television. In this regard, you have already done a great deal.
* * *
I think that regardless of what people say and write about our nation’s television, it nevertheless fulfils its mission. And as far as news broadcasting is concerned, in spite of new technologies, in spite of having the Internet, of which I am a big fan and suspect that all of you are too, a large part of our people learns about events in the world and in our nation by turning on the TV and tuning into your news broadcasts. Your mission is therefore absolutely essential.
* * *
The National State Television and Radio Company is an enormous holding that includes over 80 companies. This shows how multifaceted our nation is, and at the same time, how unified. And I think that in principle, having that many companies creates precisely what television is supposed to create: unity, the continuity of our territory, a common information space that, for certain nations perhaps, is an entirely virtual understanding, but for us, it is absolutely clear and completely real. Because, for example, if one of the studios represented here today cannot broadcast the news, then an entire region of the Russian Federation, or perhaps even several regions, will find themselves unplugged from mainstream news. That is just impossible to imagine in the modern world.
Head and Anchor of The Leading Vesti v subbotu [News On Saturday With Sergei Brilev] Programme Sergei Brilev: Today’s major national news had to do with something that Vladimir Putin said. He said that you support the People’s Front. Is that true?
Dmitry Medvedev: You know, the President of Russia – let me remind you – is the guarantor of the Constitution. It is true that I spoke with Vladimir Putin about the creation of the People’s Front. I understand the motives of the party wanting to maintain its influence in the nation. And overall, creating this kind of a pre-election alliance, in and of itself, generally falls within the framework of the current legislation and makes sense from the point of view of voting technologies. But I expect that other bodies, other election blocs, other parties, will try to participate in this electoral programme to the full extent. And thus, I think that the emergence of this alliance will be accompanied by an attempt to create other electoral alliances, other configurations, to achieve maximum results in the election.
All of this is in line with our electoral legislation. And in this case, as President of Russia, I feel that all of this fits into normal election and voting technologies. My challenge in this situation is to keep watch and ensure that electoral legislation is applied correctly, and that it assures the necessary competition on our nation’s political field. Only then will our political system be stable.
Sergey Brilev: You won’t leave us without any work to do?
Dmitry Medvedev: No, you won’t be bored. Because if we assume that everything is already decided and will develop in accordance with a particular scenario, then our political system have no future. Everything is still ahead, and the electoral battles are still before us. Not a single political force can consider itself to be dominant. But at the same time, it seems to me that every political power must strive for maximum success. So we are awaiting some interesting events on the political front, on the political horizon. And indeed, your challenge is to broadcast all of this.
Sergey Brilev: Well, as we were saying, the programme is laid out. Overall, we have things to report on.
Dmitry Medvedev: Not all of it, not yet. Have no doubt: all the political powers will still have their say. This is just the beginning of the political season. I hope that it will be interesting. But, speaking seriously, what’s most important is for the elections to result in a hard-working parliament in the State Duma. A parliament that reflects our citizens’ current preferences to the greatest extent – not the preferences of one political power, but of all voters. And that is the objective for all the political parties: to ensure that their voters are not deprived of their due share, that they have their representatives in the State Duma. That is the only way we can have a balanced political system. These are the plans for the future.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 12, 2011, 18:15
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of Pakistan Asif Ali Zardari
Dmitry Medvedev and Asif Ali Zardari discussed the prospects of the Russian-Pakistani relations and pressing international and regional issues, specifically focusing on coordination of efforts to counter international terrorism and on the situation in the Middle East.
May 12, 2011
13:45
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 5
With President of Pakistan Asif Ali Zardari.
Following the meeting, the presidents issued a joint statement.
The two leaders also witnessed the signing of the intergovernmental agreement on air traffic, Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Energy of the Russian Federation and the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, and Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Agriculture of the Russian Federation and the Ministry of Food and Agriculture of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
President of Pakistan Asif Ali Zardari
is on an official visit to Russia at Dmitry Medvedev's invitation.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Mr President, it is a great pleasure to welcome you in the Kremlin.
We have had a number of meetings recently and can even say that we have been meeting on a regular basis on the sidelines of various summits. Now the time has come for your official visit to our country and I am very glad to see you and am confident that it will be an excellent opportunity for us to discuss a wide range of Russia-Pakistani bilateral cooperation issues.
”We should step up our economic cooperation, and we are certainly interested in coordinating our efforts in global politics.“
Overall, relations between Russia and Pakistan have been progressing consistently and steadily. We’ve seen interest in mutual cooperation from our business communities, regional authorities and public organisations. This year your visit to our country will be followed by a visit of the National Assembly Speaker. I therefore see excellent prospects for our cooperation. I believe we should step up our economic cooperation, and certain steps have been taken already but more needs to be done in various areas. I hope that the documents that will be signed today will serve the purpose of increasing the scope of our economic cooperation.
We are certainly interested in coordinating our efforts in global politics, in the international arena because our countries are evidently facing similar threats, namely international terrorism. We are to stand united if we want to be able to counter this major threat of the 21st century.
I would like to discuss with you today various international issues connected with the situations in the region, in the Middle East, and in other parts of the globe, as the success of our common endeavours will largely depend on the degree of our coordination.
Mr President, this is your first official visit to Russia and I hope that your trips to Moscow and St Petersburg will give you a very clear understanding of the current situation in this country and will be a strong impetus to our bilateral relations. Once again, welcome to our country.
President of Pakistan Asif Ali Zardari: Thank you, Mr President.
First of all, I must thank you on behalf of myself and the people of Pakistan for the warm welcome I have had in your beautiful country.
As far as I am concerned, this is a very historic visit, a beginning of a new relationship with Russia. The last official visit to Russia was by my late father-in-law 27 years ago. It is time that we recognise the importance of each of our countries in the regional context and further our cooperation in the economic field and in the political field.
I am carrying with me the wishes of my Parliament, my Prime Minister, my Government and the hopes of my people to have better relations with Russia and to define a new relationship in the regional context. The world recognises that all nations and countries that are prosperous, are prosperous because of bilateral relationships and bilateral trade among neighbours. We are very close neighbours, we are in the same region. Our borders don’t touch but our hearts do.
I feel there’s great room for improvement, and it is a great moment for me and I am grateful to His Excellency Mr President. It is his friendship and it is his graciousness that brings our two countries together today for the future and for the coming generations, and history will remember it as such.
<…>
Geography
Pakistan
Topics
Economy and finance
Fight against terrorism
Foreign policy
Persons
Zardari Asif Ali
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 12, 2011, 13:45
Text version