Events
Meeting with Prosecutor General Yury Chaika
The President instructed Prosecutor General Yury Chaika to tighten control over the investigation concerning criminal cases related to lawyer Sergei Magnitsky.
May 31, 2011
19:30
Gorki, Moscow Region
Prosecutor General Yury Chaika during meeting with journalists.
Yury Chaika’s press statement following his meeting with the President
Prosecutor General Yury Chaika
: I just received instructions from the President of the Russian Federation to tighten control over the investigation into this affair. I would like to say that the matter falls into a set of criminal cases: it is a criminal case on tax evasion in the Russian Federation initiated against Brauder, Magnitsky, and other individuals and investigated by the Interior Ministry’s investigative agencies.
Just recently, the Investigative Committee of the Russian Federation initiated a criminal case over the death of Mr Magnitsky. It is precisely within the framework of this case that we will evaluate the legality of the medical personnel’s actions, the detention conditions, assess the relevance of criminal cases instigated and the reasonableness of the investigative agencies’ actions in instigating criminal cases against Magnitsky, Brauder, and other individuals.
And the third criminal case that was discussed concerns the embezzlement of the Russian Federation budget funds through VAT returns using forged documents. The criminal case against a number of individuals involved in such embezzlements has been instigated in the Swiss Confederation as well. We are working closely with the Swiss Federal Prosecutor’s Office and have already contacted them directly; we have travelled to Switzerland, discussed all of these issues, and I think that through our joint efforts, we will identify the guilty parties that embezzled funds from the budget of the Russian Federation.
I want to emphasise again that the second case I mentioned, over the death of Mr Magnitsky, will allow us to thoroughly investigate the reasons and circumstances leading to his death, and evaluate the validity of the investigators’ actions. It was impossible to get to the core of this matter within the framework of the prosecutors’ investigation, and that is why a criminal case has been instigated. We hope that we will be able to establish the truth together with the Investigative Committee of the Russian Federation.
Topics
Fight against crime
Taxes
Persons
Chaika Yury
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Presidential Instructions
Publication date: May 31, 2011, 19:30
Text versionEvents
Working meeting with First Deputy Prime Minister Viktor Zubkov
Fighting wildfires and lifting the ban on grain exports were discussed.
May 31, 2011
17:00
Gorki, Moscow Region
With First Deputy Prime Minister Viktor Zubkov.
* * *
See also
Meeting on wildfires prevention
April 27, 2011
On implementation of Presidential instruction on establishing levels of emergency response
March 14, 2011
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Mr Zubkov, let us review two issues. 
The first has to do with wildfires in our country. Some time ago I issued instructions to the Government and would like to hear your report on what has been done. 
The second subject is the lifting on the grain export embargo.It is an event that has been expected for a long time and means that we have weighed all the possibilities and made the relevant decisions. Although I have noticed that it has been accompanied by all sorts of discussions: will we have enough grain, and on the other hand, how it will affect the inflation, and so on. Could you please briefly report on this as well.
First Deputy Prime Minister Viktor Zubkov
: Indeed, this year the situation with wildfires is not easy but it is under control. We have fully taken stock and analysed last year’s negative experience, when there was a shortage of equipment and human and financial resources, and the wildfires spread over very extensive areas; We received your instructions to address the problem and take institutional, legal and financial measures. I can report that all of your instructions have been executed in full, a number of important laws and regulations have been adopted, including amendments to legislation, to the Forest Code, and substantial financial resources have been allocated to purchase equipment and improve the situation with foresters’ wage payments in the regions.
This year we have allocated 36 billion rubles [$1.3 billion] for the forestry complex compared with 20 billion rubles last year; of this about 10 billion rubles will go solely towards fire prevention measures (against 2.2 billion rubles last year), which is a substantial increase. Across Russia, from Kaliningrad to Khabarovsk, the regions are receiving new fire departments and about 2,000 units of equipment, including fire engines, tractors, bulldozers and other equipment. In 2012 and 2013 we will supply 1,500 units of equipment per year to the regions, that is, this programme will continue. In addition, much has been done in terms of regulating relations between the regions, legislation amendments have been adopted on procedures for declaring state of emergency, so now the regions can do it independently, and all the resources of the Emergencies Ministry, the Federal Agency for Forestry and other organisations will automatically be involved in this effort. 
I must say that all this has contributed to the fact that we have been able to halve the number of wildfires, for example, in the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia), which has been gravely affected. In addition, the situation has returned to normal in the Irkutsk Region, the Trans-Baikal Territory, the Republic of Buryatia and the Krasnoyarsk Territory. Only yesterday 4,897 people, 602 pieces of equipment and 70 aircraft were involved in the firefighting effort. Per my directive, the head of the Federal Agency for Forestry is presently in the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia), the Agency’s deputy heads are in other regions, resources and funding are being transferred there from other regions in order to ensure that the more powerful pockets of fire can be dealt with quickly. This work is underway, and we are keeping the situation with wildfires under control.
”Most important thing in fighting fires is never to relax, because as soon as local authorities calm down, for whatever reason, and start to believe that the fire has retreated, you can expect trouble.“
I think the measures and actions taken by the Government pursuant to your instructions will enable us to normalise the situation. Already today we have reached last year’s level in terms of the number of widfires, or the number was slightly higher last year, 10,200, while this year it is 10,000. Nevertheless, we believe that our efforts must be more specific, more result-oriented to minimise the losses caused by wildfires today.
Dmitry Medvedev: True, this year significantly more resources and funds have been allocated than in the past, a wide range of units and formations have been mobilised and legal acts have been amended in line with my instructions. But what is most important thing in fighting fires? It is never to relax, because as soon as local authorities calm down, for whatever reason, and start to believe that the fire has retreated, you can expect trouble. So I hope that the Government, jointly with the Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoys, will closely monitor the situation in the regions and issue instructions as required. The regions will take the necessary actions because firefighting efforts must be conducted in the regions themselves and not in Moscow, the Kremlin or the Government: organisational decisions will be made here and the effort itself should be focused there.
Good, now let us turn to the second issue.
Viktor Zubkov: This year, despite the fact that the weather in spring was worse than last year and the sowing campaign was 10 to 12 days behind, the work is now proceeding at a faster pace than last year. So far, about 27 million hectares have been sown, which is 8.5% more than last year. The situation with winter crops is satisfactory. The Government’s measures on supplying seeds, fertilisers, petroleum products and financial resources have proved to be effective and the spring sowing campaign has been completed in a number of regions while in others it is coming to an end. It is already possible to calculate this year’s harvest in our most important crop, the grain.
We have made calculations and cross-checked them with the data from different sources – the regions, ministries, agencies, experts and businesses: this year Russia may get a harvest of 85 million tonnes of grain. We have good reserves left over from last year, the intervention fund (crop year for grain is from July 1, 2011 to July 1, 2012). Our calculations show that considering the factors I have named (the spring sowing campaign, the state of winter crops, grain reserves), we could have about 18.5 million tonnes of grain reserves by July 1, 2012. This is a good, solid reserve. In this regard, we believe that the grain export can reach around 15 million tonnes.
The Government has decided that the embargo should not be extended and the export of grain will be allowed from July 1, thus Russia will be back on the global grain market. Why is this announcement made today? Because in June, farmers and exporters will have the opportunity to review contracts, conclude new ones, to prepare and begin organised grain shipments from July 1. Such work has been carried out by the Government.
Dmitry Medvedev: You know, the decision to ban grain exports came under harsh criticism from many parties, including the business community, but I would like to say that the Government had done the right thing and the events of the past year have proved that. First, and most importantly, we maintained the stability of the Russian grain market and did not allow a substantial increase in bread and baked products prices, I mean in the affordable goods segment. On the contrary, the prices have stabilised in many regions, which is especially important because of the crop failure which affected many countries, not only Russia; in fact, the trend in the whole global food market is toward rising prices, and we must bear this in mind. Unfortunately, it is true and this decision helped to prevent the situation in the domestic food market from deteriorating.
And one more point. We have not lost our export positions. Russia is potentially one of the biggest grain-exporting countries, and if the harvest forecast is correct, our positions will become even stronger.
Viktor Zubkov: I fully agree with you.
<…>
Additional
Meeting on financial stability of agribusiness
September 21, 2010
Presidential instructions following meeting on forestry development
September 21, 2010
Topics
Agriculture
National security
Regions
Persons
Zubkov Viktor
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 31, 2011, 17:00
Text version    Events Russian-Mongolian talks   Dmitry Medvedev and Tsakhiagiin Elbegdorj discussed the development of political dialogue and promising areas of trade and economic cooperation,and exchanged views on international issues, including the situation in Central and Southeast Asia.    May 31, 2011  14:00  The Kremlin, Moscow                                                                                  2 of 7 With President of Mongolia Tsakhiagiin Elbegdorj.        Following the talks, Dmitry Medvedev and Tsakhiagiin Elbegdorj      Elbegdorj Tsakhiagiin  issued a joint declaration. A number of further documents were signed in the presence of the two presidents: a memorandum on research cooperation between the two countries’ Academies of Medical Sciences, an intergovernmental agreement on the establishment of a transborder biosphere reserve Uvs Nuur Basin, an intergovernmental agreement on mutual protection of intellectual property within the framework of bilateral defence cooperation, and a protocol on amendments to the bilateral agreement of June 6, 1949 on the establishment of the Soviet-Mongolian company Ulaanbaatar Railway. Russia and Mongolia are actively cooperating in the energy sector, implementing joint projects on the development of mineral deposits, as well as in transport, infrastructure and agriculture. The official visit of Tsakhiagiin Elbegdorj is taking place during a momentous year for Mongolia and Russian-Mongolian ties: 100th anniversary of Mongolia’s independence and the 90th anniversary of bilateral diplomatic relations. In addition, the two countries mark the 30th anniversary of a joint space mission, which took place in March 1981 as part of the Intercosmos space programme: Mongolia’s first cosmonaut researcher Zhugderdemidiyn Gurragcha flew into orbit as member of the Salyut-39 crew. *** Press statements following Russian-Mongolian talks President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Good afternoon, colleagues,  First of all, I would like to once again welcome President of Mongolia Tsakhiagiin Elbegdorj and the whole of the Mongolian delegation to Moscow and to note that our countries have been linked by a very close friendship for many decades. This friendship has been fully evident in the course of today's talks. Mr President and I have already discussed the most dominant, most crucial and probably the most complex issues of our cooperation, and after the news conference we will continue our discussion in an expanded format with the participation of our ministers and other colleagues. We have exchanged information on trade and economic ties, talked about what remains to be done and expressed our mutual commitment to strengthening the relations between our states with each passing year, making them more productive and beneficial for the peoples of the Russian Federation and Mongolia. I would like to note that President Elbegdorj’s visit is taking place during a very special year. This year is rich in historical dates, and we have commented on that today. It is the 100th anniversary of Mongolia’s independence, the 90th anniversary of establishing diplomatic relations between our states and half a century since Mongolia’s admission to the United Nations. There is still another anniversary: this year we are celebrating the anniversary of Yury Gagarin’s space flight, and 30 years ago, in 1981, the first Mongolian cosmonaut flew into space. So in that sense, the year is very rich in all sorts of good reasons to think back to past achievements and contemplate the future.  ”Our economic cooperation is developing dynamically and we are jointly implementing a number of major projects in Mongolia and elsewhere in the transport sector, infrastructure development and agriculture.“  Our economic cooperation is developing dynamically and we are jointly implementing a number of major projects in Mongolia and elsewhere in the transport sector, infrastructure development and agriculture. Because of this, our turnover has significantly increased in recent years. Last year trade between our countries stood at over $1 billion, which is up 40% from the difficult year 2009. This year the trend is very good: it appears that the turnover for the first quarter has increased by another 50%. There is still a great deal for our Mongolian partners and us to tackle because the trade balance, the net balance is not in favour of our Mongolian colleagues, but this matter requires significant attention and discussion this year. It is also important to pay attention to the cooperation between the regions. Our interregional relations, our cross-border ties contribute up to 70% to bilateral trade and result in fairly active travels by our citizens. Incidentally, I am very pleased that in addition to Moscow, Mr President will also visit St Petersburg, our second capital, and Elista, a region that has many close ties with Mongolia. Humanitarian issues occupy a special place in our relations. Our two countries’ intellectuals, culture professionals and experts have many years of fruitful cooperation experience. Mr President has raised this issue during our talks, referring to the study of various historical monuments and archives that have a direct bearing on the history of Mongolia and to our shared history. This is an opportunity to enhance ties among universities. Russia has many Mongolian students, and we are very pleased about that and ready to develop this cooperation in the future.  Naturally, we are interested in Mongolians’ continued desire to learn the Russian language because historically it has so happened that a large number of Mongolians speak Russian. It is our joint heritage because it facilitates communication and helps address a variety of economic issues our countries are facing. I am sure, Mr President, that your meeting yesterday with the faculty of Lomonosov Moscow State University has confirmed interest in your country and the study of the Russian and Mongolian languages. We will also discuss some inter-regional issues and aspects of international cooperation relevant to our countries. I would like to thank my colleague and partner Tsakhiagiin Elbegdorj for productive talks and to wish you success. President of Mongolia Tsakhiagiin Elbegdorj: (retranslated) Mr President,  Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Russian party once again for the hospitality and warm welcome in the friendly Russian Federation. Russian President Dmitry Medvedev paid ​​a state visit to Mongolia in 2009, and at that time we signed the Declaration on Developing a Strategic Partnership. We believe that it was a historical visit, which served to intensify relations between Mongolia and the Russian Federation in all spheres of our interaction, some of which Mr President mentioned in his address. My visit is taking place in a special year, a year that is rich in momentous historical dates, so I think that my visit is also important as it will help us find solutions to many significant issues of our bilateral cooperation. We have discussed infrastructure and trade and agreed to continue our joint efforts to find the most acceptable mutually beneficial solutions. Nearly 100% of Mongolia’s domestic demand for petroleum products is satisfied by Russia, but due to certain difficulties experienced by our Russian partner we are not receiving the full amount of petroleum products, including diesel fuel, which has led to disruptions in the sowing campaign, as well as in industry generally and public transport. Mr President drew special attention to this issue and promised to assist us in resolving it, for which we are grateful. An important inter-governmental agreement on defence cooperation has been signed. Defence cooperation is a traditional sector of our cooperation and we intend to continue it.  We have also discussed instigating joint research of the cultural and historical heritage stored in museums and archives of the Russian Federation. We are grateful to Russia for its intention to increase the quota for Mongolian students to study at Russian universities. This is very important for our country because young people who will receive their education at Russian schools will in future play an important role in the development of bilateral cooperation. We also talked about other subjects, but we still have an expanded meeting planned where we will discuss other relevant matters, including regional and international issues. We would like to express our deep appreciation to President Medvedev and other Russian delegation members for the very friendly and warm atmosphere of our visit, and on behalf of the Mongolian people, state and Government I want to express our deep appreciation to the Russia people, whom you represent.        Geography Mongolia      Topics  Foreign policy         Persons    Elbegdorj Tsakhiagiin                        Publication status Published in sections: News, Transcripts  Publication date:    May 31, 2011, 14:00  Direct link: en.kremlin.ru/d/11405    Text version        NaN /  Events
Meeting on national defence development
The plans for development of the Armed Forces and other military organisations through 2015 and development prospects through 2020 as well as legal mechanisms for provision of housing to the servicemen were the subjects of discussion.
May 31, 2011
18:00
Gorki, Moscow Region
1 of 2
Meeting on national defence development.
The meeting participants included Deputy Prime Minister Sergei Ivanov, Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin, Defence Minister Anatoly Serdyukov, Interior Minister Rashid Nurgaliyev, Economic Development Minister Elvira Nabiullina, Civil Defence, Emergencies and Disaster Relief Minister Sergei Shoigu, Prosecutor General Yury Chaika, Security Council Secretary Nikolai Patrushev, heads of the Federal Security Service, Federal Guard Service and Foreign Intelligence Service, and officials of the Presidential Executive Office.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Colleagues, I would like to say a few words at the beginning of our meeting. We will look into issues concerning national defence over the upcoming years and discuss plans for building up the Armed Forces and other military units through 2015, as well as making long-term plans through 2020.
The main purpose of today’s meeting is to make sure we all act on the basis of common, coordinated criteria to optimise military staffing levels and provide housing for servicemen, as well as discussing several other positions that ultimately determine the social well-being in the Armed Forces and other power agencies.
I am not going to anticipate particular results right now. I would like for us to really give our attention to the highly important topic of legislative regulation on housing provisions for military personnel. There are different options and approaches to the issue, but naturally, all of them are along the lines of the classic approaches we formulated some time ago – nobody is changing anything. Nevertheless, there are various suggestions on optimising our efforts on this matter. Let me just remind you that in the last two years, a great deal of money has been spent on buying housing for military personnel: 257 billion rubles. The Defence Ministry received two thirds of it, almost 200 billion rubles [over $7 billion], and has already acquired about 100 thousand apartments. By the end of 2013, the ministry plans to acquire 77 thousand more apartments for a monetary total of 145 billion rubles.
I expect that when all of these decisions are implemented, we will be able to eliminate the queue for housing among servicemen so that we can overcome this, one of our most challenging problems, once and for all. Certainly, we must ensure that in the future programmes will be in place to provide housing to the military on the regular basis, whereas this campaign will conclude our nonrecurring efforts.
I believe this will be a major achievement and we must not spare any effort or resources. We must complete this task. I know that the Defence Ministry as well as other units and law enforcement agencies have submitted their suggestions regarding the topic on today’s agenda. I would like to discuss these with all of you today.
<…>
Topics
Armed Forces
Housing
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 31, 2011, 18:00
Text version