Events
Meeting with Patriarch Kirill of Moscow and All Russia
Dmitry and Svetlana Medvedev congratulated Patriarch Kirill of Moscow and All Russia on the anniversary of his enthronement.
February 1, 2011
16:00
Moscow
1 of 2
Dmitry and Svetlana Medvedev congratulated Patriarch Kirill of Moscow and All Russia on the anniversary of his enthronement.
At the end of January 2009, the Local Council of the Russian Orthodox Church elected Metropolitan Kirill of Smolensk and Kaliningrad the Patriarch of Moscow and All Russia. His enthronement took place on February 1, 2009. The Church traditionally celebrates the day of the Patriarch’s enthronement every year as a holiday.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Your Holiness, I sincerely congratulate you and join in the words you have heard today and are still to hear. I congratulate you on the Day of your Enthronement. 
You have done a great deal in these past two years. I am not referring only to the internal affairs of the Church. Much has been done to improve the relationship between the Russian Orthodox Church and the state, to make it even more warm and friendly, or as you often say, more harmonious. I believe you have succeeded in that, or at least that is how I see it. 
I wish you health and success and would like to see you surrounded by your loyal assistants on this day. God help you in everything. 
Patriarch Kirill of Moscow and All Russia: Thank you, Mr President and Mrs Medvedeva for the opportunity to see you on this day. I accept your kind congratulations with love, joy and gratitude. 
If we talk about our efforts, I think we are all working towards the goal of changing the individual and society for the better. The state has its own way of achieving this by enhancing life on this earth, making it safer, more comfortable and more prosperous. The task of the Church lies in changing people inside, spiritually, because only a combination of human and spiritual progress can change the lives of individuals, society and all around the globe. 
I thank you and the Russian government for the cooperation that exists today between the Church and the state. May the Lord bless you, the authorities of the Russian Federation and our nation. 
Dmitry Medvedev: Thank you, Your Holiness. Once again, congratulations on the Day of your Enthronement. 
Patriarch Kirill: Thank you. 
<…>
Topics
Religion
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 1, 2011, 16:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting of the Council for Civil Society and Human Rights
Protection of children’s rights was the main issue discussed at the meeting chaired by Dmitry Medvedev.
February 1, 2011
12:00
Yekaterinburg
3 of 6
Meeting of the Council for Civil Society and Human Rights.
In particular, the President noted the importance of non-governmental organisations specialising in education and social support for children, their efforts against teenage drug abuse and protecting children from violence. Dmitry Medvedev visited one of such institutions in Yekaterinburg today. The Pelican centre teaches children and adolescents with physical disabilities and those in difficult life situations alongside children not included in these categories.
The meeting also discussed the reform of law enforcement agencies. Speaking of legal issues and the functioning of government institutions, in particular about the new law On the Police Force, Dmitry Medvedev stressed the need to further develop legislation defining the status, scope of activities and responsibilities of police officers.
During the meeting of the Council, Dmitry Medvedev signed an Executive Order aimed at improving public policy in promoting and protecting human rights and promoting civil society institutions. The Executive Order introduces amendments to the Council’s statute and expands its membership.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Good afternoon, colleagues,
This is our first visiting session. In fact, as I understand, this is the first such meeting in the history of the Council and the commission which preceded it.
See also
Executive order on reorganisation of the Presidential Council for Civil Society Institutions and Human Rights
February 1, 2011
We need to analyse what has been done and what could be done in the nearest future. Over the past two years thanks to our joint efforts the legislation on non-profit organisations has been substantially amended and I see this as an achievement of the Council, because it brought up a number of issues, at least to me, in a completely open and purposeful way. As a result, legislation has been adjusted. It is never ideal, but nevertheless, it has been improved, simplifying the registration procedure for non-profit organisations, limiting the list of documents that are required by the oversight agencies, cutting down the number of inspections and reducing the deadlines in which registration documents must be processed. In addition, amended legislation introduced some important new definitions, in particular the definition of socially-oriented non-profit associations and organisations.
Last May we reviewed the North Caucasus issues together. On my instructions, the Public Council of the North Caucasus Federal District has been established. In December, the first meeting of this Public Council took place. It is very important that some of the Council [for Civil Society and Human Rights] members present here take an active part in the Public Council activities as well. I am confident that the Public Council will have a moderate but definitely positive impact on the development of state policy in this highly complex and strategically important sphere for our country.
We have addressed other issues that you raised. When a certain job was completed, I always received reports from you and issued instructions. This does not mean that they were followed impeccably, but in any case, I hope you cannot say that there was no response.
I will now sign an Executive Order which will introduce amendments to the Council’s statute and expand its membership. I hope this will have a positive impact on increasing the efficiency of your efforts. I therefore wish productive work to all the participants of the Council and the new Chairman of the Council. The Executive Order approves the statute of the Presidential Council for Civil Society and Human Rights and the Council’s membership. I will do it right now, the way President Yeltsin used to do.
We meet in Yekaterinburg today, the hometown of the first President of Russia, and have just participated in the unveiling of a monument to President Yeltsin. The celebrations to mark Boris Yeltsin’s 80th birthday are being held here and in Moscow. This is more than a tribute to a politician and a citizen of our country, as I said at the unveiling of the monument; I think this is a tribute to a certain age, which was extremely complex but vitally necessary. It is also an additional reason to contemplate the significance of the changes that occurred during that period, to assess the strengths of what was done, as well as the problems and errors that occurred and will continue to occur, because no politician is immune to that, and the course of social development is always ridden with problems.
The establishment of our civil society, development of its institutions and progress towards the primary goal became possible precisely because of these changes. The primary goal is human rights, the protection of the rights and freedoms of our country’s citizens. Incidentally, the commission which was reorganised into the Council in 2004, was established in 1993 by the first President of the Russian Federation. 
We have several issues on today’s agenda. As usual during our meetings, despite the fact that we have some subjects planned in advance, colleagues speak freely on any relevant topics. In my opinion, this is not bad, because life is broader than our agenda. But there are certain priorities regarding which I would like to hear your response, in particular the priorities outlined in the Presidential Address to the Federal Assembly, including, perhaps most importantly, the subject of childhood.
I have just paid a visit to a non-profit organisation. It is truly impressive, and not because of the scope of its work or the beauty of its building, but because this is a real functioning non-profit organisation. It specialises in providing education both for ordinary children and those who have physical disabilities. They do not charge a penny for this work and are financed entirely by donations. I am very pleased that such organisations are springing up all over the country, not just in Moscow. I am not sure whether the existing regulative framework is sufficient for this organisation’s operation. But as usual, these kinds of people do not complain about anything; they are champions of their cause and have given up a great deal in life. Their dedication inspires great respect, especially because their work involves providing support for children from disadvantaged families, orphans, children with health problems and disabilities. Perhaps we should talk about that as well.
There is another issue, one that used to be banned, which is absolutely unacceptable, even two issues. The first is protection of children from violence, and the second issue is in my opinion also extremely important, it is combating drug abuse among children and teenagers. I believe that non-governmental organisations could play an even more active role in monitoring children’s institutions and the general situation in this sphere.
We will also talk about legal issues, about the functioning of state institutions, the courts and public administration. These are ongoing subjects. All the problems are on the surface and I hope you will express your views on the most difficult aspects, as you usually do.
Tomorrow, the Council of Federation will consider the bill On the Police Force. It was widely discussed in the media and by the online community, by your Council, the Civic Chamber and regional public organisations. Now the law is about to be passed. I would like to see members of the public closely monitor its application, because I can say straight away that this law, like any law, is historic and is probably far from perfect, and will be amended in the future. Especially since after the adoption of this law, it is necessary to enact legislation that will provide the basic statutory provisions for the police, that is, define their status, scope of activities and responsibilities.
There are several other subjects that should probably not be overlooked: extremism, terrorist attacks and the government’s and society’s response to these exceptionally dangerous phenomena. I think that is all I wanted to say at the outset.
Let's agree about the way we are going to proceed. I suggest that the Chairman of the Council, Mr Fedotov, begins our discussion and after that everyone who wishes to speak will have an opportunity to do so. As we agreed, the transcript of the Council’s meeting will be posted on the President’s website.
<…>
Topics
Children
Human rights
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Commissions and Councils, Council for Civil Society and Human Rights
Publication date: February 1, 2011, 12:00
Text versionEvents
Monument to Russia’s first President Boris Yeltsin unveiled in Yekaterinburg
Dmitry Medvedev and Naina Yeltsina took part in the unveiling ceremony. Today, on February 1, 2011 Boris Yeltsin would have turned 80.
February 1, 2011
08:00
Yekaterinburg
1 of 7
Ceremony of unveiling a monument to Russia’s first President Boris Yeltsin.
The monument by sculptor Georgy Frangulyan has been installed in front of the Boris Yeltsin Presidential Centre.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Ladies and gentlemen,
Mrs Yeltsina,
Today we remember Boris Yeltsin. On this day, the first President of our country would have turned 80 years old. And today, here in Yekaterinburg, we are unveiling a monument to Boris Yeltsin. 
I think this is truly a landmark event in the life of our state, and it’s very good that the celebrations of President Yeltsin’s birthday begin here, in the Urals. After all, it is here that he began his political career and it is here that he developed as a statesman. People who live here feel deep affection for Boris Yeltsin because he was a true leader, even in the most difficult years for our country. Boris Yeltsin was always sincere in his communication with people who live here in the Urals, he was an open person. 
The path of the first President of our country was far from easy, and that is clear today to every citizen of our state. The first President always has to address extremely complex issues and changing public attitudes, and Boris Yeltsin tackled all those challenges.
Time passes fast but let us remember the events that took place in our country 20 years ago. On the one hand, we all anticipated significant changes, political and economic. On the other hand, let us admit openly that no one expected these changes to be so dramatic. This is the challenge that faced Boris Yeltsin and he endured all these trials with honour. 
Today we have a modern country, a country that is developing and moving forward, though not without problems, and that is the achievement of Russia’s first President Boris Yeltsin and all those who helped him during that period to establish the foundation of the new state. After all, it was then that the foundation was laid upon which our state rests today, as well as the basis for a market economy, although it was a very painful process. Nevertheless, the reforms were carried out, and as a result we have an economy that lives by modern laws. It was then that we built the foundation of the political system and adopted the current Constitution by popular vote, the Constitution of a modern and strong state. 
Boris Yeltsin loved his country and he was a part of this country. He was certainly a very brave and resolute man, a man who never compromised on any issues, whether minor or significant. He always tried to promote his agenda. It was not easy, but in that situation, it was absolutely necessary. The strength of Mr Yeltsin’s character helped our country to go through a very difficult period, to survive in that difficult moment when the foundations of our new state were being laid. 
This year we will celebrate 20 years of our new state. According to traditional historiography, our country will be 1,150 years old next year. This is symbolic both of continuity and modernisation. I believe that present-day Russia should be grateful to President Yeltsin for the fact that, in our most difficult period, we did not sway from the path of change, continued with a very difficult transformation, and are moving forward today. 
We are witnessing the unveiling of a monument to Boris Yeltsin. I think this monument embodies the best features of the first President of Russia: his determination and his strong will, and we can see that in this monument. I think it’s those traits that distinguished citizen of the Russian Federation Boris Yeltsin.
Geography
Sverdlovsk Region
Topics
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 1, 2011, 08:00
Text version