Events
Meeting on economic issues
The two main issues on the agenda were improving the investment climate and raising the quality of state regulation of the economy.
January 28, 2011
13:00
Gorki, Moscow Region
2 of 2
Meeting on economic issues.
Discussion focused in particular on the prospects for establishing a single financial market regulation body in Russia and also the drafting of a law to fight fly-by-night companies.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Colleagues,
We have two issues to address. They concern our investment climate and improving state regulation of the economy. Indeed, I suggest that’s what we focus on, without veering off to discuss general economic issues. These are matters that are truly important.
The first topic is the establishing a single service to regulate the financial market. We have discussed it many times. Such a service must ensure control and surveillance over all investment and insurance companies, determine rules for their operation, and ultimately, be responsible for creating transparent, comfortable conditions for their activities. A corresponding draft document has been developed, so I would like to hear about what phase of readiness it is in, as well as pros and perhaps some contras, if there are any.
Still, the global financial crisis has uncovered many shortcomings in the financial market regulation principles and mechanisms; this has become a very common topic, and everyone around is making comments thereon. There is a need to thoroughly analyse this market regulation experience in nearly all of the world’s economies, and ours as well. I think that if we are able to properly design this agency, it will become a more effective and, I hope, a more reliable instrument for regulating our market which is certainly an element of the overall task of setting up the International Financial Centre in Moscow.
Returning to the subject of what solutions are required to improve our domestic investment climate, the subject I addressed at the WEF annual meeting in Davos, I should bring the Government’s attention to certain provisions I outlined during my brief visit to Switzerland, namely the sovereign fund, recognising diplomas and degrees received at leading foreign universities, and the programme for training young Russian specialists abroad. The deadline for the Government to file its respective suggestions is March 1, 2011. All the necessary resolutions must be drafted by then.
I would also like you to express your views on a certain matter, because it is a resonant one; people wrote to me about it before the New Year (first and foremost, women, of course): child care benefits. A draft law on this subject has been introduced and is currently in the State Duma. Where does it stand? If the Cabinet could say a few words, Mr Kudrin [Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister], I think that would be useful.
And the second issue concerns amendments to legislation establishing criminal liability for the unlawful use of so-called fly-by-night companies. I am talking about amending Article 173¹ and my relevant instructions to the Government. As we agreed, the corresponding document has been drafted so I would like to hear about what it includes.
We are trying to gradually take down administrative barriers – in any case, some of them have definitely been removed. There are problems with a few of them. A state operates in such a way that in certain situations, these barriers are applied again, but in any event, the state is obligated to employ all lawful measures for precluding plainly criminal activities, and fly-by-night companies are purely criminal ventures where lots of individuals are involved. The persons to be prosecuted and their measure of criminal liability are the questions yet to be answered, especially since the formal founders of such companies are usually very special people, all sorts of people, but not the wealthiest, as a rule. They let criminals use their documents, without giving a thought about possible consequences.
They usually do not know how a registered fly-by-night company is subsequently used, although it often involves money laundering, kickbacks to officials we discussed with the Chairman of the Central Bank, as well as other crimes. The fact that these citizens do not know how these entities are subsequently operating is not a reason to relieve them of their responsibility as each and every individual in our country, regardless of educational background, must understand the implications of his or her actions. If they sell their passports, they must consider what will happen next, and the fact that they could be put in jail for it. Please report on this matter.
Let’s start, please.
<…>
  Topics
Children
Demographics
Economy and finance
Social services
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 28, 2011, 13:00
Text versionEvents
Ratification of new START Treaty
Meeting with permanent members of the Russian Security Council, Dmitry Medvedev announced having signed the law ratifying the new START Treaty between the United States and Russia that makes new cutbacks to the two countries’ strategic offensive weapons. Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov and US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton will exchange instruments of ratification very soon. 
January 28, 2011
14:00
Gorki, Moscow Region
Meeting with permanent Security Council members.
The new treaty, after coming into effect, will set limitations on nuclear arms for the next decade and define the outlines for balance and interaction between Russian and US strategic forces for the coming years, Mr Medvedev said.
Taking part in the meeting were Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Sergei Naryshkin, Chairman of the Council of Federation Sergei Mironov, Chairman of the State Duma Boris Gryzlov, Secretary of the Security Council Nikolai Patrushev, Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, Defence Minister Anatoly Serdyukov, Interior Minister Rashid Nurgaliyev, Director of the Federal Security Service Alexander Bortnikov, and Director of the Foreign Intelligence Service Mikhail Fradkov.
***
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Good afternoon.
I want to inform the Security Council members and all of our other colleagues and the public that I signed into law today the document ratifying the new START Treaty. This is a big event for the whole country taking into account the agreements that Russia and the United States have reached. The Americans have already completed this process, and now we have completed it too. The State Duma and Council of Federation examined the documents and made changes reasonably commensurate with the changes the American parliament made, symmetrical changes that address the concerns our deputies had over the way particular provisions in the treaty could be interpreted. 
But these are the minor details. The big thing is that once the instruments of ratification have been exchanged, and this will happen quite soon (I understand that our foreign ministers, as I discussed with the President of the United States, will do this during one of the upcoming meetings between Sergei Lavrov and Hillary Clinton), the treaty will come into force and will set the parameters for strategic offensive reductions over the next decade. Subsequent future agreements will be needed, but that is another story.
In any event, we, the Defence Ministry, and other services will follow this treaty’s provisions in our daily work. Overall, it sets the strategic balance and the parity in our forces for the coming years. We will work on other matters too, which I addressed in particular during my visit to Brussels and also during the NATO-Russia Council summit in Lisbon, including the European missile defence issue. We have made our proposals on this subject and whatever the case the moment will come when we will have to decide what steps to take depending on what response our proposals get from our NATO partners. 
<…>
    Geography
United States
Topics
Armed Forces
Foreign policy
National security
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 28, 2011, 14:00
Text version