Events
Meeting with President of South Ossetia Eduard Kokoity
Dmitry Medvedev and Eduard Kokoity discussed the future of bilateral relations and a number of international issues associated with the republic's development.
August 25, 2011
15:30
Sochi
With President of South Ossetia Eduard Kokoity.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Mr Kokoity, it is a pleasure to welcome you to Sochi.
Tomorrow will be three years since Russia’s recognition of South Ossetia’s and Abkhazia’s independence. I sincerely congratulate you because it was a truly great event for the South Ossetian people.
Three years have passed since then, the country has been developing and has its own achievements as well as difficulties that always go hand in hand with development. So let us talk about strengthening bilateral relations and international issues that are associated with your country’s progress.
President of South Ossetia Eduard Kokoity
: Thank you, Mr Medvedev.
On the eve of Russia’s recognition of South Ossetia’s independence, I would like to convey my gratitude and appreciation for the difficult, timely, very important and courageous decision you made. That decision was momentous for our small nation. Today we can live in peace and develop our state.
I would like to note that our bilateral relations are evolving dynamically and successfully. There have been many changes since our last meeting.
A major inter-agency humanitarian initiative is being implemented in South Ossetia by Russian ministries and agencies under the auspices of the Federal Security Service’s Border Guard Service. Just yesterday, the Russian Emergencies Ministry delivered a large humanitarian aid shipment.
That is, our relations are advancing very dynamically. At the same time, however hard the current situation, whatever the impact of the economic crisis, the plans to restore South Ossetia’s investment development are being effectively realised.
Dmitry Medvedev: We also have great hopes for it. I am confident that these plans will be implemented.
<…>
Geography
South Ossetia
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Kokoity Eduard
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 25, 2011, 15:30
Text version