Events
Meeting with National Media Group shareholders
Prospects for developing media market and the sector’s modern technologies were the subjects discussed at the meeting.
October 6, 2011
16:30
Moscow
1 of 2
During the meeting with National Media Group shareholders.
The National Media Group is the largest media holding in Russia. Its shareholders include Severstal, Surgutneftegaz, RTL.
The Group includes Petersburg-Channel 5 TV and Radio Company, Channel One, REN TV Media Holding, Izvestia newspaper, and Russian News Service radio station.
RTL Group is the leading European media holding that includes 41 television channels and 34 radio stations in ten different nations: Germany, France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Spain, Greece, Russia, Hungary, Croatia, and Luxembourg.
Participants in the meeting included MTG majority shareholder Cristina Stenbeck, MTG President and CEO Hans-Holger Albrecht, RTL Group CEO Gerhard Zeiler, Surgutneftegaz CEO Vladimir Bogdanov, Severstal CEO and National Media Group board of directors chairman Alexei Mordashov.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: I would like to welcome all the shareholders of the National Media Group, as well as our foreign partners who are involved in Russian media companies. It is interesting for me to speak with you, to discuss prospects for developing the industry, and to talk about modern technologies that could be used to develop the media sector in our country.
Your cooperation is an example of successful interaction between Russian investors, major Russian companies and foreign companies in a rather sensitive sector, because, let’s be honest, not every European country allows foreign shareholders into its media holdings and its television companies, as well as companies involved in information technologies. But we are an open nation, hence our position on the media. We believe this is the right approach. It allows us to resolve investment challenges and perhaps more global challenges as well, given that we are all living in one world and we are all concerned with the same problems.
I imagine you will tell me about prospects for developing your businesses; I would be interested in hearing about it, especially since I have always given a lot of attention to development prospects for the media and new information technologies in our country, and I think that this would be quite useful for everyone present.
So I would like to warmly welcome you all, and I am ready to discuss a variety of issues with you.
Would you like to say something?
Oao Bank Rossiya Board of Directors chairman Yury Kovalchuk: Yes, if I may.
Dmitry Medvedev: Of course, Mr Kovalchuk.
Yury Kovalchuk: First of all, Mr President, thank you very much for this meeting; it is very important for us. But, if you allow, before I talk about the future, I would like to say a few words about the past.
I will speak on behalf of Russian shareholders. We entered this business just a few years ago, and I will say with full honesty, we had some very serious doubts and reservations, because our entrance was quite broad and we invested simultaneously in television channels, content production, print media, and companies involved in the advertising market. And it’s important to keep in mind that the peak of our investments coincided with the crisis period – the very point when the crisis began – and we certainly were hesitant on whether to move forward, but nevertheless, we did. Now, I want to say that fortunately, our fears did not materialise.
Dmitry Medvedev: In any case, with regard to investments as well as the crisis – unfortunately, everything is repeating anew.
Yury Kovalchuk: Yes, but I am talking now about the media market. Russia demonstrated a surprisingly fast post-crisis recovery. In 2011, Russia demonstrated steady market growth, and currently has one of the highest growth rates in the world. In terms of potential, we now understand from a much more professional standpoint that Russia is almost among the top ten highest-potential nations in the world.
The second concern was entirely different: we entered into this business and invested particularly in media assets, including companies that were founded before us – we did not launch them. Teams were already there, including a journalist team, and they already had their own audience. I will say frankly that we were apprehensive of pressure from the government with regard to what should be done, and how.
Dmitry Medvedev: And how did the government react?
Yury Kovalchuk: That’s what I will talk about. This was a real concern for us. Right now, I am not speaking about the issue of whether or not we agree with particular positions held by the television channel; I am speaking about business. For us, this would have been destructive to business. Now, I can say that the government did not interfere in this process in any way, which is extremely important for us.
The third, and perhaps last of the concerns I would like to mention today was the fact that since we were entering an area of business we did not know, we did not have any background or professional training. I am referring to the Russian shareholders. So we initially envisioned our cooperation with professional international companies that had a wealth of experience in this field. As you already stated earlier, this is a very sensitive field, and in many countries this kind of cooperation in media assets, particularly electronic media, is frowned upon.
I would like to use this meeting as an opportunity to express gratitude on behalf of Russian shareholders to the government for its policy in this process, which has provided the opportunity to do this. That is why one of the National Media Group’s shareholders is one of Europe’s largest holdings, RTL Group, whose executives are here today, and whose representatives are working within the board of directors of the National Media Group, which is involved in nation-wide broadcasting. As for the group of companies and channels making up CTC, here we have active cooperation and partnership with another major European holding, MTG, whose executives are here as well. And for this, we want to thank you.
Dmitry Medvedev: I’d like to say that you have selected good partners in RTL and MTG. In this regard, it was the right choice.
Chair of Investment Ab Kinnevik and Mtg Group Majority Shareholder Cristina Stenbeck: Mr President, thank you very much for having us today.
Partners, ladies and gentlemen,
First of all, I believe strongly in the partnership that we have managed to create in the last six years with the National Media Group. My family has a long history of working in Russia. Over the last 25 years, we have invested in various sectors, particularly in telecommunications and television. And today, Modern Times Group is a leading entertainment broadcasting company. So Russia has become a country of the utmost importance for us, both for our company and our group’s investors, and here is why. It’s the potential in terms of the size of the country and the progress we have reached there.
We are investing in Russian content, in Russian technology, talents and formats, and producing shows like Margosha and Voronini as well. We remain grateful for the support we’ve received over the years and the opportunity we’ve had to build our business up until now.
Most importantly, though, I want to thank this administration for allowing this kind of partnership to come to fruition, and to enable and support this kind of foreign specialist relationship with world-class Russian partners like National Media Group. We are encouraged by the positive development that we see here on the wider media front, and we hope to be an active participant here in the future development, so thank you.
RTL Group CEO and member of BERTELSMANN AG BOARD OF DIRECTORS GERHARD ZEILER: Mr President,
Thank you that you gave us the opportunity to be here today, to say a few words about our partnership.
We are a pure media company. We have 41 TV channels, 35 radio channels in ten countries, and we operate a global production company. And when we invested for the first time in Russia in 2005, we had quite mixed feelings. On the one hand, we were quite excited: excited about the potential of Russia, about the opportunity to be one of the– more or less the second one who was allowed to invest in Russia, and about the size of the country, about the potential of Russia. But on the other hand, I have to admit, we were all a little bit afraid, because we didn’t know what to expect, we didn’t know the country, we didn’t know our partners at that time. And today I can state that we are very happy with our decision to invest in 2005 and we are very, very happy with our partner, National Media Group. We are a media company which likes to have local partners, because TV is about local products, it’s about local culture. And we have a saying: “We are Germans in Germany, we are French in France, and we want to be Russians in Russia.” We are not the driver of the car here in Russia, but we are very happy sitting in the back of the car and watching Mr Kovalchuk steer the car, and sometimes, give our advice of our experience.
I want to end with saying that our company this year celebrates its 80th birthday. We are now six years in Russia, and I hope that my successors will also enjoy the 80th birthday and the 80th celebration of the relationship here in Russia and our investment here in Russia.
<…>
Topics
Media
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 6, 2011, 16:30
Text versionEvents
Russian-Abkhazian talks
Talks between Dmitry Medvedev and President of Abkhazia Alexander Ankvab took place in the Kremlin.
October 6, 2011
14:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
3 of 7
Before the news conference following Russian-Abkhazian talks. With President of Abkhazia Alexander Ankvab.
During the talks Dmitry Medvedev and Alexander Ankvab
discussed bilateral trade, economic, defence and border cooperation.
A number of documents were signed in the presence of the two leaders, including an intergovernmental agreement on cooperation in the protection and rational use of trans-boundary water bodies, an agreement on cooperation and information exchange in the field of setting up checkpoints on the Russian-Abkhaz state border, as well as memorandums on cooperation in the area of sanitary protection and collaboration between the state archives.
After the talks, Dmitry Medvedev presented the Order of Courage awarded to Sergei Bagapsh to his widow, Marina Shonia.
Alexander Ankvab is in Moscow on an official visit.
* * *
Press statements following Russian-Abkhazian talks
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues,
First of all, I would like to once again welcome Mr Ankvab to Russia as the President of sovereign Abkhazia, to congratulate him on assuming office of the President, as well as on the recently celebrated holiday, Abkhazia’s Independence Day.
See also
Executive Order on awarding the Order of Courage to Sergei Bagapsh
October 6, 2011
It is very important for us that Mr Ankvab’s first official visit is to the Russian Federation. It is a symbol of good relations, which were also excellent in the past, and a guarantee that the friendly and fraternal bilateral relations between our states will continue to develop in the future.
It is vital for us to continue this dialogue at the highest level to make certain that all the elements of the state machine are working efficiently.
Today, relations between our two countries are on the rise and despite the current problems in the global economy and Abkhazia’s economy, we can see tangible progress. There are ambitious plans that are being implemented by the Intergovernmental Commission: I am referring to the Comprehensive Plan for the Period from 2010 to 2012. The prospects for restoring the state are excellent and the good news is that trade relations between our two countries almost doubled in the recent period, although, as the President of Abkhazia and I just said, we must ensure that trade between our countries becomes more balanced. This will benefit both Russia and Abkhazia.
Defence and border cooperation remain keys to peace and stability in the region. We are planning to continue developing it. I would like to inform everyone that today I signed a law ratifying the agreement on the Russian military base.
In addition to defence cooperation, humanitarian ties and foreign policy collaboration are also developing. Our countries are interacting closely and very productively as part of Geneva Discussions on Security and Stability in the Caucasus. These efforts will continue, despite the fact that there are objective challenges, but in any case, dialogue is more effective than anything else.
During our talks we discussed in some detail the current situation and reviewed the most difficult aspects. Our talks will continue in the expanded format.
Some very important documents have just been signed. All in all, our two states have signed over 60 agreements since Abkhazia proclaimed its independence and diplomatic relations were established between our two nations and since Russia recognised Abkhazia as an independent subject of international law. There is still a lot of work ahead; about 30 documents are currently being drafted. I think this is extremely important because it forms the basis of bilateral international relations between our nations and thereby strengthens the authority of Abkhazia as an independent state.
Russia will continue to extend its support to the fraternal Abkhazian people. We are pleased with Abkhazia’s success in state-building and hope that it will continue.
I am confident that as a result of this important first official visit of the President of a friendly neighbouring country, our bilateral relations will obtain a new legal basis and a fresh impetus.
Once again, welcome.
I give the floor to Mr Ankvab. Mr Ankvab, please.
President of Abkhazia Alexander Ankvab: Thank you.
Mr President, colleagues, friends,
I would like to say once again that we are very grateful to Mr Medvedev for his invitation to make an official visit to the Russian Federation and for the warm welcome extended to our delegation.
We have said that today our relations with Russia are growing stronger, and we will continue to act in the spirit of the agreement signed in 2008. It is our firm conviction that the fulfilment of this agreement is a major task for us despite the anxiety shown by many political forces, in Europe and elsewhere, about the fact that our relationship is growing stronger with each passing day. There is concrete evidence of that, and we will continue our efforts in this area.
I would like to cite a few figures that characterise the support our republic receives from the Russian Federation. Perhaps it is not relevant today but in our opinion it is vitally important because Russia is the only country in the world that has helped Abkhazia with deeds and not just words at a very difficult time for us. In the recent period, from 2005 to present, Abkhazia has received over 14 billion rubles in direct financial support. Today 32,000 Abkhazian pensioners, who worked in the country that used to be our shared homeland, receive Russian pensions. This is a significant amount: approximately 146 million rubles per month. And we are keenly aware that Abkhazia’s current budget would not have been able to shoulder this burden in view of our numerous problems created by the war.
It is crucial for us that today Abkhazia security is guaranteed. This has significantly changed the situation in the country and we have a real opportunity to focus on the socioeconomic development of our republic. The tension in the Abkhazian society that has existed since the war has dissipated, and our nation values this highly.
I would like to reiterate that for us it is highly important that our relations have an extensive legal framework. This is a broad legal basis, which is very valuable to us because the Intergovernmental agreement and interagency agreements greatly improve the quality of our joint efforts.
In conclusion, I would like to say that Abkhazia considers Russia its strategic partner and intends to further strengthen our relations in the future. This is the opinion of our people and our shared belief.
Thank you.
Dmitry Medvedev: Thank you.
Dear friends,
Ms Shonia,
I have one more mission to perform today, and I see it as absolutely logical and correct as it is a state mission and at the same time a very sad one. I would like to present the Order of Courage posthumously awarded to Sergei Bagapsh, Abkhazia’s outstanding statesman, for his brave and courageous efforts to strengthen security in the Caucasus and promote the interests of Abkhazian people and his homeland.
Mr Bagapsh has made a significant personal contribution to the development and establishment of the republic as an independent subject of international law. The Abkhazian and Russian people will never forget that.
Mr Bagapsh and I met on numerous occasions, and I always knew him as a friendly and relaxed interlocutor, genuinely interested in his country’s development.
He believed that Abkhazia’s future lay in the union with our country, in good relations and strategic partnership. His presidency was an extremely important stage in Abkhazia’s history and its establishment as a new subject of international relations. We know that he was engaged with these issues constantly. It was his personal choice.
I would like to ask Ms Shonia to accept this high Russian award, the Order of Courage.
  Additional
Agreement with Abkhazia on a unified Russian military base in the republic
October 6, 2011
Geography
Abkhazia
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Ankvab Alexander
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 6, 2011, 14:30
Text version