Events
Meeting on preventing extremism
Dmitry Medvedev discussed measures to fight extremism at a meeting with the heads of law enforcement and security agencies, plenipotentiary presidential envoys in the federal districts, and a number of regional governors.
May 23, 2011
14:30
3 of 5
At the Moscow Interior Ministry Main Directorate’s operations room.
Before the meeting, the President visited the Moscow Interior Ministry Main Directorate, where he saw how ‘02’ police emergency service operates.
The service has been operating since 1971 as a round-the-clock operations base that receives, registers and sends out to the local police stations information from citizens on crimes and incidents.
Mr Medvedev saw how the information is processed and how the city video-surveillance and radio-guided patrol systems work.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Colleagues, we are here today to discuss once again the complex range of issues concerning law enforcement in our country, and above all, the issue of preventing extremism.
Our meeting is taking place in the Moscow Interior Ministry Main Directorate’s offices on Petrovka Street. The various threats that other regions face concern Moscow too, of course, as our country’s capital. We have here today the heads of our law enforcement and security agencies, the plenipotentiary presidential envoys in the federal districts, and the heads and governors of various regions. I hope we will exchange information today and discuss several current issues related to neutralising and preventing extremism in our country.
There is no need for me to say again just how dangerous extremism is for our multi-ethnic and multi-faith country. We have taken a number of measures lately to reduce this threat. In accordance with my instructions, the 2010–2012 extremism prevention action plan is being implemented. Also acting on my executive order, the regions have established coordination councils for ensuring law and order. I hope the governors will say a few words on how these councils are working in general and whether there is any need to make changes to the way they are organised. Working groups on harmonising interethnic relations are also operating on a permanent basis.
”There is a clear need for further measures to prevent radicalism among particular social groups, radicalism that goes beyond the lawful limits, and take action to strengthen interethnic harmony in our country.“
At the same time though, as I said at the FSB board meeting in January, and the Interior Ministry board meeting in March, the number of extremism-related crimes registered last year was up by 20 percent. The rise in extremism among young people is especially worrying. This is one of the most dangerous forms of extremism and, sadly, concerns our future.
Radical and nationalist groups are increasingly better prepared and more sophisticated in their tactics. The law enforcement agencies cannot ignore these developments. There is a clear need for further measures to prevent radicalism among particular social groups, radicalism that goes beyond the lawful limits, and take action to strengthen interethnic harmony in our country.
What do I want to draw to your attention at this meeting?
First of all, we need to look at how to improve the mechanisms for coordinating our extremism prevention work, improve the coordination between the federal and regional organisations. We have already made some decisions, but I think we need to go further. There are still cases of different organisations’ duplicating each other’s action, and often a simple lack of understanding of what exactly needs to be done. 
Second, we need more active effort to prevent extremism from developing in the first place, above all through education work in our schools and universities. This is obvious. Our country has unique traditions of cooperation between different peoples and cultures, but it is not enough to simply note this fact and not do anything to build on these historic achievements. There is an urgent need to educate the young generation in a spirit of respect for our people’s traditions. This education must not be just a formality. We have all had it up to here with endless formalistic proposals on how to inculcate patriotism in our youth that for the most part achieve precious little result.
At the same time, we see nationalists and radicals trying to play this patriotic tune, or rather pseudo-patriotic tune. We must not give them the opportunity to do so. This is a priority for the regions. You need to have the main powers here and be the ones making the main decisions. I want the governors and the presidential envoys to be directly involved in this work. This is a political responsibility and entirely part of your duties, apart from the law enforcement side of things, which is of course the law enforcement agencies’ responsibility. 
“Impunity only encourages new crimes. The heads of the Interior Ministry and Federal Security Service must remember this, as must the regional heads. We cannot let these kinds of crimes go unpunished. Their perpetrators must be brought to justice.”
Of course, civil society organisations need to get involved in this work too. This cooperation needs to be more modern and active, and in accordance with the new laws on the Interior Ministry and the police, I signed today an executive order on public councils set up to work together with the Interior Ministry and its regional offices. This order takes into account the recommendations made by various organisations, including the Presidential Council for Civil Society and Human Rights. In accordance with this order, public councils will be established and be approved by the Interior Ministry, taking into account the Civic Chamber’s recommendations. These councils will coordinate issues of public importance concerning peoples and groups’ lawful rights and interests, and facilitate the implementation of law and order and crime prevention policy, including efforts to prevent extremism-related crimes. I want you all to pay attention to this order and make sure it is implemented. What is very important here is that there will be public supervision of the Interior Ministry’s work, so as to make sure that it is transparent, based on modern principles and fully in compliance with the laws in force of course.
Third, although the emphasis is on preventive measures, we also need to make competent use of the powers the law provides to firmly suppress all extremist acts that do arise, and this is the law enforcement agencies’ direct responsibility. We all know that impunity only encourages new crimes. The heads of the Interior Ministry and Federal Security Service must remember this, as must the regional heads. We cannot let these kinds of crimes go unpunished. Their perpetrators must be brought to justice.
Fourth, related to what I just said, is the issue of legislation on preventing extremism. Following the [State Council] presidium meeting in Ufa, I instructed the Government to draw up a draft federal law that would bar people convicted of extremist crimes from working in the civil service and the education sector. I want to know the state of progress on this. This draft law should be submitted soon to the State Duma as a presidential legislative initiative. Furthermore, in April I submitted to the State Duma a draft law toughening the penalties for a number of extremist crimes in the Criminal Code. This draft law also needs to be passed, and the crimes concerned need to be punished according to the new penalties it sets.
<…>
See also
Executive order on public councils affiliated with Interior Ministry
May 23, 2011
Topics
Fight against crime
Law enforcement agencies
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 23, 2011, 14:30
Text versionEvents
Dmitry Medvedev met with foreign scientists
Taking part in the discussion with Dmitry Medvedev were scientists from universities in the USA, Japan, Britain, Germany, Italy, Switzerland, and other countries, who were among the winners of the Russian Education and Science Ministry’s first tender for organising and carrying out research and development work at Russian universities.
May 23, 2011
16:30
Gorki, Moscow Region
1 of 4
Meeting with recipients of special grants instituted by the Government of Russia to provide state support for scientific research.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Good afternoon, colleagues,
I want to say a few words at the start of our meeting today. First of all, it is very interesting to have this chance to meet with you, the winners of the first tender for research and development grants.
The idea of offering grants to attract leading scientists from abroad to our universities and creating opportunities for our own scientists’ academic mobility appealed to me right from the start, right from the moment that I first discussed it a bit more than a year ago with [Education and Science Minister] Andrei Fursenko. I even remember exactly when and where this discussion took place. 
”We are intent on doing everything necessary to ensure that our scientists and their colleagues from abroad have the conditions that will allow them to be as productive as possible.“
Now the idea has become reality, and this of course makes me very happy. We put considerable organisational effort into it, and what for our country is substantial money too. We plan to spend 12 billion rubles [more than $420 million] over the next few years. Frankly, I really hope we achieve some results.“We are intent on doing everything necessary to ensure that our scientists and their colleagues from abroad have the conditions that will allow them to be as productive as possible.“
Most of you have already started your work in the new laboratories set up at universities in Moscow, St Petersburg, Vladivostok, Krasnoyarsk, and several other cities. I want to say from the outset that I have every interest in ensuring that these universities offer decent working conditions. I imagine that today there are still improvements to be made, but we are fully intent on doing everything necessary to ensure that our scientists and their colleagues from abroad have the conditions that will allow them to be as productive as possible. This will at the same time create better opportunities for exchanging and commercialising ideas, getting them used in production, and developing modern, high-technology business.
We are carrying out projects of this kind right now, and we have a number of new programmes in place too. We are building the infrastructure for supporting new research and development and its subsequent commercialisation. In this context, I hope that your work will also create new success stories, and I count on the Government doing everything necessary for this, and hope that the decisions we have made will have the desired effect.
Modern science does not have borders. Science never really did of course, but today we have unprecedented opportunities for communication, and our country wants to be a part of the constant circulation of ideas and wants to ensure a high level of scientific mobility, the highest level possible in the world today.
”Modern science does not have borders. Science never really did of course, but today we have unprecedented opportunities for communication, and our country wants to be a part of the constant circulation of ideas and wants to ensure a high level of scientific mobility, the highest level possible in the world today.“
I know that the tender for obtaining these grants was broad in reach. The international evaluation took place at the highest level. I recall that last month, in mid-April, the second tender was opened, and I hope it will draw prominent scientists’ attention too. 
I want to stress that we are only at the start of the road. Other countries have much experience with these kinds of grants, and this could be useful. For us this is the first such experience. This is why I wanted to meet with you and discuss what else we can do to make these grants as effective as possible and ensure the best conditions for the top-class specialists and scientists coming to work here. We realise that, unfortunately, our scientific infrastructure has not developed as rapidly as that of other countries over these last years, and we still have many problems, but this is one of the reasons why we decided it would be a good idea to establish the grants that you have received. 
That is probably enough to start with. I really want to hear what you have to say, hear about not just the opportunities you have today, but also about the difficulties on which you can give us a new perspective, and which we can try to resolve.
I do not have any set agenda or list of speakers. I therefore open the floor to everyone who has something to say and will try to give you all the chance to speak. My only request is that you remember that this is not a scientific seminar but just a discussion. The floor is yours. 
<…>
Topics
Science and innovation
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 23, 2011, 16:30
Text version