    Events Meeting on improving judicial system   Dmitry Medvedev held a meeting which focused on amendments to criminal legislation.    March 17, 2011  17:00  Gorki, Moscow Region                                     1 of 2 Meeting on improving judicial system.          See also     Comments for the press by Justice Minister Alexander Konovalov following meeting on improving judicial system March 17, 2011      * * * President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Good afternoon, colleagues, In recent years, we have been paying a great deal of attention to improving criminal legislation and, in my opinion, have made some significant strides towards this end, even fundamental strides. It cannot be called a revolution, but these have been serious steps to improve criminal law policy. I hope the steps were in the right direction because we have repeatedly noted that our criminal legislation, the application of laws and criminal procedure must be effective and must comprise two elements: punishment on the one hand, while on the other hand people must have a chance to change. That is the objective behind the decisions I have taken.  We changed a number of approaches to sentencing for certain categories of crimes, we worked on improving legislation on economic crimes and tried to make the punishments for economic wrongdoings match the seriousness of the offence, but at the same time without putting excessive pressure on the offenders, especially given that, as a rule, these crimes are committed for the first time and do not constitute a serious danger to society.  ”Our criminal policy should be up to date and correspond to the understanding of which offences must be severely punished and where the punishment need not be so harsh.“  Finally, a new package of amendments to criminal legislation has been drafted, and these amendments are quite significant. There has been broad discussion of the proposed amendments with the participation of our colleagues who head the judiciary system, the Prosecutor General's Office, the Investigative Committee, law enforcement agencies and special services. So I hope that today we will conduct a final exchange of opinions on our approaches to certain types of crimes qualified under the Criminal Code, the approaches to sentencing and the improvement of criminal policy.  Our criminal policy should be up to date and correspond to the understanding of which offences must be severely punished and where the punishment need not be so harsh. This work is long overdue, so let's share our opinions on the draft law. <…>         Topics  Court    Human rights         Persons    Konovalov Alexander                        Publication status Published in sections: News, Transcripts  Publication date:    March 17, 2011, 17:00  Direct link: en.kremlin.ru/d/10667    Text version        NaN /  Events
Meeting with President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev
Dmitry Medvedev and Nursultan Nazarbayev reviewed the prospects for economic cooperation between the two states, in particular in the energy sector, as well as current issues on the regional and international agenda.
March 17, 2011
14:00
Gorki, Moscow Region
Separately the two leaders discussed issues related to the development of the Customs Union
of Russia, Kazakhstan and Belarus and the next steps towards shaping a common economic space of the three countries.
Dmitry Medvedev and Nursultan Nazarbayev also exchanged views on topical international issues, including the situation in North Africa, Japan and Central Asia.
* * *
PRESIDENT OF RUSSIA DMITRY MEDVEDEV: Mr President, 
I am very happy to see you. This is our first meeting this year and I hope that it will be successful for our countries and for our nations. I hope the weather won’t play up either and we will get a good harvest…
President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev
: We’ve had a lot of snow. 
Dmitry Medvedev: We’ve certainly had a lot of snow but I hope there won’t be any serious problems or disasters. Just look at what has happened in Japan: it is certainly a huge national calamity and disaster. So we will do everything in our power to develop a good relationship with our strategic partner, Kazakhstan. 
“The only way to build a stable foundation for future prosperity is by following along the path of integration and promoting a modern form of integration, such as in Europe. But we still have a great deal to do.”
The relations linking us are long-term and stable. Only this year, we are planning to meet at least ten times, in a bilateral and in multilateral formats. We can by right be satisfied with what we achieved last year. First and foremost, I am referring to the Customs Union and paving the way towards the establishment of the Eurasian Economic Union. This is truly a qualitative step forward along the path to integration. This year promises to be filled with equally significant events. 
We did not make integration our goal because we merely want to broaden our contacts or to have more international officials. Integration is a way to improve the quality of life for the citizens of our countries. The only way to build a stable foundation for future prosperity is by following along the path of integration and promoting a modern form of integration, such as in Europe. But we still have a great deal to do and I think here we have an opportunity to discuss what could be done and how to move forward. This is especially true since these processes have become a very stable trend over the past few years. You have always been a supporter of integration, a supporter of Eurasian cooperation and have consistently upheld this position. We have made significant progress in the past few years, and we are very pleased about that. 
This year is special both for Kazakhstan and for Russia. We will hold the State Duma elections at the end of the year, and you will have presidential elections. I would like to say a few words about that, although from the point of view of international politics it may not be entirely correct for a president of another country to comment on an upcoming election. I want to say that we have great respect for you as our friend, a friend of the Russian Federation and as a person who has made an enormous contribution to the development of friendly relations between the Russian Federation and Kazakhstan. 
We wish you every success. I hope everything will go well and the two of us will continue to communicate in the course of this year, during our numerous bilateral and multilateral meetings. Once again, I warmly welcome you here in Moscow. 
Nursultan Nazarbayev: Thank you, Mr President, for finding the time for our meeting. 
Yes, this is our first meeting of the year. I would like to thank you for last year, for your personal involvement and Russia’s contribution to our chairmanship in the OSCE and participation in the summit. This was an important event for Kazakhstan and for our people, and we succeeded together with Russia and other CIS states. Last year was also special because we launched the Customs Union. This is the most successful integration project of the past 20 years, since the disintegration of the Soviet Union. We are committed to making it an attractive mechanism for everyone involved. We can see different opinions and discussions in the media. They say Russia’s interest lies in its imperial ambitions, for Kazakhstan the main benefit is transit and for Belarus it is energy resources. In fact, we have created a link between the European Union and China, between Europe and Asia. 
I would like to inform you that in the first year of the Customs Union Russian exports to Kazakhstan increased by 25% or $11.8 billion, and Kazakhstani exports to Russia by $5 billion or by 30%. This shows we are reaching the pre-crisis level. The figures are roughly the same for Belarus. So, the benefits are obvious. 
Dmitry Medvedev: Everyone has benefited. 
Nursultan Nazarbayev: The benefits for everyone are obvious. It has drawn our nations closer and our business communities are very grateful to us. 
From July 1, 2011 we will remove all customs posts along the border between Russia and Kazakhstan, all 7,500 kilometres of it. We will be closing our southern border, and have already closed the border with Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan. We need to clearly understand the importance of this achievement for the relationship between our countries. 
As you said, we will have a lot of meetings this year, including the tenth meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation, which will be held in Astana, our traditional regional meeting in Astrakhan, and the celebration of the 20th anniversary of the CIS in December. These are very important events and I would like to go over them with you. 
I believe there are no outstanding issues in interstate bilateral relations between Kazakhstan and Russia. I think this is an exemplary relationship between neighbours, allies and partners, acting for the benefit of their nations. Of course, we should also discuss the upcoming elections, what is happening in the world and the situation in North Africa. We should always consult each other on issues of food security and information security. It is therefore very important that we discuss these issues right at the start of the year. Thank you very much. 
Dmitry Medvedev: Let’s talk about all that.
 <…> 
Geography
Kazakhstan
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Nazarbayev Nursultan
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 17, 2011, 14:00
Text version