Events
Anton Siluanov appointed Finance Minister
Dmitry Medvedev signed Executive Order on appointing Anton Siluanov to the post of Finance Minister.
December 16, 2011
17:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 2
With Finance Minister Anton Siluanov.
Anton Siluanov has served as acting Finance Ministrer since September 27, 2011.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Mr Siluanov, I have signed an Executive Order on appointing you to the Finance Minister post. I wish you success. This is difficult work, especially during a time when overall financial stability is under threat, not just in Russia but throughout the world. And all discussions and international meetings show that unfortunately, for now, there is still a whole range of negative trends in global finances, particularly given the crisis in the Eurozone.
Thus, you will have a great deal of work. Nevertheless, you are an experienced individual who has worked in the Ministry for a long time; you are most familiar with all its mechanisms and are well-acquainted with the budget process and the tax legislation, so I think you will be able to handle all the challenges assigned to the Finance Ministry. The work of the entire Government depends on the Ministry’s accurate operation. But even more important is the fulfilment of all budgetary appropriations, all budgetary positions, in accordance with the high-quality execution of the budget, the payment of monetary assets – in other words, everything that the Finance Ministry is responsible for.
“I would like you to give particular attention now to issues of ensuring social payments, issues pertaining to fulfilling our main tasks in social welfare: pensions, healthcare, education, paying salaries to state employees. Because these things must always be under the Government’s control.”
I would like you to give particular attention now to issues of ensuring social payments, issues pertaining to fulfilling our main tasks in social welfare: pensions, healthcare, education, paying salaries to state employees – naturally, within the Finance Ministry’s authority. Because these things must always be under the Government’s control, particularly during a fairly difficult financial period, when various kinds of political events are underway – I am referring to the recent and upcoming elections. These situations always call for additional attention.
Finance Minister Anton Siluanov
: Mr President, thank you very much for your support and your assessment of our work, the work of the Finance Ministry. Indeed, the current situation on the global markets, particularly in Europe, is unclear, and for our part, as the Finance Ministry, we are preparing for various scenarios of how things might develop. So this year, in implementing the budget, we have tried to create maximum reserves to get through the next year.
This year, we received additional budgetary revenue – first and foremost, due to the good market situation, due to an increase in revenue collection. We have reserved a large part of this additional revenue for next year – we have put it in the Reserve Fund – and we will reduce borrowing next year. Of the additional revenues we collected, we have used only 11.6 percent on expenditures, and forwarded all the rest to the Reserve Fund and toward reducing our loans on the market, since today the question of liquidity on the market is fairly acute, and we are trying to borrow less through the budget, retrieving this liquidity from the economy. So we have accumulated a reserve for next year – the Reserve Fund of 1.8 trillion rubles – and that’s just our Reserve Fund for next year. The initial plan in the budget set it at about 50 billion rubles in the Reserve Fund by the end of the year. So we have really increased that volume.
Dmitry Medvedev: We might need it next year, because we are not growing this fund so as to feel that everything is good in our nation, but for the sake of the future that may not be so sunny, even in comparison to today.
Anton Siluanov: That’s right. Thus, we have set a reserve in the form of the Reserve Fund, and we have prepared all the necessary regulatory and legislative acts in the event that the situation gets worse. They are on the stand-by, ready, and if we see that the situation is deteriorating, we will quickly pass these acts in contrast to the situation we had at the beginning of 2009, when it took us quite a long time to respond.
In addition, within the framework of the rights granted to us by the Federal Law On the Federal Budget, we have already created an additional reserve through the reallocation of expenditures that the legislators gave us. And we have made provisions for the possibility of fulfilling state guarantees taken into account for next year, for implementing those same possible anti-crisis measures. We do not know how the situation will develop, but we must certainly build up the necessary reserve of stability. Currently, we are preparing all relevant regulatory acts for all the federal ministries and agencies in order for the law on the budget to be launched in a timely manner. We have already instructed them on the target points for next year. In other words, the ministries and agencies have already received their necessary funding, which they have the right to use starting on the first business day of next year. We are currently preparing the necessary legal acts, so I think that everything will be fine.
Dmitry Medvedev: I am certain that we will overcome these problems too, although I have just returned from Brussels where yesterday I was at the centre of the European Union and the mood there is not stellar, so we must be ready for any scenarios. That is precisely why it is good that you recalled that we passed some laws in 2009, and now we are armed with legislation, because we have mechanisms that can be launched at any moment, as well as the reserves you spoke about, of which you were able to set aside a sizable volume this year. So I count on everything to be in good order. And I once again wish you success in your job, which is very difficult, but exceedingly important for our country.
Anton Siluanov: Thank you Mr President. We won’t let you down.
<…>
Topics
Budget
Civil service
Persons
Siluanov Anton
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 16, 2011, 17:30
Text versionEvents
Speech at meeting with Russian and Indian business community representatives
December 16, 2011
16:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
Meeting with Russian and Indian business community representatives.
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Mr Prime Minister, gentlemen, colleagues,
We are happy for this opportunity to meet with representatives of Russian and Indian business circles. We consider this format of direct communication with the business community very important. In essence, it has already become a regular component in the visits at the highest level.
The current visit by Mr Prime Minister has proven, as usual, being held in a friendly, constructive atmosphere. We have signed documents and engaged in a truly thorough dialogue. I hope that mechanisms of interaction such as the Business Council for Cooperation with India, chambers of commerce and industry, and industrialists’ associations of Russia and India will actively supplement the work of the Intergovernmental Commission on Trade, Economic, Scientific, Technical and Cultural Cooperation.
Our economic ties have spanned many decades. In the 1960s and 1980s, with Russia’s assistance, India built major production facilities that were a key part of Indian industry at that time. One example is the metallurgical factories in Bhilai and Bokaro, which became symbols of Russian-Indian friendship.
”We are happy for this opportunity to meet with representatives of Russian and Indian business circles. In essence, this format of direct communication with the business community has already become a regular component in the visits at the highest level.“
During our talks, Mr Prime Minister and I noted that there are real opportunities for increasing trade and optimising an increase in investment activity. Today, we are ready to participate in the modernisation of industrial enterprises, which were built in India during that period. Indian businesspeople, in turn, participate in the Skolkovo Foundation, which aims to promote investment and science projects. Last year, when we met in New Delhi, Mr Prime Minister and I discussed the idea of transferring the success of our experience in military aviation to the civilian aviation sector. Now, I hope we will move on to implementing it.
You know, we are joining – or have practically joined – the World Trade Organisation. We have been trying to do this for a very long time of 17 years. After our accession, Russian companies in India and Indian companies in Russia will function on the basis of universal rules, which of course is very good.
We were also happy to begin work on the agreement on comprehensive economic cooperation in the format of relations between India and the Customs Union of Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan. We could set a working group for this, with participation by experts to study prospects for such an agreement.
Among the multilateral formats, we particularly value our countries’ participation in the BRICS
forum, the Russia-India-China forum, the East Asian summits, and the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation
. Incidentally, we support India’s intent to become a full-fledged member of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation, which I already spoke about several times today.
During lunch, Mr Prime Minister and I discussed the situation in our economies. True, the situation in the world is very difficult, and we have felt some decline in our economies, but as far as bilateral ties are concerned, we have fairly good and growing turnover. At the same time, our GDP is growing correspondingly, though not as quickly as we might like. This year, it will grow at a good pace in comparison to the rest of the world.
”There are whole sectors where our cooperation is strategic: these include nuclear energy, the automotive industry, and existing joint venture in mobile communication and mobile internet, as well as a project to launch a joint Russian-Indian metallurgical enterprise.“
At the moment, we are implementing major projects that will last years into the future. We all know what they are; I don’t even need to mention them specifically. But there are whole sectors where our cooperation is strategic: these include nuclear energy, the automotive industry, and existing joint venture in mobile communication and mobile internet, as well as a project to launch a joint Russian-Indian metallurgical enterprise. The ONGC Indian state-owned oil and gas company has also settled here in Russia and is participating in many projects. In addition, Gazprom has signed memoranda with several Indian companies stipulating large supplies of liquefied natural gas to India beginning in 2016. We are also implementing a long-term project to supply mineral fertilisers to India. All these are just several examples of cooperation in different sectors of the economy.
Currently, we have a solid regulatory framework for developing cooperation. Today, we signed a number of bilateral documents. Among them was a memorandum of mutual understanding between our nations’ regulatory authorities responsible for compliance with pharmaceutical standards. Pharmaceutical products from India are well-known in our country; over 800 medicines produced in India are registered here. I hope this document will promote the advancement of high-quality medicines on our market.
Beginning on December 1, the Russian-Indian Intergovernmental Agreement on Simplification of Requirements for Mutual Travels of Certain Categories of People has gone into effect. It stipulates the most simplified and accelerated procedures for Indian businesspeople to receive an entry visa into the Russian Federation. But if it is not working, then you can tell me about it during this meeting, and we will try to fix it.
I would like to wish you success in your work on the Russian market. We are always happy to see you, and I share this position with my colleague, Mr Prime Minister, Dr Manmohan Singh.
Geography
India
Topics
Economy and finance
Foreign policy
Persons
Singh Manmohan
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 16, 2011, 16:00
Text versionEvents
Press statement and answers to journalists’ questions following Russian-Indian talks
December 16, 2011
15:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen,
India is Russia’s privileged partner. Next April we will celebrate 65 years since we established diplomatic ties, ties that have been very friendly, diverse, and productive throughout this time. 
The Russian-Indian summit that has just taken place and the agreements signed to expand our bilateral cooperation are further evidence that our countries’ relations are based on complete trust and continue to develop.
The Prime Minister and I reviewed all of the events and developments of the last year and went over all of the main areas of our bilateral cooperation. We noted the dynamic development in our ties. It is enough to say that our bilateral trade increased to a figure of $7 billion over the first nine months of 2011 and looks like setting a new record for recent years. We will keep building up our trade and increase investment at the same time, for these are two sides of the same coin. We will revive growth in our trade by employing such mechanisms as intergovernmental consultations, the Intergovernmental Commission on Trade and Economic Cooperation, and the Russian-Indian trade and investment forum. I also hope that Russia’s accession to the World Trade Organisation, which is taking place today, will also promote the said process.
We discussed at our talks a wide range of issues concerning energy sector cooperation, industrial ties, and building up our cooperation in science and technology. We are carrying out a joint programme for the period through to 2020 in this area.
“India is Russia’s privileged partner. Next April we will celebrate 65 years since we established diplomatic ties, ties that have been very friendly, diverse, and productive throughout this time.”
I believe too, that the agreement that came into force on January 1 this year on simplified visa procedures will also help to develop the contacts between our countries’ business communities. We are due to meet later with Russian and Indian business community representatives, who work together actively in the Business Council.
Of course we will discuss the various areas in which we cooperate, including metals, machine-building, information technology, telecommunications, pharmaceuticals, and biomedical services. We will discuss the defence industry too, all the more so as our military technical cooperation with India has now reached a record level. We want our Indian partners to be involved in big projects such as designing a new multipurpose transport plane and a fifth-generation fighter plane, and of course we are interested in working together on civil aviation projects too.
Our cooperation has already produced major results in energy sector projects. We pursue mutually advantageous cooperation in the Sakhalin-1 project and there are also good opportunities for our Indian friends to take part in projects to build petrochemicals plants.
Russia’s nuclear power specialists are currently preparing to launch the first power unit at the Kudankulam nuclear power plant.
But our ties would be incomplete and even impoverished without the bright palette of our humanitarian contacts and cooperation.
Russia hosted an Indian culture festival this year and celebrations to mark the 150th anniversary of the birth of Indian poet Rabindranath Tagore. Next year will see a Russian culture festival take place in India. We will increase and continue educational exchanges and develop tourism and the ties between our different cities and regions. We see humanitarian cooperation as one of the main pillars of our bilateral relations.
We devoted much attention to international and regional issues today. We looked at how to strengthen global stability and security through groups such as the BRICS
forum, the G20, the East-Asian summits and other forums, including the UN of course.
We see good partnership opportunities in the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation
, which has a lot of potential on the Eurasian continent. Russia supports India’s becoming a full-fledged member of this organisation. We are also in favour of improving the security architecture in the Asia-Pacific region.
“I believe too, that the agreement that came into force on January 1 this year on simplified visa procedures will also help to develop the contacts between our countries’ business communities.”
We work together in the UN Security Council in which Russia is a permanent member and India currently a non-permanent member. We consider India a strong candidate for a permanent member’s seat should the decision be made to expand the United Nations Security Council.
These are all good mechanisms for our productive cooperation in international affairs.
Of course, I also discussed with the Prime Minister the situation in North Africa and in the Middle East, in Afghanistan and Pakistan. We must facilitate the positive developments taking place in these countries right now and help them in their development. At the same time, we must also make the necessary efforts to fight drug trafficking and terrorism and to create the conditions for stable global economic growth. We hope to continue working together with our Indian partners in all of these areas.
<…>
Question: Indian-Russian cooperation is growing in science, technology, space and the defence industry. You both said that trade and business will be the driving force of friendship between the two countries in the future. Can you comment on how you see this developing? 
Dmitry Medvedev: We mean just what we said, namely, that trade, business cooperation, and investment are the foundation for continued economic cooperation between our countries.
I said in my opening remarks that cooperation cannot be in one area alone. Growing trade – diversified trade too – and growing investment are two sides of the same coin. This is why we will meet with business community representatives today, because we are interested in more than just taking the trade figures higher. Our trade figures are already decent and will soon increase even further. Indeed, we have set the goal of taking our bilateral trade to $20 billion by 2015.
But it is important to enrich our relations with new projects too, big and not so big. It is important to have all sectors involved in cooperation between our business communities and economic cooperation in general. I hope that these ties will grow stronger every year. Everything is in our hands. We should work harder and open up new areas of cooperation. I think this is especially important with the global economy going through such difficulties today. The effort we put into developing bilateral relations and active business ties between our countries, both of which are big global economic actors, ultimately has a direct impact on the social wellbeing of our peoples, and so we will continue to build up our business cooperation.
“Trade, business cooperation, and investment are the foundation for continued economic cooperation between our countries.”
Question: How do you view the role the BRICS group plays on the international stage today and how do you view this group’s future?
Dmitry Medvedev: I discussed this matter at some length with Prime Minister of India Manmohan Singh today. We noted that the BRICS group’s role on the international stage is growing. I recall how I sat down with my then BRIC colleagues a few years ago and we discussed the common issues of economic development, countering terrorism, and others.
Our cooperation has now taken on a very practical dimension. The BRICS group holds regular meetings now and the next one will take place in India. Most important of all is that the forum has become a consultation mechanism now. This is very valuable because the world is changing fast, the economy is in a difficult situation, and the financial crisis continues. Even just before the recent G20 summit in Cannes, in France, the BRICS group leaders got together for a brief but very productive discussion. This shows that the group is becoming a very influential player and useful forum enabling its participants to coordinate their positions and thus be able to stand together to defend these positions at other international forums.
You know yourself just what the BRICS group represents. It brings together almost half of the world’s population and large share of global GDP growth. The BRICS countries account for almost half of global GDP growth this year. This represents a real force. We therefore hope to see the degree of trust, mutual understanding, and solidarity on the various issues we discuss increase as time goes on.
Question: India is not a permanent member of the UN Security Council. India and Russia have long since been good friends. Will Russia support India’s bid to become a permanent member?
Dmitry Medvedev: It is a pity you did not listen to me making my opening remarks. I commented absolutely clearly on this matter then, but will repeat my words now. India is indeed Russia’s privileged strategic partner, and we see it as a very real and strong candidate for permanent member’s seat on the Security Council, but for this to happen, the other members of the Security Council have to reach an agreement first, as do all of the United Nations member countries, and reform the Security Council as agreed. You can count on the Russian Federation’s support on this matter.
Geography
India
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Singh Manmohan
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 16, 2011, 15:30
Text version