Events
Meeting on improving judicial system
The discussion centred on non-procedural petitions to the court on matters under its consideration, in particular regarding the possibility of publishing information on such petitions. Measures to protect minors from sexual abuse were considered separately.
May 10, 2011
14:30
Gorki, Moscow Region
Meeting on improving judicial system.
The meeting was attended by Constitutional Court President Valery Zorkin, Supreme Court President Vyacheslav Lebedev, Higher Arbitration Court President Anton Ivanov, Prosecutor General Yury Chaika, Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Sergei Naryshkin, First Deputy Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Vladislav Surkov, Presidential Aide and Head of the State Legal Department Larisa Brychyova, Justice Minister Alexander Konovalov, and Chairman of the Investigative Committee Alexander Bastrykin.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Good afternoon, colleagues. Our meetings have already become a regular occurrence and today I would like to highlight two issues. Naturally, we can also talk about other matters, just as it usually happens. 
One of these issues is very complicated and has wide public implications. It concerns the so-called non-procedural petitions to the court. Unfortunately, all of you know perfectly well what I am referring to: the practice of petitioning presidents of courts with requests to provide an objective, complete and comprehensive review of a given case, and to take the case under personal supervision. Regrettably, this practice is rather common in our country, and we must not turn a blind eye to it. I am not saying that all those petitions are initially corrupt in their nature. Often they are submitted by professional associations, the so-called corporate groups or state officials such as governors or heads of other executive agencies, speakers or members of our Parliament.
“The issue of non-procedural petitions to the court is very complicated and has wide public implications. It concerns the practice of petitioning presidents of courts with requests to take the case under personal supervision. This it is a violation not only of ethical but also of legal standards, constitutional norms. Such petitions violate the principle of equality of all Russian people before the court and the law.”
At first glance, all those who submit petitions to the court exercise their right to communication, the right to petition the authorities. It has always been like that in our country. The aim of such petitions is utterly respectable: to ensure that the court arrives at a fair and just decision. However, as lawyers and as people who are interested in the development of a modern independent judicial system, we all understand that it is a violation not only of ethical but also of legal standards, namely the constitutional norms.
First, we must proceed from the fact that only a very narrow circle of people can submit non-procedural petitions. The majority of Russian citizens do not have this opportunity. Consequently, such petitions violate the principle of equality of all Russian people before the court and the law.
Secondly, it can be interpreted as a lack of respect towards or distrust of the court, since the petitions authors seem to assume that the court may come to a wrong or unjust decision.
Finally, it is a direct violation of the principle of courts’ and judges’ independence, so please take personal control and look more closely into this matter. I am referring to Article 120 of our country’s Constitution.
Incidentally, Mr Lebedev [Vyacheslav Lebedev
, President of the Supreme Court] said in an interview that the pressure on judges continues unabated. To combat this phenomenon, it is necessary to improve the judicial culture in general. I could not agree more with this. This is particularly relevant for those who should already have at least a modicum of legal knowledge, including government officials and deputies of different levels.
It is obvious that the practice of non-procedural petitions to courts is so deeply ingrained also because for many years the correspondence on such issues between government agencies and officials was confidential, and such petitions did not affect the reputations of the people submitting them in any way. Nobody would have suspected such a person of abusing his or her official position. Meanwhile, for most politicians their reputation is vitally important; in fact, it is an essential condition for their ability to hold public positions. Therefore, I propose that today we discuss making information on such petitions to the presidents of courts of all levels public, and what could be done about the situation.
You know what the international practice is. Courts in some American states record all petitions submitted: this includes letters, telephone calls and questions submitted in one form or another regarding a particular case. Before the hearing begins, the judge often simply reports who had shown an interest in that dispute. It seems to me that this is not unreasonable, though, of course, it is necessary to consider the matter in the context of our legal and judicial traditions.
Certain steps are being taken already. As far as I know, the Supreme Arbitration Court publishes information about petitions to the court. (Addressing President of the Supreme Arbitration Court Anton Ivanov
) Isn’t that right, Mr Ivanov? Your website contains this information. The effect from this measure is probably not immediate but it is real. I don’t know how many people use this resource, this section of the website, but it is clear that at least one interested group of persons checks it on a regular basis: journalists and all those interested in the work of the judiciary. This group regularly tells its readers how parliament members and governors look after certain businesses. It is necessary to analyse the effect of such websites and perhaps extend this practice across the board.
There is one more issue I would also like us to discuss. We need to consider whether it would be enough to remedy the situation by issuing internal documents, orders by presidents of the Supreme Courts and your internal papers, or whether it must be addressed at the legislative level.
“The protection of children from sex crimes is another issue that causes great concern. We all understand how dangerous these kinds of crimes against minors are, and the attitude towards those who commit such crimes should also be as strict as possible. A liberal approach to this matter is totally unacceptable.”
Another issue causes great concern. It is from a completely different sphere but unfortunately, it is also highly relevant in our country: the protection of children from sex crimes. I have already issued instructions to take measures to prevent such crimes. As far as I know, the Investigative Committee has drafted a package of amendments to the Criminal Code. We all understand how dangerous these kinds of crimes against minors are, and the horrific effect they often have on the victims. The attitude towards those who commit such crimes should also be as strict as possible.
The state must use all of its resources in this regard and maintain the strictest control. A liberal approach to this matter is totally unacceptable. Therefore, I propose that we discuss the measures and methods that are used in other countries, including medical treatment of such offenders, the possible use of certain injections that block the action of hormones. This should apply only to sexual offenders, and in all likelihood, it is possible only on a voluntary basis.
Nevertheless, this measure is actively debated in our country. A number of developed countries have adopted it and it is reflected in their legislation. I do not want to affect the decision on this issue, it must be widely debated because it is an entirely new approach. However, considering the terrible nature of the crimes committed, I believe it is our duty to at least consider the issue. The final decision will be mine.
<…>
Topics
Children
Court
Fight against crime
Persons
Ivanov Anton
Lebedev Vyacheslav
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 10, 2011, 14:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting on Russia’s defence industry development
The current situation in the defence industry and its development prospects were discussed at the meeting.
May 10, 2011
15:50
Gorki, Moscow Region
1 of 2
Meeting on defence industry development.
Among the meeting participants were Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Sergei Naryshkin, Security Council Secretary Nikolai Patrushev, Deputy Prime Minister Sergei Ivanov, Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin, Economic Development Minister Elvira Nabiullina, Defence Minister Anatoly Serdyukov, Head of the Federal Space Agency Vladimir Popovkin, First Deputy Defence Minister and Chief of the General Staff of the Russian Armed Forces Nikolai Makarov, CEO of Rosatom State Atomic Energy Corporation Sergei Kiriyenko, CEO of Russian Technologies (Rostekhnologii) State Corporation Sergei Chemezov, heads of major corporations, companies and industrial associations of the defence industry.
* * *
“We must not delay the tenders, which is the responsibility of the Defence Ministry. Otherwise a number of important weapons would be in jeopardy, as it happened last year.”
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Good afternoon, colleagues. We have agreed to discuss the state and the prospects for the development of Russia’s defence industry, to discuss what needs to be done to make it more efficient and to ensure that the production of weapons and equipment needed to increase our country’s defence capability takes place in accordance with the programmes we adopt rather than some other scenarios.
Let us briefly recall that for the past three years the state has done a great deal to strengthen the defence industry; major financial support was provided during the global economic crisis and defence contracts were covered in full. All this helped to maintain the stable operation of the strategic enterprises. In 2009 alone, the amount of state support for the defence industry amounted to about 100 billion rubles [$3.6 billion]. Integrated structures were set up to provide support for the entire cycle of modern weapons’ development and production.
However, despite all those measures, the state of the defence industry cannot be called prosperous, as all of you present here know. There are objective reasons for that: the wear of enterprises’ fixed assets is about 70% on average and the situation in some of them is even worse. So far we have not seen much success in setting up effective mechanisms for introducing innovation and private investment in the defence industry.
As you know, I have approved the key strategic planning documents on military security, modernisation and innovative development of the defence industry. At the end of last year a new long-term state armament programme was adopted, and the funding allocated for it is 300% higher than in the previous periods: the figure is in the region of 20 trillion rubles. We need to think about how the programme will be implemented.
“The Defence Ministry must complete the placement of defence contracts in full by the end of May and to make advance payments to companies in accordance with the plan for 2011 and the period up to 2012–2013.”
At the meeting of the Defence Ministry Board in late March I spoke about the need to balance the interests of customers and manufacturers. The state order must secure a sufficient level of profitability, that much is absolutely clear, which will finance modernisation and long-term research and development. On the other hand, prices for defence products must be justified, and the structure of these prices must be clear to the customers. Unfortunately, at present many aspects are completely hazy. Most importantly, the responsibility for fulfilling obligations must be increased, and I will say some more about that later.
It is essential to achieve several objectives in the near future.
First, we must adopt a federal targeted programme for the defence industry development for the period from 2011 to 2020. I hope the Government will resolve all the matters relating to the financing in the nearest future and submit a final proposal to me (I know that they are coordinating issues at present), taking into account not only the army’s needs and export orders, but also the real commitment of defence companies to produce specific models of weapons and military equipment. I stress: a real commitment.
Second, the Defence Ministry must complete the placement of defence contracts in full by the end of May and to make advance payments to companies in accordance with the plan for 2011 and the period up to 2012–2013.
This work has been proceeding very badly and slowly. I want to remind you that the state defence order was approved in December 2010 and at the Defence Ministry Board meeting in March I spoke about the failure of the previous state armaments programme. Today I want to hear from all those present why this happened, from the Government members and CEOs of companies. Who has been punished for it and how? Submit your proposals, if you haven’t already, containing details of the posts and the accountability. If such reports are not submitted, that suggests to me that it is sectoral heads and Government members who must be held accountable.
It is an unacceptable situation when decisions are made at the highest level, the money is allocated, and yet products are not delivered. Today I took the trouble to go over the 2009 Presidential Address [to the Federal Assembly]. Here are my words from the Address: “In the next year we need to provide the Armed Forces with more than 30 ballistic land- and sea-based missiles, five Iskander missile systems, about 300 modern armoured vehicles, 30 helicopters, 28 combat aircraft, three nuclear-powered submarines, one corvette-class battleship and 11 spacecraft.” As you must realise, I did not make up these things for the Address. All of it had been agreed with those present here. Why has it not been done? I am waiting for your response and your proposals. I am sure you realise that in different times half of you present here would already be engaged in hard physical labour in the fresh air. We must be responsible for our commitments. This is absolutely unacceptable.
“We must also consider ways to attract investment in the defence industry to promote the introduction of advanced technology and to conduct new research and development.”
We must not delay the tenders, which is the responsibility of the Defence Ministry. Otherwise a number of important weapons would be in jeopardy, as it happened last year.
We must also consider ways to attract investment in the defence industry to promote the introduction of advanced technology and to conduct new research and development. I remind you that military production is profitable in the entire world, and it attracts strategic investors interested in the long-term development needs of their own Armed Forces and export orders. We must think about the mechanisms that are used to encourage investment in the industry. Therefore, the main objective of today's meeting, as I said at the Defence Ministry Board meeting, is to hear reports on what has been done in terms of accountability of those who organised the work, and to remedy the situation.
<…>
Topics
Armed Forces
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 10, 2011, 15:50
Text version