Speech at the closing plenary session of the Russia-Republic of Korea Dialogue forum.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: President Lee Myung-bak, ladies and gentlemen,
I wish you all a warm welcome and I am very pleased that this forum is continuing its work. The Russia-Republic of Korea Dialogue forum got off to a very successful start in Seoul exactly a year ago now. Over these last days, its events have brought together politicians, businesspeople, scientists, cultural figures, and public representatives, and, also very important, as my colleagues just noted, they have gathered here in St Petersburg representatives of the young generation who are our countries’ future leaders.
As was said just now, the forum’s focus has been on modernising the state and society and on innovation activity – very relevant topics for our countries’ development today. We have exchanged views and discussed the Republic of Korea’s experience in fields in which we could follow its example, and this is all very useful for us. The business-like atmosphere at the events here reflects our countries’ genuine interest in developing precisely these kinds of projects. 
”We can work together to carry out a more effective modernisation policy, raise our education and healthcare standards, protect the environment, and successfully spread the use of energy-efficient technology.“
We can work together to carry out a more effective modernisation policy, raise our education and healthcare standards, protect the environment, and successfully spread the use of energy-efficient technology. As I just said, the fact that young people are involved in the forum’s work is particularly important. 
The second Russian-Korean Youth Dialogue that took place in August this year gave dozens of students from our countries’ leading universities the chance to get to know each other and learn a lot of new information about Russia and South Korea and their peoples, attend lectures by prominent scholars, and express their own points of view on the modern world’s problems at round table discussions.
The two forums that have taken place to date provide a clear demonstration of how their spirit helps to develop and strengthen the friendly ties between our countries. The delegates do not limit themselves to official channels only in developing these ties, which is also very good to see, and this is all laying good ground for the future.
As can be seen from development experience around the world in general, civil society institutions are weaving themselves ever more closely into the fabric of public life and even government life too, directly influencing government decisions. The actors in these kinds of exchanges, whether economic, educational, or cultural, often have a much deeper knowledge of the situation in specific international cooperation fields.Events
Beginning of Russian-South Korean talks
November 2, 2011
14:00
St Petersburg
Russian-Korean talks.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: President Lee Myung-bak, Korean friends and colleagues,
I wish you a warm welcome to St Petersburg, where the Russian-Korean public forum has just ended and we will now hold bilateral talks.
Mr President, you just gave an outstanding speech on our countries’ relations. I think that Russian-Korean relations do indeed have a very bright future. We are moving ahead in all areas, whether in the economy, in our big international projects, or in new fields such as innovation and modernisation, and also humanitarian cooperation of course.
It is good to have this chance now to exchange views on regional security (this is an issue of paramount importance and we are ready for broad cooperation with the Republic of Korea in this area) and on the current situation in the global economy and financial system, all the more so as we will be leaving from here for Cannes to discuss global economic development issues.
”I think that Russian-Korean relations do indeed have a very bright future. We are moving ahead in all areas, whether in the economy, in our big international projects, or in new fields such as innovation and modernisation, and also humanitarian cooperation.“
Once again, I wish you a warm welcome to St Petersburg, Mr President.
President of The Republic of Korea Lee Myung-Bak
(retranslated): As I understand it, St Petersburg is President Medvedev’s native city, and I also have a good personal connection to this city.
Since taking office as President, I have visited Russia every year, and have thus become the first president [of Korea] to visit Russia so often.
I am also very pleased to see the dynamic way our relations are developing in a broad range of sectors. I am very happy too that the agreements we concluded during our last meeting are now in the process of implementation.
Our cooperation is intensifying not just in trade and investment but in other areas too. I think that our countries, more so than other countries, can be the best of partners because we have mutually complementary organisations that we can develop on a mutually advantageous basis.
This explains our relations’ good development, all the more so as there are no issues between us. I hope that our governments will continue their utmost efforts to keep building up these relations in the future.
The world is currently facing a budget crisis, and I hope very much that our countries will also do their part to overcome this crisis.
I am very pleased to be having this meeting.
<…>
Persons
Lee Myung-bak
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 2, 2011, 14:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with medical personnel
Dmitry Medvedev met with medical personnel during a visit to the Djanelidze Research Institute of Emergency Medicine and also visited the institute’s emergency cardiology department.
Subjects discussed at the meeting included healthcare development, social protection for medical workers, and raising the standards of medical services provided, including in emergency medicine facilities. 
November 2, 2011
16:00
St Petersburg
5 of 7
Visiting Djanelidze Research Institute of Emergency Medicine. Meeting with medical personnel.
The President looked over several of the institute’s departments before the meeting and also visited a telemedicine centre for remote consultations, training seminars, videoconferences and symposiums with doctors from other regions.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Colleagues, I give you all my warmest greetings,
It certainly is very interesting to have this chance to visit you, first of all, because the Emergency Medicine Institute is a cutting-edge research institute with professionals of the highest level, people who, as we just said, are at their jobs round the clock.
Professional success only comes to those who hone their craft, those who perform operations and other medical services constantly, and not just now and then. In this sense, your institute, the emergency medicine hospital, as people used to call it when I lived in St Petersburg, has built up very solid traditions over the years and earned great respect from the city residents and from the huge number of people who have received treatment here. 
We had the opportunity just now to look around the institute. I was last here about 17–18 years ago now. Of course, the building has not grown any younger since then, but there have been what I think are some very big changes in terms of how the medical treatment system is organised and the equipment at your disposal.
Back then, nobody could even have dreamed of this kind of technology of course, but even the treatment process from the moment patients arrive at the hospital looks completely different now. I want to hear from you today about the problems of course, about what still needs to be done. After all, emergency medicine is a very specific field, and you know the situation better than anyone.
Change and new approaches must reach through the whole emergency medicine system in general. Change must reach not just to your institute that is at the forefront of the sector’s development, but to the way emergency medicine is practised throughout the entire country, in central district hospitals, and in the most unsuitable places, on the roads, everywhere and anywhere where medical help is needed. As for the procedures and guidelines to follow, these are things that will be in large measure tried and approved here within these walls.
Let’s talk about this. We can talk too about the strange weather that has brought St Petersburg plus 13 degrees Celsius [55.4 degrees F] on November 2, and we can discuss wages and social protection issues, since the top bosses have come from Moscow today to be here. I am referring not to myself, but to the deputy prime minister, the city governor, and the presidential plenipotentiary envoy. I therefore invite you all to take part in the discussion.
<…>
See also
All news about the trip to St Petersburg
November 1 − 2, 2011
Geography
Saint Petersburg
Topics
Healthcare
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 2, 2011, 16:00
Text version