Events
Dmitry Medvedev presented state decorations to merited hockey players
The President presented orders and appreciation letters to Russian ice hockey veterans for their contribution to the development and promotion of physical culture and sports and many years of conscientious work.
December 29, 2011
14:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 11
Dmitry Medvedev presents the Order for Services to the Fatherland, IV degree, to Vladimir Lutchenko, Merited Sports Master of the USSR.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Dear friends,
It is my great pleasure to wish you a Happy New Year and congratulate you on receiving these well-deserved awards. The New Year will come in just a few days and I hope that this meeting and ceremony at the Kremlin would add to the enjoyment of the holiday season for you and all your loved ones. And considering that all of you are highly distinguished and well-known people, I hope that this will add some positive emotions for everyone in our country.
Russia’s ice hockey elite has gathered here, in St Catherine Hall. Many of you were members of the Russian national team, which has won many world championships, Olympic Games and European championships. At the end of your career as athletes you began new lives: some of you took up coaching, others became involved in public work or entered state service, and that is excellent.
There is another pleasant occasion for us to celebrate: the 65th anniversary of Russian hockey. On December 22, 1946, the first matches of the USSR ice hockey championships were held. I must admit, on my way to work today, I watched some recordings of the matches shown on the Vesti-24 news. I don’t remember ever seeing them before, even though I am not that young anymore, but they are completely different if you compare them with modern hockey. At the same time, the game is the same. So, without any doubt, a unique training system for players and coaches was built in the past in our country, and in this case I am referring both to the Soviet Union and the Russian Federation.
“Our players have always been distinguished by their excellent team spirit and extraordinary skills, and this has become our calling card. That's why we all loved Soviet hockey, and I hope we will continue to love Russian hockey for the same reasons.”
The Soviet and Russian national teams became world champions 25 times and won the Olympic Games eight times. That is an extraordinary result, an absolutely outstanding result, which is why hockey has become our national sport and won so many loyal fans and why, as I believe – and you may or may not agree with me since I view it from the amateur’s perspective – our hockey has continued to develop and make progress, because everything changes, the requirements, maybe even the canons and criteria, but development cannot be stopped.
Our players have always been distinguished by their excellent team spirit and extraordinary skills, and this has become our calling card. That's why we all loved Soviet hockey, and I hope we will continue to love Russian hockey for the same reasons.
The Orders and the Presidential appreciation letters to be presented today are symbolic of your brilliant sports achievements. At the same time, perhaps this shows the main purpose of state decorations: in addition to rewarding an outstanding professional, it is also a personal success story and an example for so many people. Each of you has lead a life that can certainly serve as an example for a lot of young people who love sports, particularly hockey, and have great respect for you.
We have many sports events ahead, including the Sochi Winter Olympics. I hope all of them will be a success.
Once again I sincerely congratulate all of you. I wish you prosperity, happiness and success, and propose that we start the awards ceremony.
<…>
Everyone in our country knows that ice hockey is a special kind of sport. I even have the experience of my own observations. I have colleagues with whom it is not always easy to discuss various issues. To be frank, sometimes we disagree, have arguments. But suddenly there is a hockey match, and everything turns into a normal conversation. <…> This shows us that even when there are different opinions, disagreement, conflicting views on international processes or domestic affairs, we can always resort to hockey because it is a subject that unites people and consolidates our country, because we have millions of fans and it is a deeply loved national sport.
Even at international venues it can be an excellent opportunity to mitigate conflicts or to reach international agreements on social, humanitarian or sports issues. Therefore, to be honest, even in my official activities hockey has helped me tackle various state matters, and that is only possible because you have established the fantastic traditions of Soviet and Russian ice hockey, lifted it to such heights that we have nowhere to retreat and losing is not an option. There is only one way to go and that is forward, towards new victories.
To all of you and your loved ones, your families and everyone who loves and appreciates you, I would like to wish a Happy New Year, the best of health and strong nerves, because we will need them next year both in our work and to support our ice hockey team.
Happy New Year!
Topics
Sport
State decorations
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 29, 2011, 14:30
Text versionEvents
Ceremony for presenting state decorations took place at the Kremlin
Dmitry Medvedev presented state decorations and certificates conferring honorary titles to outstanding Russians.
December 29, 2011
14:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
7 of 10
Dmitry Medvedev presents the Order of Courage to Mussa Susurkiyev, a student at Ingush State University.
Among those who received orders and medals are art workers, academic figures, doctors, workers and farmers.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Dear friends, dear colleagues,
Already the new year is upon us: we're meeting on the eve of 2012. Of course, this is always a special time. No matter what our country is going through, these days are permeated with the feelings surrounding the lead-up to the holidays and the new year, perhaps even the pre-New Year rush. I admit the fact that it is even more pleasant to present state decorations during this period. It is always a pleasant thing to reward those who have distinguished their homeland, but this is especially true in the New Year period.
As usual, different people are gathered in this room. At the same time, all those present here are experts in their field, and the story of every person present here today is the story of a personal or private success. What you have achieved in life you have achieved thanks to your talent, thanks to your capabilities and, if you’ll pardon the melodrama, thanks to your special, reverent approach to your profession and your country.
”The story of every person present here today is the story of a personal or private success. What you have achieved in life you have achieved thanks to your talent, thanks to your capabilities and thanks to your special, reverent approach to your profession and your country.“
Good examples are always very important, especially during difficult periods. And while difficulties have always existed, there are certainly plenty of them today. We have just vanquished one crisis but, unfortunately, in all likelihood the planet is once again on the brink of a new economic crisis. Naturally, we all have a lot of work in our respective fields in order to minimise the difficulties that our country might face. This notwithstanding, we will not deviate from our chosen path, and we will continue doing all that we have planned: solving economic problems, solving social development problems, developing and supporting programmes for maternal and children’s health, trying to bring-up a modern, educated and healthy generation.
So I would like to see next year turn out like this, especially since it is very important for our country for political reasons and because of the economic problems I just mentioned. In any event, next year we will need our best qualities – I mean the qualities of our people, such as talent, industriousness, and love for the Fatherland. Only on the basis of these qualities can our country develop.
I will traditionally mention just a few names, but this does not mean that those whom I do not name are less worthy of being mentioned by the president. Simply because of the rules of the game, I single out a few people and then, in turn, we proceed to the ceremony. I would like to mention three categories into which our outstanding citizens present here can be divided.
First, our research and education community. I am glad that today Director of the Institute of World History of the Russian Academy of Sciences Alexander Chubaryan, Rector of Moscow University of Civil Engineering Valery Telichenko, and President of the Russian Academy of Education Nikolai Nikandrov are receiving awards. Without education we certainly cannot create a modern country, and education must be modern. No matter how many times we repeat that we have the best education nothing will change by magic. Better education requires better teachers, better faculty, more money and labour. With all that added, it becomes the best education. Incidentally, we have everything we need, we just should work hard.
But the power of our nation also rests on our culture, the traditions of Russian literature, music, art, and theatre. Those award winners present here maintain and contribute to these traditions. In fact their names need no introduction – they speak for themselves. But I will nevertheless mention that our great choreographer Yury Grigorovich and our outstanding conductor Gennady Rozhdestvensky are present here, as well as two of our outstanding and most admired artists, Lev Durov and Evgeny Mironov.
There is one other person that I would like to mention. In general, awards are usually presented in honour of cumulative achievements. True, it is great when an award is received at a young age, but usually they are for people who have done something for the country or for their profession. So it is very rare when an award is presented to someone very young. I would like to mention the student of Ingush State University Mussa Susurkiyev. He is only 21 years old, and he did everything possible to prevent victims during an attempted terrorist attack which took place almost exactly a year ago. He acted boldly and decisively, and today I am presenting him the Order of Courage.
Dear colleagues,
If all those present make a small contribution to our country, we have every chance to make next year a very good one. Be it a large contribution, or a relatively small one, ultimately that is not the most important thing. Most important, is that we all have worked for the prosperity of our beloved country, our beloved motherland.
Let us proceed to the ceremony.
<…>
”The origins of patriotism are the same for everyone. Whatever we do, we still think about how to make our country, our city, the place where we work the best, and to make sure our families feel comfortable and secure.“
Dear friends,
You can see that there really are very different people in this hall. At the same time it is clear that these are people who have already done a great deal for their country.
It is customary to wish for simple things in the New Year. In general, the more heartwarming the celebration, the more it lends itself to wishes for quite simple and very sincere things. The New Year is just such a holiday. At the same time, if you give it a thought, almost everything that surrounds us can be reduced to quite clear, simple things.
Mr Nikandrov just spoke about patriotism. Indeed, sometimes patriotism is seen as very bookish, sentimental, ideological, and not even sincere. And what actually is patriotism anyways? It's just love for one’s home, one’s country which may manifest itself in every person absolutely differently. But the origins of this feeling are the same for everyone. Whatever we do, we still think about how to make our country, our city, the place where we work – whether in business or theatre – the best, and to make sure our families feel comfortable and secure. This attitude reflects the overall attitude to our country, our Motherland.
In the run-up to the New Year it is a tradition to wish happiness. I wish you happiness too, because each person has perhaps a somewhat mystical view of the changing year. He or she is always thinking about how to transfer all that was good into the new year and to leave all the difficulties behind in the outgoing one. Life does not work that way but this is what we should strive for, so I wish you all a good mood for the coming year, happiness, emotional warmth, and I hope that you welcome this new year together with people who are close to you and share your good mood.
Happy New Year! I heartily congratulate you once again on these prestigious state decorations.
Topics
State decorations
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 29, 2011, 14:00
Text version