Events
Dmitry Medvedev presented banners to Cossack military societies
The President presented banners to atamans of the Central, Don, Volga Yeniseysk, Trans-Baikal, Irkutsk, Kuban, Orenburg, Siberian, Terek, and Ussuriysk Cossack military societies. All these Cossack military societies have been entered in the State Register.
December 7, 2011
14:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Gentlemen! Dear friends!
I sincerely welcome you to the Kremlin and congratulate you on this significant event. Today, December 7, will go down in Russian Cossack history as the day of the rebirth of an important tradition: presenting military banners. And it is deeply symbolic that these key military relics have an inscription in gold thread that states, “For the Glory of the Fatherland.”
“Cossacks played a huge role in the development of our nation, as well as its defence. In many ways, Cossacks were architects of Russian history. Cossack units went on many legendary journeys, and during peaceful times, they guarded our borders and cultivated new lands.”
Cossacks played a huge role in the development of our nation, as well as its defence. In many ways, Cossacks were architects of Russian history. Cossack units went on many legendary journeys to Azov and Crimea. They participated in the war of 1812 and, as everybody knows, they went as far as Paris. And in peacetime, they guarded our borders and cultivated new lands. The heroic deeds of the Cossack ataman trailblazers, such as Yermak, Dezhnev and Khabarov, will be forever inscribed into the glorious history of Siberia and the Far East of our nation.
The government supports Cossacks’ aspirations to revive their time-honoured way of life, their original cultural traditions and spiritual values. During the last three years, we have been implementing a special national policy concept aimed at Cossacks; the Presidential Council, where all eleven Cossack military societies included in the State Register are represented, is working. We will continue engaging Cossacks in state and other forms of service, including the protection of state borders and public order.
Dear friends, we have gathered in the Kremlin’s St George Hall. It is a special place. This hall has witnessed many historic events. In the summer of 1945, Victory Parade participants were triumphantly welcomed within these walls. Our first cosmonaut was also honoured here, and the hall itself carries the name of the patron saint of all Russian warriors: St George the Victorious, who is particularly respected among Cossacks. I am certain that you will carry on the heroic deeds of your ancestors, and the banners of the Cossack military societies will become another symbol of your bravery, spiritual steadiness, and power.
* * *
Comrades! Dear friends!
“The key task of all Cossack military societies remains the same: to promote the development and prosperity of our beloved Fatherland.”
The ceremony of presenting Cossack military banners is complete. But as I said earlier, this is only one of several highly important symbols, and the key task of all Cossack military societies and people who consider themselves Cossacks remains the same: to promote the development and prosperity of our beloved Fatherland.
In my opening remarks, I spoke about the actions of the past, the glorious pages of history. Naturally, there were many more similar historic moments. Our history holds some tragic pages as well, which we must also remember, because the authorities have not always acted appropriately with regard to Cossacks, or other groups for that matter. Thus, it is all the more important to ensure that in the 21st century, all our potential, all the human potential of our nation, serves the good of developing our state.
Our nation still faces many problems and many challenges, including the ones pertaining to maintaining law and order, and ensuring our citizens’ security, regardless of where they live or what they do. And this is an area where Cossacks have a special role to play. I am certain that you will fulfil this lofty mission with dignity. Thank you.
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 7, 2011, 14:30
Text versionEvents
Dmitry Medvedev received the letters of credence from fifteen new ambassadors to the Russian Federation
Letters of credence were presented by ambassadors of Angola, Bahrain, Belarus, Columbia, Costa Rica, Djibouti, Great Britain, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Iceland, Laos, Luxembourg, Spain, Syria, and Tunisia.
December 7, 2011
13:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 16
Before the presentation by foreign ambassadors of their letters of credence.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Gentlemen,
Let me open this ceremony by first of all congratulating you on the official start of your diplomatic missions in the Russian Federation.
I hope your work will be successful and that its results will strengthen the mutually advantageous relations between our countries.
The world faces a number of global and regional problems today. Difficult processes are taking place in North Africa and the Middle East, and there is a debt crisis in the eurozone. The overall situation is complex and the international financial markets are unstable. In these circumstances it is more important than ever to take responsible and coordinated decisions, and to work together openly and productively. 
Russia is without question open for broad-based dialogue and partnership with all of the countries represented here today, and with other countries too, of course, in the interests of ensuring international stability and security. We will continue to follow a balanced and proper foreign policy and play an active part in building a fairer world order. 
Our country has worked actively on implementing a number of big integration projects over these last years. I note in particular, in this connection, the recent signing of the Agreement on Free Trade Zones within the Commonwealth of Independent States
, and also the successful launch and operation of the Customs Union
between Russia, Belarus, and Kazakhstan. Starting in 2012, we will also be launching the Common Economic Space.
I also note the growing weight that big organisations such as the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation
are gaining on the international stage. Forums such as the BRICS
forum are also playing an increasingly important part in stabilisation efforts and strengthening global development.
Russia’s dialogue with the European Union receives our constant attention. The latest Russian-EU summit will take place soon, and I hope that we will all show the good will required to further develop the multifaceted ties binding us to the European Union.
”Russia is open for broad-based dialogue and partnership with all of the countries in the interests of ensuring international stability and security. We will continue to follow a balanced and proper foreign policy and play an active part in building a fairer world order.“
The agreement on Russia’s accession to the World Trade Organisation is an excellent example of how it is possible to reach the necessary agreements even in difficult international circumstances. We are pleased that the negotiations have finally ended with a positive result.
It is my hope, too, that we will ultimately find a way to overcome the difficulties you are aware of in our relations with NATO so as to continue developing cooperation with this organisation in the spirit of mutual understanding and in the interests of global stability and security. I am sure that the countries you represent all seek to build relations in just this spirit – relations based on equal partnership, and mutual respect and benefit.
Let me now say a few words about our relations with each of the countries you have the honour to represent.
We greatly value the friendship and cooperation we have with Guinea, which go back more than 50 years now, and will work to further build on and multiply the potential of these bilateral ties.
The Republic of Costa Rica was the first country in Central America to establish diplomatic relations with Russia, and next year will in fact mark the 140th anniversary of this event. We hope these relations will continue to develop, particularly in trade, culture, and education. 
We want to strengthen our friendly ties with Guinea-Bissau and work together to open up promising new mutually advantageous fields of cooperation.
We are pleased with the way our partnership with Spain is developing. This partnership is based on close approaches to the key issues facing the modern world, and also on the centuries-old mutual respect and sympathy between our peoples. The organisation of reciprocal cultural years, a big project, which ended in Madrid just recently, was clear evidence of our desire to build closer ties.
The Grand Duchy of Luxembourg is one of our promising financial and investment partners in Western Europe. It is in our common interest to put this potential to use in trade and the economy, science and technology, and other areas. 
Historically, the relations between Russia and the Syrian Arab Republic have been distinguished by friendship and mutual sympathy. This and our desire to prevent any erosion of the fundamental norms of international law and principles of relations between countries define our position with regard to the trials that Syria faces at this present time. Our view is that the most important thing is for the Syrians to act themselves, without any interference from outside, to stabilise the situation, stop the violence, and get an effective nationwide dialogue underway.
The recent visit by the President of the People’s Democratic Republic of Laos gave an added boost to our bilateral cooperation. We concluded some major agreements in the trade, economic, and humanitarian spheres.
We have good and constructive relations with the Kingdom of Bahrain. This forms a good base for working towards concrete results in the oil and gas, investment, and other sectors.
We hope that the opening of Djibouti’s embassy in Moscow will help to broaden the ties between our countries, including in the aim of strengthening peace and security in northeast Africa.
We value our cooperation with Iceland. Our ties are growing fast and reaching out to an ever broader range of sectors, including the innovation sector, of such importance for us. We will build on this capital by working together in the Arctic too.
I have fond memories of my visit to Angola in 2009 and my talks with President Jose Eduardo dos Santos. I hope that our joint work to implement our bilateral agreements will enable us to keep up the good pace in developing the ties between us.
I note the high level of cooperation we have with the Republic of Columbia, one of our big partners in Latin America. We want to continue developing this cooperation, above all in the energy sector, the machine-building industry, and other areas.
Russia’s relations with the Republic of Tunisia have been growing over recent years and have reached some solid figures. We now have the chance to continue these efforts and open the road to promising joint projects as Tunisia enters this new stage in its democratic development.
Our cooperation with Great Britain plays a big part in strengthening stability and security in Europe. I am sure that the implementation of the Partnership for Modernisation that we have drafted and signed will develop our ties further. This, incidentally, was one of the main subjects we discussed during Prime Minister David Cameron’s visit to Russia. We confirm our desire to continue developing our relations with Britain in the spirit of constructive cooperation. 
Naturally, we will continue to develop the special relationship we have with Belarus. Our relations received new impetus this year, as can be seen from the big agreements concluded recently during the meeting of the Union State’s Supreme Council. We will continue our consistent efforts to develop our integration cooperation with Belarus at the bilateral and multilateral levels. I note too, that the establishment of the Common Economic Space will take us to a truly higher level of cooperation.
Gentlemen,
I hope that your wealth of diplomatic experience will help us to build on the traditions of friendship and partnership that the Russian Federation shares with your countries.
I wish you good luck and success in your work in Russia. Thank you.
Geography
Angola
Bahrain
Belarus
Colombia
11 more
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 7, 2011, 13:30
Text version