Events
Vladislav Surkov has been appointed Deputy Prime Minister
Dmitry Medvedev informed Vladislav Surkov of his appointment as Deputy Prime Minister.
December 27, 2011
18:00
With Deputy Prime Minister Vladislav Surkov.
From May 12, 2008 until the present Vladiuslav Surkov held the post of First Deputy Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Mr Surkov, a few years ago, when the Commission for Modernisation and Technological Development of Russia’s Economy was established, I appointed you the Commission’s Deputy Chairman, and you were deeply involved in this area of our policy as part of the presidential Executive Office, both in terms of organisational aspects and the content. I believe that time has come for you to tackle this issue in the executive branch. We discussed this already. Therefore, I have signed an executive order appointing you Deputy Prime Minister of the Russian Federation.
I hope that the matters we discussed at the Commission’s meetings, will become more focused now that you will work on them directly within the Government, as well as filled with practical content, because under the Constitution the Government is the primary executive and administrative body, and has full socioeconomic powers.
Therefore, I hope that our efforts of the past years will not prove in vain but will receive a new impetus as part of your responsibilities.
Deputy Prime Minister Vladislav Surkov: Mr President, thank you very much. First, I must say that for me it is a great honour, because everyone knows that economic modernisation and the creation of innovation infrastructure are your strategic priority. You have talked about it on many occasions, and it is true that I did my best to contribute to this effort and promote these ideas.
To be honest, I find this work very interesting. I look forward to new experiences and hope that I will not fail you and the Prime Minister, and most importantly, the people involved in economic development: scientists, engineers, entrepreneurs – all talented people.
Thank you very much for your trust and for this interesting new job.
Dmitry Medvedev: I wish you every success.
Vladislav Surkov: I hope for your continued support.
<…>
Topics
Civil service
Persons
Surkov Vladislav
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 27, 2011, 18:00
Text versionEvents
Ceremony formalising the promotion of officers to senior command positions
The ceremony formalising the promotion of officers to higher command positions and presenting them with top military (special) ranks took place in the St George Hall of the Grand Kremlin Palace.
December 27, 2011
14:20
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Comrades generals and admirals,
I congratulate you on your promotion to new positions and the presentation of regular military and special ranks. Vital tasks such as the successful modernisation of the Russian Army and Navy, and strengthening law enforcement agencies and special services depend on you, representatives of the officer corps. Command staff is responsible for carrying out reforms. So it has always been, and so will it continue in the future.
I hope that you will use all of your knowledge, your experience and your new powers to fulfil these tasks, and will effectively provide security for the Russian state, ensuring stability in our society and its calm and steady development.
National defence is one of the key state policy priorities. In recent years, we have substantially modernised the Armed Forces, optimised the structure and size of the army and navy, improved the command system and strengthened the strategic nuclear deterrent force. On December 1, 2011 the new Aerospace Forces have become operational and in November an early warning radar station was deployed to monitor airspace in the westerly direction.
Army and Navy will face a number of challenges related to the facilitation of the national development strategy and military construction over the next 10 years. One of the most important goals is re-equipping the troops. Our key priority remains to supply the most advanced last generation weapons and equipment and continue the re-equipment of the Armed Forces. This task requires training experts and military personnel, which will be fully able to use this technology for its intended purposes. Therefore, it is vitally important to ensure the highest level of professional skills among cadets and young officers.
“I congratulate you on your promotion to new positions and the presentation of regular military and special ranks. Vital tasks such as the successful modernisation of the Russian Army and Navy. I hope that you will use all of your knowledge, your experience and your new powers to fulfil these tasks, and will effectively provide security for the Russian state.”
We continue to upgrade our weapons and military equipment. In that context I would like to note that despite the remaining problems in the space industry, we have nevertheless made a very important step recently: we have completed the series of flight tests of a modern complex naval strategic nuclear force. I am referring to the Bulava missiles. This test cycle was not easy and encountered certain problems.
Still, our industry has proven that it can create new modern and highly efficient types of strategic weapons. One of them is the Bulava missile, and now that the tests have been completed, it will be put into service.
This year the Interior Ministry has launched a major modernisation reform, the police force has been established and its personnel underwent an unscheduled performance review, new personnel selection mechanisms have been introduced to make a qualitative change in law enforcement agencies, to make more effective our struggle against extremism, common crime and corruption, to reliably protect the rights and lawful freedoms of our citizens, and to maintain order in the broadest sense, in everyday life and at the time of complex political events, including elections. Overall, the Interior Ministry troops are exercising their powers to maintain public order, and here it is necessary to prevent any provocations aimed at inciting ethnic and social hatred and to counter extremists’ attempts to destabilise the regions.
With the establishment of the Investigative Committee of the Russian Federation, the investigative authorities have become more diverse and have obtained a new dimension. I hope that your efforts will be focused on improving the evidence base, solving the most serious crimes and fighting crime in the broadest sense of the word.
The Federal Security Service makes a great contribution to securing national interests. I expect new achievements from you in the fight against terrorism and intensifying efforts to protect our economy. Other relevant tasks include fighting corruption, neutralising the activities of foreign intelligence services, as well as guaranteeing the security of our border, which has been upgraded in recent years.
The international situation is rapidly evolving, and political and social instability in a number of major states reinforce the importance of the Foreign Intelligence Service. The Service’s operational and analytical capacity are high; therefore, we must respond to changes in the international situation, conducting a thorough analysis of the most important external threats for our country.
I would like to extend special greetings to Emergency Ministry officers. Why? Because they are celebrating their professional holiday today. I warmly congratulate the staff and everyone who serves in the Ministry of Emergency Situations and Disaster Relief. Russian rescuers are true professionals in performing their duties. The priorities of Russian rescuers include quality control over the operation of strategically important and complex facilities, and the quality of public events. In the near future we will work on creating voluntary fire brigades, which is especially important for remote communities, which can be very difficult for regular firefighters to reach. Once again I would like to congratulate the Emergency Ministry staff on their holiday.
Other specialised agencies conduct highly valuable work for the state, including the Federal Guard Service, the Special Facilities Service, the Federal Penitentiary Service and drug control agencies. I am confident that you will continue to work promptly and effectively, preventing criminal activity using modern standards, ensuring the security of the most important facilities and senior government officials.
Comrades and colleagues,
I would like to sincerely congratulate all of you on today's event. This is always a very memorable event and a memorable day for any officer. Happy New Year to all of you, your subordinates and your families.
I wish you success in your service and hope that you will continue to perform your duties with utmost professionalism.
<…>
Comrades officers, once again I congratulate all of you and I hope that your efforts will help the units and agencies you lead to become more efficient and professional in performing their duties.
I wish you success and happiness in everything.
Topics
Armed Forces
National security
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 27, 2011, 14:20
Text versionEvents
Meeting with the Government
At the final Government meeting of the year, Dmitry Medvedev analysed achievements in Russia's socioeconomic development for 2011.
December 27, 2011
15:00
Meeting with the Government.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Good afternoon, colleagues,
I'll start by wishing you a happy New Year. The outgoing year, as the previous years, was not easy for our country, but overall, we have achieved some good results. I want to say it here, in the presence of the Prime Minister and members of the Russian Government, because that Government is responsible for our country’s socioeconomic development.
The results are as follows: unlike a large group of developed economies, we have shown substantial growth. The gross domestic product figure may not be fantastic but it is significantly higher than the figures achieved this year by the developed European countries and the United States. It is about 4%.
Another important economic indicator is inflation. I would like to congratulate all of you, and indeed congratulate our country and our people on achieving an unprecedented low level of inflation for the first time in Russian history. That figure is about 6%, or a bit over 6%; it is a figure we would have found incredible just a few years ago. Nevertheless, we have achieved it, and we know that it is a stable trend and not just a reflection of the people’s mood, especially in the context of global financial instability. So I think that in terms of macroeconomic indicators the Government has done excellent work.
Finally, unemployment is a key indicator and one that perhaps most accurately reflects social wellbeing. We have reached an unprecedented low level of unemployment, especially when compared with other states. This is also the result of coordinated efforts at all levels of authority, the executive branch as a whole and the Government, which is the most important body of executive power in our country. Even if we look only at these three main indicators, I believe 2011 was a successful year.
“I hope that in the coming months – and these will be difficult months because we have a complicated political calendar that includes the presidential elections – the Government will work smoothly, promptly, scrupulously, if you will, as it has done in recent years.”
I would like to thank all members of the Russian Government for your hard work in very difficult conditions. I am referring to the volatility in global financial markets and our domestic problems, of which there are still quite a few and to which we will dedicate our efforts in the near term. The future Government will have to pay significant attention to these issues, as I said in my Address to the Federal Assembly not so long ago.
We will conduct our work in new conditions. Russia has completed the negotiations on the entry into the World Trade Organisation. I would also like to thank all members of the Russian Government who contributed to this process because, even knowing that this will present certain ordeals as well as benefits for our country and its economy, yet ultimately the membership in the World Trade Organisation creates an entirely new environment for the improvement of our economy’s competitiveness, which will help our companies to stand on a par with their foreign competitors and will give us much better economic results.
Another achievement of this year is the launch of the Customs Union, and the Eurasian Economic Space will come into operation on January 1, 2012. By 2015, we are planning to establish a Eurasian Economic Union. Therefore, we will have a new business environment, which will also expand the boundaries of our market and create more jobs, contribute to an increase in trade, which has already occurred in the period since the Customs Union was established, both as regards relations with Belarus and with Kazakhstan, and, ultimately improve the general economic conditions in our countries.
There are many problems. First of all, I will name the investment climate, which, in my view, requires a fundamental improvement. Our efforts have not been a success so far, and this is a task for the future. There are bureaucratic problems. Corruption remains a central concern of the state, which we will fight using the most comprehensive methods.
All of this will become the substance for our work in the future. I hope that in the coming months – and these will be difficult months because we have a complicated political calendar that includes the presidential elections – the Government will work smoothly, promptly, scrupulously, if you will, as it has done in recent years.
I would like to thank all the members of the Government present here for our cooperation because we have been working as a team for nearly four years. These were very difficult years for our country but – and I say this very frankly and openly – I think that the Government has stood the test and that as a result of our teamwork we were able to overcome the effects of the global financial crisis, which began in 2008.
More difficult tests lie ahead but I am confident that we have the energy and capabilities to tackle them successfully.
Once again, I would like to sincerely thank all of you for your hard work, to wish you and your families good health in the coming year and success to all of us because we will need it as our country requires a great deal of attention.
Happy New Year to all of you!
<…>
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 27, 2011, 15:00
Text version