Events
Meeting with Prime Minister of Belgium Yves Leterme
Dmitry Medvedev and Yves Leterme discussed topical issues of trade and economic cooperation between Russia and Belgium, including in the energy sector.
January 26, 2011
12:00
Gorki, Moscow Region
With Prime Minister of Belgium Ives Leterme.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Mr Prime Minister, I am sincerely glad to see you again. Just recently, we met in Belgium. Your current visit to our country is private, but it is no less important, and it gives us the opportunity to discuss our bilateral agenda.
Recently, we have advanced the level of our relations. This concerns our relations in energy sector (I know that you have met with Gazprom management), as well as business relations between our states in general. We are expecting a group of businesspeople to visit our country, as we agreed. Thus, I hope that your visit will be helpful and productive.
Prime Minister of Belgium Yves Leterme (retranslated): Thank you very much. Thank you for your welcome and for your hospitality. It is always a pleasure to meet with you.
I recall the EU-Russia summit and your visit to Belgium. We had the opportunity to make progress on a whole set of important issues, including energy. The documents signed in our presence are starting to take concrete shape. Belgium plays an increasingly important role with regard to the logistics of international gas trade, becoming a kind of international gas hub.
This morning, I had breakfast with representatives of Belgian business circles, who are very interested in expanding their operations in Russia. As you know, a European summit meeting is coming up in a few weeks, which will focus on energy issues. We believe that our energy policy can be sound and reliable only if we take into account our very important partner, Russia.
As you have justly emphasised, a large investment, trade and economic mission consisting of Belgian business people and headed by the Crown Prince will be visiting Russia this spring. We have already discussed this in Brussels. It is a new opportunity to broaden Russian-Belgian economic cooperation and interaction. I am certain and sincerely believe that it will provide new opportunities for our businesspeople to expand their cooperation.
<…>
Geography
Belgium
Topics
Energy
Foreign policy
Persons
Leterme Yves
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 26, 2011, 12:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting on transport security
Dmitry Medvedev critised security at major transport hubs stating that measures to ensure safety are unsatisfactory as a whole, even without considering the recent terrorist attack. The President demanded tighter security measures and control over compliance with applicable legal requirements.
January 26, 2011
13:30
Gorki, Moscow Region
2 of 3
Meeting on transport security.
Dmitry Medvedev instructed Prosecutor General Yury Chaika to carry out full security checks at all transport facilities as regards their compliance with applicable laws, and ordered Interior Minister Rashid Nurgaliyev to ”shake up“ the entire transport police. The President also instructed the Government to draft transport security proposals in two weeks.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Colleagues, I have brought you together to give a more detailed assessment of our transport security.
Yesterday, I gave a speech at the expanded meeting of the Federal Security Service board, so I have already said certain things. I feel that overall, our current level of transport security is unsatisfactory (and not just because of the terrorist attack that took place). We need to analyse the causes that led to the tragedy at Domodedovo Airport, but what’s most important right now is to ensure that tragedies of this kind are not repeated, and to do everything we can, because naturally, protecting transport facilities is a very complicated task. In countries that have to deal with terrorism – and this is a large number of nations – transport facilities are among the most vulnerable targets. But at the same time, there are subjective things we should pay attention to.
I would also like to hear about how transport legislation is being fulfilled and what additional measures we should take to minimise noncompliance with such legislation, thus minimising the terrorist threat at transportation facilities and protecting people.
In March of last year, I issued an Executive Order to equip the most vulnerable facilities and means of transport with specialised technical devices, devices for maintaining safety, public warning and information systems. By 2014 we must create an integrated transport security system to prevent emergencies and terrorism and take a number of other measures. This is not a programme that can be carried out in a day. I would like for you to brief me on how work on this Executive Order is progressing, what has already been done, and what problems have occurred. One of the items addresses the integrated public transport security programme. In July of last year, this programme was approved by the Cabinet, and the Finance Ministry allocated money for it. What has been done?
Let me remind you of another thing. In 2007 (after terrorist attacks on flights leaving from Domodedovo Airport), a federal law on transport security was passed. I recall how we worked on it (I was working in the Presidential Executive Office, and later in the Cabinet). Somewhat later, a whole set of bylaws came into force. Overall, this was an adequate regulatory foundation for evaluating the vulnerability of transport infrastructure facilities. The law sets forth categories and criteria for rating corresponding facilities and introduces various levels of security. In addition, transport infrastructure entities must adopt safety plans. I would like to know what has been done. Mr Chaika [Yury Chaika, Prosecutor General], we need to check our major transport facilities to see whether they comply with the law on transport security. I even think that the corresponding plans have been developed, but the question is whether these plans are actually being carried out. I spoke about this yesterday.
Based on data from the Prosecutor General’s Office and the Presidential Control Directorate, not all legislative provisions are being adhered to, to put it lightly. The number of general violations is growing; they are increasing for nearly every type of transport. Right now, I am speaking not only about air hubs, but also railroads and bus stations. Unfortunately, this is happening across the board. Regardless of whom I speak to, people say the following: after a terrorist attack, in many cases, metal detectors were put in use at transport facilities; they worked in the beginning, with everyone being sent through them; but then everything stopped – people could come and go as they pleased. Police officers stationed at major transport hubs, airports and railroad stations are acting entirely passively. In the best case, they hassle migrants to check their registration papers and thereby make use of their powers.
This is the work we need to do on a daily basis, every day – the same way it is done in nations that face a very significant terrorist threat (I spoke about this yesterday), and not just from time to time. Only then will we see a difference.
I do not want to make assumptions about the results of the prosecutors’ large-scale inspection, which is already underway, but I can say that public officials (here I am addressing the Transport Minister, the Cabinet in general, the Russian Railroads management, and the Minister of the Interior) – all public officials responsible for organising the process must wake up and get to work, and those who did not work must be punished accordingly.
I would like to let you know that in accordance with the instructions I gave yesterday during the FSB board meeting, I have just signed an Executive Order on relieving head of the Interior Ministry’s transport police department for the Central Federal District Andrei Alekseyev from his duties. But that’s not going to be all. These are high-level officials. Mr Nurgaliyev, what else is being suggested?
Minister of The Interior Rashid Nurgaliyev: There have been blunders in protecting and maintaining public order, lack of control over the line of duty, and low level of operational awareness regarding potential acts of unlawful interference in the work of airports. As a result I have also taken organisational measures: head of line police division at Domodedovo Airport and two of his deputies have been fired.
”Areas where large numbers of people gather and their protection should be the subject of close attention by law enforcement agencies as well as transport authorities.“
Dmitry Medvedev: The entire transport police should be shaken up. If people don’t understand how to work, we will find other people.
Control has to be an everyday measure. Unfortunately, it has to be compulsive; otherwise, we simply will not achieve the goals we are setting for ourselves. Every one of us knows how we communicate with police or transport service officers at some airports or train stations abroad. Sometimes, as freethinking people, it irritates and annoys us: they force us to open every suitcase, they make us undress. But that is the only way we can reach results. We will have to change the rules, as I said yesterday: the Cabinet must draft relevant proposals in two weeks.
I would like to once again emphasise that we are talking about security for all forms of transport. At the same time, security at air hubs is one of the most complicated issues. Indeed, terrorist attacks have happened not only in Russia but in other nations as well, and in other airports, but that doesn’t mean that we should fold our arms and say that things like that cannot be fully controlled.
We cannot forget about entrances to airports, train stations, parking lots, and areas adjacent to the airport. All of these are areas where large numbers of people gather, and their protection should be the subject of close attention by law enforcement agencies as well as transport authorities. And I do not want to ever hear the heads of major transport companies say ‘That’s not our responsibility, that’s the duty of the police or someone else.’ If people in charge of transport organisation think like that, that is completely and utterly immoral. In fact, this is something the law-enforcement agencies should look into. Yesterday, the Investigative Committee initiated a criminal case; they will check who was working and how during this period.
There is one last thing I would like to say. What’s most important is for transport companies and law enforcement agencies not to relax. I already spoke about this yesterday at the board meeting, and I want to repeat it here. Unfortunately, security measures work only at first, while later heads of transport companies and everyone working for transport companies and, to a certain degree, the public go totally lax. Therefore, in the face of a terrorist threat, we need to stick together and act in a consolidated manner. This is also something we must absolutely pay attention to.
Thus, we must come up with a much more active alert system at airports, in the metro, and at train stations. These are unpleasant things. People want positive emotions, including while they are travelling. But we need to talk about it using overhead screens and loudspeakers – we must talk about the terrorist threat, telling everyone to stay alert. We need to come up with a modern work programme. We planned to implement something of this kind in the metro, as far as I understand, but even there, nothing has come of it yet. Please do it.
<…>
Topics
Fight against terrorism
National security
Transport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 26, 2011, 13:30
Text versionEvents
Interview to Vedomosti newspaper
January 26, 2011
01:00
Interview to Vedomosti newspaper.
Given on January 24, 2011.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: I apologize for the delay – it was because of the recent events at Domodedovo Airport. I just had a working meeting with the heads of law enforcement agencies, and the Transport Minister.
Considering the location and other indirect indications, this was a well-planned terrorist attack aimed at killing as many people as possible. Currently medical personnel are treating those in need; there is a large number of injured.
All instructions have been issued, we have an algorithm for this kind of emergency effort in our country because we know firsthand what terrorism is. We have introduced special security measures at virtually all transport hubs. Everyone has been affected by these measures because security demands very careful inspection of luggage, but it is a forced measure, and sometimes it is crucial, simply vitally important.
Remark: From my experience, I can say that in many airports the luggage inspections take longer and are a lot more serious than in our country.
Dmitry Medvedev: You are absolutely right. We can use Israel, and the US as examples. Our legislation was amended following the events that happened some time ago, when terrorist attacks were committed on airplanes departing from various airports, including Domodedovo Airport. It became much tougher, but unfortunately – and that is our biggest problem – we do not always enforce even the most important legislation. I therefore instructed the Prosecutor General to investigate the enforcement of these laws at Domodedovo Airport. The airport is good, everyone recognises that, it is new and modern. But what has happened shows that there were clearly breaches in security, and everyone who makes decisions here, including the airport management, will answer for this.
This is an act of terror. This is grief. This is a tragedy. I hope that law enforcement agencies will be able to quickly reconstruct the course of events and conduct an investigation.
But, we met to talk about economy, let’s do that.
Question: Thank you, Mr President, for finding time for this meeting.
This week you will take part in the World Economic Forum annual meeting in Davos. It’s the first time in the Forum’s history that Russia will be represented at the top level. Why did you want to take part in the Forum personally and what are you going to talk about in your address at the opening ceremony?
Dmitry Medvedev: Because of the recent events, my agenda in Davos will most likely be shortened. But the important issue remains the same. I made this decision to take part in the Forum as the President of the Russian Federation, because I think that it is a very important international forum where we could present our position. We established a very good forum in St Petersburg. I think it is very successful and well promoted. But we still need to talk to our colleagues – foreign heads of state and government, businessmen — in other places. Davos is the most popular place, and I think that Russia should be represented at forums like this at its top level.
The first time I attended Davos Forum as Deputy Prime Minister, and I liked the right kind of atmosphere there – absolutely casual and relaxed. At the same time you can easily run into a major or not so major businessman, a president or a prime minister, and ask him about things. We are not going there to chat with people or even solve serious but specific problems.
Our task is to promote Russia's potential, talking openly about our strengths and advantages both in the spheres of economy and legislation. But we also should be talking in the same open fashion about our flaws and weaknesses, about the unsolved issues. I think that only such an open dialogue can help people understand the current state of affairs in Russia.
And we are indeed expecting more investments, we are hoping for quick growth and recovery from the crisis. Without jumping ahead to my future speech, I'd like to say now that it will certainly be addressed to everyone interested in developing economic relations with Russia, in investing into Russia, in setting up joint ventures, in looking for new growth points, and ultimately in working together with us on the modernisation of our economy. It's a global forum, and although Russia is an important player on the global economic market, the recent experience shows that only coordinated decisions by a group of countries can yield tangible results. I will talk about the world we are living in, about things we are doing, about problems and challenges of past decades, and what are we taking with us into the second decade of the 21st century.
Question: If we talk about the challenges of the last decade, then on the global scale the main issue has probably been the global financial crisis. The annual meeting in Davos plans to discuss closer cooperation between countries in order to respond effectively to events of this kind. What Russia has to offer in terms of such cooperation?
Dmitry Medvedev: In general, global tools are a very complicated matter, because there are things you need to reach an agreement on, and I was quite a convinced sceptic as regards these global tools because the countries are just too different, the interests are just too different, and everyone has problems of its own. But the recent crisis convinced me that even the most different states are still capable of coming to an agreement, of working out the most global economic policy on the planet's scale and of exerting influence over it, and of making some unpleasant decisions. Russia is a part of this global process. We are offering our ideas, some of them address the future of the international financial institutions and what is known as the financial world order, all the way down to setting up new Bretton Woods institutions.
Question: A session on modernisation in Russia is scheduled for Thursday, and though, unfortunately, you won’t attend it, it would be interesting to learn what successes in this area you were going to tell the international community about.
Dmitry Medvedev: I don’t think we have any outstanding achievements, but there are several positive things. First, I don’t hear anymore that everything is fine, that we have a specific policy and if we continue doing everything as we have planned, things will work out. Members of different parties, from the ruling party to opposition, understand that we won’t be able to achieve anything without modernising the economy and relying only on hydrocarbon resources. That’s crucial! Because once the crisis was over and raw materials sector started to recover, some already started rubbing their hands and saying, that everything was fine, that oil was already at $100, and that everything would be fine just like in 2007. It won’t. I hope that most Russians have already realised it: we have exhausted the growth potential in the raw materials sector. And I believe that this is the main positive result of the first steps of modernisation process.
The second thing is just as important: we have outlined specific areas. We are not just saying that we need to modernise our industry and introduce new technology. It would have been very Soviet-like. We have identified five modernisation priorities. All of them are known, and progress is being made in each of these areas. There is nothing spectacular about it, but there is progress. We are building medicine producing factories; and some of the new medications can already be found in the pharmacies. And these are normal medications at reasonable prices. We are dealing with communications, creating super computers and digital models. We are already doing this on a regular basis.
Third, we managed to change our legislation by focusing on economic modernisation, and primarily on industrial modernisation. What do I mean? Some three years ago nobody was dealing with technical regulations. We were somehow missing out on the fact that it was hampering everybody’s work and that out-dated regulations were creating fettering circumstances. What I had to do is force our Government, our business associations and organisations to get down to this work. As a result, an up-to-date law on technical regulation appeared. Plus, I actually pushed through the decision that the EU legislation can be applied in Russia. Yes, this demonstrates that we have underdeveloped legislation. But it’s better to have an opportunity to make use of those laws without wasting time, rather than wait until we adopt our own laws.
Finally, there are important consolidating projects – Skolkovo, for example. Skolkovo won’t solve all the problems, of course; it won’t stir the whole country. But we must show how innovative business should be organised — the way it’s done all over the world. We have a lot of science cities, all of them are good ones – brilliant scientists, enthusiasts work there. But the way things are organised is often Soviet-like; something that is non-viable in a market economy environment. It means we should create a new model. So, these are the modest results of modernisation.
Question: Experts, including those close to your Executive Office, believe that modernisation is stalled by the inefficiency of our government and institutions. Is it possible also to conduct an administrative reform as part of modernisation?
Dmitry Medvedev: If we had other government institutions, starting from the president and the government and finishing with municipal agencies, we probably would need no modernisation. If they were in a state like similar institutions in the European Union. But we are in Russia. So, if your question is whether government institutions always have a positive impact on modernisation, my answer would be — no. They hamper modernisation, and these are flaws of our state power, from the bottom to the top. But we don’t have another one, and it can’t be changed overnight. State power is not an abstract institution. It’s a set of people with their habits, wishes and flaws. We talk about corruption very often. It’s easy to catch one corrupt official barehanded and punish him publicly. But it’s the whole system that is affected by corruption, not just one person. Sadly, several thousand people have been convicted in corruption cases just over six months of the last year, including some high-ranking officials. But nobody’s scared. This is a result of mismanagement, and there’s no doubt about it. I agree with you.
Question: So, you admit that modernisation of other institutions will still be needed?
Dmitry Medvedev: Of course. And all those actions should be complementary, if not done simultaneously. I don’t mean that the whole of our political system has to be replaced. After all, it is still young; it has shortcomings, as well as advantages. It means that while carrying out economic reforms, we should always pay our attention to political institutions. But I don’t think that changing political institutions and putting them in order will give us a new economy. It’s an illusion that we’ll get good officials, who won’t be taking bribes, a government that won’t be interfering with the economic life, courts that will always be consistent and will pass only just and motivated verdicts, — and that a welfare society will be created. There is no direct relation, these are different success factors. You are aware of rather tough and sometimes authoritarian societies that are very successful in terms of economy, where there is little corruption, and things are developing according to a pretty optimistic economic scenario, but political institutions are poorly developed in such countries.
Remark: You are always talking about the threat of corruption and about the need to fight it. It has reached such a scale that it’s practically destroying the country. But for now all these efforts look segregated, and not very systemic.
Dmitry Medvedev: When I became president, there were people who tried to talk me out of addressing this issue, literally saying, why are you taking this upon yourself? You won’t be able to get rid of corruption in a year or two, even in one presidential term. I understand this. At some point people will start getting tired, thinking – well, decisions have been made, but corruption is just as bad as it was before, we still have to give bribes. But if we continue to think this way, we will never start fighting corruption. I think that I did the right thing bringing this issue to the top level. No matter what people say, we have started the battle. It is true that there has been very little success so far, but we could look at it from different angles.
First time in the millennial history of Russia we have adopted anti-corruption legislation. We have a Council for Countering Corruption, other agencies that monitor this situation. We have adopted a number of mechanisms from other countries, income declarations, for example. Some people said everybody would lie in their declarations, claiming lower incomes. What was my response to that? Yes, some people will, but this will teach them a certain procedure anyway. When a person signs official papers while owning a house which was not declared, and operating a car registered under his mother-in-law’s name, and possessing other assets entrusted to a friend, subconsciously such a person will feel uneasy about the whole thing. That’s the first point. Secondly, people will legalize their income wherever they can, because every rational individual would want to have a clear financial record. We have no liability for failure to explain the sources of funds for buying two houses, for example. But this income declaration practice still makes people more disciplined. And we need to revisit the issue, as I did recently, when I ordered to check if these declarations accurately represent the properties legally owned by respective officials.
Another issue is the conflict of interests. I first ran into this problem some eight years ago when I was part of the Presidential Executive Office. In case of a conflict of interests, a person must report his property interest if he has one. This property interest could be quite lawful, but it collides with the duties of a government employee, and the person has to report that. We haven’t been successful here so far. There have not been any reports. We set a committee, but it doesn’t produce results. Apparently people are afraid to report this conflict of interests, even though there is nothing bad about it. Therefore I instructed certain agencies to check all aspects of this system once again. We cannot always easily implement everything that works in other countries.
As I was examining the terrible situation with corruption in our country, I found several reasons for that. There are historical reasons, which everybody always refers to – taking bribes has never been a shameful thing in our country. In the middle of the 19th century there was even a book published, “The Right Bribe-Taking”. This reflects the public mentality. Besides, we had a very quick transition from a totalitarian to a generally rather liberal society. 80 years, a full lifetime of one generation, passed from the 1917 revolution until the return to modern economy. Unlike even Eastern European countries we started to build a new economy from scratch, we had no one to lean on. This quick transition affected people, and not in the best way. They got very simplistic ideas about economic justice, the market, and ways to make money.
Remark: And about success, as success is now measured with money.
Dmitry Medvedev: You are absolutely right. I am not an idealist, but any economic doctrine, any economy model should be moral as a whole and only in that case it can be successful. In our country these moral standards were shaken in the 1990s and even in the past decade, so any financial success was perceived as an absolute value when one can do whatever one pleases to make money as far as one is able to then sort it all out with authorities or colleagues. But it is different everywhere else in the world where the factor of morals is very important. That is why corruption-related offences are not so wide spread there
Remark: It is very alarming that the capital drain last year was at the same level as during the financial crisis. This is a sign of a bad investment climate. And now even smaller-scale capitals are fleeing the country, which is even more alarming.
Dmitry Medvedev: I recently talked about it with Minister of Economic Development Elvira Nabiullina. When large capitals flow out of the country, it could be because businesspeople acquire major foreign assets or want to buy something expensive for themselves which might not be a truly right thing to do but is nevertheless generally understandable. But if small capitals are siphoned away, it is rather a systemic problem requiring serious attention. That’s why Ms Elvira Nabiullina and I discussed further amendments to legislation, aimed at improving the investment climate, which is also a difficult task.
On the whole, things don’t look that bad. We are making a rather quick come-back after the crisis. GDP has even grown by 4%, so given that we lost 0.5 to 0.7% GDP due to wild fires last year, this figures look pretty good compared to the rest of Europe. We were able to curb unemployment and in fact brought it down to the pre-crisis level. The state is fulfilling all its social commitments so no one has the right to throw stones at the government in this respect. At my meetings with the Government at the most difficult period we reviewed the options of reducing such commitments, but we realised that living standards in the country are so low and pensions are so moderate that if we cut social benefits, then why bother developing the economy and modernising economy at all? So, we maintained all our social commitments. 
In this respect the situation is not that bad. But there are some alarming things as well. You just mentioned capital drain and investment climate. On a long run this is just as alarming as some short term negative tendencies in the economy, which we can battle rather quickly.
Remark: Many of our prominent experts say that the strategy of smoothing the crisis over actually hurt the economy, because the crisis did not purify our economy, did not make it healthier, as it potentially could have. There are still inefficient industries, imbalance between sectors, employees have not left inefficient industries. 
Dmitry Medvedev: It is easy to make those assumptions. I would be happy to be able to maintain economic and social stability and at the same time see this long-awaited economic purification after the crisis. It didn’t have the effect we expected, and we kept a lot of inefficient industries. But I think this is better than sacrificing people’s wellbeing in order to get a more efficient economy. This is absolutely unacceptable in Russia for different reasons. 
Remark: Mr President, the events in Kushchevskaya village, as they are described in media, make one wonder if the vertical of power which has been formed in the recent decade, in this particular place turned into corporate solidarity, where everybody is covering for everybody. We think this situation would have been less likely to happen in the context of real political competition, which is a good mechanism for self-purification of society.
Dmitry Medvedev: We definitely need political competition, there’s nothing to argue about here. It’s a kind of vaccination against authoritarian and totalitarian trends and a way to settle differences. I agree that having competing forces eventually makes the situation healthier, but only eventually. You mentioned Kushchevskaya and, unfortunately, we have such examples in other places where authorities merged with business, and business merged with organised crime. But municipal authorities often see stiff competition among different candidates running for mayor. The United Russia does not always win, other forces also do so. In fact, there is political competition at the lowest level, but unfortunately, it does not bar crime from access to governance. Of course, competition – if it complies with the law – won’t make the state weaker. I believe that in principle we should be moving towards creating a society based on balanced representation of several parties, replacing one another to eliminate current issues.
Probably, opposition in Russia is not very strong now, but it does exist. What prevents opposition parties in the parliament from raising such issues and attracting the attention of law enforcement agencies and, eventually, of the country’s leaders?
Question: And what guides you when you allow the United Russia using your image and quotations in their campaigns?
Dmitry Medvedev: The president does not belong to any party, but still I cannot forget that the United Russia supported me during my election campaign. So, I am grateful to it for the support it gave me then and is giving me now. Let us not forget the time when President Yeltsin could not push practically a single initiative through the parliament, as all of them were blocked by the opposition.
Question: Don’t you think that this undermines the chances of other parties for political competition?
Dmitry Medvedev: No, I don’t think so. We all influence each other, it’s a two-way street. While you enjoy support, you should agree to it. If the image of Medvedev or Putin evoked an allergic reaction in most of the people, then such image would rather damage the party’s reputation.
Question: Last year outrageous cases of corruption became public: I am talking about possible participation of the Interior Ministry officers in the theft of 5 billion rubles from the budget, about the Daimler case where public servants and government agencies are involved, about alleged misappropriations in the course of the East Siberia — Pacific Ocean oil pipeline construction. All those cases have been made public, so, what will happen next? Don’t you think that covering such loud cases is necessary to create an atmosphere hostile to corruption in the country?
Dmitry Medvedev: We should not only cover, but also finalize those cases and inform the public about it. In a number of cases, I concede that we may not feel like doing so. As for the Daimler case, for example, I’ve been reported that the Russian side has not been provided with the information regarding concrete persons involved, who could be profiting from purchasing equipment. But still, this case may have good prospects: intermediaries have been found and are being called to account. Whether they shared the kick-backs with any officials or not is yet to be proven. If we manage to get to the core and they give evidence against officials from the Defence Ministry, from the Federal Guard Service, those officials will go to jail. That’s the current stage of the investigation.
As for the other cases you’ve mentioned, further investigation is also required. There was much ado around the ESPO pipeline, but I have not seen any evidence so far. Still, as the subject has attracted public attention, a comprehensive investigation of all the circumstances should be carried out – both by law enforcement agencies and the Accounts Chamber. Let them deal with it and inform the public on an obligatory basis.
Question: At a recent meeting with members of the Civic Chamber you admitted that our judicial community has turned into an ironclad corporation, incapable of self-purification. Those were your words. What plan would you propose to change the situation?
Dmitry Medvedev: We have done many goods things making sure those courts and judges are protected from any interference by different forces. At the same time, I think that we need to take a more pragmatic approach to this situation. Can you imagine that in the US or some European country a judge would go out to lunch with an attorney in one of his cases? I don’t think so. He would risk losing everything, therefore he would never do that. We have this sort of thing happening all over the place. I am not saying that this is necessarily a sign of corruption. But there should be legal patterns that would remove any concern about a judge’s professional behaviour.
Judges are a separate category of people in power, and we should respect them. But they cannot be immune to any kind of control. We have a number of ideas in this respect, and they are being developed.
Remark: We know that there is an idea to allow investigative activities in respect of judges, which would remove their immunity. At the same time, there is a proposal to appoint judges for a lifetime, or, on the contrary, make this an elected office.
Dmitry Medvedev: Let’s not get ahead of ourselves. Different ideas could be considered, but we cannot lean towards any extremes. If judges could be manipulated through law enforcement agencies, it will be another extreme. I will try to find some optimal mechanism in the current situation.
Question: At the same meeting you talked about the fact that people don’t trust judges and the judicial system. Doesn’t the fact that questionable decisions are made on some high profile cases make the situation worse? For example, in the decision on the Khodorkovsky and Lebedev case their economic activities were interpreted in an absurd way that could scare any businessperson. Should judges be held responsible to the public for this broken trust?
Dmitry Medvedev: I have already said what I think about the judges’ responsibility. They should be held responsible and disciplined if necessary, in some cases even through criminal prosecution. By the way, last year judges were found guilty in a number of criminal cases. Of course, unjust sentences break trust towards the judicial system and even the whole legal system, no doubt about that. But I hope that you don’t expect me to comment on the sentence in the Khodorkovsky and Lebedev case, which has not even come into force yet.
Now regarding the general atmosphere. I am more concerned about the whole picture than separate aspects. And this picture is not quite satisfactory to say the least. Many businesspeople, including the ones you mentioned, are serving terms for economic crimes, sometimes very long terms. So if we talk about checking the lawfulness and grounds for such rulings, it should be done in respect to a large number of these kinds of crimes. I demanded clarifications from the Prosecutor General’s Office, because some businesspeople who were convicted of relatively minor embezzlement, fraud and money laundering, are serving 10 to 15 years in prison, which is harsh.
So it is not right to only talk about Khodorkovsky and Lebedev when we discuss the situation in the judicial system. We need to look into how criminal legislation is applied in the area of economic crimes.
I have begun to change this practice. First of all, we don’t always have to jail people right away, so that they are pressured by investigators in the pre-trial detention centre to testify in a certain way. That’s why I proposed alternative measures of restraint which are being discussed right now and include bail, ban on travel, house arrest.
Nevertheless, I wouldn’t be true to myself if I didn’t point out certain negative things here. There should be a balance between interests of the prosecuted businessperson on the one hand, and the investigation, on the other. At the moment we are trying to find this balance. In any case, I see this as a positive change. After this law was adopted, in 26 Russian regions taking businesspeople into custody has not been applied even once. None. And the number of arrests on the national scale was down by 20%.
Question: For business it’s extremely important. It’s no secret that the following way of profiteering was very popular among “turncoats” – initiating a criminal case to force people to pay to avoid prison: they were kept in jail until they gave the money. And another essential practice, a very important one for business, the practice you have stopped is police participation in tax cases and documents withdrawal. I remember that you revoked the right of the police to independently initiate criminal cases on tax crimes without the participation of the Federal Taxation Service. But currently the State Duma is discussing amendments to the draft law On the Police Force introduced by you, and again there is a chance that such right will be returned. Will you be following it so that this law does not become a step backwards from the point of view of the interests of society and business?
Dmitry Medvedev: Of course, I am following it and will continue following this draft law until it is approved by the Federal Assembly. In my opinion, it will no way become a step backwards, because it is for the first time that we are creating such a powerful law regulating the operation of the police, a law which has the utmost judicial power. That’s the first point.
Second, most concerns are imaginary. For example, we’ve seen concerns about the right of the police to enter a building, which led to a public discussion. I gave the instructions to check whether it is so or not. We’ve checked everything – it’s not true. What raised concerns was the fact that the law contains a more detailed wording. And that is good. The more detailed wordings are the less bulky departmental instructions are, meaning less room for arbitrariness. When we started codifying the rights of the police, it looked like they received what they had not had before. That is not so, we simply consolidated everything into one document.
As for tax crimes, nothing has been added as compared to current legislation. During a meeting with the police officials and business circles — I’ve had such a meeting as well — businesspeople paid attention to it. I think it was at the meeting of the State Duma Committee, where a balanced decision was taken.
It looks like we are having an interview on legal issues with you, rather than on economic ones.
Question: Let’s talk about the economy. It looks like such large-scale projects as Skolkovo Innovation Centre, the 2014 Olympics, the Football World Cup, the APEC Summit, the International Financial Centre in Moscow are just an attempt to modernise certain regions, when all the other aspects have to catch up with the project – infrastructure, finance, construction, roads and even legislative changes. Is that really so?
Dmitry Medvedev: The impact of large-scale projects consists not only in showing off and proving how cool and strong we are – though sometimes it’s also important to make the nation feel really successful. The primary goal is to help the residents of a big region, and there is nothing to be ashamed of. By the way, we are not the only ones to do so.
I recall how Japan ran a G8 summit on the Okinawa Island, the least developed island in the whole country. They invested about 1 billion dollars, which was an enormous amount at the time, and developed the infrastructure there. Can we say it was a bad thing to do? I think not.
We all have been to the Far East, and we all know of its deplorable condition. It’s indeed very undeveloped and lacking even some basic infrastructure. There is no waste water facility in Vladivostok. Even if there weren’t anything like the APEC Summit, we would then need to come up with it in order to invest funds into that region. Russia is a country that is hard to run. Everything at once just can not be done. Therefore we need to prioritise, we need this kind of targets for further development.
Question: Mr President, it is very tempting also to ask you…
Dmitry Medvedev: The usual question? Who is going to win the presidential election of 2012?
Question: No, we’ll try to come up with something less trivial.
Dmitry Medvedev: Thank you for that.
Question: Mr President, your presidency term is approaching its end, and although it is too early to sum things up yet, there’s one thing we’d like to ask: what will be your own assessment criteria of your performance as president?
Dmitry Medvedev: You know, I don’t think these will be any kind of outstanding criteria. In the very first place it is the living standards of our people. It is about our success or failure to overcome the crisis which occurred during my presidency term, and it is about our ability to respond to all the critical challenges and threats our country faces, including the combat against crime, terrorism, and extremism. And another criterion is people’s trust. No matter how trivial it may sound, people’s trust is paramount for any politician.
Topics
Economy and finance
Fight against corruption
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 26, 2011, 01:00
Text versionEvents
Dmitry Medvedev addressed the World Economic Forum in Davos
The President spoke about his views of the situation in Russia and the world, the main principles of Russia’s modernisation strategy, and presented a number of Russia’s specific proposals and initiatives.
January 26, 2011
21:30
Davos
Dmitry Medvedev began his speech by addressing the tragedy that has shaken Russian society: the terrorist attack at Domodedovo Airport. Noting that globalisation has made the world more interdependent, Mr Medvedev highlighted the need to create a global security system that is equal for all states, emphasising the necessity to do everything for sustainable, safe and fair global development.
According to the President, the world must truly unite in order to fight terrorism and eradicate its socioeconomic causes – poverty, unemployment, illiteracy, orphanhood, and many others.
Mr Medvedev affirmed that the crisis has had a sobering effect on everyone, but the economy has not been the only source of lessons learned. Noting the recent environmental disasters in various nations, the President of Russia stressed the necessity of completing the ‘long-standing’ climate talks and creating a common system for environmental monitoring, prevention of and responding to emergency situations.
According to Dmitry Medvedev, today the world needs ideas that can change it for the better; in this regard, it would be beneficial to discuss Russia’s proposals for a new European Security agreement in Davos.
International relations and regulation principles are increasingly lagging behind. In order to build a new world, it is necessary to be guided by several well-known principles, Mr Medvedev said.
First of all, problems need to be addressed through a strategic, long-term approach.
Second, we must be realistic and ready to live within our means. Today’s reality in various nations — sovereign debt crises, budget deficits, reluctance to cut spending – is fraught with new economic and political crises.
The third principle concerns global partnership and its proper organisation. Dmitry Medvedev stressed the necessity for the G20 to work effectively and for developing new leadership alliances, particularly within BRIC format, which will soon be joined by South Africa. The President suggested including BRIC currencies in the IMF’s basket of main currencies known as the special drawing rights (SDR) system.
The fourth principle is the diversification of the world’s various economic and political models that allow for adapting to future challenges.
Mr Medvedev emphasised that Russia’s modernisation strategy fully corresponds with these principles and offers new opportunities for successfully doing business in the country. The President specified the main steps being taken by Russia as regards privatisation, investment, financial sector, energy sector, creation of new markets and creation of a common economic space with the European Union, as well as the creation of a common economic space with Belarus and Kazakhstan.
Furthermore, new opportunities are being created in Russia for innovation and venture capital financing; the mechanisms for technology transfer are being used, and there is a programme for expanding broadband Internet access along with a state project for integrating banking and public services and developing electronic payments. In addition, Russia is training its own specialists and seeking to attract the best foreign specialists.
The President also spoke about the implementation of major infrastructure projects in Russia, including major international sporting events.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Mr Schwab, ladies and gentlemen,
A terrorist attack was committed at Moscow Domodedovo International Airport the day before yesterday, killing dozens of innocent people. Citizens of different countries died at the hands of terrorists: Russia, the United Kingdom, Tajikistan, Ukraine, Germany, Austria, Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan. Over a hundred people sustained injuries and are now in hospitals.
This tragedy was a real shock for Russian society, despite the fact that our country had suffered similar ordeals in the past. It caused an outrage throughout the civilised world. I have received numerous letters, telegrams and telephone calls from leaders of many states and heads of international organisations expressing their condolences and solidarity. I am grateful for your sympathy and the words that I have just heard from you and from other forum participants. We mourn for the dead together.
The pain from the loss of lives will remain in our hearts for a long time, but the incident only strengthened our common resolve and determination to find effective safeguards against international terror, and I think it is extremely important. Those who committed this atrocity, directing their attack against the citizens of different countries, expected that this would bring Russia to its knees and force us to assume a defensive position; they believed that the Russian President would not come to this forum. That is how they chose the time and place for perpetrating the attack. They miscalculated. Russia is aware of its place in the world, its commitments to its citizens and to the international community and will fulfil them, which is why I speak from this podium on this day.
Terrorism negates the most important right: the right to life. Whatever its ideological foundations, it defies any and all rights and freedoms, breeds fear and hatred and hampers efforts to reform and improve our world. The tragedy is that terrorist attacks fundamentally change the course of normal life, our habitual way of life, and at times force us to take very tough decisions that radically alter the thinking not only of the terror’s victims, but also of all the people on the planet.
Unfortunately, no country in the world is safe from terror today. The reality is that a terrorist attack, similar to the one that shook Russia a few days ago, and not for the first time, unfortunately, can occur at any time anywhere in the world. No country today is secure against terrorism. There are no universal methods to fight this scourge but one thing is certain: our success in countering this common threat depends on our solidarity and concerted efforts, especially at a time when globalisation has made our world much more dependent and interdependent than it was some time ago, and we need to boost our efforts to jointly fight terrorism. We must do everything possible to influence if not the ideology, then the socioeconomic roots of terrorism: poverty, unemployment, illiteracy, and orphanhood, and to ensure that global development becomes stable, secure and fair. Once again, I sincerely thank you for your sympathy.
This forum is taking place at a time when many people are talking about the end of the global financial crisis. At the same time it is also clear that things are not that simple. A period of superfast development gave rise to euphoria but the crisis sobered everyone up. We have dealt with a significant part of its symptoms, but not all of them, and until we find a new growth model, economic growth will be slower than we would like.
At the same time, it is not only the economy that has taught us important lessons in recent years. Modern civilisation is technologically very advanced, at least if compared with the world as it was just one or two hundred years ago. Yet a single natural anomaly or technological error can put entire regions on the brink of ecological disaster and separate continents from each other, as it was in the past centuries. The volcanic eruption in Iceland, a major accident on an oil platform in the Gulf of Mexico, the heatwave in Russia last summer, devastating floods and snowstorms in various parts of the world – it all makes one think about the humanity’s fragility.
I believe that any delays in this sphere can be dangerous. Our objective is not just to complete the protracted climate negotiations, though this is imperative, but we must also create a common system for monitoring the environment and hazardous sites, and a general warning and disaster management system. Russia has put forward such an initiative, and I hope that our partners will also agree that these measures are long overdue.
Today there is an urgent need for new ideas that can change the world for the better, ideas that in the future will set new requirements for policymaking and will become standards for governments, the business community, social development and relations between states.
If we talk about security, some time ago Russia put forward a number of proposals regarding a new European security treaty. I think that such issues can be discussed at various venues, and it would also be useful here, at the World Economic Forum in Davos.
Today politicians’ actions, international relations and the regulation principles are increasingly lagging behind progress. At the same time, some people, some politicians continue to believe in the phantoms of the Cold War and get carried away by their primitive ambitions of power. But it is precisely in this period that a considerable part of the global community, almost one billion people – just think about this figure – use social networks for the first time in the thousand-year history of humankind; they are communicating directly with each other while remaining on various continents. That is amazing.
The modern world is becoming more flat, as they say, erasing formal borders and barriers. The World Wide Web has fostered the creation of communities of people who live in different countries but are united by a shared goal or idea, and no national government can claim to have a strong impact on such communities. Perhaps that is for the better. The business community has experienced similar changes.
However, these processes also have a dangerous side: they can become a very important tool for extremists who incite ethnic and religious hatred, for drug traffickers, arms dealers and terrorists. These problems are also increasing, and it is impossible to ignore them.
At the same time this universal connectedness must become a powerful driver of economic growth, and any attempts to sever these ties, such as restrictions on Internet freedom or the spread of innovations, will lead the world to stagnation and I think everybody realises that today. Russia will not support initiatives that may jeopardise Internet freedom, a freedom that is founded on basic values and the law.
Colleagues,
Our task is to use every opportunity to transform our new world into a world that is more just for the vast majority of citizens, a world in which success is determined by talent and hard work rather than family background, a world where billions of people will be able to communicate directly with each other, a world where people are not afraid of the government, and international relations are free from double standards and hypocrisy, a world where it will be easier and more efficient to work together, to work jointly. Especially since a new generation of leaders has come to power in many countries, politicians whose views were formed after the Cold War. We can discuss and realise our dreams together, we are ready for that – and when I say “we” I mean Russia. All this should compel us to move towards a greater level of transparency and coordination. I believe that the positive trends in relations between Russia and the United States, as just noted by Mr Schwab, are a good example of new principles and approaches in international politics.
Incidentally, I would like to remind you that yesterday our Parliament finally ratified the new START Treaty. In order to build such a world, we must rely on a number of well-known principles, some of which we sometimes forget. There are several such principles and I would like to list them.
First, it is a strategic long-term approach to addressing problems. Simple and often populist solutions in 90 cases out of 100 are wrong and sometimes they prove to be the worst out of the possible options. A vivid case in point is a trend to resolve all economic problems through nationalisation, including the nationalisation of financial institutions.
During the financial crisis, many states considered that course of action and many of them chose that option, including states with highly developed liberal economy. We don’t have a sufficiently developed economy in Russia but we did not resort to that option, and I believe we were right in doing that. I am confident that in most cases it is possible to find solutions to crises through the efforts of the private sector, and in the long-term perspective, this is the most effective way of dealing with things.
Second, it is vital to be realistic and be prepared to live within one’s means. Many bubbles burst during the crisis, not just financial bubbles, but also bubbles of illusions and complacency. I think we all understand that none of us are insured against the emergence of new bubbles. The right to risk is part of a free economy, but that right should be balanced by relevant responsibility. The right to excessive risk is something that businesses should have, as well as individuals and scientists, within reasonable limits, of course, but states and the entire international community cannot have the right to excessive risk.
The present-day reality in many developed countries is such that they face the problems of sovereign debt, budget deficits and, despite all of that, the reluctance to cut expenditures. This is fraught with new global economic and political crises. Incidentally, yesterday’s State of the Nation Address by the President of the United States was very indicative in this respect: it spoke about a five-year freeze on budget expenditures. This is a serious measure.
Third comes global partnership and the right way to organise it, no matter how difficult it is to renounce the practice of individual or narrow group interests, it is something that needs to be done. The establishment of the G20, I am quite frank in saying that, is a major, huge step forward. On the one hand, the greater the number of countries sitting around the table, the more difficult it is to reach consensus, the more time it requires, but on the other hand, the decisions adopted in the end are far more successful. I hope that the G20 has demonstrated that.
We are prepared to use all the instruments at our disposal but the efficiency of work in the G20 format must be enhanced. It is vital to proceed from general discussions, even if they are fascinating, to the implementation of specific tasks. There are many such tasks ahead of us and we have already achieved many things, for example, we have determined the ways to develop world financial institutions, such as the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. That is good, but still there are many things we have not done yet.
There is one subject I would like to mention now: I am confident that the old principles of intellectual property regulation are not working anymore, particularly when it comes to the Internet. That is fraught with the collapse of the entire intellectual property rights system and therefore I believe this issue should be included in the agenda for the next G20 summit. We should offer new solutions to the international community, solutions that should be formulated as international conventions. Russia will advance its proposals.
At the same time, we should develop new alliances of leaders. It is important that the BRIC group, as modelled by economists some time ago, has acquired huge credibility and the status of a truly efficient organisation. At least we intend to expand our efforts in that format. Starting this year, South Africa is joining this group, and it will become BRICS. These are countries that stand every chance to become the leaders of global development and to shoulder responsibility for that process. I believe that one of such ideas could be implemented very shortly: to include the currencies of BRICS countries in the IMF SDR basket.
And finally, the fourth issue is diversity. The fact that various economic models of market economies co-exist in the world is an advantage. The crisis has demonstrated that even those models that seemed perfect were shaken and suffered major losses. Therefore a single-format world, no matter what the format is, is full of risk and a multi-format world is capable of compensating for such risks and provides an opportunity to adapt to new challenges.
A few words about Russia. Russia is very often criticised. Sometimes the criticism is well-deserved, and sometimes it is absolutely unjustified. Russia is rebuked for the lack of democracy, authoritarian trends and the weaknesses of legal and judiciary systems. Today, we are the way we are. I would like to say that Russia indeed faces many difficulties in building the rule of law, in creating an efficient and modern economy. Russia has been confronted with the evil of terrorism and extremism to a greater degree than many others. Russia has many social problems to cope with, although in recent years we have succeeded in resolving many of them. Finally, Russia, which means all the decision-makers in Russia, is not immune to ordinary mistakes. But it is vital to understand one obvious thing: major changes are taking place in Russia’s public life, in our society, we are developing and moving forward. In particular, our fight against corruption, the modernisation of judiciary and law enforcement systems, even though we may not have scored tremendous successes in that area yet, are real steps to improve the investment climate and the quality of life in Russia. We have not yet reached outstanding results in our efforts, but we are full of resolve to persevere. We are learning and we are willing to listen to friendly advice – but what we do not need is lecturing. We should be working together.
People’s feelings, their social self-esteem is perhaps the most important indicator of how successfully the country is developing. The people’s firm belief that they live in a democratic state, the existence of a dialogue between the government and citizens are key signs of modern democracy, direct democracy. The quality and effectiveness of that democracy depends not only on political procedures and institutions, but also on whether the government and civil society are prepared to listen to each other. It is not enough to have personal freedom; we have to respect each other’s freedoms. This principle also applies to relations between democratic states.
I am also convinced that democracy will continue developing through economic modernisation. A primitive economy based on raw materials cannot ensure the improvement in the quality of life, especially in the future, and therefore it is not capable of ensuring the sustainability of our democracy. In order to avoid the threat of populism, democracy should have a safe base in a well-developed society, a society of independent and free-thinking people.
Dear friends,
The modernisation strategy and principles that I have outlined are fully in keeping with what I just said. I want to say a few words now about the new opportunities that modernisation creates for doing business with success in Russia, despite certain difficulties. I will list ten points for brevity’s sake.
First, I recently launched a programme to privatise major state assets, the biggest of its kind in recent years. I issued an executive order that has seen the list of strategic enterprises in Russia cut five-fold. Shares worth a total of tens of billions of dollars in leading banking, infrastructure and energy sector companies will be privatised over the next three years. Budget revenue is not an aim in itself for us, though it is important of course, but the main thing is to make the companies more efficient and improve the competition environment for conducting business in our country. It is for this reason that we have got leading global banks involved in managing this privatisation.
Second, we will soon establish a special sovereign fund that will share the risks with foreign investors by carrying out joint investment in economic modernisation projects in Russia.
Third, we expect to gain much from developing our country’s financial sector. I therefore want to say once again before you here today that we will not introduce new taxes in the financial sector, but on the contrary, have abolished starting from January 1 this year the tax on sale of securities when carrying out long-term investment. We take a somewhat different line to our partners, including in the G20, on this issue.
We will not introduce new restrictions on financial activity but will do all we can to give financial institutions the broadest range of opportunities. This is the goal of our project to develop Moscow as an international financial centre that will become not just the nucleus of Russia’s financial system but also a catalyst for developing financial markets throughout the post-USSR region, and in Central and Eastern Europe too, I hope. We have already taken the first practical steps in this direction.
I hope, in particular, that starting this year we will see foreign companies borrowing and raising capital on the Russian ruble market. This project, which has global significance, is one of the main instruments for integrating Russia into the global economy. Let me add that we strive to make our judicial system more effective for finance sector companies that will operate in the Moscow financial centre.
Fourth, we are developing big new markets with common regulation that will offer investors an attractive environment. Russia has long since been ready to join the WTO. I hope that we will finally complete this process this year. My partners have all promised me this. The next step will be for Russia to join the OECD. Finally, we are also in the process of building a common economic space with the European Union based on the principles of indivisible security and the free movement of people, capital and goods, and a common set of technical standards.
We recently established the Customs Union with Belarus and Kazakhstan and are moving fast towards putting in place with these countries a common economic space along similar lines to the EU model. These are all important developments. They do not contradict each other, rather, I hope that they will complement and help each other. Ultimately, we advance towards creating a common market stretching from the Atlantic to the Pacific, a vast market in which everyone will benefit.
Fifth, we are continuing our active efforts to develop new possibilities for innovative business and venture investment. I initiated a law that allows universities to set up enterprises using intellectual property. This law is already in force now and around 1,000 such companies have already been registered. This year, legislation making venture financing easier to carry out will also take effect.
The Skolkovo Innovation Centre is our biggest project in this area. Dozens of businesses, big and small, registered in various location throughout Russia, will take part in this project this year and will all enjoy special incentives. I am sure that we will see the emergence of new global brands coming out of Russia over the coming years, and the involvement of foreign business, innovative foreign business, in these efforts will boost our chances.
Sixth, the large-scale energy efficiency programme we have launched opens up new business opportunities. I have set clear quantitative targets, and pilot projects are now underway in many Russian regions. All new projects must measure up to the latest energy efficiency demands. These standards have either already been set or will take effect soon.
Given Russia’s important place in the energy sector it is essential too to make this sector one of the main driving forces behind innovation. This is why we seek to advance our modernisation through promoting global partnerships based on exchange of assets. Besides, these partnerships will be one of the key factors in the energy security that we declared five years ago at the G8 summit in St Petersburg. Big deals were signed in this sector today in Davos, as in other places a while ago, and I hope too that the new alliances Rosneft oil company is forming represent the step from words to action in this area.
Seventh, we will make full use of technology transfers to modernise our industry. Joint ventures and technology exchanges are important in all sectors, including the defence sector, and I am sure that they will create a new level of trust in the world’s common security, and this is why we welcome the decision to establish the Russian-French consortium to build Mistral helicopter carriers.
Eighth, we are carrying out an extensive programme to develop broadband internet throughout the whole of Russia, and are ready to offer the chance to conduct any lawful business making use of it. The most important public sector project that I too am working on in this area is to integrate banking and public services using universal payment cards. Development of electronic payment systems, public procurements and services will create a more convenient environment for ordinary people and for business too, not to mention that it will also be an effective instrument in fighting corruption in Russia.
Ninth, we realise that successful modernisation will be the product of tens of millions of personal success stories, the success of our own citizens and the hundreds of thousands of successful business stories from entrepreneurs and specialists from around the whole world. The source of any country’s strength and ability to be a global economic leader in the modern world is talented and educated people with knowledge, imagination, and a thirst for creation.
I hope that within the next decade thousands of young scientists, engineers, civil servants, and professionals in other areas will receive masters degrees and doctorates from the world’s top universities and then go on to take key jobs in Russian business and public administration, education and science. Our task is to make Russia a more attractive place for the world’s brightest minds. I think it is a realistic goal for us to attract thousands of the world’s best scientists and engineers to come and work in Russia. We need this influx of foreign specialists above all to learn best practices and create a fertile environment for our own specialists’ creative activity. This is why we are ready to take the unilateral step of granting automatic recognition to diplomas and degrees from the world’s top universities, and we are working on this now. I note too that we have simplified the immigration rules for highly qualified specialists coming to Russia. This was something that businesspeople wanted me to do, and I have done it.
Tenth, we have begun carrying out big infrastructure projects, especially as we have been chosen to host major international sports events. This is not just our sports fans’ desire, but is a real opportunity to modernise our infrastructure, and it was precisely our goal to make our infrastructure more convenient for our people, for business, and for trade. These projects will all be carried out on a public-private partnership basis. They will help us to develop individual regions and will also give people from around the world the chance to see Russia and realise that despite the current difficulties, Russia is an open country that has already become a part of the global community.
Forgive me for perhaps boring you with this list, but I hope that these ten points I have named could be discussed in more depth at the sessions devoted to our country’s modernisation tomorrow, together with the Russian Government members present here.
To conclude, I cannot but return to my opening words and say that all of our efforts to revive and develop the global economy will be in vain if we do not vanquish terrorism, extremism and intolerance, and do not join forces to eradicate this greatest of scourges for humanity for once and for all.
I want to repeat that success in this task cannot be achieved in isolation but calls for all countries to work together through broad-based public dialogue with civil society and expert circles that can play a big part in promoting education and cultivating the values of tolerance and understanding between the various groups in society.
Sadly, I am forced to cut short my participation in the Davos forum and will fly back to Moscow this evening, as soon as this session is over. Thank you for your understanding. (Applause).
Executive chairman of the World Economic Forum Klaus Schwab: Mr President,
Let me first thank you for explaining to us your ideas and your achievements, I have to add, related to a modern forward-looking cooperative Russia. I would also like to use this opportunity to thank the members of your government; we have an extraordinary group of leaders from your government here, to follow up in the next phase some of the issues which you raised and which you raised in a very statesman-like manner.
I would say, Mr President, you may recall when you were here four years ago and you made your speech which was very highly appreciated, I said at the end we heard the speech of a future statesman. Now, four years later, I can say we heard the speech of a real statesman. Before we arranged the session and in agreement with President Medvedev, we made a call on knowing about your enthusiasm and I should say for social media, we looked really, we asked the public, what question should we ask you? And we got thousands of votes and responses, but I have to say most of the answers you have already given, but nevertheless I would like to maybe take up three or four questions which have emerged from this polling. They reflect very similar themes and the first question would be, Mr President, given the latest developments in Tunisia, how do you think government should react to such calls for openness? You committed yourself to the openness of the internet, but what is your feeling of what has happened last week which is so much also in our mind, the events in Tunisia?
Dmitry Medvedev: I think that what happened in Tunisia was a big lesson for governments all around the world. Governments should not sit on their laurels and settle back in comfy chairs, but need to grow and develop together with society, regardless of where they are: in Europe, Africa, or Latin America. When governments fail to keep with social change and fail to meet people’s hopes, disorganisation and chaos ensue, sadly. This is a problem of governments themselves and the responsibility they bear. Even if governments in power find many of the demands made unacceptable they still must remain in dialogue with all the different groups because otherwise they lose their real foundation. This does not mean that governments should automatically follow all recommendations made, but they must listen to what people are saying. I therefore think this is a big lesson for Africa, for the Arab world, and for governments in general. This is a test of strength too, and I hope that the situation in Tunisia will stabilise and not negatively affect the overall situation in the Arab world.
I just visited the Palestinian National Authority and was in Jordan too. Of course I realise the extent of the problems in Palestine, and the efforts still needed to bring peace and harmony between Palestine and its closest neighbour, Israel. This is a big and complex problem. But we should not forget either that elections can bring to power people the international community might not particularly like, but with whom it is forced to have dealings with. I therefore hope, as I said, that this test and this lesson for Tunisia will serve as grounds for thoroughly analysing the situation in this region.
Klaus Schwab: Mr President, you have already addressed the issue, but there were a lot of questions related to recent events which have raised concerns about adequate legal protection for those wishing to do business in Russia and of course also corruption was mentioned very often. Would you like to add something to what you already mentioned before?
Dmitry Medvedev: Yes, I should no doubt go a bit further into this issue, which is a big problem for Russia. Russia is not the only country facing corruption and a legal system that does not always work effectively. But we must take responsibility for our own country and not point the finger at other countries and say, “They have just as much corruption as us”. We need to tackle our own problems. As for how we should go about this, only through incessant combat and efforts to counter the corruption impact. This involves several different components. 
First, there must be real investigations into corruption cases so that all civil servants guilty of such acts realise that the law will catch up with them.
Second, proper and adequate declarations are essential. I recently made it compulsory in Russia for all civil servants to declare their incomes. This is not a task which may be easily accomplished and not everyone was ready to immediately accept it, as it requires their personal participation and openness, but this practice has already become part of our ordinary life now and this is important.
Third, of course, is to improve the work of our courts and law enforcement agencies. I am aware of all the problems in this area. At the same time, I should say that over the last few years our country has passed anti-corruption laws for the first time in its history, and this is a step in the right direction. Now we need to learn how to use these laws in practice. The law enforcement agencies cannot stand apart from the trends at work in society too and must change accordingly. This is the goal of my work as the person responsible for these agencies, and as Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces.
As for the courts, they must be completely independent and at the same time must be aware of their responsibility before our society and people. They should not hide behind thick walls and close their ranks to anyone expressing the view that the court system has its problems. I therefore think that we need to continue improving too our laws making it possible to monitor the progress of cases going through the judicial system.
All of this work is already in progress. I have no illusions about resolving all existing problems in just a year or two, but we have begun taking action and I am sure that we will succeed in vanquishing corruption in the end.
Klaus Schwab: Mr President, you have mentioned the START Treaty. How do you see the next stage of developments towards the global zero nuclear free world? And in this respect, how do you evaluate the relationship of your country with Iran?
Dmitry MEDVEDEV: I am also happy that we have taken this whole new START Treaty process to its logical conclusion and it is almost complete now. When I return from Davos the text of the ratified treaty will be on my desk soon. I spoke just recently with President Obama, and we agreed too on how to exchange these documents.
But we cannot stop here. I think this was one of the very optimistic moments to come up over recent years. Despite the many difficulties on the way we both, Russians and Americans, followed this road to its end. I hope that people all around the world will breathe a little easier now simply seeing that we did reach an agreement, and this too is very important. I think we should now continue our efforts to limit strategic offensive arms, and should continue our efforts too in the related area of missile defence.
A European missile defence system is currently being deployed in Europe. Russia considers itself part of Europe and no one disputes this. We do not want to feel any less secure because of a missile defence system that at some point could be transformed into part of strategic nuclear forces. We have made some proposals and we are open for cooperation. It is my big hope that in ten years time the future leaders of Russia, the USA, and European countries will have no differences among themselves over this issue but make coordinated decisions. This is very important for the world’s future. We must keep watch on the overall nuclear weapons situation in the world.
You mentioned Iran. Iran is our neighbour and partner. At the same time, the international community has a number of questions for Iran, and Iran must answer them. The international community does not yet have information on whether or not Iran is in the process of making a nuclear weapon. Furthermore, Iran is a party to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty and therefore must dispel the international community’s doubts regarding its nuclear programme and give us proof that this programme is indeed a peaceful one. Russia has deep and longstanding ties with Iran and we want to use every possibility to make this difficult dialogue that is underway ultimately successful. I discussed this matter not so long ago with President Ahmadinejad and spoke to him about this, and he said that he agrees with me.
Klaus Schwab: Mr President, you are very generous with your time and let me just end this discussion with asking maybe one or two more general questions. One which came out of this survey on the web and one of the questions, it may be quite provocative, was if someone were to come out on WikiLeaks about Russia, what could it be?
Dmitry Medvedev: That is a good question, thank you. I think that I in fact came to WikiLeaks’ defence in part just before when I said on this stage that a billion people are connected by invisible communication networks today. Not even the biggest secrets can be guaranteed safe today. Ultimately, the whole WikiLeaks affair should create a healthier climate in international relations. Yes, it is true that this affair involved what a number of countries would class as illegal activity, but I think nonetheless that it will have a very positive effect on international relations.
As for the actual material leaked, I think that for some it might have been interesting and for others it was no secret anyway. As far as I am concerned, when I read the materials about Russia on the site I did not discover anything new. I had the impression now and then that most of the reports on Russia that made their way on to WikiLeaks were taken from general political sites on the internet. Maybe some had their sensitivities wounded by this affair, but not us; we’re a tough lot.
Klaus Schwab: Two last questions, Mr President. Listening to you, I am sure that many here in the room had to correct some of the perceptions they had of Russia. You showed us a modern Russia, an open Russia. What is for you personally the perception which you encounter very often in your discussion about Russia which makes you most upset? Wrong perception, what do you feel is the biggest wrong perception abroad about Russia?
Dmitry Medvedev: I think that any stereotyped perceptions can be irritating, so I would not say that there is any one particular thing that makes me unhappy in this respect, although of course I sometimes read things that do make me unhappy. What I noticed is that when I go on the internet in the morning and read what people are saying about Russia, our government, and myself personally, it certainly gives me a brisk wake up and dispels any remaining tiredness, and at the same time it makes me want to make some quick replies via Twitter or pick up the phone and call the Presidential Executive Office to get some mistaken perceptions straightened out. But then I put it all aside because one should never act in haste, but only on clear and carefully thought through decisions. In any case, the truth always comes out in the end.
Klaus Schwab: Very last question. You are a very young president and when you look now at your present presidency, I know it’s a question you have answered to a certain extent, but what is for you personally, what is your driving force as a person? You work so hard, you don’t sleep. What drives you?
Dmitry Medvedev: I think the answer is very simple: I have a very interesting job. Any president who thinks otherwise is probably deceiving himself. This is a job that forces you to be on the alert 24 hours a day. It is a responsibility that you never stop feeling, a responsibility towards your country and the people who elected you. In this situation you can always find the energy to keep going no matter what the tiredness, jetlag, or problems going on. I think this is the main thing for anyone, for presidents too. I have a very interesting and very important job.
Klaus Schwab: Mr President, in your important work we offer you all the best wishes. Again, also our condolences and we hope that you continue what you have explained to us. And we wish you all the best. Thank you very much for coming.
Topics
BRICS
Economy and finance
Environment
Fight against terrorism
3 more
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 26, 2011, 21:30
Text version