Events
Meeting with permanent members of the Security Council
Meeting with the permanent members of the Security Council, Dmitry Medvedev discussed, in particular, issues concerning the development of Sakhalin and the Kuril Islands, and various aspects of Russian-Japanese relations.
February 4, 2011
18:00
Gorki, Moscow Region
Meeting with permanent members of the Security Council.
Taking part in the meeting were Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Sergei Naryshkin, Speaker of the Federation Council Sergei Mironov, Speaker of the State Duma Boris Gryzlov, Secretary of the Security Council Nikolai Patrushev, Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, Interior Minister Rashid Nurgaliyev, Director of the Federal Security Service Alexander Bortnikov, and Director of the Foreign Intelligence Service Mikhail Fradkov.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: I just wanted to say a few words on one subject that we have discussed on a number of occasions, namely, one of our country’s regions – Sakhalin and the Kuril Islands.
I visited the Southern Kuril Islands recently, and the purpose of this visit, the first by a Russian president, was to draw more attention to this remote part of the Russian Federation. There was a need to pay more attention to the people living there, living difficult lives, because it is a harsh place, and it is important to bring more money and investment into this region and carry out social sector projects there.
Acting on my instructions, a number of senior officials have visited the region now. The First Deputy Prime Minister visited in order to examine programmes for developing the Kuril Islands, the Regional Development Minister was there, the Foreign Minister made a separate visit to the area, and the Defence Minister is there right now.
The reason for all of these visits is that we must pay more attention to the Kuril Islands’ development. They are part of Russia and should develop along the same clear lines as every other part of the country.
When I spoke with local people there, I said that they should have the same decent wages and living conditions as their friends and colleagues on Sakhalin Island or in other parts of Russia. This is something we must work on. 
Let’s not forget either that we have defence facilities on these islands. This is why the Defence Minister is there right now, and, acting on my instructions, he will make a number of decisions. I therefore ask all of the Security Council members in their work to remember the need to develop this remote part of our country. 
At the same time, there is the whole background of our relations with Japan to take into account too, and we will of course continue to discuss all aspects of Russian-Japanese relations, including the issue of a peace treaty with Japan, which would enable us to continue building our ties in the spirit of cooperation and mutual understanding and take us to a new level of bilateral cooperation. At the same time, the main priority for all Russian officials is to develop this part of our country, and I ask the Security Council members to keep this in mind and make it the guiding principle in their work.
<…>
Topics
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Security Council
Publication date: February 4, 2011, 18:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting on employment issues
Dmitry Medvedev visited the Stroginsky Employment Centre and held a meeting on employment issues, the first in a series of meetings and conferences on labour market regulation. 
February 4, 2011
15:00
Moscow
1 of 4
Visiting the Stroginsky Employment Centre in Moscow’s Northwest Administrative District.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Good afternoon,
We are meeting today – those of you responsible for the labour market in our country and in Moscow, and those of you who have come here – to discuss what is probably one of our most complicated problems: the issue of jobs and unemployment. Since the labour market situation started to worsen at the end of 2008, the Government has been paying this issue a lot of attention, and took a number of important measures. This does not mean that every step taken was successful, but, having looked into the state of affairs in practically all of the different regions, not just in Moscow, I see that the employment support system that was established in 2008 and 2009 is working now. This system encompasses retraining, and also the unemployment benefits the law has set.
Overall, the situation is looking up this year compared to last, and this is an objective fact. The national unemployment rate has dropped, and dropped considerably too. In fact, it is now close to the pre-crisis level. These figures reflect the overall situation but not the individual tragedies, however, because it is individuals who lose their jobs, and we then have to find new employment for each of these individuals.
Moscow has employment programmes up and running too. As I understand it, the situation in Moscow is fairly calm as far as the number of registered unemployed is concerned. It is less than one percent, isn’t it, something like 0.7 percent? If we use the ILO’s calculation method, what would be the unemployment level in Moscow, the same as the national level, or lower?
Reply: Slightly more than one percent.
Dmitry Medvedev: The national unemployment rate stands at around 6.9 percent, while in Moscow it is around one percent.
Minister of Healthcare and Social Development Tatyana Golikova: The coefficient of competition for each job in Moscow is less than one, in other words, the number of vacancies is higher than the number of people unemployed.
Mayor of Moscow Sergei Sobyanin: There are three vacancies for every person registered as unemployed.
Dmitry Medvedev: I looked through the electronic data base of vacancies just before, and the situation is also rather varied in this respect. For example, there was not a single vacancy for a legal consultant, but there were a huge number of vacancies for drivers, hundreds, and well-paid too, perfectly decent wages. So, the situation is not the same across the job market.
I proposed meeting in this format so that people currently looking for work can tell me about what you have been doing, what has been successful and what has not, and make some recommendations on how to organise this work. We are here to listen to you, draw conclusions, and ultimately help you. 
So, let’s discuss the situation. Don’t be shy; tell us frankly about your problems, because this is one of the issues we face in our daily lives. Unfortunately, given the way events are developing in the global economy and in our own economy, the unemployment situation can go either way. These are risks that exist in all economies, and that, frankly, are affecting an ever growing number of people.
<…>
Topics
Labour market
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 4, 2011, 15:00
Text version