Events
Meeting with the permanent Security Council members
Dmitry Medvedev announced having signed an executive order establishing a foundation to protect the rights of compatriots living abroad. The foundation will provide legal, information and financial support for compatriots abroad in case their lawful rights and interests are violated. 
May 25, 2011
16:45
Gorki, Moscow Region
Meeting with the permanent Security Council members.
* * *
President OF RUSSIA DMITRY MEDVEDEV: Good afternoon. Let me first say a few words at the start of today’s meeting.
I want to inform you all that I have just signed an executive order establishing a foundation to support and protect the rights of compatriots living abroad. The foundation’s founders are the Foreign Ministry and the Federal Agency for the Commonwealth of Independent States, Compatriots Living Abroad and International Humanitarian Cooperation. 
”I hope that the foundation will be ready from the start of next year to launch regular, systematic, and effective work in protecting the interests of our compatriots abroad.“
The foundation’s purpose is clear from its name. It will be located in Moscow, but will provide support for our compatriots residing in other countries, carrying out legal and organisational work, and providing assistance to our compatriots abroad in the event their lawful rights and interests are violated. Of course it will operate in line with Russian law and international conventions, and with the laws of the countries where our compatriots are living, as necessary.
This endeavour requires certain preparations. I hope that the foundation will be ready from the start of next year to launch regular and systematic work, and hope too that it will prove effective in protecting the interests of our compatriots abroad.
This is an important subject on which I have received a huge amount of correspondence, as I’m sure you all have, and so I wish you all success in this undertaking.
<…>
See also
Executive order on establishing a foundation for supporting and protecting the rights of compatriots living abroad
May 25, 2011
Topics
Compatriots
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Security Council
Publication date: May 25, 2011, 16:45
Text versionEvents
Meeting with school graduates from children’s homes and boarding schools
Dmitry Medvedev congratulated the invited students on finishing school and wished them success in their adult life.
May 25, 2011
15:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 10
Meeting with school graduates from children’s homes and boarding schools.
Before meeting with the President the students visited the Kremlin museums.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Good afternoon,
I welcome you all and congratulate you on this very important event in your lives today – your last day of school.
Something that might seem obvious, but that we don’t always fully realise straight away is that for all of us this last day of school is one of those things that only happens once in life. It’s a happy moment that you cannot draw out for longer, and once it’s over you enter a new life. Today, this moment has come for you and 800,000 other school graduates.
Seeing as we are here together at the Kremlin today, I want to take this opportunity to wish you great success in life. The circumstances of life have made you independent boys and girls. I am sure that in this sense it will maybe even be easier for you to adapt to adult life in some ways than for others, because you are used to looking after yourselves, and this is also very important when setting out into the new adult life ahead.
I wish you every success in achieving your goals. Most of you, I imagine, are planning to enter university, and I hope that your plans work out. But if things suddenly don’t work out as you hoped, which also happens in life, my advice to you is to not let it get you down for long, but start preparing for the next offensive: choose a different university, or try to get in again the following year. In short, do everything you need to do to reach the goals you have set.
I hope you had enough time to look around the Kremlin. There are students from different regions here today. You can introduce yourselves now, tell me where you’ve come from, and share your impressions of Moscow and the Kremlin.
I will stop here for now and listen to what you have to say. We can talk about any subjects, discuss whatever you want to discuss. There is no set agenda, and I am not going to give you any lectures. I just want to hear your thoughts and maybe make a few comments. Please, go ahead. 
<…>
Topics
Children
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 25, 2011, 15:00
Text version