Meeting with leaders of political parties represented in the sixth convocation of the State Duma.
Dmitry Medvedev announced that he had signed an Executive Order on the first session of the sixth convocation of the State Duma, which will be held on December 21, 2011.
Participants in the meeting included the leaders of United Russia, the Communist Party of the Russian Federation, A Just Russia, and the Liberal Democratic Party of Russia.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Colleagues,
This is our first meeting after the State Duma elections and the results are finalised. I congratulate all of you on your victory.
United Russia received a majority. The opposition strengthened its influence in the State Duma significantly. This is a new situation. I must also mention that not everyone is satisfied with the election results. But the fact is, this is normal. People also have complaints concerning voting at certain polling stations. The election commissions and corresponding judicial authorities will have to thoroughly examine all complaints and relevant claims. And in places where real violations of the law are detected, we will need to make just decisions. There were 117 such complaints on the elections day.
Furthermore, the State Duma must begin its work. Members of parliament always have a great deal to do. Today, I signed the Executive Order on the first session of the State Duma of the sixth convocation, proposed to be held on December 21.
Clearly, we must urgently continue working on our legislation, since that is the whole point of creating a parliament. Modernising the economy and public life, resolving pressing social problems, improving citizens’ living standards, strengthening our defence capacity – all these issues remain at the centre of attention for every party present here, and naturally, must be resolved jointly, taking into account all parties’ points of view.
In order to guarantee the rights of all the parties present in the new convocation of the State Duma, we need a significant proportion of the committees to be controlled not just by the majority party, but the opposition as well. As the head of the United Russia party list, I’d like to ask you to keep this in mind.
I also feel it is imperative to continue all our efforts not just on the economic front, but in reforming our political system as well. I have worked on this in recent years – in some cases, it went more slowly, in other cases, more quickly, but what’s certain is that nobody can blame me of failing to create laws aimed at improving the political system. We must therefore make new decisions and truly take more decisive steps toward removing the accumulated restrictions concerning political activity – this, too, is an obvious fact, and is particularly important for our nation, to ensure we don’t allow a social rupture or a divide between particular social groups, or between particular institutions. We will talk about this today.Events
Meeting on decentralising powers and improving inter-budgetary relations
Dmitry Medvedev held a meeting that addressed mechanisms for delineating powers between federal, regional and municipal authorities, as well as suggestions on financial allocations to the regions.
December 13, 2011
14:30
Gorki, Moscow Region
1 of 2
Meeting on delineating powers between federal, regional and municipal authorities and improving inter-budgetary relations.
The President instructed the meeting participants to determine the scope of decisions to be made in the nearest future. The more controversial decisions are to be discussed within the Government and at the December 26 session of the State Council with participation by the governors of all regions.
Participants of the meeting included Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Sergei Naryshkin
and his first deputy Vladislav Surkov
, First Deputy Prime Minister Igor Shuvalov, Deputy Prime Ministers Dmitry Kozak
and Alexander Khloponin
, Presidential Aides Arkady Dvorkovich
and Larisa Brychyova
, Economic Development Minister Elvira Nabiullina
and Finance Minister Anton Siluanov.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Colleagues,
We have gathered today to discuss the delineation of powers, decentralisation, and the improvement of inter-budgetary relations. One week ago, I met with our colleagues, the deputy prime ministers, who are overseeing these issues, and we agreed to talk about it in more detail and look into the two working groups’ suggestions.
I suspect that this meeting will not be the last on this topic, because this is not an easy matter. Represented here are major agencies and the heads of corresponding bodies. We should design a finalised configuration.
Before the heads of the agencies make their statements and we discuss them, I would like to make a few preliminary remarks.
First, there are concerns about the issues of powers delineation and corresponding financial allocations at nearly every level of state governance. This truly is a resonant issue. During my trips to the regions, it was brought up by governors, mayors, and regular people who may not fully know what the corresponding powers look like and how they are established by law, but at a general level, they feel there is not enough money going to the municipalities to address particular challenges, and they talk about it.
We must understand the most important aspect, which is the interests of the people who require financing for daily needs, their vital needs. Therefore these issues must, to a greater extent, be addressed locally, which is quite obvious. This is a broad idea, but I believe it is fully clear to everyone.
The second issue is the territories’ fiscal capacity which influences development prospects in each territory. When delineating powers, it is imperative to offer incentives for broadening their own income base. This is also a difficult challenge.
Third, by redistributing powers and reducing the number of federal units operating at a local level (there are too many of them, and unfortunately, they often generate work for the sake of itself), we must thereby decrease the administrative burden on businesses. Ultimately, this should lead to the expansion of entrepreneurial activity and to strengthening local budgets.
These are my three preliminary remarks.
<…>
Topics
Budget
Local self-government
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 13, 2011, 14:30
Text version