Events
Presentation by foreign ambassadors of their letters of credence
Dmitry Medvedev received letters of credence from ten new ambassadors to the Russian Federation from the Czech Republic, Gabon, Hungary, Italy, Kyrgyzstan, Malaysia, Poland, Sierra-Leone, the Republic of South Africa and Ukraine.
February 8, 2011
14:00
Grand Kremlin Palace, Mosocw
11 of 11
Speech at the ceremony of presentation by foreign ambassadors of their letters of credence. With Foreign Minister of the Russian Federation Sergei Lavrov.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Good afternoon,
Opening this ceremony, I would first and foremost like to congratulate you on the official start of your diplomatic mission in the Russian Federation. I hope that your involved and active efforts will contribute to the development of relations between your countries and the Russian Federation.
The first decade of this century has confirmed that the main direction in which the global community is moving is towards a polycentric world order, one that is fairer and more democratic, and reflects the modern aspirations of different states and nations. Against this background, cooperation between states, joint efforts for multilateral development and a collective response to common threats and challenges are increasingly becoming key factors in international relations.
One of the most immediate threats is international terrorism, which violates the fundamental rights and freedoms and the democratic foundations of society, and denies the value of human life. As you know, a terrorist attack was perpetrated at the Domodedovo Airport on January 24, in which citizens of several countries were killed.
”Russia will continue to wage an uncompromising struggle against international terrorism and will be a reliable ally to the states that use every legitimate means at their disposal to combat terrorism.“
I would like to take this opportunity to thank everyone who has supported us and offered assistance at this difficult time. I would also like to say that Russia will continue to wage an uncompromising struggle against international terrorism and will be a reliable ally to the states that use every legitimate means at their disposal to combat terrorism.
Strengthening global security is a vital precondition for our joint efforts toward modern sustainable development. The New Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty between Russia and the United States, which entered into force just recently, has been a significant step toward this goal. This result was achieved through involved efforts based on the principles of equal and constructive cooperation, and we expect that it will contribute further to the formation of global security architecture.
We are guided by these considerations when we help resolve crisis situations, including in the Middle East, which is now witnessing very violent and controversial events. Russia will continue to do everything possible to restore lasting peace in the region and to create conditions for amicable coexistence of different states and nations.
Now a few words about relations between Russia and the countries that you have the honour of representing. We can say that 2010 was marked by dramatic, positive changes in relations between Russia and Ukraine. Through joint efforts our relations have been transformed into a constructive partnership, which is already bearing fruit: the ties that were destroyed some time ago have been restored, including cultural and educational ties between our two fraternal nations. Today we can look ahead with confidence, setting major objectives for ourselves. President of Ukraine Viktor Yanukovych and I spoke about that yesterday.
We are looking forward to constructive cooperation with the Czech Republic and to building mutually beneficial cooperation in the development of political dialogue, strengthening cooperation in various fields, including in the economy, trade and investment.
Many decades of friendly relations bind the Russian people and one of the leading African nations: the Republic of South Africa. Today, shared views on current international issues encourage the progressive deepening of those ties. We are developing our contacts at the political level and at the level of business dialogue. I am confident that the accession of South Africa to BRIC, which has been renamed BRICS, will reveal the potential of our future cooperation more fully.
We stand for the strengthening of multilateral relations with Gabon, and we have an excellent legal basis for that. At the moment we are developing and implementing specific projects in trade and business.
We note with satisfaction the positive dynamics in the development of our bilateral ties with Malaysia. Our agenda covers strengthening cooperation in high technology, energy, including nuclear power, telecommunications, aerospace and civil aviation.
We are interested in expanding political dialogue and search for new forms of economic cooperation with the Republic of Sierra Leone. A good example here is the project being implemented by Russian experts for employing environmentally sound technology in fishing and processing of fish products.
”The main direction in which the global community is moving is towards a polycentric world order, one that is fairer and more democratic, and reflects the modern aspirations of different states and nations.“
Relations between Russia and Kyrgyzstan have traditionally been close and friendly. We have helped Kyrgyzstan through difficult times and are ready to provide further assistance to promote the development of Kyrgyzstan as an independent state, consistently strengthen bilateral ties and multilateral cooperation in the region for the benefit of our nations and ensuring stability in Central Asia.
There are excellent mutually beneficial opportunities for the development of bilateral relations between our country and Hungary. Currently, the Republic of Hungary holds the EU Presidency. We sincerely wish our Hungarian partners every success and hope that your country's Presidency in the EU will further deepen the partnership between the EU and Russia.
The Republic of Poland is certainly an important and very promising partner for us. I recently paid an official visit to Warsaw and hope that we have opened a new chapter in the history of our two countries. Today we must not only remember the past but also look straight ahead. If these two components are balanced, I am sure that Russian-Polish cooperation will develop in all spheres.
Our cooperation with Italy has reached unprecedented heights. Our relations are absolutely strategic, our trade and economic relations are developing successfully in very important areas, including high technology and innovation, and major projects are being implemented in various fields. Our cooperation has great importance in addressing major international issues. Therefore, I also attach particular importance to the development of humanitarian ties with Italy.
Next week I will visit Rome, where together with the Italian leadership I will participate in the opening of the Year of Russian Culture and Language in Italy and the Italian Culture and Language in Russia. I am confident that this will be a great event.
Allow me to sincerely wish you every success in your responsible mission in the Russian Federation. I hope that your stay in Moscow will be productive and interesting for you personally and for your countries.
Once again, every success to you and thank you for your attention.
Geography
Czech Republic
Gabon
Hungary
Italy
6 more
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 8, 2011, 14:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with young scientists
Dmitry Medvedev discussed developing Russian science’s technological base, grants, and social support measures with young scientists.
February 8, 2011
19:00
Moscow
The meeting’s participants included the 2010 laureates of prizes for science and innovation, President of the Russian Academy of Sciences Yury Osipov, and Education Minister Andrei Fursenko
.
The meeting took place at the Polytechnic Museum, where the First Russian National Science Festival began today. Dmitry Medvedev addressed brief welcoming remarks to the event’s participants.
* * *
See also
Speech at opening of the First National Russian Science Festival
February 8, 2011
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Friends, I congratulate the laureates once again, and everyone here, on Russian Science Day. It is a pleasure to talk with you in an informal setting this time, not in the Kremlin, but at the Polytechnic Museum, which as we have seen, is about to be reborn. We all wish this work success, because this museum is a great support for everyone interested in science and technology. We need to ensure that it retains all of its former qualities, while at the same time moving forward and becoming a technologically advanced centre of interest to today’s youth. 
The museum was founded in the nineteenth century, during what we could call the flowering of engineering advances and the natural sciences. These kinds of assessments are all relative, really, but it was indeed established at the initiative of the imperial society of amateur natural scientists under the patronage of Alexander II. Today, the first Russian National Science Festival is opening here, and as I understand it, it will run right through until October. I hope this will turn out to be an interesting and educational project that will be helpful for schoolchildren and everyone involved in science and its popularisation, including as far as the matters we already discussed today are concerned.
I remind you that in April 2010 I gave the instruction to develop a new concept for the museum. This concept has been approved now. I hope the work will go ahead in accordance with the schedule the director presented just before.
Now to the issues before us, namely, the question of attracting talented young people into science and innovation. In December 2009, we discussed this subject in depth with the heads of the Russian Academy of Sciences. I hope that we will come back to it during our discussions today. Here, I am addressing Mr Osipov [Yury Osipov, President of the Russian Academy of Sciences]. Why, because I think that our decisions must be implemented. As far as I know, there is progress, including on the biggest problems, and the biggest problems, even in science, are the issues of everyday life. We said that we must start by resolving young scientists’ housing problems. I took the Government to task over this later. I think that did have some effect, and it seems that some apartments are ready now. How many, Mr Osipov?
President of the Russian Academy of Sciences Yury Osipov: We have received 150 apartments so far. This was done over January alone. Now it is still February, and the Government is holding constant meetings on the issue.
Dmitry Medvedev: So I don’t need to scold anyone anymore? I can take a softer line now?
Yury Osipov: Sometimes it can be useful to get a scolding from you, Mr President.
Dmitry Medvedev: Well, I will do so then, what choice do I have?
Yury Osipov: But things are moving now.
Dmitry Medvedev: It’s good that things are moving, because I remember the bored looks on the faces of some of my colleagues when this was all being discussed, and I had to really make use of my power then. Let’s keep up the pace then and get this work finished.
Yury Osipov: Thank you.
Dmitry Medvedev: Another matter is that the Russian Academy of Sciences’ Youth Commission made available an additional 1,000 salaried positions at the end of last year. I was briefed on this today by the minister. I think this is very good. We are talking about almost half of the Russian Academy of Sciences’ existing 400 research centres, am I right?
Yury Osipov: Yes, the money has been distributed, and we have kept 70 positions in reserve with the idea that particularly interesting people could emerge, while the rest have been distributed between the different institutes on a tender basis. It is interesting to note that there is competition for these positions, more than two institutes for each position. This is good to see. The money has now been distributed, and the institutes are now organising tenders to select the people to whom it will go to.
Thank you very much for this, Mr President.
Dmitry Medvedev: Good, so things are moving in this area too?
Yury Osipov: Yes, things are moving full steam ahead.
Dmitry Medvedev: Good, I remind you that the size of the presidential grants for young Ph.D. and D.Sc. holders was increased substantially and now comes to 600,000 rubles for Ph.D. degree holders, and 1 million rubles for D.Sc. degree holders. 
Education and Science Minister Andrei Fursenko
: For a year.
Dmitry Medvedev: For a year, of course.
But this is not all, of course, and we can keep discussing this. I think that the state authorities need to do more to put in place all of the best possible conditions. Of course, this will never be anything completely exceptional, but the authorities in the broad sense – the federal, regional, and even municipal authorities — do need to ensure the minimum essential conditions.
The global world and the world of science know no borders, and we understand this. We therefore invite not only our own scientists to take part in these projects, but foreigners too. I think this is the right approach, because this is what scientific competition is all about, all the more so as our scientists go abroad and also participate – on a competitive basis – in projects abroad. This is just the kind of full-blooded environment that will help us to resolve the more difficult tasks ahead.
We have young people here today, and I want them to take part too in discussing the various issues involved in developing science, and developing education in general in our country and improving the way science is managed. The Youth Coordination Council has already made a shortlist of projects competing for the presidential grants and prizes for young scientists. In the views of senior colleagues, these projects are of high quality, and we shall see what comes of them. It is important to develop the network of regional councils of young scientists and specialists that have been established now in 81 different regions, practically throughout the entire country.
I want you to tell me, of course, about how you see the future of Russian science, what, in your view, are our strong points and weak points. Of course, we all have a fair idea of where our weak points lie at the moment, and in which areas we need to give new impetus.
But in any case, I can say that the situation has started to change of late. It has not changed radically, but things are improving. This is true of education and of science too. As someone who worked for quite a long time in the university system, I will not hide that I am very pleased to see these changes, because everyone who remembers the 1990s, remembers that they were very difficult years and the mood was very pessimistic back then. It was difficult to be optimistic. But this is all changing now.
There are problems. I have been discussing these problems not just here, not just with our young people working in science, but abroad too, with people working there. The last time was in Silicon Valley. That was an interesting discussion. There are very successful people working there, some of them left quite a long time ago, and some only recently. Some of them see their future in America, and others do not. But the conversation was very illustrative.
We should probably look at some additional incentives too. I think these could include the introduction of presidential scholarships for young people, who show promise in terms of developing priority modernisation areas. We will discuss the size of these scholarships, but they should provide decent sums of money for the chosen young people.
So, if you have similar ideas, I am willing to support them, though within reasonable limits. Let’s discuss all of this now.
There is one other matter I wanted to raise now. It is not directly related to science, but it does concern a huge number of people around the country. Indeed, it concerns everyone here. Can you guess what it is? It is the rather specific matter of changeover from summer time to winter time. 
In my 2009 Annual Presidential Address, I spoke about this. A number of serious and lengthy studies have been carried out. We are all used to putting the clocks forward or back each spring and autumn, and we are all used to moaning about it too, given that it genuinely does upset the natural biological rhythm, and everybody hates it, hates waking up too early and not knowing what to do with the extra hour. That’s not to mention the poor cows and other animals, who don’t know about such things as changing the clocks and don’t understand why no one comes to milk them at the right time.
I think that the need to adapt to the time change provokes stress and illness. Perhaps it would be a useful thing for us to do away with this changeover and just keep summer time throughout the country, which will mean more daylight overall. Based on these considerations, I have therefore decided to abolish the changeover to winter time starting this autumn, and will instruct the Government accordingly.
We will not change over to winter time, though we will have to go through one more unpleasant moment when we switch to summer time and lose an hour of sleep, but this will be the last time. It will give us a longer day too. I think this will be good for the country on the whole. Anyway, people have asked me to do this repeatedly.
Topics
Science and innovation
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 8, 2011, 19:00
Text versionEvents
Speech at opening of the First National Russian Science Festival
February 8, 2011
19:15
Moscow
Speech at opening ceremony of the First National Russian Science Festival
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Hello, friends,
I would like to sincerely congratulate you on Russian Science Day. This is a truly major national event. The First Russian Science Festival, which is taking place here, in these walls, is also a major event. I hope that those of you present truly want to work in science and are already doing so.
This festival used to be based at Moscow State University, and then, at the rector’s suggestion, we made it a National Russian Science Festival. I am very pleased that today, you are meeting here to hear lectures and talk to one another. I also know that some Olympiad winners are present here, which is very important.
In addition, here today are winners of state awards for young scientists, to whom I presented these awards earlier today. I want to once again congratulate them, for the fifth time, I think. I feel this is a very important result, because we have begun granting prizes not only based on the results of scientific work, which I also spoke about earlier, but also for the contribution by young specialists and scientists whose scientific careers are just beginning, yet they have already made their contribution to the development of Russian science. And I think it is a good sign that this is taking place in the Kremlin. Afterwards, I spoke with some of the young scientists, who told me about the problems existing in our nation, as well as prospects for the future.
I would like to use this opportunity again to say that naturally, the development of science in our nation has followed a very difficult path over the last twenty years. At the same time, in recent years, we have made some progress. It concerns everything ranging from scientific infrastructure, acquiring new equipment, and research funding to social standards, living standards for specialists and scientists for whom these areas represent their main professional activities.
We are still at the beginning of the road, but our nation is committed to promoting the development of science and supporting researchers, making it one of its top priorities. I have continuously stated this on many occasions. And even the concept of our nation’s development that is being carried out today, the concept for modernising our nation, including technological modernisation – we understand that it cannot resolve these challenges if no investment is made in science, fundamental sciences and applied research. And I would very much like for everyone here today to remember this, to believe in Russia’s potential and to believe in their own potential.
I wish you all success in your work and I hope that you will have a great time socialising here at the Polytechnic Museum. I hope that the science festival will become a traditional annual event for many years to come.
I wish you prosperity and all the very best. Congratulations once again.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: February 8, 2011, 19:15
Text versionEvents
Ceremony of presenting 2010 Presidential Prize in Science and Innovation for Young Scientists
The ceremony, timed to coincide with the Russian Science Day, took place at the St Catherine Hall in the Kremlin. The Presidential Prize in Science and Innovation for Young Scientists is awarded to Russian citizens for a significant contribution to the development of national science and innovation in order to encourage the future research and create a positive environment for new scientific discoveries and innovative achievements.
February 8, 2011
16:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 9
Ceremony of presenting 2010 Presidential Prize in Science and Innovation for Young Scientists.
See also
Executive order on awarding the President's Prize in science and innovation for young scientists for 2010
February 7, 2011
The 2010 Presidential Prize was awarded to Nikolai Andreyev for his achievements in creating innovative education technologies and the promotion and dissemination of scientific knowledge; Dmitry Gorbunov for a series of contributions in the field of elementary particle physics and fundamental problems of the evolution of the universe; Denis Grashchenkov, Natalya Uvarova and Elizaveta Simonenko for the creation of new generation high-temperature ceramic composites for advanced propulsion equipment and hypersonic aircraft; Maxim Mokrousov and Anton Sanin for the development of LEND (Lunar Exploration Neutron Detector) space neutron detector and using it to obtain new results in the study of the Moon.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen,
First of all, I would like to congratulate all of you on the Russian Science Day. For the majority of you present in this hall it is a professional holiday. I sincerely wish you new achievements and discoveries and hope that they will enhance the academic and practical image of our country in the coming decades.
In April we will celebrate the 50th anniversary of the first manned flight into space. That flight ushered in a new era in the history of our civilisation, embodied the humanity’s centuries-old dream of travelling into space. That flight was made possible by our scientists, designers and engineers.
I am talking about this in this hall on the Science Day to remind you about the relationship that exists between the present day development of the Russian state and Russian science and our past achievements. In some ways it has become easier to work now, in other ways it is harder, but it is obvious that such pages must forever remain in the annals of Russian science.
The most successful scientists are always those who show courage, daring, and an ability to think in nonstandard and special ways. These qualities are typical of young people. Of course, older people can have these abilities as well, but it is usually easier for young people to express themselves in these ways.
That is why a number of discoveries that turned out to have vital importance for the fate of humanity were made by relatively young people. Think of Albert Einstein – this is a classic example – and the discoveries made by Konstantin Tsiolkovsky. In 1932 Sergei Korolev designed a prototype of ballistic missiles, which were subsequently used in many ways, including for the development of the space rocket.
The future of Russian science depends on young researchers. That may be a trivial thought but it is true, because there must be a continuity of generations. I would like to note that nearly 300 works were presented for this year's Youth Award competition, including in aerospace, which is a priority direction of economic modernisation.
Now I would like to say a few words about our winners. This ceremony is organised in such a way that we introduce the winners twice. Perhaps this is not bad, especially if the President mentions them again. By the way, I would like to say that the presentation ceremony requires fine-tuning: some prize winners were described as talented while others weren’t. This is wrong, all of you are talented.
Young and talented scientists Maxim Mokrousov and Anton Sanin made a major contribution to the development of a new version of the unique LEND (Lunar Exploration Neutron Detector) space neutron detector. With the help of this device, we learned about the presence of areas with high water content on the Moon. This device is employed by NASA and the Russian segment of the ISS, which is of course especially gratifying. There are plans to use it in domestic programmes of the study of the Moon and other planets in our solar system.
The Prize is also awarded to Denis Grashchenkov, Natalya Uvarova and Elizaveta Simonenko, another young team, which created a new generation of materials for aircraft and rocket engines and for hypersonic aircraft, whose production as a result of this discovery will become much cheaper. This is very important for any process, especially when we are talking about mass production. They surpass foreign analogues in terms of thermal resistance and significantly lower the product’s weight.
Another colleague and talented person present here is Nikolai Andreyev, who has created a series of brilliant mathematical studies, fascinating and easy to understand for students of today. It is in every sense what is commonly called an innovation in education, one of a small number developed in recent years. It is very important that Nikolai opens up the wonderful world of mathematics to young people, promoting his favourite discipline, which is always very valuable.
Finally, the work of another scientist to receive the Prize this year is dedicated to the Space Year. Physicist Dmitry Gorbunov is well known in the international scientific community for his research on fundamental problems of the universe. His colleagues note the profound nature of his theory, which has in part determined the experimental programme of the Large Hadron Collider. He is of the author of the two-volumes work called The Introduction to the Theory of the Early Universe, which is recognised all over the world as an excellent textbook on cosmology.
Dear friends, I have introduced the winners once again.
I would like to congratulate you on winning this Prize and wish you every success.
You are established scientists, ambitious and successful individuals. But as they say in these situations, you have your whole lives ahead of you, which is a particularly valuable aspect of this Prize, because usually prizes are awarded on lifetime achievements. They are also very important and sometimes their function is to restore justice when a person is very well known, for example, in the academic community, but has not received the attention of the state.
The prizes awarded at the outset of a scientific career are equally valuable. Firstly, they mean that a researcher has the recognition of the state which provides additional financial resources and just attention to the branch of science the winner is working in. I think these things are extremely important for any researcher.
I congratulate you once again, and let us begin the presentation ceremony.
* * *
Dear friends,
Let us congratulate our winners once again. I think even the short speeches made just now by our friends and colleagues demonstrate just how dedicated they are to their work. That is extremely important, because as everyone in this hall knows, it is possible to achieve any significant results only when a person gets completely immersed in the subject and dedicates oneself to the work, whatever it is.
This fully applies to science, because science requires so much concentration and dedication that it simply determines the lifestyle of the people who have linked their lives with it. I am confident that our young winners will be successful in this regard and will achieve brilliant results in the future, receive public recognition, and maybe more importantly, will be people who have realized their potential through science and who do the work they love because that is the only way to reach success.
Once again, I congratulate you, but I am not saying goodbye yet, we will still talk about the future of science and have a look at forum which is being held now [First National Russian Science Festival].
On behalf of everyone here, let me thank you for your contribution to the development of Russian science. 
Topics
Science and innovation
State awards
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 8, 2011, 16:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with winners of XXV World Winter Universiade
Dmitry Medvedev met in the Kremlin with the winners and runners-up of XXV World Winter Universiade held in Erzurum, Turkey on January 27-February 6, 2011, where Russian athletes came first in the overall team standings in terms of the number of medals.
February 8, 2011
15:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 3
Meeting with the winners and runners-up of the XXV World Winter Universiade. Two-time champion in cross-country skiing Alia Iksanova presented to Dmitry Medvedev a soft toy, a symbol of the Universiade.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Friends, good afternoon. I am very happy to see you, and I hope that you will also enjoy yourselves – after all, this is a special place.
First of all, I would like to congratulate you on your outstanding, simply triumphant performance at the Winter Universiade. I know that you have just returned from Turkey and I wanted to see you, to express my deep gratitude not only as President of Russia, but also on behalf of your many fans – your admirers who see your performances as a symbol of our future victories.
I would like to express gratitude not just to you, but also to your entire training staff – all your coaches, medical specialists, and everyone else who supported the Russian team, including everyone who rooted for you here and in Turkey.
It is true that our nation really rooted for our team. We saw how selflessly you performed, how well you fought. And of course, the most important feeling among the fans is pride. I believe that it is a common effect: when you see a Russian athlete performing well, you are happy for him or her, and then you feel happy for the entire nation, and ultimately, every individual projects this success partially toward themselves. And perhaps that is the most powerful, compelling aspect of sports: when one person’s success becomes an entire nation’s success, and therefore, spreads out to all of us.
For reasons you are all aware of, we have been feeling anxiety concerning some major victories: we did not do very well last year; while we had some stellar performances in certain areas (we don’t want to take away any glory from those who did well) we also had some very difficult periods – I am referring, first and foremost, to the [Winter] Olympics. But even in the first days of the Universiade, the Russian team was clearly in the lead. Ultimately, the team ended in first place, having won 38 medals, including 14 gold, 14 silver, and 10 bronze. And this is the highest result among all participating nations.
Naturally, you upstaged some strong opponents, and I hope you will say a few words about it today. But what is nevertheless important is that you did this just ahead of our Universiade, which we will host in Kazan, and significantly surpassed our earlier achievements at similar sporting competitions. The medals you won demonstrate the enormous athletic potential in your sports, because you are all at the beginning of your athletic careers, and yet, you are already experienced athletes. Naturally, this is particularly important in the run-up to the Universiade in Kazan, and certainly, the Olympic Games in Sochi.
Preparations for the Universiade in Kazan are going very well. I have addressed this matter repeatedly, I have visited Tatarstan several times, and I saw the facilities being built there. For now, it all looks very solid. I am certain that we will be excellent Universiade hosts, and it will be memorable for all who participate in it – the athletes and the fans.
On the other hand, this will allow us to develop our sports infrastructure, which is imperative if we are to create new opportunities, many of which will serve the future of our nation and the Tatarstan Republic, the host region for the Universiade, in addition to creating additional opportunities for engaging in sports.
I also want to say that I’m certain your athletic careers will be filled with many more victories. And I hope that I will have another chance to congratulate some of you on your outstanding achievements in the future, recognising your athletic merits through state decorations.
I wish all of you success and sincerely congratulate you once again.
<…>
Following our meeting, you will have a chance to tour the Kremlin, because I imagine that some of you have never been here before. This is a symbolic place; it is the site of international meetings and receptions, domestic events, and wonderful meetings such as the one we are having today.
I am truly glad that you are here today, at the Kremlin, because it is a symbol of what I said earlier. Russia has really been, and will once again be a strong, athletically powerful nation, even in spite of any local hardships.
I wish you success in everything – not just in athletics, but in your personal lives as well, and in your education and all your other undertakings. You’ve done a job!
Topics
Sport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 8, 2011, 15:00
Text version