Events
Dmitry Medvedev congratulated social workers on their professional holiday
The President attended an official reception marking Social Worker’s Day.
June 8, 2011
18:40
2 of 3
Speaking at an official reception marking Social Worker’s Day.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Friends, it is a great pleasure to welcome you all, and to congratulate you of course on your professional holiday – Social Worker’s Day.
We are celebrating this date for the tenth time now in Russia, but it is a real pleasure to see you here today, because this is the first time that we are marking this event at the Kremlin. I think it is right that we should be holding this reception here.
Today, we will honour those who we can call the best in their profession – the winners of the national competition among social workers. We decided to start this competition not so long ago. I think it was during the meeting in October that the decision was made. I think this is a good idea because a competition such as this is always a way of recognising the best, supporting them, and showing the examples to follow. In your profession there are many such people setting worthy examples, and I thank you for all the work you do. 
“The people working in our state social welfare system are a very special breed – people who are not indifferent to their fellow human beings, for whom their work is not a mere formality, but a life-long vocation. I congratulate you sincerely on your professional holiday.”
Our state social welfare system goes back a long way now (I learned today that the first decree in this area was signed 310 years ago by Peter the Great, and concerned setting up special institutions to care for the ill and elderly), but whether back in those distant times or right here and now, the people working in this sector are a very special breed – people who are not indifferent to their fellow human beings.
Looking after the ill and the elderly is something that only people for whom their work is not a mere formality, but a life-long vocation, can do. If this were not so, you would not be able to keep working in the difficult conditions that you face, whether in the cities or the rural areas, and for small wages in both cases. I mention the small wages not so as to let you know that I am aware of this problem, but to say that we will make every effort to raise your wages in accordance with our country’s growing possibilities. 
This year, you have all been working very hard, as last year, and have helped an enormous number of people. I am not sure how accurate the statistics are, but the figures we have show that you have helped almost 20 million people. That is a big share of our population, a large number of people who cannot live without your help, attention and support. The state authorities, in turn, cannot live without working on developing the foundations of our social welfare system, and we will do this.
I congratulate you sincerely on your professional holiday. I do not know who won in the different nominations. All I can say is that I know you are several dozen winners here, and you will all receive state prizes. To be honest, I think that probably everyone present here today deserves a state prize. 
Once again, congratulations on your professional holiday. I wish you health and happiness. We count very much on your work.
Topics
Social services
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 8, 2011, 18:40
Text versionEvents
Meeting on economic issues
The meeting examined possibilities for reducing the compulsory insurance payments that employers are required to pay to social support funds.
June 8, 2011
16:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 2
Meeting on economic issues.
Dmitry Medvedev instructed the Government to draft proposals for reducing compulsory social insurance payments as from January 1, 2012, at a meeting of the Commission for Modernisation and Technological Development of Russia’s Economy on March 30, 2011, in Magnitogorsk.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Good afternoon, colleagues.
We are going to concentrate on just one issue today. It is an important and rather complex matter on which I issued an instruction at the meeting in Magnitogorsk. The deadline on that instruction is due now. You have all worked to try to come up with the optimum solution. The matter I am referring to is that of reducing the compulsory payments to the social funds, and the possibilities we have at our disposal in this area, given that we have received many appeals from businesspeople asking us to address this issue, as the current level of payments is creating difficulties for our business sector.
At the same time, we need to take into account too, the need to maintain a balance that will keep the funds working and able to help us resolve the social tasks we have before us at present.
This is the difficult task you have been given, and I want to hear your proposals now so that we can make a final decision on this matter. Let’s start work.
<…>
See also
Meeting of the Commission for Modernisation and Technological Development of Russia’s Economy
March 30, 2011
Topics
Economy and finance
Social services
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 8, 2011, 16:00
Text versionEvents
Dmitry Medvedev met with members of non-governmental environmental organisations
Subjects discussed at the meeting included cooperation between NGOs and the various state agencies, improving the environmental protection laws, and the need to enforce environmental protection rules and raise responsibility for looking after the environment.
June 8, 2011
14:40
The Kremlin, Moscow
7 of 9
Meeting with members of non-governmental environmental organisations.
Members of public organisations from various parts of Russia took part in the meeting, including members of the Russian Geographical Society, the Organisation for Protecting Lake Uvilda, journalists’ associations involved in environmental protection, and Greenpeace Russia.
The meeting took place the day before the State Council Presidium is due to discuss environmental protection issues.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Good afternoon, it is a pleasure to see you all here. I hope we will have a frank and productive discussion today.
You represent various non-governmental environmental organisations, and, banal though it may sound, much depends on your work.
There are many who do not like you, especially state officials. They dislike you for obvious reasons, for the fact that you sometimes take a very firm and demanding stand. But environmental protection organisations are set up and work around the world precisely in order to stand up for people’s interests in the broad sense, defend the interests of those who want to live in normal, modern and at the same time environmentally clean surroundings and enjoy a good and healthy natural environment. The dialogue between the authorities and NGOs is therefore extremely important and essential.
We all see that Russia still has many environmental problems. This is in part simply because we have a very big country, and environmental issues were neglected for many years. Frankly, no one paid the environment much attention during the Soviet years. It is also because we are still in the process of developing our economy and industry, although, to be objective, I do think that the business community is starting to take a more responsible attitude now than it was a decade ago, say, and I not only follow developments in this area, but monitor the situation and make decisions in accordance with my constitutional powers.
Ten years ago, I was in business myself, and I remember that no matter where you went, Moscow, the Far East, or Siberia, you would always hear talk on the lines of, “What environment? We just need to survive, pay our workers. Just look at how many people are waiting at the gates, demanding money and normal working conditions.” But people from big business and medium-sized enterprises are more and more often starting to take the right line now. They say, “Yes, we realise that this is our responsibility. But just don’t put too much of a stranglehold on us, because we have our own programme for environmental monitoring, improving the situation at our production facilities and introducing modern technology, and we want to carry it out and use it to develop.” In other words, their position has become much more constructive now. 
Small business finds itself in a difficult situation, however, because it is often required to make high payments, including for addressing various environmental issues, and it cannot handle this kind of financial burden and ends up being cut out of the whole development process.
Much depends on the state authorities themselves of course. To state the obvious again, it has been ten years now that we have a modern law on environmental protection in force, and we need to look at how it is being implemented in practice. It has some clear strong points, but some serious weak points too. 
From time to time we hold meetings to examine the state of our environmental laws. I cannot say that all of the decisions taken at these meetings are carried out properly. The Minister [Natural Resources and Environment Minister Yury Trutnev] is here today. Mr Trutnev, I looked now and saw that in the year since the State Council met to discuss the environment a whole list of bylaws and regulations have been approved, which is your responsibility, but according to my information, not a single one of them has actually been passed and gone into force. This is a real disgrace! There is no point in saying you will make decisions that never end up seeing the light of day, and if decisions have been made and approved, then they need to be carried out. I hope we will discuss this issue too today, because the state authorities’ main task after all is to pass laws and ensure they are respected. I am not in favour of making all of the environmental laws as tough as possible. I think it is more important that they be realistic. They should take into account the current economic situation and should be realistic in their provisions so that business and ordinary people can follow them.
One final thing I want to say at the start of our discussion is how important it is to cultivate environmental awareness and care for nature at the individual level. These are simple things, but we all know the way many people here treat nature, and what amazement we feel when we enter a forest abroad, for example. I am sad to say how starkly the contrast always struck me just driving from Leningrad Region into Finland, say. It’s the same nature, a common history, common historical roots and many shared traditions, but on our side the forests are a mess, and on the Finnish side everything is clean and cared for down to the last twig. This is very sad to see because it reflects not just a lack of economic awareness among the authorities or insatiable businesspeople, but the fact that all of us need to learn to take greater care of our surroundings.
Let’s discuss these and other issues now.
<…>
Topics
Environment
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 8, 2011, 14:40
Text version