Events
Meeting with Total CEO Christophe de Margerie
Dmitry Medvedev met with Chief Executive Officer of French oil and gas company Total Christophe de Margerie. The meeting was attended by Chairman of the Management Committee of Gazprom Alexei Miller.
March 2, 2011
16:00
Gorki, Moscow Region
2 of 2
With CEO of French oil and gas company Total Christophe de Margerie.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: I am glad to see you once again, Mr de Margerie. I know that you have come to Russia on serious business, that your contacts with Gazprom have taken on a solid long-term foundation now and you are launching major joint projects. I wish you success in these undertakings. Your group of companies and France in general are important strategic partners for us. 
A lot of change is taking place on the market right now, but the relations among the major players always have a big impact on the overall energy stability and energy security in the world, and play a significant part too in developing large investment projects. I wish you success.
chairman and Chief Executive officer of Total Christophe de Margerie (retranslated): Thank you very much, Mr President. We have met on a number of occasions over these last years, but this is the first time in Moscow. This is my fault. I should come here more often.
I want to thank you for all of our past meetings. We feel that Russia and you personally above all, have always supported our cooperation with Russian partners. We have many partners here, one of which is here today – Gazprom – represented by its chairman, Mr Miller.
You personally asked me to be more active and invest more money in Russia. Recent events have shown how right you were. The upheavals taking place in a number of the oil and gas producing countries now send a signal to investors to come to Russia, because Russia offers much safer environment for investment.
Dmitry Medvedev: I hope that you will now have more reasons and occasions to come to Moscow.
<…>
  Topics
Energy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 2, 2011, 16:00
Text versionEvents
Dmitry Medvedev congratulated Mikhail Gorbachev on his 80th birthday
By a presidential executive order Mr Gorbachev was awarded the Order of St Andrew the Apostle.
March 2, 2011
15:00
Gorki, Moscow Region
2 of 3
With Mikhail Gorbachev.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Mr Gorbachev, I want to give you my warmest wishes on your anniversary birthday. Of course, you will receive a huge number of congratulations today, and I add my sincerest congratulations too and wish you good health.
Of course, today you will hear many warm words from your relatives and friends, from past colleagues, and from the numerous politicians who appreciate and respect you. As head of state, I want to inform you also that I signed today a presidential executive order decorating you with our highest national award – the Order of St Andrew the Apostle.
Mikhail Gorbachev: Thank you very much.
Dmitry Medvedev: I think this is a fitting assessment of the immense work that you did as head of state. You led our country through a very difficult and dramatic time in its history. We all remember this, all of us who had more or less reached adulthood, anyway. This was an immense labour. People may hold differing views on its results, as you know very well, but whatever one thinks, this truly was a great and difficult labour.
Second, I see in this decoration a symbol of respect for the country that you headed, and that was our common home: the Soviet Union. 
Once again, I congratulate you. I will present the state decoration to you on a separate occasion at the Kremlin, as protocol dictates. Today, we will simply sit a while and chat, drink some tea and a glass of champagne together.
I also want to present you with this book. I don’t know if you perhaps don’t own it already, but if so, there is always the Gorbachev Foundation or other organisations to which you could give it. This is a book of essays by Count Witte [Sergei Witte, chairman of State Council under Nicholas II] On the Immutable Laws of State Life. I present it to you as my colleague as president and as a lawyer.
<…>
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 2, 2011, 15:00
Text version