Regional Development Minister Viktor Basargin: Mr President,
We are basically halfway through this programme, which is among those few that have not been sequestered during the financial crisis. In other words, we are talking about 18 billion rubles [over $600 million] of financing, including 14 billion from the federal budget. Today’s volume of financing stands at exactly 9 billion rubles, just as planned. In 2009–2010, 14 facilities were launched, representing basically infrastructure projects, including social infrastructure, a day care centre (including the one you visited), and housing construction. There are also a number of other facilities pertaining to infrastructure development and support, everything that has to do with hydropower industry, the islands’ new competitive advantages, hydrothermal vents, and the development of this entire area.
I will say that overall, the programme is being implemented in full. Today, we clearly see three priorities here.
The first one concerns infrastructure development to offer the economy more support, including airports development, road building, construction of energy facilities, and communication development. We have examined the implementation of all of these programmes and looked at the new areas being developed in this regard, including by regional authorities.
We also analysed the second component, the social one, which concerns the construction of housing. Unfortunately, as you know, there was virtually no housing market there before your visit. In other words, housing was not bought or built. We are just now seeing the very first housing projects being implemented under various social programmes. We looked into how to create a housing market there, how to support the construction today.
”We would certainly like to develop good relations with all of our neighbours, including cooperation in a wide range of areas on the Kuril Islands.“
Mr Serdyukov and I also discussed everything pertaining to lowering [housing] prices. Unfortunately, they are still quite high there – more than 70,000 [rubles] per square metre.
And the third area has to do with competitive advantages, the islands’ specialisation – the development of the fishing industry. We took a look at the construction of new deep-water port areas in Yuzhno-Kurilsk, Kurilsk, on Iturup and Kunashir, which will provide the foundation for creating the entire fish-processing infrastructure, with refrigerating and processing plants and companies, and fish breeding enterprises.
I will say that there are certain projects in all of these areas. I’d like to note that after your visit, the attitude among the residents and investors has changed completely. We met with members of both groups, and they have expectations for things to get better. They understand that today they are in a zone of increased attention on the part of the federal authorities. They see that the investment volumes are increasing, that the islands’ specialisation is being promoted with investors buying ships today. I visited some of the fishing ships there. Investors are putting money into developing coastal infrastructure facilities. And naturally, the government is working to develop infrastructure and social facilities. It has been proposed to keep these programmes running.
There is a certain deficit of funds. The reason is that the programme was developed back in 2006–2007, based on similar projects; there was no draft documentation, and to a great extent, today’s technologies have really changed. For many facilities, particularly all our airport facilities, landing strips are designed for entirely different aircraft. All of this needs to be updated and improved.
We did the calculations and we agree with the Governor of Sakhalin Region who says that this programme needs additional 13 billion rubles for its implementation. My colleagues from other departments and I think that we need some 8 billion rubles in additional funding to develop the entire infrastructure.
But what is perhaps the most complicated thing is that this year we need to find some 1.5 billion rubles in additional funding in order not to stop operations at many facilities, including transport infrastructure, road construction and the fuel complex.
”These islands are part of the Russian Federation, falling fully and wholly under our sovereignty, and we will make all the necessary efforts to strengthen our presence on the Kuril Islands.“
Dmitry Medvedev: All the programmes that were approved must be implemented. At the same time, if additional funding is needed, then we certainly need to assess these needs, analyse the situation, and make the necessary decisions. You can consider this my instruction as President.
At the same time, we must increase these islands’ investment appeal. Indeed, these are unique islands, and they have a good potential not only for developing geothermal energy, fish breeding or processing, although these are their key business lines. These islands also offer some highly interesting tourist opportunities, and to develop them, we need a full-fledged, solid, modern infrastructure. We need to bring in investors, attract them by offering certain terms and conditions, and we should consider creating some additional economic advantages. Incidentally, I suggested this to everyone, including our neighbours, who might make use of these opportunities.
Thus, all of these programmes must be implemented in a timely manner. Please continue your work. I stated our main goal while visiting the islands, which is to make people living there feel just as comfortable as people living on the mainland, and for these islands to have prospects for development. This is the most important thing.
But these islands also serve as our eastern border, and a very important one. We have troops stationed there as well. Mr Serdyukov, I instructed you to visit the corresponding islands. What are your impressions, and what do you plan to do?
Defence Minister Anatoly Serdyukov: Following your instructions, I visited the 18 Machine Gun-Artillery Division on February 4; the division commander reported to me on combat readiness of the troops and the activities the division was engaged in at that time.Events
Meeting on economic issues
Dmitry Medvedev held a meeting on inflation control measures and investing scheduled saved expenses in modernisation projects.
February 9, 2011
13:50
Gorki, Moscow Region
1 of 3
Meeting on economic issues.
Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin
said that at least 50 percent of the scheduled saved expenses as well as part of the federal budget’s additional incomes would be spent on modernisation.
The meeting paid particular attention to the situation on the food market. Economic Development Minister Elvira Nabiullina
and First Deputy Prime Minister Viktor Zubkov
briefed the President on the current situation and the measures being taken, in particular, grain interventions. 
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: We have two issues on our agenda today, routine items, but both important. The first concerns investing the scheduled saved expenses and potential additional incomes to the federal budget in priority modernisation projects. I gave this instruction in my annual Presidential Address to the Federal Assembly. The Government has taken the first steps in this work and decided that half of the saved funds will be spent on modernisation, and we have agreed on this. 
Today, we need to decide how this money will be distributed, and discuss possible additional incomes too, how to allocate this money, how often, and how much. We also need to decide on the amendments to be made to the budget, and on who will be supervising this process, though we have plenty of watchdogs in the country.
I know that there are planned financial reserves in the budgets of the regions, ministries and agencies. This has been confirmed by reports from the Accounts Chamber and fiscal control bodies too. These funds need to be invested in specific modernisation projects, and of course we must ensure that they are spent effectively. After all, we are talking about taxpayers’ money here, and it must be spent wisely and invested in projects that will produce results, in building a modern economy, cutting costs, and ultimately creating the conditions for giving our people a higher quality of life. 
The second issue I want to discuss with you today is inflation, above all, price changes for foodstuffs and other socially significant goods. 
The economy is recovering now, showing moderate growth, but food prices continue to rise. True, they are rising not just in Russia but in other countries too, and in this sense our situation is not unique. In some cases price rises in Russia have to do with objective circumstances, the fact, for example, that last year was a tough year with drought and a poor harvest. In some cases the reasons are subjective, including the sudden surges in demand for particular foodstuffs. 
Speculators played on people’s worries about the poor harvest and their natural tendency to try to stock up just in case in early autumn. I ended up having to intervene especially on this issue, as did some of the other members of the Government. But the situation remains problematic today. The consumer price index rose by almost 2.5 percent in January. Our colleagues will give more detailed information on this. Prices have risen more for some types of goods and less for others. 
We need to be very attentive to these kinds of fluctuations on the domestic food market. I am talking about the wholesale side and the retail side too. We need to take timely action here, sensible decisions that will prevent any economic imbalances, and address too any negative expectations on the markets.
I know that the decision was made to sell grain from the intervention fund. I hope you will tell me how you plan to carry this out. In December, we discussed measures of customs tariff regulation and these interventions too. I want to hear in general what the Government is doing to keep food prices in check, as this is an issue on everyone’s minds around the country.
I remind you, in conclusion, that the state authorities took a series of steps to support the agricultural sector and ensure that the next sowing campaign goes ahead. The preparations have already begun. In this respect, I draw the attention of all federal, regional and local officials, and heads of financial institutions, to the fact that the financing decisions in this area must be carried out and the money must be distributed. This money must reach the farmers so as to ensure they get the seeds, mineral fertilisers, and fuel and lubricants they need.
We realise that this year’s harvest will determine the situation on our country’s food market. We cannot influence the weather, but we must put in place the necessary economic conditions. 
* * *
Once again, I draw the Government’s attention to the need to use all possible means to influence the situation on the food market, all economically balanced mechanisms.
All of this pursues just one goal, namely, that our hopefully effective and coordinated action will slow down inflation and stop food prices from rising as fast as they did at the end of last year and start of this one. This is vital for the success of our Government’s work.
Topics
Agriculture
Economy and finance
Inflation
Regions
Persons
Kudrin Alexei
Nabiullina Elvira
Zubkov Viktor
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 9, 2011, 13:50
Text version