Events
Beginning of CSTO Collective Security Council meeting in expanded format
December 20, 2011
15:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
CSTO Collective Security Council meeting in expanded format.
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Colleagues, we have just concluded a restricted format meeting, where we reviewed the implementation of previous Collective Security Council decisions and the consultations we held after the informal CSTO summit in Kazakhstan. We talked about ways to make our organisation more effective and considered approaches to our security cooperation.
We have reached agreement on some issues though not on others, but that is only natural. It is also absolutely normal that we will continue to discuss a number of subjects. Today, we will need to debate and sign a number of documents and decisions on matters that have been agreed upon by CSTO
member states.
At this meeting, the rotating chairmanship of the statutory bodies will be transferred from Belarus to Kazakhstan. In line with tradition, our Kazakhstani partners have presented their vision of the organisation’s activities in the coming period.
On behalf of all heads of CSTO member states I would like to thank President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko for his effective and very persistent efforts as Chairman of the CSTO Collective Security Council.
President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev: Colleagues, meeting participants,
I would like to thank the President of Russia and the Russian side for its hospitality and for the excellent organisation of this meeting. I would also like to thank Mr Alexander Lukashenko for the great work he has done. All of us have expressed our appreciation of his efforts.
”The decision we have adopted regarding the military bases of third countries is vitally important for the consolidation of our positions within the CSTO.“
As Kazakhstan assumes the role of Chairman [of the CSTO Collective Security Council], it will take all the necessary measures to ensure the ongoing development of our organisation.
We have submitted our proposals on the coming year’s priorities to the other leaders. We believe it is necessary first of all to focus on the practical implementation of the decisions adopted today within the CSTO framework.
I would like to inform you that we have held fruitful discussions in restricted format, where we talked about some very serious issues. The most important outcome of our meeting was an agreement on the coordination of military infrastructure deployment by non-members of CSTO on the territory of the CSTO member states. Now, in order to deploy a military base of a third country on the territory of a CSTO member state, it will be necessary to obtain official approval of all CSTO members. The proposal was accepted by all CSTO member states. I think this is a clear sign of the organisation’s unity and its members’ utmost loyalty to allied relations.
Other issues – the so-called second protocol – have been either dropped or rescheduled for discussion at future meetings. We have also reached agreement on the armament of CRRF [Collective Rapid Reaction Force], the formation of special task forces and rescue teams as part of the CRRF. We have adopted decisions on the CSTO member states’ information security, the response procedure in industrial accidents and natural disasters, determined the funding allocated by CSTO member states for the Collective Peacekeeping Forces and approved the budget for 2012.
As a summary document for the meeting, the CSTO Collective Security Council has adopted a declaration on the 20th anniversary of the Treaty on Collective Security and the 10th anniversary of our organisation.
Dmitry Medvedev: There is a suggestion that we move on to the signing. The only thing I would like to note on behalf of all Collective Security Council members is that the decision we have adopted regarding the military bases of third countries is vitally important for the consolidation of our positions within the CSTO. I believe that this is a crucial issue on which all parties have reached agreement. I just wanted to draw your attention to it and thank everyone who took part in the talks.
<…>
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 20, 2011, 15:00
Text versionEvents
Gala evening celebrating Security Agency Worker’s Day
Dmitry Medvedev congratulated officers and veterans of Russia’s security agencies on their professional holiday and on the 20th anniversary of the existence of modern Russia’s special services.
December 20, 2011
21:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
Gala evening celebrating Security Agency Worker’s Day.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Comrades, veterans,
I congratulate you on Security Agency Worker’s Day. I wish you good health and all the very best.
Russian special services are in charge of carrying out very difficult tasks that are directly related to defending the national interests of our Fatherland. They are responsible for our peaceful progress and for the proper assurance of our people’s rights and freedoms. No doubt, knowledge, professionalism and the loyal fulfilment of your duties are most required in your work. I would like to thank you for your commendable service and your achievements this year.
The modern world is changing very rapidly. Unfortunately, these changes are often disadvantageous, and we must react adequately to all of them. This has been clearly demonstrated in the first decade of the 21st century, as well as the start of its second decade. We experienced crises, as well as the traditional challenges. We have nevertheless accumulated a good experience in ensuring security, when it comes to both traditional threats and new ones.
It is imperative that we constantly analyse all global processes, while also being constantly aware of our own soil, i.e. our Russian needs as the purpose of our security agencies is to protect our country.
It is imperative that we bring to light the true reasons for what is happening in our nation and in large regions of the world, to prepare suggestions on how to respond to these challenges employing the most advanced technologies – administrative technologies and technologies that allow us to resolve communications and technical challenges. In other words, the security agencies must be modern. Only then will they may be efficient.
Countering terrorism and extremism remains a key challenge. We must expand the accomplishments that you have achieved in recent years. Indeed, these have been very serious achievements. Regardless of what anyone says or writes, a great deal has been done in this security area, sometimes at the cost of the health or even the lives of your comrades.
Not only must we work on this – we do not have the right to give terrorists any chance of destabilising our lives, destabilising our society – but we must also actively fight corruption, organised crime, and other types of crimes.
Given the increase in global competition, we should also continue our counter-intelligence activities. Russia enjoys a high level of prestige and considerable weight throughout the world, but it also represents a very serious interest for other states. So the new opportunities for increasing business ties, the consolidation of our companies’ positions abroad, must be accompanied accordingly by counter-intelligence measures.
Another fundamental issue is protecting our state security and state defence data. We have much to do in this regard as well, particularly in the conditions of our rapidly-changing world and the cyberspace.
Serious attention should also be given to strengthening our borders. We are implementing the well-known National Borders programme, and in my view, it has already been quite fruitful: we have modernised border crossings and other infrastructure facilities, thereby making our borders modern. Now, we are no longer ashamed of our border facilities; on the contrary, it is clear that this is the border of a great nation, the Russian Federation. Thus, we must continue working on this task, and our border patrol units must be equipped with pieces of new military and special technology.
Colleagues, friends,
On this day, I would like to express my warmest congratulations and words of gratitude to the veterans of the security agencies, everyone who faithfully served their nation and their people, during the years of the Great Patriotic War and in the subsequent decades.
This year marks the 20th anniversary of the security agencies in modern Russia. I would like to congratulate the veterans and active agency officers on this date. I am certain that the current generation will carry on the traditions of its predecessors with dignity and flawlessly perform its professional responsibilities. I am certain that this will continue on in the future.
I once again sincerely congratulate all of you on this holiday, and hope that this evening will bring you good moods and positive emotions as they, too, are essential in life. I wish all of your families and friends good health and new successes in the upcoming year.
My best congratulations once more.
Topics
Fight against terrorism
National security
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 20, 2011, 21:00
Text versionEvents
Informal meeting of the CIS Council of Heads of State took place in the Kremlin
Following the meeting, the CIS heads of state adopted a joint declaration and signed a number of documents.
December 20, 2011
18:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
8 of 9
Informal meeting of the CIS Council of Heads of State.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Colleagues,
In opening today’s informal meeting, I would like to thank all of you who have come to Moscow to celebrate the 20th anniversary of the Commonwealth of Independent States.
Mr Almazbek Atambayev
is participating in our summit for the first time. We congratulate him again and wish him success in his job as President of Kyrgyzstan. We hope that our Kyrgyzstani friends will join our active work within the framework of the CIS
.
We say many things about the CIS. Clearly, over the course of the last 20 years, the Commonwealth has had a very difficult path of development. We are different nations with varying economic conditions, and our cultures are both close and, at the same time, distinct. But these cultures have not only shown the ability to understand each other very well, but also to cooperate efficiently on a voluntary, equitable and mutually beneficial basis.
The CIS has become an important stability factor in the post-Soviet space, and has truly become an influential regional alliance, even despite the costs that I suppose have always been there and which remain today. Together, we managed to do a great deal.
Today we will discuss our prospects, as well as new projects that we may all fulfil.
* * *
Colleagues, I don’t think I have anything to add, because your heartfelt, emotional words stand alone in characterising the era that has fallen on our shoulders, these last twenty years.
When you were just speaking about your emotions, I also recalled what was happening to me on this day. What happened is that I left one nation, which was called the USSR, and flew to Germany. And when I came back, I returned to a fundamentally different situation, one in which our common state was no longer.
I won’t deny that I, too, felt very strong emotions. But what’s most important is that today, we are sitting at this table, that we are friends, and that we are ready to develop our kind-hearted relations.
And the Commonwealth of Independent States serves this goal. It is the platform that has brought us together and which, I am sure, will help us for many years to come in resolving a wide variety of challenges to ensure that our nations develop and that our people feel close and needed, so that they are simply friends.
Topics
CIS
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 20, 2011, 18:00
Text version