Events
Meeting with senior officials and staff of investigative bodies
Dmitry Medvedev met with senior officials and investigators from the Interior Ministry, Prosecutor General’s Office, Investigative Committee, and with civil society representatives.
November 23, 2011
14:00
Gorki, Moscow Region
4 of 6
At a meeting on improving legislation and on law application practices.
Ways to enhance legislation and address problems in law application practices in investigating certain types of cases, including corruption cases, were the subjects of discussion.
The meeting also examined working conditions and social protection provisions for investigators and financing and equipment support for the law enforcement agencies.
The President also awarded state decorations to a number of officers from the Prosecutor General’s Office and Investigative Committee for services towards strengthening law and order and high achievements in the performance of their duties.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Good afternoon,
I have held a number of meetings in which investigative officials and judges have taken part. Present today are people from the Prosecutor General’s Office, the Investigative Committee, the Interior Ministry’s Investigations Department, investigators, prosecutors, and also members of the parliament and civil society groups.
This meeting’s purpose is to review the current state of affairs, but before we begin the discussion, I first want to give my recognition to the work of law enforcement and investigate officers with whom I have not met previously. You are the ones directly involved in investigating criminal cases, and I therefore want to thank you for your courage (not only those who run around with a gun in their hand need courage), the principles that you must show and hold firm to in investigating any case, and your devotion to your professional duty.
I have gathered you here not just to thank you, of course, although I will indeed do so at the end of the meeting. Apart from thanking you, I will also present decorations to some of you here. But I want first to discuss the situation today and listen to your proposals.
We all know the general issues. I want to examine the current legislative situation and hear your views on the improvements perhaps required, the shortcomings you see, and the problems that have come to light in law enforcement practice in investigating particular types of cases, including corruption cases, which raise a large number of questions among the public. We will also discuss investigators’ working conditions, their financing and equipment support, and everyday routine issues. I hope for a substantial and frank discussion of all of these matters.
Over these last years, at my initiative and the initiative of our political parties, the parliament has passed many laws improving investigative practice. Changes have been made to the criminal and criminal procedure laws. These changes concern many different areas and we can discuss them and the development trends in our criminal and criminal procedure laws, all the more so as these are matters that I have already discussed during meetings with people from the Interior Ministry, Federal Security Service, and Prosecutor General’s Office. Many other laws have been passed too, including anti-corruption laws.
I take this opportunity to inform you that I have just signed the new Federal Law aimed at improving state administration as far as countering corruption goes. It will make checks into civil servants’ income declarations more effective. I spoke about this matter a while ago. Upon request from the law enforcement agencies banks will be under obligation to provide information on financial transactions carried out by state officials. Senators will now also provide income declarations, I mean the members of the Council of Federation, as well as parliamentary deputies at every level, and also regional and municipal officials will all have to file income declarations.
Furthermore, I made a proposal not so long ago that sparked active debate but was finally supported, namely, the proposal to be able to fire civil servants on the basis of loss of confidence in connection with breaches of the law. This is a new step in our practice.
There is one other issue that I bring to the attention of the senior officers of the law enforcement agencies, given that it comes up often in discussions of various matters with our foreign colleagues. I have just submitted to the State Duma the draft law on Russia’s accession to the Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions. It has been pointed out to us on many occasions that we have not ratified this document and not joined this convention. The time has surely come to do so. 
The fight against corruption requires not only the concerted efforts of our law enforcement agencies, but also our public organisations, which work on a broad range of different issues. The public has a vital role to play in fighting corruption and on other issues, especially in today’s modern world and the global information community. I therefore bring this matter to your attention too.
<…>
Topics
Fight against corruption
Law enforcement agencies
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 23, 2011, 14:00
Text versionEvents
Statement in connection with the situation concerning the NATO countries’ missile defence system in Europe
November 23, 2011
16:00
Gorki, Moscow Region
President of Russia DMITRY MEDVEDEV: Citizens of Russia,
I address you today in connection with the situation concerning the NATO countries’ missile defence system in Europe.
Russia’s relations with the USA and NATO in the missile defence area have a long and complicated history. I remember that when US President Barack Obama revised his predecessor’s plans to build a missile defence system in Europe in September 2009, we welcomed this as a positive step.
This decision paved the way to our being able to conclude the important New START Treaty which was signed not too long ago and which clearly states the intrinsic link between strategic offensive weapons and missile defence. Let me state that again, this was a major achievement.
Subsequently, however, the USA began carrying out a new missile defence plan that foresaw the creation of a missile defence system in stages. This specifically raises concerns in Russia. It would eventually see the deployment of US missiles and military capability in close proximity to Russia’s borders and in the neighbouring waters.
At the NATO-Russia Council summit in Lisbon a year ago, I proposed developing a joint sector-based missile defence system in Europe where every country would be responsible for a particular sector.
Furthermore, we were ready to discuss additional modifications to the system, taking into account our NATO partners’ views. Our only goal was to preserve the basic principle that Europe does not need new dividing lines, but rather, a common security perimeter with Russia’s equal and legally enshrined participation.
It is my conviction that this approach would create unique opportunities for Russia and NATO to build a genuine strategic partnership. We are to replace the friction and confrontation in our relations with the principles of equality, indivisible security, mutual trust, and predictability.
Regrettably, the USA and other NATO partners have not showed enough willingness to move in this direction. Rather than showing themselves willing to hear and understand our concerns over the European missile defence system at this stage, they simply repeat that these plans are not directed against Russia and that there is no point for us to be concerned. That is the position of the executive authorities, but legislators in some countries openly state, the whole system is against Russia.
But our requests that they set this out on paper in the form of clear legal obligations are firmly rejected. We do hold a reasonable position. We are willing to discuss the status and content of these obligations, but our colleagues should understand that these obligations must have substance and not be just empty words. They must be worded not as promises and reassurances, but as specific military-technical criteria that will enable Russia to judge to what extent US and NATO action in the missile defence area correspond to their declarations and steps, whether our interests are being impinged on, and to what extent the strategic nuclear balance is still intact. This is the foundation of the present-day security.
We will not agree to take part in a programme that in a short while, in some 6 to 8 years’ time could weaken our nuclear deterrent capability. The European missile defence programme is already underway and work on it is, regrettably, moving rapidly in Poland, Turkey, Romania, and Spain. We find ourselves facing a fait accompli.
Of course we will continue the dialogue with the USA and NATO on this issue. I agreed on this with US President Barack Obama when we met recently, and on that occasion again stated our concerns very clearly. There is still time to reach an understanding. Russia has the political will to reach the agreements needed in this area, agreements that would open a new chapter in our relations with the USA and NATO.
If our partners show an honest and responsible attitude towards taking into account Russia’s legitimate security interests, I am sure we can come to an agreement. But if we are asked to ‘cooperate’ or in fact act against our own interests it will be difficult to establish common ground. In such a case we would be forced to take a different response. We will decide our actions in accordance with the actual developments in events at each stage of the missile defence programme’s implementation. 
In this connection, I have made the following decisions:
First, I am instructing the Defence Ministry to immediately put the missile attack early warning radar station in Kaliningrad on combat alert.
Second, protective cover of Russia’s strategic nuclear weapons will be reinforced as a priority measure under the programme to develop our air and space defences.
Third, the new strategic ballistic missiles commissioned by the Strategic Missile Forces and the Navy will be equipped with advanced missile defence penetration systems and new highly-effective warheads.
Fourth, I have instructed the Armed Forces to draw up measures for disabling missile defence system data and guidance systems if need be. These measures will be adequate, effective, and low-cost.
Fifth, if the above measures prove insufficient, the Russian Federation will deploy modern offensive weapon systems in the west and south of the country, ensuring our ability to take out any part of the US missile defence system in Europe. One step in this process will be to deploy Iskander missiles in Kaliningrad Region.
Other measures to counter the European missile defence system will be drawn up and implemented as necessary.
Furthermore,
If the situation continues to develop not to Russia’s favour, we reserve the right to discontinue further disarmament and arms control measures.
Besides, given the intrinsic link between strategic offensive and defensive arms, conditions for our withdrawal from the New START Treaty could also arise, and this option is enshrined in the treaty.
But let me stress the point that we are not closing the door on continued dialogue with the USA and NATO on missile defence and on practical cooperation in this area. We are ready for that.
However, this can be achieved only through establishing a clear legal base for cooperation that would guarantee that our legitimate interests and concerns are taken into account. We are open to a dialogue and we hope for a reasonable and constructive approach from our Western partners.
Geography
United States
Topics
Foreign policy
National security
Russia–NATO
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 23, 2011, 16:00
Text version