Events
Meeting with President of Laos Choummaly Sayasone
Following the Russian-Lao talks, the two leaders adopted a declaration on strategic partnership in the Asia-Pacific region between Russia and the Lao People's Democratic Republic. A number of other documents, in particular, an agreement on cooperation in healthcare and tourism, were signed in the presence of Dmitry Medvedev and Choummaly Sayasone.
October 13, 2011
14:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 6
With President of the Lao People's Democratic Republic Choummaly Sayasone.
* * *
Beginning of meeting with President of the Lao People's Democratic Republic Choummaly Sayasone
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Mr President, it is a pleasure to welcome you to the Kremlin.
Today is a very important day in the Russian-Lao relations, because this top-level visit, which is taking place after a lengthy interval, will no doubt contribute to further development of friendly Russian-Lao relations.
Mr President, you know our country well but there have been some major changes since your last visit to Russia. The Lao People's Democratic Republic is developing successfully too, so we have a great deal to discuss in the economic sphere and in the field of humanitarian cooperation; we must also coordinate our positions on international issues, including such an important area for us as relations in the Asia-Pacific region.
A large package of documents has been prepared but we hope that in addition to the working part you will also enjoy your visit in Moscow and St Petersburg and have a good opportunity to learn about life of our country.
I wish you a successful stay.
President of The Lao People'S Democratic Republic Choummaly Sayasone
(re-translated): Mr President, I would like to thank you for your very warm welcome extended to my delegation and me.
This is probably the first top-level visit in recent time and it is certain to have a lasting effect on the development of our relationship.
We are very happy with the warm reception here in Moscow. We hope that this visit will strengthen the foundations of the traditionally friendly ties between our countries and offer a new framework for the development of our relations.
The weather is quite cold in Russia now but our hearts rejoice at the warmth of this meeting. We are glad to be here and to see the glorious heroic city of Moscow.
Thank you very much.
<…>
Geography
Laos
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Sayasone Choummaly
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 13, 2011, 14:30
Text version