Events
Opening of Year of Russian Culture in Italy and Year of Italian Culture in Russia
Dmitry Medvedev and Prime Minister of Italy Silvio Berlusconi participated in an opening ceremony for the Year of Russian Culture and Language in Italy and Year of Italian Culture and Language in Russia.
February 16, 2011
20:00
Rome
6 of 6
At the exhibition of works by artist Alexander Deineka. With Prime Minister of Italy Silvio Berlusconi.
The cultural project will include exhibitions, theatre festivals, concerts, and meetings with writers and linguists.
The first Year of Russia in Italy event was the opening of a major exhibition of works by artist Alexander Deineka (1899–1969) from the State Tretyakov Gallery (Moscow) and the Russian Museum (St Petersburg). When visiting the exhibition, Dmitry and Svetlana Medvedev were accompanied by Silvio Berlusconi
.
* * *
Prime Minister of Italy Silvio Berlusconi (retranslated): Hello, everyone,
It is with great warmth that I would like to welcome President of the Russian Federation Dmitry Medvedev and his wife, who have granted us the great honour of visiting us on this occasion, which is very important to us. Today, we are triumphantly launching the Year of Russian Language and Culture in Italy and the Year of Italian Language and Culture in Russia.
Our nations have very friendly relations at the political, economic and commercial level. We are, first and foremost, two cultural superpowers. And I think that this eventful year will render our relations and our friendship even closer.
Many events will take place, beginning today: over two hundred, with a hundred in Russia and a hundred in Italy. Italian events in Russia will be spread over more than 30 cities throughout Russia’s vast territory – which is 56 times greater than that of Italy. Various Russian cultural events will be held in Italy as well, in both large and small cities – in the cities of the north, centre and south, involving over 50 state and private organisations.
I would like to thank all the representatives of these organisations, who will also join us tonight for dinner at Villa Madama.
We will send rare Botticelli and Caravaggio paintings to Russia, to the Pushkin Museum, the Kremlin Museum, and the Hermitage in St Petersburg. And here, in Florence, we will be displaying treasures from the Kremlin.
There will be concerts by very prestigious Italian orchestras, an opera production of Nebuchadnezzar conducted by Maestro Muti, Verdi’s requiem will be performed in Moscow, and the Italian theatre will tour various Russian cities. Italy will play the lead at the book fair to be held in Moscow, and Russia will be an honoured guest at the book fair in Turin. There will be many joint events held by universities and schools.
I think that we will also have a great deal of success in holding sporting events. We have a major programme planned in a variety of sports, including synchronised swimming.
We also decided to present the ‘Made in Italy’ designs, technology and innovations. More than 200 Italian companies will come to Russia to present their achievements in a wide variety of sectors, including in research and medical sector – achievements that have truly turned our nation into its own kind of landmark, including in the field of education for foreigners. We are united with Russia through very close strategic cooperation and partnership upheld by the many Italian companies working in Russia, important Russian investments in Italy, and some very close political relations between the two nations’ leaders.
I have long-standing relations with Prime Minister Vladimir Putin and close, tight relations with Dmitry Medvedev. I hope that you really see us as your friend in the European Union. I personally oversaw all the relations that the European Union develops and will develop with the Russian Federation. The Russian Federation is the world’s most important oil and gas exporter. And naturally, Russia is interested in Europe, because it is a very important market for Russia.
On the other hand, Europe and Italy particularly need Russian gas and oil, which currently covers about one third of our gas and oil needs. Thus, in addition to the reasons I mentioned earlier, we also have specific economic reasons for cooperating. I would like to thank President Medvedev and his wife for coming here.
We will be together in the evening as well, and we will have the opportunity to talk about all the events that will be held in Italy and in Russia. We will have the chance to truly celebrate our friendship in the best possible way, also addressing the problems and concerns we have in connection with the events unfolding around the world – for example, the events in the Maghreb region – we will have that opportunity. Thus, I want to once again thank my friend Dmitry from the bottom of my heart.
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Mr Prime Minister, dear Silvio,
Ladies and gentlemen, friends,
We are launching the Year of Russian Culture and Language in Italy and the Year of Italian Culture and Language in Russia. We are launching it here in Rome. Mr Prime Minister just described in detail the cultural exchanges that will occur.
But in speaking about language, I have a feeling that perhaps we do not even need to make any special efforts. Judging by the fact that the Russian delegation did not use their headsets during the Prime Minister’s speech, we could conclude that nearly all of us in Russia understand Italian. This is very good, absolutely excellent.
To be more specific, according to our linguists’ estimates, there are 40 to 45 thousand people in Russia studying the Italian language – it would seem this includes officials in the Government and the Presidential Executive Office – and some 30 thousand Italians who study the Russian language. This will certainly help our communication – and this communication and these relations are excellent.
Mr Prime Minister just said that we are launching a cultural project unprecedented in its scope and mentioned there would be 300 events. My information differs and it seems that Russia uses bigger figures, because according to my data, there will be 500 events, therefore 200 must have gotten lost somewhere. But apparently, these must be smaller events, or perhaps they appeared on the agenda at the last minute. In any case, 300 is a good number, and 500 is even better, because our nations are truly close when it comes to culture.
During a certain period in time, Italian culture played an extraordinary role in shaping Russian classical culture as Italy was frequented by our writers, artists and poets. Incidentally, even the fact that the Year of Russian Culture is beginning with an exhibition of Alexander Deineka’s paintings is also likely no accident. He is a Soviet-era artist who mainly painted during the Soviet period, but nevertheless, his works, even during these times which were anything but simple, were influenced enormously by Italian culture and perhaps that is precisely why we can see in them both processes that were occurring in our country during a troublesome period of its history, and a serious influence by Italian culture.
Italy is justly considered a treasure trove of European civilisation. Italy has always had a special attitude toward culture and art. The great spirit of renaissance has traditionally nourished a huge number of people of arts who came here. As I already said, since the 18th century many Russian writers, poets, musicians and painters came here and their experience gave tremendous momentum to the development of Russian culture. Many of our geniuses lived here for years, including Fyodor Dostoyevsky, Nikolai Gogol, Pyotr Tchaikovsky, Sergei Prokofiev, Andrei Tarkovsky and Joseph Brodsky, and I am certain that future generations of Russian artists, writers and poets will be inspired not only by their own country, but by the wonderful landscapes and architectural monuments of Italy as well.
Indeed, our nations have a great deal in common, including openness, kindness, sociability, the emotionality inherent to our peoples, and receptiveness to all that is new. Thus, I hope that this major cultural project will boost our relations and will advance them in areas aside from just business contacts. And this is very important – I absolutely agree with what Mr Prime Minister said. No doubt, our business ties are strategic in nature, but the humanitarian component is no less important and it has always been strong. It was strong in the 18th and especially the 19th century, as well as in the 20th century. I hope that the humanitarian component will shape the face of our cooperation into the 21st century too.
I would like for everything happening this year to truly be very interesting for our people. They will be able to learn about the wonderful works of Italian art, both by visiting Italy itself and through television and other media in Russia. I hope that the same will happen in respect of Russia where we are always happy to see our friends from Italy, who visit our museums, theatres and concert halls. In general, these intensive contacts are very important as they promote a distinctive harmony in relationships between our people, and therefore, between our nations.
It is a pleasure for me to participate in this ceremony today and I would like to thank my Italian friends, including Silvio personally, for the input you made into launching these events. I would like to express gratitude to all the bodies that helped organise these events here and elsewhere.
Overall, we are happy that we are participating in the opening of the Year of Russian Culture in Italy and Year of Italian Culture in Russia. I would like to wish everyone here interesting explorations and success this year.
See also
More details about visit to Italy and the Vatican
February 16 − 17, 2011
Geography
Italy
Topics
Culture
Foreign policy
Persons
Berlusconi Silvio
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 16, 2011, 20:00
Text versionEvents
Russian-Italian talks
Talks between Dmitry Medvedev and President of Italy Giorgio Napolitano were held in Rome.
February 16, 2011
19:00
Rome
The Presidents gave special attention to cooperation in the humanitarian sector and to cultural cooperation between Russia and Italy, particularly the upcoming Year of Russian Culture and Language in Italy and Year of Italian Culture and Language in Russia, which will include over 500 planned events.
Another topic during the talks was bilateral cooperation in security, gas and nuclear energy, and the financial sector.
In addition, the sides exchanged views regarding current issues on the international agenda such as global security and the situation in North Africa and in the Middle East.
Following the talks, Dmitry Medvedev and Giorgio Napolitan
o made press statements.
Press statements following Russian-Italian talks
President of the Italian Republic Giorgio Napolitano (retranslated): Good afternoon, everyone,
It was my great pleasure to meet with the President of the Russian Federation, Mr Medvedev, in an ever-stronger spirit of friendship.
First, he and I finalised the programme for the Year of Russian Culture and Language in Italy, which will formally open today. This programme will include a rich variety of very interesting events, covering a range of areas. We perceive the development of cultural relations to be an extremely important aspect for expanding economic, diplomatic, and all other relations between our countries.
Further today there will be meetings with the Government of Italy and we will oversee the signing of documents and important agreements concerning energy resources security and financial relations between our nations.
We recognise that these issues of prime importance – including for international cooperation – go beyond our bilateral relations. And here, we are referring to the issues that will be discussed at the next G20 summit in Paris where we will channel our attention and utmost efforts toward overcoming the situation resulting from the global financial crisis that erupted throughout our planet in 2008.
We also exchanged views on the role of cooperation between the Russian Federation and Europe, as well as between Russia and NATO. We talked about the NATO-Russia summit, which was held last month and which became a significant new move forward in the succession of step-by-step implementation of a transparent common anti-missile defence programme.
As for Europe and the hardships that have affected the euro, I expressed my opinion and certainty that euro gains are inevitable and that Europe will not take any steps backward with regard to the euro. It can and must only take steps forward on the path toward integration – toward a more integrated, united Europe that can play an important role on the global arena and which needs maximum cooperation with the Russian Federation, because the challenges and threats ahead of us in many areas, concerning many matters, are common.
We also discussed recent events on the international arena focusing on Tunisia, Egypt, and the overall picture we are seeing today in Northern Africa, which is also influencing the Middle East. We want to find joint solutions to these problems as well.
We believe that many nations should follow the path declared by President Medvedev with regard to the Russian Federation, the path of modernisation and rule of law. Modernising economy, ensuring its consolidated growth, improving social fairness while respecting personal rights – all these are key aspects in overcoming or anticipating and preventing the tensions we are observing in certain countries today.
Finally, during my conversation with President Medvedev, I was delighted to advise him that several days ago, the Cabinet and I signed a document on extending invitations to 68 heads of state and government to take part in celebrating the 150th anniversary of Italy’s reunification. This celebration will take place on June 2 in Rome and I have invited heads of state to attend it. It coincides with our national holiday, Republic Day.
I very much hope that President Medvedev will accept my invitation and find time in his schedule to spend a day participating in our celebration devoted to this important event. It would be a very important step, allowing us to further strengthen cooperation and friendship between our two countries.
Thank you, Mr President.
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen,
President Napolitano in his opening remarks spoke about practically everything we have been dealing with. He gave a very accurate and detailed report, which simplifies my task of course, though I would be happy to go once more over the subjects we discussed and the main positions we expressed.
What did President Napolitano and I talk about? We noted that relations between Russia and Italy are not just very important in themselves, but are strategic for the European Union as a whole and its individual members to build a solid foundation for their ties with Russia. Italian businesspeople are very active in coming to our country, and our trade ties have increased substantially last year, as we both noted, and this is a sign that, first, European countries are emerging from the crisis, and second, mutual interest in developing joint business remains high.
Three important documents will be signed soon, and the President and I both agree that these three documents reflect the diversity of our cooperation, while at the same time showing the main outlines for work together.
What are these three documents? I will anticipate events a little here. First of all, there is our security cooperation and the document in this area on military transit to and from Afghanistan. This is without question one of the important areas in which Russia is working together with all of the European countries, and now Italy is joining in this cooperation with us too on the basis of a separate agreement.
Second, there is our energy sector cooperation, which also serves as a foundation for developing cooperation in other sectors too. In this respect we have some decent results. We would like to continue developing our ties in trading gas and other energy sources, and in the nuclear energy sector. This is also one of the symbols of our cooperation.
Finally, cooperation in the financial sector is also important, especially at a time when countries are emerging from the crisis period. President Napolitano said just before that the last few years were very difficult for the European Union. This applies equally to other countries as well. We are very pleased that the European Union found the strength to bolster its policies and adopt a consolidated line, helping the countries that ran into difficulties and preserving the euro as a common currency. As I have said in the past, I think that having the euro as one of the global reserve currencies has helped other countries too, which do not use the euro as a means of payment, to overcome the crisis and its consequences, and is an important part of the global efforts to fight financial problems.
We exchanged views on how we view post-crisis development. We spoke about what needs to be done to make the next G20 summit, which will take place in France, a success, and ensure that its decisions are transformed into concrete action.
We talked about global security, and also about the chain of events that are still unfolding in the Middle East and Africa. These are complex problems of course. Our position is that the conflicts taking place there and the events that are unfolding must all be resolved on the basis of these countries’ own laws and in respect for their constitutions and the basic rights and freedoms enshrined in their legal systems.
We also discussed our work in an area it gives us great pleasure to develop, namely, the Year of Russian Culture and Language in Italy, and the Year of Italian Culture and Language in Russia. This is a big project that encompasses more than 500 events, some of which have already begun, with others still to come. I hope that many Italians will be able to visit the exhibitions and concerts that will take place in Italy, and that Russians will take part in the events that Italy will organize in our country. This is certainly a very positive event and a good area of work.
I note that this is not just about culture but also about promoting the study of our respective languages. I read the memos available and saw that around 30,000 people in Italy are studying Russian, and around 40,000 people in Russia are studying Italian. This is maybe not such a big number, but it is not a small number either. I hope that these events will encourage more people to study Russian and Italian.
The last thing that the President mentioned was an anniversary date coming up in Italy. I want to thank the President for his invitation to take part in celebrating the 150th anniversary of Italy’s reunification. I think this will be an excellent event. In any case, to judge by the faces of the journalists in the press pool accompanying the Russian president, our people welcome this event with great interest. It will certainly be of interest to all who love and appreciate Italy, and there are a great many such people in our country.
Once more, I want to thank President Napolitano for the invitation.
See also
More details about visit to Italy and the Vatican
February 16 − 17, 2011
Geography
Italy
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Napolitano Giorgio
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 16, 2011, 19:00
Text version