Events
Meeting with President of the Federal Republic of Germany Christian Wulff
In Berlin, Dmitry Medvedev met with President of the Federal Republic of Germany Christian Wulff.
November 8, 2011
14:00
Berlin
2 of 7
The official reception ceremony. With President of the Federal Republic of Germany Christian Wulff.
The two leaders discussed financial, economic, foreign policy and humanitarian cooperation between the two states.
Following the talks, Dmitry Medvedev and Christian Wulff
gave a joint news conference.
* * *
Excerpts from news conference following Russian-German talks
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues,
I would like to thank President Wulff for the invitation to make an official visit to the Federal Republic of Germany.
Recently, Mr Wulff and I met in Russia, where we talked about the issues that were mentioned just now. I believe the agenda of this return visit is so rich in various events which fully reflect the level of interaction and rapport between our states and the strategic partnership that has evolved between us.
Our meeting began with a conversation with young people. Later Mr President and I exchanged impressions about it. Naturally, these young people cannot remember the difficulties that existed only 30 or 40 years ago. Perhaps they attribute less importance to history, but history should never be forgotten.
”The relations between Russia and Germany are an excellent example of how it is possible to pass through an extremely difficult phase and forge a relationship that is not just good-neighbourly but one that is a strategic partnerships and a true friendship.“
I am grateful to Mr President for mentioning just now the lessons we should draw from the past and how we should view the future. In this sense, the relations between Russia and Germany are an excellent example of how it is possible to pass through an extremely difficult phase and forge a relationship that is not just good-neighbourly but one that is a strategic partnerships and a true friendship, enabling us to work together in all areas, ranging from the economy to humanitarian ties.
This visit’s agenda incorporates a variety of aspects. It started with the meeting between Mr President and myself, to be followed shortly by the launch ceremony for the Nord Stream gas pipeline, which I will attend. This long-awaited event marks a new stage in strengthening the relations between Russia and the European Union, Russia and Germany and a number of other countries that participated in the pipeline’s construction. Ultimately, this event will promote security in Europe, including energy security, which we value so highly, especially at times of economic problems.
The face of Russian-German relations is defined by more than the economy. The humanitarian ties between our states go back centuries and are of enormous importance as well. This makes our exchange of views on these issues particularly valuable.
I would like to remind you that during Mr President’s visit to the Russian Federation, we agreed to hold the Year of Russia in Germany and the Year of Germany in Russia in 2012 and 2013. We hope that these key cultural events will include a variety of meetings and contacts between civil societies, events in the sphere of culture, art and science. I think this is a very important initiative. Today, we must ensure that these events are organised at the highest level. I hope that Mr President will continue to be involved in the preparations and will personally monitor the progress because they are a significant component of the Russian-German dialogue.
”The launch ceremony for the Nord Stream gas pipeline marks a new stage in strengthening the relations between Russia and the European Union. Ultimately, this event will promote security in Europe, including energy security.“
We are open to promoting dialogue between civil societies and NGOs, as well as interpersonal contacts, especially among young people. As I told Mr President, there is only one but a significant obstacle to this: it concerns visas. We very much hope that now that we have adopted the roadmap, Germany and other EU countries with which we are currently involved in talks on the issue will begin to focus on not just easing visa requirements but on completely abolishing visas. Only then can we create a united Europe and only then can we count on a full-fledged partnership.
Let me remind you that the European Union and Germany are Russia’s key economic partners but Russia also has a very serious place on the EU market and the German market, so this matter is crucial.
We talked about all the issues directly and openly, in a spirit of partnership and at the same time bearing in mind that the level of relations between Russia and Germany and the history of this relationship allows us not to limit our discussion to an exchange of niceties but that we can count on reaching an understanding on highly complex matters. We hope that such close relations will continue to bind our two countries and that the leaders will always be able to communicate in such a way. We expect that in this challenging period for the EU countries, the decisions required to finally overcome this series of difficult, problem-ridden events experienced by certain states will be taken, including by Germany, and we will develop full-fledged and very advanced economic relations with Germany and other EU states. Why do I say this? Because a great deal depends on Germany here, as I said to Mr President, and we certainly hope that in this situation, all the states will act responsibly.
Once again I would like to thank you for the invitation to visit Germany. This is a very positive event for me and for our delegation. Thank you for your hospitality and we will continue our conversation later.
* * *
Question: Mr Medvedev, this question is about your assessment of the situation in the Middle East. Both Russian and German foreign ministers expressed concern about Israel’s intentions to attack Iran. What is your position on this, as a representative of one of the major UN powers?
”We agreed to hold the Year of Russia in Germany and the Year of Germany in Russia in 2012 and 2013. We must ensure that these events are organised at the highest level.“
Dmitry Medvedev: First, about coinciding views. You know, if views coincide on every issue, the history of humanity will be over. Even families never have completely identical opinions, so we shouldn’t strive to reach this objective because it would be harmful. However, it is important that our views coincide on key points and in that case everything will be alright.
We have just touched on the issue of visas. Indeed, we believe that visas are a vestige of the past, and the EU should abandon them in order to build full-fledged relations with Russia. A variety of approaches is possible here but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that today the EU countries have a number of agreements with other countries that are developing according to very different scenarios. You can examine the list of those states and see whether they have ideal political lives, how far they have come in the fight against corruption, and what achievements in the field of democracy they have made.
As for the Middle East, we are certainly concerned about the situation that is emerging there, especially considering that even the reforms in North Africa have greatly affected sentiments in the Middle East. We cannot ignore the current problems in relations between Israel and Iran.
As a responsible member of the international community, a permanent Security Council member and a member of the negotiating process, Russia will continue to urge Iran to act responsibly, by which I mean to implement the adopted decisions and demonstrate that the Iranian nuclear programme is exclusively peaceful in its nature. During my contacts with the leadership of Iran, all of Iran's leaders, including the President, have repeatedly assured me that they are willing to provide the relevant evidence and are ready to interact with other participants in the negotiations. Unfortunately, there has been no progress in this area.
As for confrontational statements that someone, be it Israel or some other state, is preparing to use force against Iran or any other country in the Middle East, it is very dangerous rhetoric. We realise that tensions in the Middle East are running high. We know that the Middle East peace process is at an impasse; there has been no progress despite the serious efforts made by all the participants in the process. Raising a militarist tide and issuing threats in these circumstances could trigger very complex consequences, including a military conflict. That is why I believe it is important to keep calm and continue constructive talks on all aspects of the Middle East agenda, Iran's nuclear programme, as well as all other issues, and not make threats about the use of force in this situation. This could result in a major war, and for the Middle East it would be a catastrophe – just look at the map and see how many countries are concentrated there and what the consequences of the use of force in the region would be.
See also
All news about visit to Germany
November 7 − 8, 2011
Geography
Germany
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Wulff Christian
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 8, 2011, 14:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with German business community leaders
In Berlin Dmitry Medvedev met with German business community leaders, including executives of Siemens, Deutsche Bank, E.ON, Ruhrgas, Metro, Knauf and others.
November 8, 2011
20:30
Berlin
1 of 3
Meeting with German business community leaders.
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Good afternoon,
It was a comfortable trip here because today is special in every way, starting from the event that you just spoke of and ending with the excellent weather. 
I want to start by saying what a pleasure it is to have this chance to meet again with German business community members. I know from our past meetings that you always take a very reasonable and pragmatic and non-ideological approach to our various cooperation ties. Those who have been working on our market have an adequate understanding of Russia today and know its strong points and opportunities, and its problems too, which, speaking frankly, we have never hidden and on which we are working together with you to resolve.
But Russia is changing. The strategic choice that we made, the choice of modernisation as an instrument for changing our country, is a subject I think of great importance for our discussions.
”Our goal is simple – to build a competitive modern economy based not only on raw materials potential, for all its importance, but on knowledge too, on advanced technology.“
Our goal is simple – to build a competitive modern economy based not only on raw materials potential, for all its importance, and we are happy with the big event that took place today, but we want our economy to be based on knowledge too, on advanced technology, because I think this is the kind of economy that Russia needs in order to play its part in the modern world.
Mr Cordes [Chairman of the German Committee on Eastern European Economic Relations and moderator of the meeting] said a few kind words just before about my role with regard to Russia’s accession to the WTO. There are two things here: first, we have not actually joined the organisation yet, and I can hardly quite believe that the process is actually over, because we managed to take longer about it than did some of our big partners, China for example.
Second, a huge number of people worked hard to make this happen. This includes my colleagues in the Government, those working now, and those who worked earlier. We have always felt the business community’s energetic support, and not only among Russian businesspeople, but also among our friends and colleagues from other countries, including our German partners, who realised that the World Trade Organisation was not some carrot dangled before Russia to encourage us to take this or that measure, but was an inevitable step for our country and for the WTO itself, because the world’s sixth biggest economy in terms of purchasing power parity, a country as big as ours, simply cannot be outside the WTO. 
We are making active efforts to give private capital a comfortable environment for operating in our country, passing new laws, including laws that fight corruption, simplify administrative procedures, and reduce red-tape.
You all have your own ideas on what is happening, and I would be grateful if you could share your views and thoughts.
”We are making active efforts to give private capital a comfortable environment for operating in our country, passing new laws, including laws that fight corruption, simplify administrative procedures, and reduce red-tape.“
People often say that capital is as easily frightened as a timid doe, but German capital is cut of bolder cloth, as we saw clearly during the very difficult crisis period, when not a single German project was halted, despite the difficult economic situation. The big projects continue to advance. Siemens has invested more than 1 billion euros in our economy, and Volkswagen produced the 300,000th car at its plant in Kaluga. Many other colleagues have done a great deal of work too, though I will not list each by name right now. Your companies have also shown much interest in taking part in the Skolkovo Innovation Centre, and I thank you for this too, because this is also a very important undertaking for our country.
Of course we are very happy with the way our traditional cooperation ties, including in the energy sector, are developing. Today’s event really does have historic significance. Federal Chancellor Angela Merkel, Dutch Prime Minister [Mark] Rutte, French Prime Minister [Francois] Fillon and I launched the first section of the Nord Stream gas pipeline today. This is a real European project with great potential ahead, a project in which five companies from four different countries are taking part. It is a vivid example of how logic and perseverance can break down stereotypes.
I said at the opening and say again now that when we began work on this project we realised just how complex an undertaking it was technically, after all, laying over 1,200 kilometres of pipeline along the sea bed is no easy task. And then there were all of the environmental issues that had to be resolved, and all of the doubts and resistance from various quarters to overcome.
But I think it is very valuable indeed that we have completed the project and given Europe a new independent supply route from Russia. This is a very pragmatic approach free of any ideology, politics, or any attempts to secure Russia’s advantage at the expense of anyone else. We understand that gas is a good like any other. You have a seller and you have a buyer. I hope that there will be other projects of this sort in the future, projects that will be useful for our friends in Europe.
”Today’s event really does have historic significance. We launched the first section of the Nord Stream gas pipeline. This is a real European project with great potential ahead. It is a vivid example of how logic and perseverance can break down stereotypes.“
Our economic ties are developing rapidly. I want to name a few figures. From January to August this year our trade increased by almost 50 percent compared to the same period last year. If these trends continue we will reach a record bilateral trade figure, breaking the $70-billion mark for the first time. The European Union remains our major trading partner and on average our trade turnover comes to around $250 billion.
We are carrying out large-scale high-technology projects as part of the modernisation partnership that I spoke about, and we consider Germany’s active help in this area very important indeed. We place great value on Germany’s famed engineering thinking, but also on Germany’s corporate standards, which we are borrowing and introducing in our own business life. I say this not for the sake of mere praise. I say this because it was only quite recently that Russia became a market economy, and social and production infrastructure issues concerning labour relations and contractual relations and business agreements are very important for us, all the more so as we only started developing our corporate law and modern commercial practice not so long ago. I remind you that our countries use very similar private law systems. 
We have important events up ahead in our humanitarian ties too. In 2012–2013, our countries will hold reciprocal cultural years. This has already been decided with Federal President [Christian] Wulff. I hope that these events will give us the chance to discuss not just humanitarian issues but also investment, economic innovation, scientific and technological development, and youth exchanges. I hope that the business community will play an active part in these events.
One other subject that I mention often: I was looking on the internet just before and noticed that it said that the German authorities oppose the idea of giving Russia visa-free travel. I think these comments are inappropriate because nobody has ever actually made such a statement. The business community is usually one of the most active advocates of visa-free travel because businesspeople are among those who suffer from excessive rules and formalities regarding visas, employment issues, and other matters in this area. We hope to settle all of these subjects rapidly and as a common package. I expect the German business community will share our approach and will work together with us on making these ideas reality. 
I hope today’s meeting will be interesting.
Thank you very much.
See also
All news about visit to Germany
November 7 − 8, 2011
Geography
Germany
Topics
Economy and finance
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 8, 2011, 20:30
Text version