Events
Press statement following a meeting with the Presidents of Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Tajikistan
September 2, 2011
12:30
Dushanbe
President of Pakistan Asif Ali Zardari, President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev, President of Tajikistan Emomali Rahmon, and President of Afghanistan Hamid Karzai made press statements following their four-party meeting.
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Colleagues, media representatives,
We have just ended this third meeting of our four countries’ leaders, and I would like to thank the President of Tajikistan for its successful organisation.
These meetings have provided us with a useful mechanism for discussing current regional cooperation issues, fighting terrorism and extremism, and economic cooperation too, of course. We discussed all of these various matters today.
I want to say a few words about the work done since the meeting in Sochi. We set up a joint working group on trade and economic development. It met in Moscow recently and is now examining business plans for big regional projects and also looking at drawing up a roadmap of the proposals for carrying out projects between our four countries, or involving other parties as well, in these areas. I am sure that if we get this roadmap ready it will help us to pursue our economic development with even greater success. 
But it is time to move from words to action. This is also something we spoke about today. We have a number of projects long since on the table, but they have been going nowhere, and the time has come to actually carry them out. One of them is the energy sector project, CASA-1000, which involves building an electricity transmission line from Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan to Afghanistan and Pakistan. Russia is ready to take part in this project and invest considerable money in it (hundreds of millions of dollars), but the necessary organisational decisions would have to be made first, and we would have to be invited to take part. 
There are also plans for big gas transit projects, in particular, the Trans-Afghanistan Pipeline project, in which we are also ready to take part. Of course, we are also ready to take part in the kinds of bilateral projects that Russia has traditionally carried out together with the friendly countries here today.
We discussed regional security of course, including cooperation in preventing terrorism and extremism. The situation in Afghanistan and Pakistan is extremely important in this respect. We welcome the efforts that our friendly neighbours are making. I note too the vital importance of the efforts Pakistan has been making to fight terrorists and their infrastructure. We hope these efforts will continue and bring the hoped-for results.
Regarding the situation in Afghanistan, we discussed the national reconciliation process currently underway in this country, the Kabul Process, including the transfer of responsibility to Afghanistan itself for security in its own country. 
One of the main tasks now is probably to improve the Afghan armed forces’ combat capability so that they can ensure their country’s defence and fight extremist groups and drug trafficking together with other forces, and ultimately on their own.
Before coming to see you here, we discussed the situation in the region and our views of developments. I think we all agree that, ultimately, responsibility for what happens in the region rests upon our countries: Russia, Tajikistan, Pakistan, and Afghanistan. The partners helping us to resolve various problems in the region today play an important part too, of course, and a lot depends on them today, but they are nonetheless powers from outside the region. We therefore must reflect on how to strengthen the cooperation between our countries so as to help us build up our ability to ultimately guarantee the region’s peace and security through our own efforts, otherwise much of the work being done now to guarantee security could turn out in vain.
Colleagues, our discussion today confirmed that we share close approaches to resolving the region’s problems and similar views on our own roles in these efforts. I therefore hope that this dialogue, which has a good foundation now, will continue with all of the countries present today, and with the involvement of the regional organisations, including the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation
, the Collective Security Treaty Organisation
, and other groups that we think could make a useful contribution.
Once again, I thank my colleagues for what was an interesting and substantive discussion, and I hope that these meetings will continue, allowing us to resolve the various problems before us.
Thank you.
See also
Official visit to Tajikistan. Anniversary CIS Summit
September 2 − 3, 2011
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: September 2, 2011, 12:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of Pakistan Asif Ali Zardari
September 2, 2011
12:50
Dushanbe
With President of Pakistan Asif Ali Zardari.
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Mr President,
I am pleased to see you again. We had a good exchange of views today on developing our regional security cooperation. Your firm and resolute words inspired me, I must say. I think that they reflect the seriousness of the situation we face today in regional security. Meetings such as these four-party talks give us the opportunity to have a frank and direct exchange of views on what we think of current developments.
I spoke with President Karzai just before, and he said that he finds these exchanges of views very useful.
We have the chance now to look at our bilateral cooperation and discuss developments in our relations since your visit to the Russian Federation.
President of Pakistan Asif Ali Zardari
: Thank you, Your Excellency.
Mr President, I must first of all admit that you have been exceptionally kind. My visit to your country was a memorable one. It was memorable for history, it was memorable for us, because the last visit was made by my late father-in-law, Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, and after that, I had the honour, and you personally gave me the honor and received me.
We had some interesting dialogue today, but I think there is more room for cooperating. I think yourself and your leadership has evolved. The world has evolved. The old theory of being diplomatic about things is in the past. It is time for plain speaking.
Time is short. Things take a long time to evolve. Nothing can be made. The world has seen and witnessed that you cannot make things. Things have to evolve. Relationships have to evolve. Institutions have to evolve.
I think with your leadership and the forthcoming generation, we too, together, can make a difference to the region, and history will remember us for doing so.
<…>
See also
All materials related to the official visit to Tajikistan
September 2 − 3, 2011
Additional
Meeting with President of Pakistan Asif Ali Zardari
May 12, 2011
Persons
Zardari Asif Ali
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: September 2, 2011, 12:50
Text versionEvents
Press statements following Russian-Tajikistani talks
September 2, 2011
15:30
Dushanbe
With President of Tajikistan Emomali Rahmon. Press statements following Russian-Tajikistani talks.
President of Tajikistan Emomali Rahmon
: Media representatives, ladies and gentlemen,
We think this official visit by President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev to Tajikistan has produced very good results.
The talks took place in the atmosphere of friendship and complete understanding that characterises our countries’ relations. They were open and business-like in nature.
We expressed our desire to deepen and expand our mutually beneficial ties in various areas of political, trade, economic, scientific, technical, humanitarian, and military technical cooperation. We noted our mutual desire to develop our political contacts and expand the areas they cover. We discussed too, ways to make the work of the Intergovernmental Tajikistani-Russian Commission on Economic Cooperation as pragmatic as possible and keep it focused on achieving practical results.
In our discussion of the key areas of our bilateral trade and economic cooperation, we noted the need to make fuller use of the existing cooperation opportunities. Hydroelectricity and other economic sectors in which our two countries have established longstanding cooperation are, in our view, the priorities for continued investment cooperation. 
We paid a lot of attention at the talks to deepening our cultural and humanitarian ties and expressed our support for continuing to develop our relations in science, education, culture, information, and the arts.
We recognise the importance of approving, following our talks, a programme for intergovernmental economic cooperation between our two countries for 2011–2013. We both share the view that implementing this programme will be of substantial help in making progress in all the different areas of our bilateral cooperation.
Acting on our common responsibility for stability and security in Central Asia, we reiterated our firm commitment to continue developing our defence and military technical cooperation. We declared that we see cooperation in these areas as one of the most important areas of our bilateral cooperation today.
The signing of the Agreement on Border Cooperation is one of the main results to come out of these talks. We noted that the current situation in Afghanistan requires all of the region’s countries and the entire international community to continue their practical coordination of the efforts to restore peace and stability to this country. In this respect, we reaffirmed our desire to continue constructive cooperation within the international, regional, and other organisations.
I want to conclude by expressing my great satisfaction with today’s talks. I am sure that this official visit by the leader of the friendly Russia will open a new page in the rich history of the relations between our two countries.
It is now my great pleasure to give the floor to my colleague, the President of the Russian Federation.
The floor is yours, Mr Medvedev.
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Thank you, Mr Rahmon.
Colleagues, media representatives,
I have completed talks with the President of Tajikistan. As always, Mr Rahmon and I had a friendly, frank and productive discussion of the broad range of issues on our bilateral and multilateral cooperation agendas.
Continuing on from the discussions we had at the four-party meeting, we also exchanged views on the situation in the Central Asian region and discussed international issues.
I note that Tajikistan has always been and, I am sure, will remain our strategic ally and partner in all different areas. We reaffirmed today our intention to continue advancing our bilateral cooperation in all different areas and to cooperate within the Commonwealth of Independent States, the CSTO, EurAsEC, the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation, and other international organisations and the new international formats that we create. The format we have established together with Afghanistan and Pakistan, in particular, is very useful and promising, I think. 
We had detailed discussions of a wide range of issues, but of course we paid particular attention to matters concerning our own countries’ security and regional security.
We have just signed very important agreements on border cooperation. They will have a stabilising effect not only in our efforts to combat international terrorism and drug trafficking, but also in guaranteeing peace in this very geopolitically complex and unsettled region. 
We discussed today the completion of work on extending the agreement between our countries on the presence of a Russian military base on Tajikistan’s territory. We agreed to instruct our relevant agencies to have a new forward-looking agreement extending the base’s presence for 49 years, ready for signing in the first quarter of 2012.
I think that this kind of agreement must be carefully put together, and at the same time needs to reflect the balance of interests between the two sides. In any case, Mr Rahmon and I reaffirmed our desire today to reach a final agreement on this matter within the timeframe I just named.
We made a detailed analysis of the opportunities for strengthening our economic ties. One of the main instruments for developing these ties is the 2011–2014 Economic Cooperation Programme that was just signed. This programme will see a cooperation plan readied for implementation very soon. We hope that these documents will stimulate joint business activity and encourage investment. Substantial investment has already been made, though there are still plenty of opportunities for its development. Nevertheless, Russian direct investment in Tajikistan’s economy came to more than $110 million last year. Given that our countries are still in the process of recovering from the various crisis circumstances that affected our cooperation, this is not a bad result, but we will not stop here.
Of course we will take each side’s interests into account in this work. I am instructing our agencies to work also on the complicated issues related to our customs cooperation and cooperation on energy and oil supplies – the current tariffs, I mean. We should have the relevant proposals ready for our colleagues by the end of this year.
Of course we will continue active efforts to expand our cooperation in all other areas too, including humanitarian cooperation and cooperation in science, technology, education, and culture. We have had positive results with opening branches of Russian universities in Tajikistan. The Russian-Tajikistani (Slavic) University is already functioning, and the Russian Cultural Centre is being launched now in Dushanbe. We will continue these efforts to broaden our humanitarian contacts and promote science and technology projects. This represents the future and we place great importance on thess areas.
In conclusion, I thank Mr Rahmon for the hospitable reception and for the constructive and business-like atmosphere of today’s talks. I agree completely with the President of Tajikistan that this visit will help us to strengthen our bilateral ties and the alliance between our two countries. 
Thank you.
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: September 2, 2011, 15:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of Afghanistan Hamid Karzai
September 2, 2011
12:40
Dushanbe
With President of Afghanistan Hamid Karzai.
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Mr President, I am very pleased to have this opportunity to meet with you on the sidelines of our traditional four-party meetings to discuss Russian-Afghan cooperation, our bilateral projects, following on from the discussions we just had in the four-party format, and to talk about regional security too, of course. 
As I said just before at the news conference, the situation in our region ultimately depends on the regional powers themselves, and I think this is the direction we should work in and should be the main basis for the cooperation we develop. 
Naturally, we are ready to build up our cooperation with Afghanistan in the various economic sectors, in continuing our political dialogue and dialogue on security, and developing our humanitarian ties. 
President of Afghanistan Hamid Karzai
: Yes, Mr President, I fully share those views with you, and I’m glad we’re having this meeting here today. Afghanistan is satisfied with the expansion of relations with Russia and the way it has been handled on both sides is a matter of happiness for us. Afghanistan finds it only natural to engage in broader economic and political relations with Russia.
We think this is a natural road that we should follow.
See also
All materials related to the official visit to Tajikistan
September 2 − 3, 2011
Persons
Karzai Hamid
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: September 2, 2011, 12:40
Text version