Events
Coordination meeting of heads of law enforcement agencies
Dmitry Medvedev took part in a national coordination meeting of heads of law enforcement agencies. The main subjects on the agenda were counterterrorism security, fighting organised crime, combating corruption and extremism, and bolstering public law and order.
February 21, 2011
16:00
Moscow
1 of 2
Coordination meeting of heads of law enforcement agencies.
Participants of the national coordination meeting included President of the Constitutional Court Valery Zorkin
, President of the Supreme Court Vyacheslav Lebedev
, Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Sergei Naryshkin
, Secretary of the Security Council Nikolai Patrushev
, Chairman of the Accounts Chamber Sergei Stepashin
, Chairman of the Investigative Committee Alexander Bastrykin
, Interior Minister Rashid Nurgaliyev
, Justice Minister Alexander Konovalov
, Director of the Federal Drug Control Service Viktor Ivanov, Director of the Federal Security Service Alexander Bortnikov
, the Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoys to the Federal Districts, and regional governors.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Colleagues,
This is the first time we are meeting in this format that brings together the regional governors, representatives of all the branches of power, and representatives of the Prosecutor General’s Office and other law enforcement agencies. We are here to discuss crime fighting measures. I hope that today’s discussion will be as concrete and substantive, frank and engaged as possible. I expect too that the results that come out of it will improve the quality of law enforcement in our country and bolster our efforts to prevent and fight crime. 
There have been serious changes recently in the law enforcement. We are reforming the Interior Ministry and strengthening the other law enforcement, military and security agencies. On January 15, I signed a federal law establishing the Investigative Committee, and on March 1, the law On the Police Force will come take effect. We have analysed law enforcement practices and adjusted the powers of a number of other state agencies accordingly, including the Prosecutor General’s Office, and we are improving the penitentiary system. All of these measures aim to give us a more modern and reliable law enforcement system, and one thus focused more on protecting our citizens from lawlessness and corruption.
I also want to take this opportunity to outline a number of priorities for your work.
The first is a task of paramount importance today: raising the level of antiterrorism security. I am referring to all aspects of antiterrorism protection, including the transport sector of course, given the shortcomings that came to light at Domodedovo Airport and other transport infrastructure sites such as railway stations.
I have already issued a number of instructions. The Interior, Transport, and Emergencies Ministries, as well as other agencies and also the economic actors involved, must carry out a coordinated antiterrorism policy, working together in overall coordination with the FSB as the organisation responsible for counterterrorism efforts in general. This must be real coordinated work, and not some token show of activity. 
I remind the regional governors that all of the regions must carry out regular counterterrorism exercises, including in the transport sector. Such exercises should not be conducted only sporadically, only after tragedies, but regularly, as is the practice around the world. Yes, this can inconvenience passengers, and it does create a bit of tension, but it is nonetheless the only means of preventing these kinds of tragedies from happening in the first place.
”I remind the regional governors that all of the regions must carry out regular counterterrorism exercises, including in the transport sector. Such exercises should not be conducted only sporadically, only after tragedies, but regularly, as is the practice around the world.“
Areas for which various services have joint responsibility are the approaches to airports, railway stations, and metro stations and they should be placed under heightened supervision. Law enforcement representatives have said that we need to properly assign responsibilities over the adjoining areas and clearly identify who is responsible for what, so that we don’t end up with one police office patrolling the station square, and a completely different office supervising the station itself. This applies not just to the police, of course.
By the way, the Interior Ministry must raise police professional standards, and, as I have already said to the Minister, if need be, the number of police could be increased, including through transfers from other departments of the Interior Ministry, given the cutbacks that I have ordered. Whatever steps are required to ensure that transport and other public places are protected should be taken. Take the necessary decisions and report on them separately.
I remind you all again, above all the regional governors, that there must be regular inspections on an ongoing basis. We have the resources we need for this, and we have the regional antiterrorism commissions, and now the coordination meetings too, established in accordance with my instructions.
Furthermore, I have instructed the Prosecutor General to check on the executive authorities’ and relevant economic actors’ compliance with the current laws on neutralising security threats in the transport system. The authorities, economic actors, and business entities are responsible for the sites that they manage and operate, although we sometimes see the desire to slip out of this responsibility. Businesses should be open for dialogue, transparent, and not try to slip away from their duties.
Mr Chaika [Prosecutor General Yury Chaika], I am not sure if you have yet got to the bottom of who exactly owns Domodedovo Airport? The owner seems evident at first glance, but when you start to look into the details it turns out that the owner is hidden behind various beneficiary assets. And yet we are talking here about one of our biggest airports, which handles a huge number of planes, not to mention the tragedy that took place there. So, what is the situation? Do you have a report ready? You can brief us later.
Second, our crime-fighting work must produce better results. We should concentrate particularly on organised crime. There are cases well-known enough for me not to have to name them. We are to work consistently and resolutely to put a stop to the criminal groups active in the regions. There must be no protecting one’s own here: all such activity must be firmly suppressed.
I remind you again that at the end of last year, at the regional governors’ request, I decided to establish coordination meetings under the regional heads. By February 1, they drafted comprehensive plans for fighting crime and maintaining law and order. All of these plans must be absolutely realistic in nature. The most important thing now is to implement them. Of course you should support your local people, but you must not shelter them no matter what the circumstances and the cost.
Looking at a number of the headline-grabbing crimes that have taken place, I see that the local executive authorities’ logic often boils down to saying, “We did signal the matter, but nothing was done”. And the law enforcement agencies tell me the same thing at times. But if nothing is being done you are to pass the matter on upwards. The security and military organisations all have their superior officers, and the local officials can turn to the federal authorities. As I said then, you must record in the minutes of your meetings and discussions all issues that come up in your regions. Otherwise it is the regional governors who will have to answer.
”It is essential to do everything we can to keep minors from being drawn into the criminal world.“
Third, we must beef up crime prevention measures, including measures to prevent repeat offending, and add new provisions to the laws if need be. We still do not have any effective provisions for keeping watch over repeat offenders, and yet both our own and foreign experience shows that this kind of control does significantly reduce the risk of repeat offending.
The prevention work must focus particularly on minors of course, because over the last six years, the proportion of minors among offenders has increased 1.5 times, and one of the reasons for this is that they are left unsupervised, left without any parental or adult control. It is essential to do everything we can to keep minors from being drawn into the criminal world. We are to organise recreation activities for them, and introduce new practices for helping teenagers going through difficult circumstances. This is primarily the regional and local officials’ responsibility.
Fourth, people want to see positive changes in maintaining public law and order. In this respect we need more effective prevention of extremism. The number of people convicted of inciting interethnic hostility and taking part in extremist groups has increased almost 2.5 times over the last five years, and three quarters of the offenders are young people under 20. At the State Council Presidium meeting in Ufa, I gave the instruction to raise the quality of civic education in the country’s education system, and the state authorities, religious and public organisations must combine efforts in this work.
Fifth, countering corruption remains one of the key tasks for the Interior Ministry, Prosecutor General’s Office, Investigative Committee, and Federal Security Service. I have already given my assessment of the anti-corruption efforts carried out last year. This work must continue on a much broader scale. It is essential work, but you need to go about it consistently, carefully, and without making excessive waves.
”The laws are to be the same for everyone, and I think you realise this.“
By way of example, let me say a few words on the investigation that has begun into illegally organised gambling business in the Moscow Region. I want to say just one thing. The laws are to be the same for everyone, and I think you realise this. Those who break the laws must answer for their acts, no matter what their job, and no matter where they work: in the Prosecutor’s Office, Interior Ministry, FSB, or any other state agency. But under no circumstances can you make conclusions about someone’s guilt or innocence before the court has awarded its verdict (this is quite obvious), and all the more so, it is unacceptable to pressure the investigation by getting the media involved. People caught doing this will be fired, no matter what their rank or title. Investigations must be carried out in strict conformity with the law, in compliance with all supervisory procedures too of course, but calmly and smoothly, with their results then reported to the public. This is the way proper justice works. I hope you have all understood me.
One final thing: as has been said, the current reporting system does not give an accurate picture of the real crime situation. Starting on January 1, 2012, the Prosecutor General’s Office will take over responsibility for keeping the unified national statistics on all registered crimes and the number of crimes solved. I have already signed this law and hope to hear specific proposals from the Prosecutor General’s Office on this work’s organisation.
<…>
Topics
Fight against corruption
Fight against crime
Fight against terrorism
Law enforcement agencies
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 21, 2011, 16:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Russian military officers and their spouses
Dmitry Medvedev discussed with officers and their spouses reforms of the Armed Forces and social conditions for the servicemen’s families.
February 21, 2011
19:15
Gorki, Moscow Region
1 of 2
Meeting with Russian military officers and their wives.
The President emphasised that the programme to modernise the Armed Forces, particularly to equip the Armed Forces with modern weaponry, will certainly be continued.
Mr Medvedev noted that beginning next year, the order under which servicemen are now paid bonuses will become the law for the payment of their regular service pay. The new system of monetary incentives will make the military a higher income social group again.
Furthermore, the President instructed Defence Minister Anatoly Serdyukov to draft targeted employment programmes for the spouses of military officers stationed at various remote garrisons around the country.
Dmitry Medvedev congratulated the servicemen on the upcoming Defender of the Fatherland Day and noted that a modern army should be staffed only by those who consider it their calling.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Comrades, friends,
First of all, I would like to welcome you all here and congratulate you on the upcoming Defender of the Fatherland Day.
I have just arrived from the Kremlin, where I presented state decorations, including to some of your fellow officers. Certainly, this is always a very pleasant ceremony, particularly on the eve of a state holiday.
I suggested that we meet today in this format where in addition to the officers I can meet their spouses as well, since service in the Armed Forces involves more than just military training and ensuring defence capabilities; it also involves the need to feel at ease at home, to be comfortable and know that everything is fine.
Thus, I think we may continue our communication in the following way: I will say a few more words, and then I will ask you to speak up – I mean the heads of the households, the officers sitting here today. We can discuss the current situation in the Armed Forces, the progress in Armed Forces reforms, all the advantages of the suggestions currently being implemented, as well as, perhaps, their disadvantages. In other words, let’s look toward the future and talk about the changes taking place and what is to be done in order for our Armed Forces to be highly effective, modern, and able to meet today’s needs in all areas, ranging from personnel to weaponry.
Our meeting is not held behind closed doors, we are being recorded by the media, so you should not tell absolutely everything, but please tell us a little about what else should be done.
We will surely talk about servicemen’s social status. You know, literally two weeks ago, I chaired a meeting and definitively determined positions on how issues of monetary compensation for the military will be settled. The deadline for the new mechanisms launch will be January 1, 2012. I refer to the order under which currently bonuses are paid to the best servicemen and which will soon regulate the overall service pay for the military, which I think is extremely important.
There are some questions concerning housing, as well as all other aspects of day-to-day life. Here, I very much count on hearing not just from officers, but from their spouses too, since you are the ones who maintain the household, help your husbands and raise the children. And often, this happens in distant parts of our country, in rather difficult conditions, in the absence of normal housing or children’s preschool facilities and – this is most unpleasant for anyone – without a normal job.
This, too, is a topic I would like to cover – first and foremost, with the ladies present here – because I have spent the last month addressing specifically the issues of employment. There are specific forms of unemployment, or lack of employment. In particular, this kind of unemployment can be typical for the spouses of military officers, who may have excellent education received in central Russia or elsewhere but are unable to get a job. No doubt, this is irritating psychologically and painful financially as it evidently affects the family income.
Thus, I suggest that we engage in a fairly broad discussion, and if any other questions arise, I’ll be happy to answer them. That is all I wanted to say for the start. But before we begin, I suggest that we raise our glasses to our nation and to all of the defenders of our fatherland.
I sincerely congratulate all of you on your professional holiday.
  * * *
When I was presenting state decorations today, I said that the Defender of the Fatherland Day is a special holiday for most Russians; almost every family celebrated it even at the time when it was a workday. This is primarily because many people have family and friends serving in the Armed Forces, and because our country experienced a great deal of suffering in the 20th century, more than other countries had seen for many centuries: the vast majority of our citizens served in the Armed Forces and saw the misery of wars. That is why this is a special holiday.
Today it is not just a professional holiday for military personnel but a celebration for all those who defend our country, those for whom defending our homeland is a vocation, to quote a well-known film.
I would like to congratulate all of you who have chosen this vocation on Defender of the Fatherland Day.
This toast is to all those who defend our homeland and to their spouses. Congratulations, and the best of health to you all.
Topics
Armed Forces
Social services
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 21, 2011, 19:15
Text versionEvents
Ceremony of presenting state decorations took place at the Kremlin
Dmitry Medvedev presented orders, medals, and certificates conferring honorary titles to 36 Russian Federation citizens.
February 21, 2011
17:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 11
Alexei Sokolov, honorary chairman of the Council of Veterans of the 104th Red Banner Guards Paratroopers Regiment, was awarded the Order of Alexander Nevsky.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Friends,
Our ceremony today is taking place on the eve of Defender of the Fatherland Day, one of our most important and particularly esteemed holidays. Even before it became a non-working day, it was in fact celebrated as a national holiday. I sincerely congratulate all of you on this day.
The Armed Forces are the guarantors of our security, guarantors of the development of our state and guarantors of the sovereignty of our nation. Even though we always see problems in the progress of the Armed Forces or any other state and social institutions, they are nevertheless the very backbone without which no state can survive.
Today, the Armed Forces are being modernised and are taking on modern shape and structure – in other words, features that our country needs for this century. It is particularly important for the military officers to actively participate in solving this challenge of national importance.
It is widely known that military servicemen prioritise their sense of personal duty, involvement in the processes unfolding in the country, and their responsibility for its security, for the safety of people, including their families. This attitude toward their military service is customary appreciated through state decorations.
The Gold Star of the Hero of the Russian Federation is awarded to strategic submarines unit commander of the Northern Fleet Alexander Moiseyev. During combat patrol, successful tests of the newest weaponry were conducted and numerous missile launches were performed under his command. As Commander-in-Chief, I observed these exercises. And indeed, everything was done very well. I will add that he also has merits in Russian space exploration. In 1998, for the first time ever, two separate space vehicles were launched from an underwater position of a submarine missile cruiser that was then under Mr Moiseyev’s command.
This year, we will also be marking a notable date pertaining to the Great Patriotic War: the 70th anniversary of the Battle of Moscow. Russia will always remember the fortitude and selflessness of the soldiers who fought in the Great Patriotic War, and their example must remain an unconditional moral reference point for all generations of our people. Today, it is a great honour for me to award the Order of Alexander Nevsky to Alexei Sokolov, who participated in two wars: the Finnish War and World War II. In spite of his venerable age (as far as I understand, Mr Sokolov will be 100 years old this March), he continues to remain active in the patriotic education of our youth. Let’s wish him good health. (Applause.)
The Order of Courage is traditionally awarded to the military, but people of civilian professions often display heroism as well, for various reasons. Today, this order is being presented to Felix Artemenko, Igor Bada, Vladimir Kochetov and Tatyana Demina. All of them showed exceptional courage during emergency response to the accident at the Sayano-Shushenskaya Hydroelectric Station, in fighting fire at the Sarov Nuclear Centre last year when the situation there was most complicated, and during the tragic events at Yeisk Spit.
Also present today are famous researchers whose work directly supports achievements in modern science. This includes head of the scientific centre on children’s health at the Russian Academy of Medical Sciences Alexander Baranov and director of the Russian Federal Nuclear Centre Valentin Kostyukov.
And naturally, these festive ceremonies are never complete without awarding state decorations to the prominent figures in Russian culture. I am happy to welcome actors Valentin Gaft and Oleg Menshikov, artistic director of the Maria Yermolova Moscow Drama Theatre Vladimir Andreyev, Conductor of Russia’s Bolshoi Theatre Alexander Lazarev, and many other exceptional people who are present. Their creative achievements are known to all of our people.
I would like to mention one other name. Among us today is an individual who has been teaching music to children for almost half a century. This, too, is very important and really great. I am talking about Yelizaveta Shteinfeld, a teacher from Saratov who has trained thirty winners of international and national music competitions.
Friends,
As it always happens, I am certainly unable to name everyone who will be receiving state decorations today. It will be better done for me, in a loud, clear voice, announcing the decoration and the corresponding name. Still, I would like to once again say that you are truly engaging in your beloved professions with honour, performing them with extraordinary professionalism, and serving as an entirely vivid example for huge numbers of our citizens. A specific success story always serves as an example for young people, those who are choosing their own paths in life. They are watching you.
I suggest that we proceed to the award ceremony.
* * *
Friends,
I want to once again congratulate all of you on receiving state decorations. I hope that this day will remain in all of your memories, at the very least because these ceremonies always result in the positive emotions due to receiving awards. At the same time, it is nice to feel your reciprocal emotions, which you are so generously sharing with everyone in this hall, as well as everyone who will see this ceremony on television.
When our dear war veteran spoke, I caught myself thinking that in order to express one’s views on life and the surrounding world so clearly, at such a mature age, it is imperative not only to have good health, but unconquerable will power as well. You truly serve as an example for an enormous number of people. After such trials in life as the ones you have faced, it is amazing to see someone who has not been broken, who captures the audience and reads poetry so easily.
I would like to once again say that another reason for public ceremonies such as awarding state decorations is for our fellow citizens to see the people sitting in this hall and to think about the examples to choose for following. This is very important.
I sincerely congratulate you and wish you all health. I hope that all of you will be in equally excellent shape on your 100th birthdays as our war veteran
My congratulations. (Applause.)
Topics
State decorations
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 21, 2011, 17:30
Text version