While on this subject, I  with Japanese Prime Minister Naoto Kan today. They have suffered a great misfortune of course, a huge national disaster. Our task now is to help our neighbours, and I have already given this instruction to our Cabinet. I know that you have already met to discuss various matters, including energy supplies in order to help restore the energy balance that was disrupted by the earthquake and the tsunami that followed. We have agreed that our ministries will stay in contact and take all the necessary decisions. 
At the same time of course, we need to keep watch on the state of other sites too. We are close neighbours after all, and in this respect our task is simply to monitor the general situation, including, of course, the situation with Japan’s nuclear power plants. As the Emergency Situations Ministry and Rosatom have reported, they do have problems in Japan with these power plants right now, but things are under control overall. I heard the same thing today from the Japanese Prime Minister. Whatever the case, these are complex energy facilities and we will of course need to continue working together with our Japanese colleagues to monitor the situation.
Deputy Prime Minister Igor Sechin: Mr President, I will begin with this last issue, if you permit.
“I always supported all-round development of our economic ties with Japan. Japan is not just our neighbour but also a big market, and there is a lot of potential for cooperation. In this situation our duty is to provide moral support of course, but we also need to keep the future in mind too.”
Acting on your instruction, the Cabinet met on Saturday to discuss our proposals for how to help our partners in the Far East, in Japan specifically, in the aftermath of the earthquake and tsunami. Of course, we need to make a thorough analysis of these events ourselves and draw our own conclusions too. The IAEA will also investigate what has happened. One of the things that exacerbated the situation it seems was that the nuclear power station in question was built in a seismically active area, and near the coast, what’s more. This meant that first the tremors and then the tsunami increased the situation’s seriousness.
We are drafting proposals for aid for our partners. I sent a letter today to Japanese Economy, Trade and Industry Minister Banri Kaeida with proposals to hold talks on organised provision of assistance, including energy supplies. They have already made requests concerning gas supplies, and Gazprom is working right now on organising two gas carriers to ship 100,000 tons of liquefied natural gas in April and again in May, and I think this all going to be possible. 
We are studying the possibilities for increasing LNG supplies. There are some problems in that contracts have already been signed for most of the available supplies, but we will of course make sure that any supplies still available will go above all to Japan. In this respect we will have to hold additional talks with the participants in the Sakhlin-2 consortium.
Dmitry Medvedev: I think the situation today is such that even though contracts have already been signed for LNG supplies, our partners should also be willing to make some concessions. Japan, one of our neighbours, and a big country, has been hit by a huge disaster after all, and in this situation it could be possible to make some changes to the current contracts. I think this is something that could be discussed.
Igor Sechin: Yes, our position is that we need to help Japan, of course.
Furthermore, nuclear energy accounts for 30 percent of Japan’s energy supplies, and this balance will change now that our Japanese partners are being forced to shut down reactors. Eleven units have already been shut down of the total 54 reactors they have in operation. Gas accounts for 17 percent of their energy, and coal for 22 percent. We are ready to increase coal supplies. A delegation from SUEK will visit Japan this week, and Mechel is also ready to send a delegation. This will also be a subject for discussion with our colleagues.
As you know, our Far East region also has reserve hydropower capacity. In the long term, we could redirect around 6,000 megawatts in electricity supplies to Japan. This would require some organisational work first, though. There is a project to build an undersea cable, and some preliminary work has already been done. The idea is to lay the cable from Sakhalin to Japan, and we would also need to lay cable to Sakhalin itself – a total of 32 km of cable. This project could be ready quite quickly. Of course, the work itself would take a couple of years, but it would provide a long-term solution. We are ready to work on this together with our Japanese colleagues and their companies, and we could have the proposals ready and send them to our colleagues very soon.
Dmitry Medvedev: I always supported all-round development of our economic ties with Japan because this country is not just our neighbour but also a big market, and there is a lot of potential for cooperation. In this situation our duty is to provide moral support of course, but we also need to keep the future in mind too, so work on this. We have agreed to keep in touch on this issue, and if our Japanese colleagues come to any decisions on these matters they will keep us informed.
Igor Sechin: Yes, Mr President. We have already begun this work.
Dmitry Medvedev: Good.
Igor Sechin: Regarding the meeting you held in Khakassia, you gave the instruction to report today on the work to get the draft law on anti-terrorism protection of energy sector facilities ready for submission. You gave the instruction to draft this law following the terrorist attack on the Baksan Hydroelectric Power Station. This document was the object of very thorough work over a 6-month period. We submitted it to the Presidential Executive Office and received comments. We have now worked through all of these points together with the Executive Office, and today, if you agree, we will send the draft law to the Executive Office for the final approval procedures.Events
Meeting with Prosecutor General Yury Chaika
Practical enforcement of anti-gambling legislation was the subject of discussion.
March 14, 2011
17:00
Gorki, Moscow Region
With Prosecutor General Yury Chaika.
Breaches of anti-gambling legislation have become so widespread that Dmitry Medvedev proposed introducing specific criminal liability for running illegal gambling businesses.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Mr Chaika, there is an issue that has gotten a lot of attention from the public – the issue of gambling business. We have passed a strict law and various instructions have been given, but nevertheless, unfortunately, there is a plethora of activity by individuals who disguise gambling as other kinds of lawful operations. There are many examples of this.
Not long ago, I instructed the Government to prepare a draft law to close these loopholes for people who wish to run gambling business under the cover of lawful activities. Still, public activity in this area has not gone down. I took a look, and there is even a special website called ‘Where to find casinos.’ You know, it’s just astounding: it contains a list with an enormous number of Russian cities, and each of these cities, even the small ones, has at least a few of these casinos. I am not even talking about cities like St Petersburg or Moscow. I simply open the website and see hundreds of illegal casinos. And indeed, they are marked on the map, along with their addresses. For example, in St Petersburg, there is a private, unmarked gaming club at 22, Stremyannaya street, or another one at 5, Marat street; or the Rusloto on Lenya Golikov street; and so on.
“Not long ago, I instructed the Government to prepare a draft law to close these loopholes for people who wish to run gambling business under the cover of lawful activities.”
My suggestion is as follows. When it comes to this kind of public activity, we must welcome our citizens’ attention to law compliance in every way. I would like you to instruct the prosecutors to look into everything this site contains, to check every city – we have prosecutor’s offices everywhere, in every relatively small town, not to mention our regions and republics. We need them to visit every one of these locations together with other law enforcement agencies – like the Ministry of the Interior and others, if necessary – and see what’s going on there. Overall, if even a part of this information is true, then this is a cynical manipulation of the law, or its outright violation. Because in addition to establishments that are mimicking lawful activities, there are also underground locations which are entirely illegal, but which are functioning as private clubs.
This is an important issue, especially since, as you know, casinos always attract criminals, people who evade taxes, etc. Please take care of this and carry out an investigation, including into the public sources available on the Internet. Incidentally, this is a very well-prepared website where new locations are posted literally every day.
Prosecutor General Yury Chaika
: We are using it, Mr President. You are absolutely right in saying that today, it is very simple to charge someone with running an illegal business, but the article’s sanctions absolutely do not reflect the degree of danger posed by violations resulting from illegal gaming business. Thus, you were absolutely right in giving instructions stating that we need a special structure for increasing criminal liability for such violations of the law.
Today, we have already launched 900 criminal cases, and the vast majority of them – involving illegal enterprise have reached the courts.
Dmitry Medvedev: Do you mean casinos, or other businesses?
Yury Chaika: Yes, these are all casinos.
Dmitry Medvedev: The gaming business, right?
Yury Chaikia: We have 934 criminal cases. Of course, on the one hand, this seems like a lot, but on the other hand, again, the sanctions do not reflect how dangerous this crime is.
Today, based on your instructions, we are already preparing amendments to current legislation. They should provide for a special structure. On Saturday, four of our teams returned from their missions. Using our central office staff, we inspected four major regions: Stavropol Territory, Sverdlovsk, Samara and Moscow regions.
“If there are so many violations of the law in this area, we can introduce a separate statute on criminal liability for corresponding crimes in the gambling sector and introduce very strict punitive measures.”
Today, I received a report on the preliminary results of this inspection. We are using this website, monitoring it. Based on your instructions, I will certainly send a message to the field offices instructing them to carry out inspections and investigations. The message will literally be sent out today.
But it is imperative to pass as harsh a law as possible. And we need to have a special structure. We are beginning a discussion on what violations should be prosecuted. Based on judicial practice, about 700 of the 934 cases involve ‘illegal enterprise.’
Dmitry Medvedev: You know, I do not want to prejudge legal rulings or judicial frameworks that could be prepared, but if there are so many violations of the law in this area, and we are talking about both pseudo-legal activities and absolutely illegal ones, we can ultimately just criminalise individual types of activities – in other words, we can introduce a separate statute on criminal liability for corresponding crimes in the gambling sector.
In other words, instead of using the general structure you are speaking about, we could establish a special structure, and use it to introduce very strict punitive measures. We do not always resort to this, but let’s take into account that the people involved are, frankly, completely shameless and don’t care a doit about the laws or those who try to comply with these laws, they simply manipulate this legislation. What must we do? I always try to defend business when necessary, but unfortunately, these businesses are in conflict with public interest and are run against the law. Let’s think about introducing special criminal liability for running a gambling business.
Yury Chaika: We have already prepared our suggestions.
Dmitry Medvedev: You have heard the idea I spoke about. Please consider simply criminalising a specific type of illegal activity.
<…>
Topics
Fight against crime
Persons
Chaika Yury
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 14, 2011, 17:00
Text version