Events
Meeting of the International Advisory Board on establishing an International Financial Centre in Russia
Dmitry Medvedev held a meeting of the International Advisory Board on establishing an International Financial Centre in Russia.
October 28, 2011
15:00
Moscow
1 of 6
At Sberbank’s head office.
The meeting took place at Sberbank’s central head office.
Before the meeting, the President heard about some of the bank’s new services, in particular the automated customer service system Sberbank Online, which already has two million registered users.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen,
I wish you all a warm welcome to this first meeting of the International Advisory Board [on establishing and developing an international financial centre in Russia]. Thank you very much for coming here to be with us today. I met with a good number of you at the St Petersburg [International] Economic Forum, but many new people have joined the board since then, which makes me very happy. Once again, thank you for accepting our invitation.
”Our goal in developing the international financial centre is also to take the country’s economy to a new level, create new jobs, and open up new markets.“
We have a purely working meeting ahead, and Mr Gref [President and Chairman of the Board of Sberbank German Gref] warned that it would be a very long one, and so I ask you all to stock up on patience. We will of course discuss our plans to develop Russia’s financial centre, looking at the trends and events currently taking place on the global financial markets. Obviously, these events are various in nature and many of them do not make us happy in the slightest, but to be honest, this only furthers our determination to push ahead with establishing the Moscow International Financial Centre (IFC).
Work continues on the project right now, but a number of important decisions that will facilitate its successful implementation have already been made. In particular, we will merge our two biggest trading floors – the Moscow Interbank Currency Exchange [MICEX], and the Russian Trading System [RTS], and have finalised what we all agreed is an essential draft law on a central depositary. Our goal in developing the international financial centre is also to take the country’s economy to a new level, create new jobs, and open up new markets.
We have tried to work hard over this period, and I want you to be completely frank and honest in your assessment of what we have got right or wrong. You must not worry about sounding undiplomatic, and never mind the format we are meeting in today. The real value of your being here after all is precisely to let us hear from you the whole truth and not some polished version.
”Of course one of our aims in developing the financial centre is to attract investment from abroad, and also give Russia’s own businesspeople a better working environment.“
Of course one of our aims in developing the financial centre is to attract investment from abroad, and also give Russia’s own businesspeople a better working environment. The use of modern financial instruments will make our market more competitive and help everyone to multiply their capital.
In accordance with the earlier agreements, the IFC will be considered an intrinsic part of Russia’s economy. This complicates our task because the Russian economy is not without its problems and difficulties, but we chose this approach for the synergy effect that the IFC’s development will give. We want the benefits to be felt not only in the financial sector, but in other economic sectors too.
I ask you all here to speak as experts and set out your specific ideas and proposals in completely frank and open spirit. I hope this will be interesting, and most importantly, useful for us.
In conclusion, I just want to add that I hope all of you will attend the reconstructed Bolshoi Theatre’s opening this evening. I am sure you will not regret it, for the result really is magnificent. We have learned to build theatres, and I hope we will learn to build our International Financial Centre too.
Let’s start work.
<…>
Topics
Banks
Economy and finance
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 28, 2011, 15:00
Text versionEvents
Bolshoi Theatre reopens after reconstruction
Speaking at the reopening ceremony, Dmitry Medvedev thanked everyone who took part in the reconstruction of the Bolshoi Theatre, one of Russia’s greatest treasures.
October 28, 2011
19:30
Moscow
1 of 15
Main hall of the Bolshoi Theatre before the gala concert marking the theatre’s reopening.
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Good evening, ladies and gentlemen! Good evening, friends!
This is a very happy day for our nation. You know, our nation is very large, but at the same time, we have only a limited number of symbols and national treasures that unite everyone, which could be called Russia’s national brands. And the Bolshoi Theatre is one of our greatest national brands. So today, we are all celebrating the reopening of the Bolshoi Theatre’s main building.
This was no small task; it was very serious work, which, as you know, took us six years. In these six years, everyone had his or her share of worries. The theatre itself worried, as did its performers and everyone who loves and values this national treasure, its builders, and ordinary people who watched this reconstruction take place. The Government worried too, because it worked very hard to support this project.
”We have only a limited number of symbols and national treasures that unite everyone, which could be called Russia’s national brands. And the Bolshoi Theatre is one of our greatest national brands. So today, we are all celebrating the reopening of the Bolshoi Theatre’s main building.“
I think everything has turned out wonderfully. I was here a month ago, when the main hall was not yet as beautiful as it is today. But I saw for myself that everything was done with the most cutting-edge technology, the most modern approaches to this kind of complex construction. I am certain that in this regard, the theatre will be flawless. But I expect that we will see this for ourselves in a few minutes. Everyone is excited: those who are sitting here, and those who are standing up there, on stage.
The truth is, I am very happy that all the Russian citizens sitting in this hall, as well as our dear foreign guests and everyone watching this ceremony on television – those who will watch this first performance – will see it in all its splendour.
Our nation has always found the money to maintain the Bolshoi Theatre in good order. This happened 150 years ago, and it has happened now. I am absolutely certain that everything we did will serve generations of our citizens for many years to come – all those who love the Bolshoi Theatre – and inspire them to do great new things, which they have always so brilliantly accomplished.
Now, I would like to conclude my brief opening remarks. Everything else will happen here, on stage. I want to once again take this opportunity to thank everyone who was involved in the rebirth of our treasure, our great national brand, the Bolshoi Theatre.
I wish you all happiness and success.
Topics
Culture
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 28, 2011, 19:30
Text version