Events
Meeting with journalists from the Far East and Siberian federal districts
Dmitry Medvedev met with journalists from the Far East and Siberian federal districts in the first of a series of meetings the President will hold with regional mass media over the coming month.
November 11, 2011
13:00
Khabarovsk
1 of 5
Meeting with journalists from the Far East and Siberian federal districts.
The meeting discussed development prospects for the Far East Federal District.
* * *
Excerpts from transcript of meeting with journalists from the Far East and Siberian federal districts
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: First of all, thank you for yet another warm welcome.
Second, I enjoy being in Khabarovsk, because the city is well-suited for holding events, and overall, Khabarovsk Territory is developing quite successfully.
I suppose that, as in any territory or any region, it has its own problems, but the fact is, Khabarovsk is the capital of the Far East Federal District, and this explains a lot. The presence of governors and ministers responsible for important areas (transport, finance and regional development) means one thing: I have gathered you all here to talk about the development of our regions, both now and in the future, and how to perform the duties conferred upon us, because there are many opinions on this topic.
Some will say that everything is great, while others feel that things are quite bad. But the truth, as usual, lies somewhere between these two positions, because there are positive things in the modern system for delimitation of competences and their financing, and there is a sense that not everything is fair; that regions, as well as municipalities, could expect more, and we must find the right balance. That is why I instructed the Cabinet to work on this matter, and we will also discuss it today.
* * *
Question: In your view, do you feel that the Far East has changed, and has your view of the Far East changed?
Dmitry Medvedev: In my view, of course, the Far East has changed, and is changing in the right direction. How quickly? I suppose, not as quickly as I would like because the rates of transformation in all areas could be higher.
There are objective factors, such as the economic crisis, which have served as an impediment. There are subjective factors; we should have worked harder, both in the Far East and elsewhere. My feeling remains as before: the Far East is an extremely important part of the Russian Federation, with immense investment and intellectual potential, and everything will be fine here.
* * *
Question: The federal budget is being formed for the next three years. And once again, all of the nation’s money is concentrated in the hands of the Finance Ministry. Later, our governors will travel to ask the Government for money, and the mayors will beg from the governors. Does this mean that we will have another three years of vertical governance?
”This visit [to Kunashir] was exceptionally interesting for me, not just because not a single Russian leader has ever visited the Kuril Islands, but simply because this is a truly amazing territory, and it is our territory – it is also Russia.“
Dmitry Medvedev: First of all, money is always concentrated within the Finance Ministry. If you tell me to whom I should direct it, perhaps I can think of something, but for the time being, that is the government’s only option. All money goes through the Finance Ministry, because we have a consolidated budget.
Second, this is not all of the money, because we have a budget revenue distribution system: some revenues go to the Russian Federation budget, and some go to the regions. I just said that there are various assessments. Is this fair? I think that at a certain point the system created was absolutely optimal. But now I do not feel this way. But that does not mean all the money will be only in the hands of the acting Finance Minister or any other individual.
The regions and municipalities generate their own revenues, which they receive directly, and nobody goes to Moscow to beg for that money. The money belongs to the regions and municipalities themselves. The problem is that this money is not sufficient.
As for its distribution, this is something I would like to decide on in the near future, taking into account suggestions by the commission, which currently deals with the matter. Rather, there are two commissions: one is headed by Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Kozak, and the second is headed by Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Khloponin. And they need to make these suggestions. I believe the time has come to change this system; the proportion of that change, however, is a separate issue.
* * *
Question: One year ago, you visited Kunashir. This was the first time the President of Russia had visited the South Kuril Islands, and this sparked a very nervous reaction among our neighbours, the Japanese. Perhaps it was also because currently, the Kuril Islands are actively strengthening their defence capacity; new weaponry is being delivered.
But I would like to ask about something else. Did that trip help you see the Kuril Islands from a new perspective and understand what needs to be done in order to improve life in this wonderful, interesting region, so that its economy can develop and, in spite of the distance, the people can feel comfortable and live good lives?
Dmitry Medvedev: I will begin by saying that of course, this visit helped me. It was exceptionally interesting for me, not just because not a single Russian leader has ever visited the Kuril Islands, but simply because this is a truly amazing territory, and it is our territory – it is also Russia, regardless of how strange this may seem to some of our neighbours. This is evident.
”We are ready to develop the Kuril Islands jointly, we are ready to provide investment opportunities, protect Japanese investments, and create conditions for running businesses.“
And second, in order to resolve any challenges, I have said many times that it’s essential to personally visit at least some of the territory you are governing or working to develop, to get behind the wheel of a car, for example (in this case, I drove around in a Japanese car, and it was very comfortable).
And after my visit (naturally, this is only partially symbolic), the financing of programmes there moved at a quicker pace. Unfortunately, that is the nature of our state. And this programme devised until 2015 is currently being financed at 100 percent. I am certain that we will do everything: kindergartens, schools, and two airports will be opened on Kunashir and Iturup. We are simply giving attention to this very important region. And it has enormous potential.
As for defence capacity and security, we do not take any actions there aimed against other nations, Japan or any others. This is our land, and so, we must have military units there, because it is a border area; but everything should be reasonable and adequate. That's about it. We won’t have anything unusually sizable there. And nobody should perceive this as any kind of militaristic action. However, the units should be there.
Still, what’s most important is that we would like to see investment flows into the region, the Kuril Islands. I have spoken about this many times. By the way, I spoke about it with the plenipotentiary envoy today. We have told our Japanese colleagues more than once that they should come, visit and invest money; they can do business there. And Japanese nationals can work there. In fact, this will be joint development of the islands.
But the Japanese take a different position. They say, “First decide, and then we will invest.” That won’t work. And I have told them very sincerely that we are ready to develop the islands jointly, we are ready to provide investment opportunities, protect Japanese investments, and create conditions for running businesses. And we are ready to do this right now.
Reply: But Korean and Chinese businesses are going there…
Dmitry Medvedev: That is certainly great as well. We welcome all investors. Korean or Chinese businesses — that’s just as good. What’s most important is for the Japanese to jump in on time.
* * *
Question: Right now, Kamchatka Territory has a unique opportunity: the opening of the Northern Sea Route. Please tell me how is this idea viewed in principle at your level, at the state level? Are there any real, long-range plans, and if so, what are the timeframes?
”We are the largest Arctic nation, we have the longest coastline and the biggest sea route, so to speak. We need to allocate money to our icebreaking fleet, as well as our sea vessels in general. We must also develop our ports. We must be perceived as an Arctic power, as a state that isn’t there by accident, but rather, by right.“
Dmitry Medvedev: You have a beautiful territory. Every time I travel there (especially before; today, I hope the situation is starting to change), I am always startled by the dissonance between the beauty and, to be completely honest, the disorder, the untended appearance.
As for using the Northern Sea Route and the Arctic Ocean in general, we are not just planning certain decisions; indeed some decisions have already been made. I have held many meetings of the Russian Federation Security Council concerning this topic. We gathered in various formats, and now, a corresponding law is in the State Duma, a law devoted to organising possible vessel voyage along the Northern Sea Route and the use of Arctic wealth.
At the same time, we are changing the Merchant Shipping Code, and we will even create a special department that will work on these issues. I feel that all of these things must lead to one very important effect: we must be perceived as an Arctic power, as a state that isn’t there by accident, but rather, by right. We truly have full rights.
We are the largest Arctic nation, because we have the longest coastline and the biggest sea route, so to speak. But naturally, we need to allocate money, including to our icebreaking fleet, as well as our sea vessels in general. We must also develop our ports, including in Petropavlovsk-Kamchatsky. After all, it is an open port, and vessels sailing under different flags can enter it. But unfortunately, it is not in the best of shape, so right now, we need to carry out its reconstruction and modernisation and then we will reap the fruit from developing the Arctic and developing Kamchatka Territory. I hope we will succeed.
* * *
Question: You are currently at the head of the United Russia party list. In your view, do our people trust the ruling party? The reason I’m asking is, in spring, many regions held municipality elections, and in some regions, the results were surprising, to put it lightly: in some places, the communists won, in others, it was Just Russia, and elsewhere, it was the Liberal Democratic Party of Russia. We have examples of this in Novosibirsk Region.
Dmitry Medvedev: You know, I didn’t find it surprising. Either we have a democracy, or we have the triumph of one political force. United Russia is the most powerful party, and it proves its right to manage the state, the regions, and municipalities by winning the elections, or, due to its own failures, proves its inability to do so.
But the party is not homogenous; it consists of different people. And the fact that members of different parties win in a particular region or municipality means only one thing: we have a democracy that works, people are voting in the direct sense of that word, and specific leaders who represent any political force can fail.
”United Russia is the most powerful party, and it proves its right to manage the state, the regions, and municipalities by winning the elections, or, due to its own failures, proves its inability to do so.“
But as far as the current situation is concerned, I will say this. Regardless of the criticism aimed at United Russia, the majority of our people understand that ultimately, at this time, it is the most authoritative force that has proven its capability in recent years to run the state – at the federal level, at the regional level, and at the municipal level – through action, not words.
And everything that happened, everything, including the improvement in living standards, is the result of United Russia’s work, which supported the President, the Cabinet and, in fact, formed the Cabinet, supported various initiatives in the regions and municipalities. Of course, there are problems too, and this affects the authority of individual party members, leaders, and the party itself.
You know, when people sometimes say, “That party’s rating has fallen by five per cent, it’s a catastrophe,” well, that’s life, that’s an entirely normal situation. If the level of authority is sagging anywhere, that means the party must work on it and think about how to avoid destroying it, how to improve its positions, including in the pre-election period. And indeed, this is the electoral campaign season.
Overall, I feel that United Russia’s chances of having a stable majority in the State Duma are very good, because even now, although the electoral campaign is only starting to gain momentum, United Russia enjoys the support of 45 to 50 per cent of the population (depending, of course, on the survey). But the campaign is underway, and everyone is capable of improving their results, so it would be good for United Russia to have a ruling mandate – a real, solid mandate.
* * *
Question: We’ve had primaries in our country recently and apart from the United Russia party, their participants included representatives of public organisations that supported the Popular Front and other initiatives, and selected worthy candidates. Currently systematic preparations are in progress for the upcoming elections.
But what is the current situation here in Kuzbass, in Siberia? Leaflets are being posted all over the place in which the LDPR and other parties urge people to vote only for Russians: “We defend Russians’ interests,” and so on. That’s what those leaflets say.
We have a multinational country, with over a hundred ethnic groups living here. I have many friends who are not Russian and they are rightly concerned about the reasons why some people use slogans like that. What is going to happen to them: are they going to be exiled or will have to move away? I have heard them voice fears like that. Law enforcement agencies and the Central Election Commission have not made any official comments. Mr President, I would very much like to hear your opinion on this matter.
”Regardless of the criticism aimed at United Russia, the majority of our people understand that ultimately, at this time, it is the most authoritative force that has proven its capability in recent years to run the state – at the federal level, at the regional level, and at the municipal level – through action, not words.“
Dmitry Medvedev: I am very concerned about this trend for the same reason as the one you stated: our country has 180 languages and a huge number of ethnic groups. When such leaflets and political campaigns are centred on nationalist issues, you can expect trouble. People do this either by mistake, unwittingly, or because they deliberately want to provoke tragic developments.
Throughout its history our country developed as a multinational state, where Russians lived in peace with other nations, Orthodox and Muslims, Buddhists and adherents of other faiths. It can be extremely dangerous to start dividing them up now and can take us in a very unwelcome direction.
I have discussed this with leaders of all parties and told them: “Ladies and gentlemen, I don’t only top the United Russia party list but I am also the guarantor of the Constitution, the President. If any of the active political forces try to play this card or get carried away by this theme and create problems we will have to apply legal measures because such activities verge on the criminal, particularly when they become direct provocations.” You see, it is a matter of perception, the slogans themselves can be relatively neutral but the question is how they are interpreted.
I am also a Russian and I also support Russians. But I support all the others as well, all the people who live in our country. The question is what conclusions follow from this. That is the main thing. As for law enforcement agencies, the CEC and other election commissions, they must monitor compliance with election legislation, as well as laws on equality of all nations and ethnic groups in our country.
* * *
Question: Mr President, my question is related to the previous one.
The Russian Federation is a multinational country, which is great. However, for various reasons, ethnic groups are losing their roots, they are forgetting their own traditions, stop speaking their languages and entire cultures are disappearing. One example is the Yiddish language, which was spoken by the first settlers of the Jewish Autonomous Region and which today is spoken by only about half a million people in the world.
Do you think this could be a task for the state to tackle, to provide support to ethnic groups and to make sure they don’t forget their languages and lose their traditions?
Dmitry Medvedev: Yes, it is the responsibility of the state but also of the diasporas, the ethnic groups and speakers of the 180 languages I mentioned earlier. The state should invest money in it and support the numerous national cultures in our country.
On the one hand, all of us share a common culture, but on the other hand, there are separate elements in that shared culture and the challenge is to maintain harmony between them. The aim is to prevent minority cultures from being marginalised or squeezed out, and to make sure there are native speakers of each language.
Of course, this cannot be done artificially and it is senseless to force people to learn a language. They tried to force us to learn languages at school and that did not always work. We should create incentives so that the people themselves will want to learn not only the national language of communication, the Russian language, which is our official state language, but other languages, and for that people must have a sense of belonging to a particular nation, to an ethnic group, take pride in its history and at the same time the desire to continue its culture and not let it merge with others.
How can this be achieved? We must launch programmes, allocate funding and involve businesses and non-governmental organisations. Incidentally, this is being done in different places. If I understand correctly, you represent the Jewish Autonomous Region.
Response: Yes, the newspaper Birobidzhaner Shtern.
”Our country has 180 languages and a huge number of ethnic groups. When such leaflets and political campaigns are centred on nationalist issues, you can expect trouble. People do this either by mistake, unwittingly, or because they deliberately want to provoke tragic developments.“
Dmitry Medvedev: Right. I have visited the Jewish Autonomous Region as the President and I liked the fact that you have many cultural oases and they should receive support not only in your region but also across the country.
To conclude, I’ll say that everything depends on us, on our own position. As long as one carrier of a language and culture remains, it means that culture is not extinct but we must devote time to this issue.
* * *
Question: We have a federal project, the Vostochny Cosmodrome. There has been talk about it for several years and we are already proud of it, everyone is anticipating it but still there are certain fears and talk that there will be no space centre, that it is impractical to build and we don’t need it after all, that it will cost too much. Could you please tell me as President how realistic this project is and whether the Amur Region will get a space centre?
Dmitry Medvedev: You’ve put it very well: “We have no cosmodrome yet but we’re proud of it and we’re worried that we won’t get it even though we’re proud of it.” That’s the way to go.
The cosmodrome will be built, all the decisions have been made and there are no plans to postpone it at present. I hope that by 2013 or 2014 we will be able to launch medium-range shuttles, and hopefully from 2015 we will be able to launch the Angara project shuttles – I hope we’re not counting our chickens before they’re hatched because, unfortunately, we have recently had a spate of failures in space – that is the reality and the reasons must be investigated.
* * *
Question: The economic crisis of 2008–2009 largely encouraged the development of domestic tourism in Russia. The Altai Territory is not Krasnodar, of course, but we were among the first regions to get involved in this effort. I would like to hear your forecast for the industry and Russia’s prospects as a tourist destination.
Dmitry Medvedev: First of all, you have a really beautiful region, I visited it recently, and the same can be said for all the other regions represented here. But in terms of tourism you and the Altai Mountains have absolutely unique potential.
”Experts believe that our country could expand the tourism industry to 70 million visitors a year, doubling of the tourist inflow, which will generate new revenues and jobs. The main thing is to create the right recreation infrastructure, hotels, roads and restaurants, and to provide security.“
What can be done here? We can and must develop domestic tourism, and it is true that the crisis encouraged its development. Now it is very important not to return to the pre-crisis situation, when most Russians spent their money abroad. Yes, it is true, there are some warm and pleasant resorts, but frankly, they are nothing special, and some places, though I don’t want to offend anyone, are frankly boring, all they have is the sea and the beach, and nothing else. Some people enjoy that but I for one get bored sitting on the beach all day long. We have such a diverse country that its tourism potential is simply enormous.
I was surprised to read once – this was a long time ago, maybe 10 years back – that 90% of Americans, who are not the poorest nation in the world, spend their holidays in the United States because their country is huge and offers many different types of holidays: the sea, the mountains, and everything else. We have the same: different seas, different mountains, different places. Our tourism potential is currently estimated at 35 million visitors a year. Is that a lot or not so much?
It seems pretty good, but only five of them are foreign visitors, and 30 are Russians travelling on various tours, both long and short. But experts believe that our country could expand the tourism industry to 70 million visitors a year, doubling of the tourist inflow, which will generate new revenues and jobs. So I think that our country’s tourism potential is very underestimated.
The main thing is to create the right recreation infrastructure, hotels, roads and restaurants, and to provide security. All this combined will result in an influx of tourists; I have no doubt about that. We already have foreign visitors and many Russians spend their holidays in our country as well, and that will only get better.
* * *
Dmitry Medvedev: Thank you for coming here and for your questions, so interesting and important for your regions and for the whole country. I can tell you that I always enjoy talking with the regional media and here’s why: you always have reasonable and absolutely specific questions that have direct relevance for the people. I think journalists should always bear in mind their audience.
Yes, journalists can have their own convictions, that is absolutely normal, journalists may not share other people’s beliefs and they can have their own views. Nevertheless, the profession exists to protect people’s interests, and in that sense the position of the regional press is always closer to the public than, for example, the position of the media in the capital.
I’m not saying it’s bad; it is also very good and it is professional. But if I am asked the same questions – about the fate of our famous prisoners or what we are doing to investigate certain crimes – those are important issues, but life is not limited to them.
These are important topics, I agree, but when I have to answer the same questions, it means that the people are isolated by their own reference frame. In my opinion, though I may be mistaken, the journalist’s mission is something different; it is in those things you asked me about.
Thank you.
Geography
Khabarovsk Territory
Topics
Media
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 11, 2011, 13:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with workers from Khabarovsk Territory companies and United Russia party core group
During his trip to Khabarovsk, Dmitry Medvedev visited the Amur Cable Plant, where he met with workers from companies in the region and United Russia party core group. 
November 11, 2011
08:00
Khabarovsk
9 of 9
At a meeting with workers from Khabarovsk Territory companies and United Russia party core group.
The country’s economic situation and workers’ social situation were the main subjects of discussion.
Before the meeting the President looked over the production process and the latest equipment installed at the plant. 
* * *
Excerpts from transcript of meeting with workers from companies in Khabarovsk Territory and United Russia party core group
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: My greetings to you all!
You have come from different companies to meet here today at one of the region’s enterprises, the Amur Cable Plant. I want to congratulate all of the plant’s staff on the 55th anniversary of your enterprise this year.
I just visited the plant and can say that it makes a good impression. It has installed new production lines, and the production process and working culture themselves have changed. I hope that is reflected in your wages. The director, in any case, said that your wages are now close to the average in Khabarovsk Territory, and this is important of course.
* * *
”We are now the world’s sixth biggest economy in terms of purchasing power parity. This is our chance to maintain our place among the big global economic players.“
I met recently with my colleagues from the world’s twenty biggest economies at the G20 summit. You know, I think we sometimes tend to belittle ourselves somewhat, but we should not forget that for all of the difficulties and problems we went through during the 1990s (and indeed, this last decade has also had its share of problems), we are nonetheless now the world’s sixth biggest economy in terms of purchasing power parity. This is our chance to maintain our place among the big global economic players.
The forecasts vary greatly, but objectively speaking, the overall situation here is in some ways better today than in many European countries. I say this because, despite the difficulties we have faced over the recent period, we have achieved decent GDP growth – growth will be around 4–4.5 percent this year. I remind you that the European Union and the United States are looking at GDP growth of between zero and one percent.
We have steadily reduced inflation over these last years, despite the economic crisis. This year, we will have the lowest inflation figure in the last 20 years – around 7 percent. If you compare this to the situation ten or so years ago, you can see a big difference.
If we look at the situation in the neighbouring countries, look at our close friends and brothers, the Belarusians, for example, they have inflation running at 100 percent. This is what happens when you delay needed reform. Of course we are trying to help them now, developing the common customs space with them and building an economic union together. In other words, the situation here in Russia is really not so bad.
”We are part of the global economy. Our task now is to make our economy a lot less vulnerable to price fluctuations on the raw materials markets than it is now.“
Our debt to GDP ratio is also in a decent situation. In many European countries it stands at 80–100 percent. In Japan, not far from here at all, it is more than 100 percent. In Russia, meanwhile, the ratio is just 13 percent. In this sense our macroeconomic situation is in fairly decent shape.
But it would be self-deceit to say that we are safe from problems. We were open and exposed to the problems that emerged in 2008 because we are part of the global economy, and we remain so today. Our task now is to make our economy a lot less vulnerable to price fluctuations on the raw materials markets than it is now.
What happened in 2008, after all? We were developing at a very good pace and had high growth rates and so on, but given that we rely to a large extent on oil and gas… You work at an oil company? Yes, of course this is a very important sector in our economy, and we cannot renounce raw materials now, and should not in any case, because we are a big raw materials producer. But we need to work on diversifying our economy so that companies such as the one we are at right now take the place they deserve in our GDP structure. 
Anyway, as soon as the global economy began to contract in 2008, oil and gas prices fell and our economy shrank with them. This direct dependence on global prices puts us in a very dangerous situation, and so we need to make an all-round effort to develop industry and manufacturing, carry out a new industrialisation if you will, but on a completely different basis to that our country carried out in the 1930s.
”The direct dependence on global prices puts us in a very dangerous situation, and so we need to make an all-round effort to develop industry and manufacturing, carry out a new industrialisation.“
If we succeed in this we will be better insulated from global problems, though we, like any other country, can never be fully protected. I would call myself a cautious optimist with regard to the general situation in Russia today, particularly after hearing from my colleagues at our meetings about all the difficulties they face, especially in the Eurozone.
It is very important in this context to reach agreements with one’s partners, given that the big problems at the moment on the global currency markets are in the Eurozone, Europe’s economic zone. This situation is partly due to the time it takes for countries to agree on the principles for overcoming the crisis.
The result is that economies go into decline and living standards fall. We all need to be ready and willing to reach agreements. But do not fear, we will come through and everything will be alright. 
On a final note, I want to say that the first wave of the crisis in 2008 caught many by surprise. No one was expecting such a big fall. We also were not expecting this, to be honest. We realised that the possibility was there, but we did not expect that the drop could be so dramatic. But we have climbed our way out again, and quite fast too.
I think two things are important now: wages have risen again of late and are back at pre-crisis levels, indeed at many companies they are even higher now than they were before the crisis, and this is an important development.
”We have a duty to continue research in the Arctic Ocean and the Arctic in general. Geographically, this region includes our maritime territory and coastlines, and also the vast resources located there. We will certainly defend our interests in the region, including our security interests.“
Second, we have successfully addressed the unemployment issue. Our real unemployment figures are even better now than they were before the crisis. This is not to say that the situation is perfect, for big problems still remain, problems in single-industry towns, problems in particular professions, but overall, the figures are back to the pre-crisis level. This is an important development too, all the more so as in some countries the situation has not recovered yet. I think this is the best guarantee that we will calmly and steadily get through this coming period too.
* * *
We have a duty to continue research in the Arctic Ocean and the Arctic in general, because if we don’t, other countries will step in. This does not make them our enemies, and we do not treat them as such, but the Arctic Ocean is the sea adjacent to our country, to put things in international law terms. Geographically, this region includes our maritime territory and coastlines, and also the vast resources located there. If we do not invest there other countries will, countries from outside the region. Frankly, without naming any names, so as not to offend anyone, I was amazed to hear countries in another part of the world altogether announce that they are going to get involved in the Arctic. So they would get involved and we would not? Of course we will invest in this region and in research there, indeed, programmes are already in preparation and I have personally held a number of Security Council meetings on developing study of the Arctic Ocean. At the same time, we will certainly defend our interests in the region, including our security interests, and I can tell you that the decisions on this matter have not simply been drawn up but have already been approved.
* * *
Colleagues, I want to thank you for today’s discussion. It was very important for me to have this chance to hear the views of people here in the Far East, listen to the representatives of the various companies here, and also people close to United Russia, party members or supporters, because we have an election campaign going on after all, and we need to listen and talk to each other in order to reflect on our future course together.
The future depends on the plans we make and how we carry them out. We have many plans. We have a vast and complex country, but at the same time, I think that people in various positions in other countries also encounter difficulties. Our country is exceptionally complex, however, even just in terms of its size alone. You here in the Far East know this very well and realise how difficult it is to actually carry out big projects. But we know too, that if we do not carry them out we will not have this country, and this is just what we do not want, for it is our desire to live together in a strong and united Russia. Let us therefore keep striving and working towards this goal.
I wish you all the best of spirits. See you again.
Geography
Khabarovsk Territory
Topics
Industry
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 11, 2011, 08:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting of State Council Presidium on raising the regions’ role in modernising Russia's economy
Dmitry Medvedev chaired a meeting of the State Council Presidium on raising the regions’ role in modernisation of Russia's economy.
November 11, 2011
12:00
Khabarovsk
1 of 2
Meeting of the State Council Presidium on raising the regions’ role in modernisation of Russia's economy.
Discussion centred, in particular, on measures to improve inter-budgetary relations.
* * *
Excerpts from transcript of State Council Presidium meeting
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Today’s State Council Presidium meeting addresses a subject very relevant for all of us – raising the regions’ role in governing and modernising the country.
I am talking about planning for the future, building an innovative economy, creating a modern infrastructure, and developing our public institutions and human potential, of course — in short, all of the big development issues facing our country’s regions today. I will start by outlining a few key points.
First, a principle at once very simple but also very complex, is that our country’s and economy’s modernisation cannot proceed from the centre but must be underpinned by people’s activeness throughout the country and by local initiatives, otherwise we will not achieve our goals.
It is the regions and not Moscow that determine the investment climate and the shape of our transport, engineering, and social infrastructures. It is ineffective to look at improving the investment climate only in terms of decisions implemented in Moscow alone. 
”Our country’s and economy’s modernisation cannot proceed from the centre but must be underpinned by people’s activeness throughout the country and by local initiatives, otherwise we will not achieve our goals.“
But at the same time, the situation differs from one region to another. There are regions that are attractive to investors, not so much through the resources they possess as through the policies the regional authorities implement. And then there are regions that, while they have potential, do not look so appealing in investment terms.
We need to organise our work keeping in mind this reality of a country in which the regions really do differ considerably in terms of economic development, pace of modernisation, and people’s living standards. Ultimately, the regional governors are responsible for building good business and social climates in their regions. It is they who coordinate the authorities’ work at the regional and inter-agency levels, and of course it is only right and proper that they should have all of the instruments they need in their work, while at the same time taking real responsibility for successfully pursuing their regions’ modernisation.
Second is an issue that I want to place squarely and directly before you, namely, a shift in distribution of budget money in favour of the regions and municipalities. I completely agree with you and with the municipal heads that we need a clear and transparent financial incentive system. We need to introduce these financial incentives above all through the system of inter-budgetary relations, while continuing the work to delimit powers between the different branches of state power. 
I also want to draw to your attention that development resources must be very clearly regulated. The money allocated from budgets at all levels for the different programmes and projects must be pegged to concrete results. The times demand this: what we need are results that can be judged by specific concrete, and not formal, criteria. These criteria must be clear to all parties concerned. 
Third, the regional authorities need to think in terms of growth, rather than survival. We were busy trying to survive in the 1990s, but what we need now are growth and development, and we therefore need to establish modernisation hubs based not so much on natural resources as on human and production resources, science and technology, and education potential. 
The big cities should become the focal point for agglomerations that will take shape, advancing the regional economies and narrowing the gaps in our people’s living standards. No matter where they live, our people must have access to social protection, medical care, quality education, and all the benefits of modern civilisation.
”We need to establish modernisation hubs based not so much on natural resources as on human and production resources, science and technology, and education potential.“
Of course, we need to develop growth centres not just in European Russia, the Volga region and the Urals, but also in the Southern and Siberian federal districts, and in the Far East, where we are working today. I want to hear your ideas here.
Fourth, the individual regions’ development strategies must be drawn up in close coordination with the overall federal strategy. This work must take into account development prospects for territorial clusters and municipalities. It goes without saying that we cannot afford to plan only for the present moment or even the coming three years, but must focus on putting together and carrying out long-term programmes and projects and developing our regional planning system.
The cluster approach is viewed as being a particularly effective means of achieving regional economic and social development. It makes regional economies more competitive and brings in new knowledge and people, thus boosting to the region’s skills and capabilities. I therefore instruct you to select territorial cluster pilot projects and draw up the support mechanisms they will need, including support from the state development institutions. 
We need to look at the current situation too. In this respect, I want to inform you that on November 4, following a complex approval procedure, the Government, acting on my instructions, took much-needed decisions on price formation in the electricity sector, in accordance with which electricity tariffs for small and medium-sized businesses will not now be allowed to exceed the inflation level. The distortions that enabled suppliers to manipulate prices and left consumers facing losses – issues we discussed on past occasions — have now been eliminated. 
Coming now to the final point, we need to put in place particular incentives for the country’s eastern regions. These regions are our gates to Asia and the Pacific and the conditions of life here, the business and investment climate, should be such as to foster our integration into the global markets of the Asian region. We therefore must modernise the infrastructure, modernise the transport infrastructure and make it more accessible for people. It is this infrastructure that unites the regions into a single whole after all.
”The country’s eastern regions are our gates to Asia and the Pacific and the conditions of life here, the business and investment climate, should be such as to foster our integration into the global markets of the Asian region.“
Building high-speed railways, roads, and developing local airlines is all very important, but sadly, these sectors are in a lamentable state. We realise that these are not just economic projects but have a social dimension too. They have an impact on labour mobility, on changing the country’s population patterns and movements, on business organisation, and to put it simply, these transport arteries are as vital as the air we breathe.
Work is going full steam ahead on preparations for the 2012 APEC summit in Vladivostok, but, turning now to the heads of the Far East regions and the plenipotentiary presidential envoy, I do not want to see the work stop here. This event and its preparations act as a development driver, a financial and even moral driver, but the work must continue. You cannot sit back complacently after the event and think that all is well now, the summit has taken place, the roads built, Vladivostok has a new sewerage system, and now you can relax.
Do not forget that the Far East is not just Vladivostok, and do not forget either that not everything can be done in time for the APEC summit. We therefore want to see the active work continue, including as regards building mutually advantageous relations with neighbouring countries. We need big projects that will develop the region’s infrastructure. We can discuss the list of these projects. I hope for your active participation.
We need to get neighbouring countries involved in these projects, convince them of the interest these projects have for them too, make them see that they will not lose money by taking part, but will gain new opportunities and advantages. I stress too that the APEC summit is just the start of the road towards building a competitive Russian development hub in the Asia-Pacific region.
Let’s begin work.
<…>
At first glance, decentralisation and delimitation of powers seem to be administrative issues that concern the federal government, the regional governors, and the municipalities. But in fact, these issues concern above all the lives of the regions and their people and have a big impact in general.
As you know, I have entrusted this work to two groups set up by the Government and headed by two deputy prime ministers, Dmitry Kozak and Alexander Khloponin. Representatives of the regional governors and municipalities are taking part in these groups’ work. But perhaps the time has come to get everyone more actively involved in this work, consult with civil society representatives too, talk with all of the different parties concerned, so as to ensure that these powers are organised more competently and effectively. 
This is all in the natural run of things. You could say, really, that every 7–10 years or so we need to come back to this question as life changes, the situation changes, new revenue sources emerge and old problems get resolved. This makes it essential for the state authorities to come back to this matter from time to time.
Let’s take it as settled then that, starting from today, we will intensify the consultations underway on this issue, and I invite all of you to take part.
* * *
Russia is a country that will always have a need for the kind of big projects that act as growth engines, if only because our infrastructure is still poorly developed in twenty-first century terms. We therefore need to reflect on the growth engines that will drive infrastructure development in the Far East after 2012.
I want you to discuss this with the experts, the governors, and the Government. This includes the project to build a bridge to Sakhalin Island. This is a very ambitious project of course. It has a geopolitical dimension, a symbol of belonging and sovereignty, but more important than that, it would make life easier for a huge number of people. I am not anticipating any decisions though, but am simply proposing that we reflect on the subject.
* * *
This is a useful discussion in that these issues concern all of the regional governors and municipal heads, and the federal government too of course. I am referring to the question of decentralisation, tax incentives, regional development incentives in general, and efforts to raise the regions’ role in economic modernisation. 
I want to note the points that seem to me of interest and have them reflected in the decisions we reach, in addition to the instructions to be drafted following this meeting. This concerns use of the National Welfare Fund’s reserves, and provision of state guarantees, which some of you raised in your speeches. I think these are fitting issues to examine in terms of making more active use of these instruments that we have at our disposal.
* * *
Each of you, when you receive the mandate to govern your region from the president and regional legislative assembly, must have a clear idea of what you will do, and what your priorities will be for your given term in office. If you are successful in your work, your mandate will be extended and you can put together the programme for your next term in office. This kind of planning is essential because otherwise it is hard to know on what basis to evaluate governors’ performance.
* * *
It is my big hope that all of you, the regional governors and the government leaders, pay attention to proposals coming from ordinary people, because they often contain a good number of sensible ideas. By ordinary people I mean everyone: public sector workers, businesspeople, everyone and anyone interested in their region’s development. This is work in which you must not allow yourselves to drift away from the concerns and needs of the people who have entrusted you with government.
Geography
Khabarovsk Territory
Topics
Budget
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 11, 2011, 12:00
Text version