Events
Meeting with internet community representatives
The meeting participants discussed how to develop the Russian section of the internet, looking in particular at issues such as legal regulation of the internet, responsibility for information published, and copyright and intellectual property rights protection in the internet. 
April 29, 2011
17:45
Moscow
4 of 16
Meeting with internet community representatives.
The meeting took place at the Russian National Youth Library, Russia’s biggest library specifically targeting a youth audience. Mr Medvedev toured the library’s reading rooms and other departments before the meeting began.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Colleagues, we have a good opportunity today to discuss the state of affairs in the Russian section of the internet, and in the internet in general.
I don’t want to make any lengthy speeches. You all know the problems and possibilities better than anyone, all the more so as some of the internet community’s most prominent representatives are here today. I would like to hear your views, and add some comments of my own too.
As I see it, my job as President is to make hopefully the right decisions on regulating social relations in general, including in the internet. The internet is a very specific environment, however, and the minute we start talking about regulation people immediately start imagining that the state wants to get its hands on everything and establish the kinds of controls that exist only in some countries with rather specific systems. This is why before making any decisions on regulation we first have to discuss the issues very thoroughly.“The internet is a very specific environment, however, and the minute we start talking about regulation people immediately start imagining that the state wants to get its hands on everything and establish the kinds of controls that exist only in some countries with rather specific systems. This is why before making any decisions on regulation we first have to discuss the issues very thoroughly.“
”The internet is a very specific environment, however, and the minute we start talking about regulation people immediately start imagining that the state wants to get its hands on everything and establish the kinds of controls that exist only in some countries with rather specific systems. This is why before making any decisions on regulation we first have to discuss the issues very thoroughly.“
I simply want to get an idea of your views on these issues, and talk about other issues too, responsibility for published content on the internet, for example, and the very important matter of copyright, which is something I already began discussing with the people at the top. This is an issue I myself devoted a lot of study to in my undergraduate and postgraduate years, and while teaching law. I did not specialise in copyright and related rights, but as a specialist in civil law I lectured and held seminars on this subject. It is an area I am familiar with and is really extremely important for the future. The thing is, many people look at today’s developments and say they sound the death knell for copyright, while others see opportunities for taking a whole new approach to copyright, which will be regulated in completely new ways. In any case, the internet creates fantastic opportunities for the publication – and reproduction – of large volumes of information, and at the same time creates new challenges for regulating intellectual property rights. 
There are many other issues too, crime, for example, cases when the internet can be for good, and also turned into a rather sharp weapon. This is something that has been much discussed. We all realise that combating extremism, terrorism, and crime are very much relevant tasks in any case, no matter how we look at the situation.
That’s probably enough for a start. You are all well aware of these issues. If you allow, I propose that we give the floor first to those of our colleagues who want to deliver an opening message, and then we can have a free discussion of the various issues. The floor is yours.
* * *
There should be some kind of practical outcome from our meeting. I wasn’t just trying to be witty when I said that I specifically raised this issue at the G8 summit. The other G8 leaders were less interested in it than I am, for whatever reason. I stated that it was time for us to try to create the foundations for a future legal framework in this arena, for international regulation of copyright. Because the Geneva Convention and the Berne Convention are in the distant past.
* * *
”The internet creates fantastic opportunities for the publication – and reproduction – of large volumes of information, and at the same time creates new challenges for regulating intellectual property rights.“
Regarding copyright, you said it was an idea that originated from the notion of public good, of giving different people the chance to use information. I do not entirely agree.
But my understanding is shaped by my legal background. Let me remind you that the copyright model (which was later called intellectual property) was based on the model of absolute property rights, and that’s why people started using a similar term, although these are different things – a tangible medium and an intellectual product. Property rights are always based on differentiating what’s mine and what’s yours, on absolute protection from all other persons. Copyright was built on this same model. And for a certain time, this model was working, because there was a set of copyright holders. Copyright always included property rights, as you know, and non-property rights: inalienable, individual, non-property rights. When it could be used traditionally, the model worked. But as soon as electronic media and the Internet appeared, this entire theory was derailed. And now, the question comes up: is that how we should understand copyright? Because if that is how we look at it, as I said, then that’s not in the interest of public good – rather, it’s the idea of defending against all other persons. I am creating my product – it doesn’t matter how valuable or useful it is – I have written three lines (we are always given absurd examples), I have put something down on paper, and this is the copyright object. It was created and it exists. And to protect it, I do not need any government registration, as we know, in contrast to patent law and industrial property. I think that we will need to reconsider the fundamental approaches to this matter, not just the technical ones.
* * *
I am very interested to see what you will do. And if, for example, we are able to work out certain common approaches, then I would even be willing to share them at the next G8 summit. Because there’s no reason to be smug, not everything in the world is determined by us and we are not trendsetters. Unfortunately, the majority of the world’s most valuable works subject to copyright do not come from Russia – I mean, in terms of monetary value, since it is impossible to assess their real value, for obvious reasons. So they, too, need a push toward these matters.
* * *
”It was time for us to try to create the foundations for a future legal framework in this arena, for international regulation of copyright. Because the Geneva Convention and the Berne Convention are in the distant past.“
(On protecting personal data online) There are two approaches. I think that in any case, these two approaches will both remain online, competing with one another. The big challenge for a state – even the most democratic state – will still come down to controlling certain of these processes. Ultimately, nobody has eliminated the most egregious crimes that we see occurring online, including ones that are using Internet, and it’s unlikely to happen anytime soon. The protective attitude, the protective principle will still be there.it was time for us to try to create the foundations for a future legal framework in this arena, for international regulation of copyright. Because the Geneva Convention and the Berne Convention are in the distant past.
On the other hand, the average individual’s goal or desire, most people’s inclination, generally leans toward maintaining their space and trying to give out as few personal data as possible. I proceed from the fact that this is natural for most people. Granted, some people seek visibility, but most of the time, they do not achieve it. Still, most people are generally inclined to want privacy. Indeed, the greatest problem is finding a balance. Naturally, I am concerned that in Russia, this balance might be thrown off in a certain direction due to our turbulent, complex history. But on the other hand, the other extreme is also dangerous. We all understand how things work and are all aware of examples of Internet use for unsavoury purposes.
How do we find that balance? First, we need to somehow seek it out. Second, this balance can only be achieved on a national scale, at least in the upcoming years. It is impossible to make it universal throughout the planet, because we are too diverse and the conditions are too different. Even if we take Russia, with all our complications and difficulties, and compare it to, say, China – these are different countries. Let’s compare another European nation – here, we will also see strong differences, at least for now. In this sense, the government will still need to find an individual answer to this matter. Incidentally, with regard to certain issues, we may not even look so bad compared to the global community, because we are not trying to regulate everything. After all, we have not reached that extreme. To be entirely honest, I can even take a small amount of credit for this, and not from my time as President (since obviously, it is easier for a President), but from the period when I was working in the Presidential Executive Office and in the Government, trying to strike down some of the more odious proclivities. The reason I bring this up is not because I think I’m all that great, but simply because this all depends enormously on the people who are making these decisions and how civilised they are.
<…>
Topics
Information society
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 29, 2011, 17:45
Text versionEvents
Russian Federation state decorations were presented at a ceremony at the Kremlin
Dmitry Medvedev presented decorations and certificates conferring honorary titles on specialists in various economic sectors, workers, and Great Patriotic War veterans.
April 29, 2011
14:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
The ceremony took place as Russia prepares to celebrate the Day of Spring and Labour. Those decorated include workers from various sectors: construction, the metals industry, mining, and the agriculture sector.
With the 66th anniversary of Victory in the Great Patriotic War coming up, the President also presented state decorations to war veterans. Tatyana Romanova received the Order of the Red Banner, and Anatoly Ivanov the Order of the Patriotic War II degree, for their courage and heroism during the Great Patriotic War.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Good afternoon, friends, veterans,
First of all, I want to congratulate you all most sincerely on these state decorations. Present here today are people from various walks of life, here in this hall where, by tradition, we present state decorations as ceremonial music plays. You all come from different professions, you have clearly worked all your lives for your country’s good, and your achievements are the result of your unflagging efforts and constant striving for the utmost professionalism. 
This ceremony is taking place as the country is about to celebrate Labour Day. This holiday has had various names throughout our history, but it has always honoured labour, and we have always celebrated it on May 1. You are all workers and toilers, and this is your holiday. I congratulate you on this occasion and hope you will have a good celebration.
There is always a symbolic dimension in the presentation of any state decorations. They embody the country’s recognition, but they also attest to people’s personal accomplishments and are the tangible proof of their personal achievements in their various professions. These achievements in turn build the success of our entire country.
“Our task today is to ensure that these hands, this labour, get the recognition and recompense they deserve from our country and society. I mean recompense in the broadest sense, everything from actual wages to various moral incentives and the country’s encouragement.”
You represent a wide variety of professions. Here today are builders, metals industry workers, miners, and agriculture sector workers. It is not often that we have such a diverse range of professions represented in one place, and it is good to see today that we have here people from all of our main economic sectors, from industry and from agriculture.
Let me say too that most of our achievements have always been the fruit of our workers’ hands. Any bold new idea goes through a whole chain of transformations, from conception to practical implementation, and at the end of the chain we always find the people whose hands turn these ideas into reality. Our task today is to ensure that these hands, this labour, get the recognition and recompense they deserve from our country and society. I mean recompense in the broadest sense, everything from actual wages to various moral incentives and the country’s encouragement. State decorations are a part of this recognition too.
We still have much to do to properly modernise our industry. The education system will play a big part in this work, and I have been working on precisely this issue over the last few weeks, meeting with people studying in our various vocational colleges, talking with engineers and workers. Our education system’s task today is to prepare people for modern life, because the demands on workers in industry and agriculture have changed completely from what they were even just 10–15 years ago, let alone 30 years ago or more. People need to be ready to be able to learn about and use the latest scientific and technological advances.
Friends, we will soon celebrate the 66th anniversary of Victory [in the Great Patriotic War]. Everyone here today, and everyone in our country in general, perhaps more than anywhere else in the world, realises just how much we owe our veterans for the very fact that we can live, develop, create new products, produce new achievements, conquer space, and simply live a normal peaceful human life.
Also present here today are veterans of the Great Patriotic War. It gives me special pleasure today to award the Order of the Red Banner to Tatyana Romanova and the Order of the Patriotic War II degree to Anatoly Ivanov. I think that there is something symbolic too in the presentation of these decorations.
The representatives of the various economic sectors here today will receive state decorations including the Order for Services to the Fatherland, the Order of Honour, and the Order of Friendship.
So as not to offend anyone, I will not name any more names, because you all deserve the warmest words and highest praise. I named only our dear veterans. But I want to say to all of you that these high state decorations are the country’s recognition of your achievements and the example you set for young people.
Once again, I congratulate you all and propose that we now begin presenting the decorations.
<…>
See also
Trip to Lytkarino
April 27, 2011
Topics
State decorations
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 29, 2011, 14:30
Text version