Events
Working meeting with First Deputy Director of Federal Security Service Sergei Smirnov
Sergei Smirnov briefed Dmitry Medvedev on the results of a special operation in Ingushetia conducted by the FSB, Investigative Committee, Defence Ministry and Interior Ministry.
March 29, 2011
16:15
Gorki, Moscow Region
With First Deputy Director of the Federal Security Service Sergei Smirnov.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Mr Smirnov, the terrorist attacks in Moscow metro were committed one year ago today. The investigation has been ongoing, with the involvement of FSB and Investigative Committee professionals. The main result achieved in this time is that the entire group suspected of committing this grave crime has been discovered. A significant part of the suspects have been eliminated during special operations. This punishment is absolutely just.
In addition, a special operation was recently carried out in Ingushetia with fairly impressive results. Please tell me about what has been done and what are the results of this operation.
First Deputy Director of the Federal Security Service Sergei Smirnov: Mr President, we have recently conducted a number of operations in collaboration with the Investigative Committee aimed at clarifying all the circumstances of the terrorist attack at the Domodedovo Airport. The operation in Ingushetia was targeted specifically at those persons [involved in the terrorist attack]. On March 28, the FSB in cooperation with the Interior Ministry, Defence Ministry and Investigative Committee carried out a special operation in the mountainous forests of Ingushetia to eliminate one of the training bases which, according to our data, is actively used to train suicide bombers.
In a pinpoint airstrike by the Air Force, followed by a ground operation conducted by the special forces and Interior Ministry troops, the infrastructure, including bunkers and shelters, was destroyed, weapons that were found there were seized and 17 militants were killed, according to preliminary data.
At the same time, Aslan Tsechoyev, an accomplice of the militants, put up armed resistance during his arrest and was killed in Verkhniye Achaluki, Ingushetia. Unfortunately, two officers of the FSB Ingushetia branch and one special forces officer were killed during the raid.
”I expect to receive a full report on the results of this operation from the Federal Security Service, as the agency responsible for coordinating anti-terrorist efforts. We must continue operations to destroy the militants since, unfortunately, problems still remain in a number of our North Caucasus republics and this is the way to resolve them.“
On the same day, Monday, March 28, two of the Yandiyev brothers were arrested. According to our data, they were directly involved in the organisation of the Domodedovo Airport terrorist attack. At present they are being interviewed by investigation officers.
Work will continue at the site of the operation to identify the bodies of those killed and clarify all the events that occurred there. So, the investigation is continuing.
Dmitry Medvedev: You have managed to destroy the criminals’ lair, and that is a success. I believe that you have worked well in collaboration with the government agencies you have named, and have dealt a hard blow to the militants. As for our comrades who have been killed, we must do everything to support their families and grant them state decorations for giving their lives defending our nation and our country.
I expect to receive a full report on the results of this operation from the Federal Security Service, as the agency responsible for coordinating anti-terrorist efforts. We must continue operations to destroy the militants since, unfortunately, problems still remain in a number of our North Caucasus republics and this is the way to resolve them.
We must persist and bring these efforts to conclusion, so that every militant realises that his fate is in his own hands: either he stops fighting, and in that case he has a chance to get out of this situation, or he continues his criminal activities, and in this case he will inevitably be eliminated.
Sergei Smirnov: We will carry out all your instructions.
<…>
Topics
Fight against terrorism
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 29, 2011, 16:15
Text versionEvents
Meeting with students and faculty of technical universities
Dmitry Medvedev answered questions and listened to students' suggestions concerning the modernisation of technical education in Russia and enhancing the prestige of the engineering profession.
March 29, 2011
14:15
MPEI, Moscow
4 of 4
Meeting with students and faculty of technical universities.
The meeting took place at the Moscow Power Engineering Institute (Technical University).
A meeting of the Commission for Modernisation and Technological Development of Russia’s Economy will take place on Wednesday, March 30, 2011, in Magnitogorsk. This will be the last in a series of meetings on developing engineering education. Following the meeting, Dmitry Medvedev will sign a list of instructions.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Good afternoon, everyone. I am very happy to see you.
I am not going to talk too much to begin with so that you have a chance to ask me any questions you may have and I also want to hear your thoughts about ways to develop education in general, and engineering education in particular.
Here is a point I want to make at the start. When I was a high school senior, and that was way back in 1982, ancient history, but at that time I was a rare species among my classmates because I was one of the few people who went on to study at a Humanities University for some unknown reason, at St Petersburg University. The vast majority of my peers in Leningrad at the time chose engineering schools. And I remember having to explain what it was the Law Department taught at all because funny as it sounds today, back then people didn’t know that. There was so little demand for lawyers that people didn’t even realise what they did and I had to explain that they could become judges, prosecutors or police officers – whereas practically all my friends from school became engineers.
”I decided to pay special attention to engineers because it is a key profession for building a new economy and modernising technology. Obviously, the nation needs engineers.“
A great deal of time has passed since then and a lot has changed in our country. In 2010, 217,000 graduates enrolled at engineering universities, which is a fairly good number. Thirty percent of universities are engineering schools, universities that train engineers, and in total there are 555 of them around the country.
You study at some of those universities, and I don’t just mean the Moscow Power Engineering Institute. There are teachers and students from other engineering schools here as well. I would really like to hear what you think about the current situation. 
Some time ago I decided to pay special attention to engineers because it is a key profession for building a new economy and modernising technology. Obviously, the nation needs engineers, as it is also clear that the 1990s were a difficult decade for engineers and for engineering education. We have some recent achievements, though, and you will probably be able to tell me which initiatives have succeeded and which have not.
As part of this effort I first travelled to Khakassia and met with engineers there. They have a lot of engineers there and they told me about their work. The situation in some places is better than in others. Later I met with their employers, the companies that commission engineering projects, and I found out where their priorities lie, what kind of professionals they want to see come out of universities, which professions they have a demand for, what kind of training do they need and to what extent should they be involved in production processes. Tomorrow I will hold the final meeting on this issue, a meeting of the Commission for Modernisation and Technological Development of Russia’s Economy, and after that I will sign a list of instructions. Today I would very much like you to tell me absolutely honestly and frankly what you think we should do both to attract students to the engineering profession, and in general, to support engineering professionals in our country. I don’t need to tell you why we need this because you all know the answer to that. So now, I think it’s time for me to stop talking and pass on the word to you.
<…>
Topics
Universities
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 29, 2011, 14:15
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Vnesheconombank Chairman Vladimir Dmitriev
Dmitry Medvedev and Vladimir Dmitriev discussed measures to support small and medium-sized businesses and the establishment of the Direct Investment Fund.
March 29, 2011
17:15
Gorki, Moscow Region
With Vnesheconombank Chairman Vladimir Dmitriev.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Good afternoon. There are a few issues I would like to talk about today. One of them concerns a major project, the Direct Investment Fund, which is sometimes wrongly called a sovereign fund. I think we will discuss this in the near future in the light of the instructions I issued at the last meeting. I hope the work is going well.
The second issue, one that is always relevant, concerns the support for small business, and this is a major responsibility for your bank as a development institution. Please tell me about the latest results of these efforts.
Vnesheconombank Chairman Vladimir DMITRIEV: Let me begin with your first question. We are actively engaged in drafting the regulatory framework and are cooperating with foreign investors on the establishment of the Direct Investment Fund. Only a week has passed since the meeting you chaired but we have already received very positive feedback from major state and private investment funds and sovereign funds, in particular, from the Abu Dhabi Fund, China Investment Corporation and a number of private funds that have welcomed the intention to create the Direct Investment Fund in Russia and expressed their interest in close cooperation on designing and creating this fund. Moreover, foreign investors understand that co-investment is one of the main principles behind the creation and operation of such a fund and they are ready to take part in it.
So the work is continuing. We will shortly submit a plan to you with the objective of making the intention to establish the fund public by June. We believe that the plan is aggressive but it is absolutely realistic.
”Support for small and medium-sized businesses is a top priority. What is most important is that we don’t rest on our laurels but continue our efforts to promote the creation of a middle class in our country.“
Dmitry Medvedev: I have signed an instruction on this issue, as we had agreed during the meeting. The deadlines are tight; as you say, it is an aggressive plan but I hope that it is realistic. So get down to work.
Vladimir Dmitriev: With regard to small and medium-sized businesses and the support provided by our subsidiary, the Russian Bank for Development, I can confirm that the programme is proceeding as planned. The funds for the programme amount to about 130 billion rubles [$4.6 billion], and this money goes directly to regional banks to support small and medium-sized businesses. But, in my opinion, it is important to note that recently, actually since last autumn, we have reformatted the programme in such a way that now the emphasis is on innovation and institutional support, that is support for the agencies other than banks that work with small and medium-sized businesses: this includes guarantee funds, leasing companies and factoring companies. With all this the focus is on innovation and modernisation of small and medium-sized enterprises, the companies that work in these sectors.
It is clear that this is a high-risk sector but on the other hand it requires affordable capital, because they have no collateral – many companies start from scratch. Therefore, we have introduced preferential terms for them. In fact, we are working at zero profit for ourselves and for the Russian Bank for Development, but it helps to keep the interest rates under 10% for the end borrowers.
We exercise tight control over the regional banks that work with small and medium-sized businesses. The average interest rate for small and medium-sized businesses covered by our programme last year was 13%, down from 16% in January 2010. The positive dynamic is obvious.
We plan to introduce the issue of further capitalisation of the Russian Development Bank on the supervisory board’s agenda because the bank operates in line with the Central Bank regulations and, therefore, it needs additional capital to broaden its lending base. At the same time, our support measures include subordinated loans and preferential terms on which we provide funds to the Russian Development Bank. We leave no profit margin for ourselves. In other words, we do everything in our power to make sure that the end borrowers obtain resources at preferential rates.
Dmitry Medvedev: Support for small and medium-sized businesses is a top priority. I am glad that you are tackling this task, that you are working hard and the amount of support provided is significant.
The business community has a basic understanding of the interest rates although of course they want to get loans on better terms. What is most important is that we don’t rest on our laurels but continue our efforts to promote the creation of a middle class in our country.
<…>
Topics
Support for business
Persons
Dmitriev Vladimir
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 29, 2011, 17:15
Text version