Events
Dmitry Medvedev met with his supporters from among the Internet community
The Internet’s role in political and social life was among the broad range of subjects discussed at the meeting. Mr Medvedev expanded his social network presence at the meeting by opening his own page on the VKontakte Russian social network service.
November 9, 2011
17:00
Moscow
2 of 7
Meeting with supporters from among the Internet community.
The participants in the discussion included bloggers, people involved in internet projects, online media and movements, and a number of public figures.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: First of all, I am very pleased to see you all and hope that we will be able to have a good discussion today.
We are meeting during the election campaign period, and this is a very particular time of course. I am therefore all the more pleased to see here people who take an interest in politics, have their own views, are not shy of discussing all different subjects, do not reject outright, right from the start, all ideas that the authorities may voice (we see often enough this attitude that says that the authorities will never propose anything good), and make proposals of their own. And so I want to thank you for your support.
It is very good to have this chance to meet with you here offline. Many of you I know online, but have never seen you in the real world yet. So, although I know some of you by face already, I ask you please to introduce yourselves and tell us a bit about yourselves before speaking.
There is no need for me to tell you about the Internet and what it is, for you know better than anyone. I just want to say a few words about one aspect that I think really is very important. The Internet helps everyone, including politicians, to be modern people able to influence the situation and get access to information that has not been touched up or transformed into reports and digests prepared in accordance with particular people’s preferences, or even the various special reports that the law enforcement and intelligence services provide. 
”The Internet helps everyone, including politicians, to be modern people able to influence the situation and get access to information. The Internet is useful to me as the president and useful to a huge number of other people in that it gives access to unfiltered information.“
These information sources always act as filters, always reflect some particular view or position, and I can speak from experience as someone who has been working in government and administration a long time already, and as president now. The Internet, on the other hand, is useful to me as the president and useful to a huge number of other people in that it gives access to unfiltered information. Sometimes this is not a pleasant experience, sometimes it is a very interesting experience, but whatever the case, this aspect of the Internet stands out very clearly.
The authorities should in general seek supporters in the Internet community in order to make government modern and relevant. Without such supporters a gap is likely to grow between the authorities and a large part of the population. This is something we must avoid. I try in this sense to set an example. It is up to you, rather than me, to judge how successful I am in this. Perhaps you could give me some advice. But in any event, this subject is of interest to me not just now, but will remain relevant to me in the future too, and so I will be staying online.
What’s more, I think that in order to give the right example and simply make life more interesting, I will continue to expand my online presence. I will make my words act right away in fact by opening here and now my official page in [social networking site] VKontakte, if you don’t mind. Let me write “Hi, I’m here now in VKontakte”. Now I’ll send that. There, it’s gone through. It’s all up and working. 
I want to discuss with you any matters you consider of interest, political, economic, humanitarian affairs, and purely Internet-related issues too, anything you wish.
The last thing I want to mention, something I think very important, is that any politician or active person needs feedback, and the Internet provides just this opportunity for feedback between these individuals and the public. I recently put forward the idea of ‘expanded government’ or ‘open government’, and I invite all of you here to take part in the work of these kinds of public organisations in what measure you can. I do not know exactly what results will come out of all this, but I think it is an interesting undertaking, and your contribution will be valued whatever the case.
I will stop here. Let’s talk about not just the Internet but about any issues you wish to discuss with me today. I hope you will not let me get bored.
<…>
Topics
Information society
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 9, 2011, 17:00
Text versionEvents
Working meeting with Director of Federal Security Service (FSB) Alexander Bortnikov
At the meeting Dmitry Medvedev announced having signed a Federal Law aimed at improving the mechanism of countering legalisation (laundering) of criminal incomes and the financing of terrorism.
November 9, 2011
19:30
With Director of the Federal Security Service Alexander Bortnikov.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Mr Bortnikov, I have signed a rather important document amending the law on countering the legalisation of illegal incomes and the financing of terrorism. You and I have already discussed these amendments some time ago.
These amendments involve changes in procedures for the internal audit of monetary assets, as well as specifying obligations in submitting relevant information to authorised agencies that supervise such transactions. I believe this is one of the available mechanisms for countering these kinds of activities.
The activities in question entail criminal liability throughout the whole world. But given the heightened terrorist threat in our country, it is very important for our legal toolkit in this area to be up-to-date, adequate and efficient. In other words, it should allow the Federal Security Service and other agencies such as Russia’s Federal Financial Monitoring Service, the Prosecutor General’s Office, investigative agencies, and all other agencies that counter these kinds of crimes, to apply it.
Director of Federal Security Service Alexander Bortnikov
: Mr President, over the last several years, we have had an active, on-going process of improving legislation to ensure security and to counter terrorism. The amendments to the 115th law that were passed and that you signed into law are clear evidence of this.
According to our estimates, the new norms and regulations that have been submitted as amendments will allow authorised agencies, the law enforcement system, and special services to operate more effectively in matters of countering corruption and terrorism financing.
I expect that we are entering a more active phase of this work, given the decisions made and the fact that all concerned departments, which we already discussed, are actively included in this process. And I am entirely certain that we will receive a great deal of assistance from our foreign partners, with whom we maintain constant contact on issues of countering terrorism, counteracting the financing of terrorism, and other particularly dangerous crimes. I expect that this will be very beneficial.
Dmitry Medvedev: Very well. I would like to point out to you and your colleagues in law enforcement that in any event, laundering money received via illegal activities is a crime. But these activities are particularly hazardous when they involve financing terrorism, because in this case, multiple crimes are being stacked, one on top of another. You must work with other colleagues to monitor what is happening in this area with extreme vigilance.
You cannot be soft on terrorists, even if some people do not agree with such approach. I would like you to continue your efforts within the framework of existing laws and your authority, while truly relying on support from international colleagues who make relevant efforts on every, including the top, level. They also don’t beat around the bush when they receive information that a particular financial resource is used to finance terrorism. We must pay attention to this in our country as well.
<…>
See also
Amendments to law on countering money laundering and to Administrative Offences Code
November 9, 2011
Topics
Fight against corruption
Fight against terrorism
Persons
Bortnikov Alexander
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 9, 2011, 19:30
Text version