Events
Press statements following Russian-Iraqi talks
October 10, 2012
19:00
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
Press statements following Russian-Iraqi talks. With Prime Minister of Iraq Nouri al-Maliki.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen,
Our meeting with the Prime Minister of Iraq, Mr Nouri al-Maliki, was substantive and constructive.
Some significant changes have have been taking place in Iraq since Mr Maliki’s last visit to Moscow in April 2009 – changes for the better. Iraq’s leadership is doing much for complete national reconciliation and accord, socioeconomic problems resolution and restoring country’s positions in the region and on the international arena.
We sincerely wish our Iraqi friends success in rebuilding and strengthening their state and see the augmentation of our bilateral trade and economic relations and the deepening of our political dialogue as Russia’s input into the advancement of Iraq toward re-establishing its peaceful living.
During today’s detailed talks, we touched on nearly all the issues in our relations. We noted that, regrettably, we are still quite far from the trade level that had been achieved in 2003. At the same time, the growth rates in our relations are a cause for optimism. With every year, more and more Russian companies are participating in Iraq’s economic life.
We are grateful to the Iraqi side for resolving an issue that is highly important to us: ensuring security for our experts in Iraq.
We are seeing the renewel of our military and technical cooperation as well. Iraqi experts are familiar with our weapons, which have a good reputation, and I am certain that we will reach a mutual understanding in this important field, which certainly increases our trade and economic turnover and heightens the trust between our two states.
A session of the intergovernmental commission is scheduled for the end of this year in Baghdad.
See also
Meeting with Prime Minister of Iraq Nouri al-Maliki
October 10, 2012
We also gave the necessary attention to expanding humanitarian relations. In this regard, I should note that since last year, we have increased the quota of state fellowships for Iraqi students in Russian universities to 150. It is pleasing that the Russian Language Chair at the University of Baghdad has never suspended its work for even a single day.
We exchanged views on current international issues and regional problems as well. It is gratifying to note that we hold coinciding or very close views on very many positions.
”The growth rates in our relations are a cause for optimism. With every year, more and more Russian companies are participating in Iraq’s economic life. We are grateful to the Iraqi side for resolving an issue that is highly important to us: ensuring security for our experts in Iraq.“
In conclusion, I would like to express my certainty that this visit by Mr Prime Minister and his entire team will serve the further development of multidimensional cooperation between Russia and Iraq.
Thank you very much for your attention.
Prime Minister of Iraq Nouri al-Maliki
(retranslated): Thank you very much, your Excellency.
I would like to begin by expressing my sincere gratitude for your invitation to visit Russia, a friendly nation that shares our desire to strengthen our bilateral relations. Both myself and all the members of our delegation felt welcome and sensed a very serious, thoughtful approach to discussing and examining the most pressing issues that are of mutual interest to us.
All our rounds of talks with the Russian Government and the President of the Russian Federation fully reflected the desire and readiness of both sides to move forward toward increasing our full range of bilateral cooperation.
It has already been stated here that I visited Russia in 2009 at the President’s invitation. At the time, our country was just emerging from a period of religious and civil war, and we were entering a phase of reconstructing our national economy, normalising live in Iraq. At the time, we were already seriously considering prospects for developing cooperation with your country.
Today, we are pleased to remark on the significant progress that has been made in various areas – first and foremost, in areas of great importance to both sides such as oil, gas, investment cooperation, construction, transport, political processes, and bringing Iraqi positions closer to those of other countries in the region.
During our talks, we had an in-depth discussion of the main areas for potential interaction and cooperation with the Russian Federation and agreed to develop our own sort of “road map” for progressing in all these areas, with priority attention given to such sectors as oil, gas, investments, electric energy, transport, construction, trade, security, military and technical cooperation, the exchange of opinions at a political level and so on.
Based on these common approaches and attitudes geared toward promoting our relations, we also share your point of view that today’s bilateral trade is absolutely unacceptable. We must do everything possible from both sides to restore the high figures that we had achieved in the past.
We also found common ground on some very sensitive and important issues that affect the fate of the region and the entire world, and came to the conclusion that our positions truly are very similar and even concurrent when it comes to the need to ensure reliable security and stability in this region. Besides, we reached common conclusion that it is imperative to do everything possible to promote the free, democratic development of the peoples in this region, using peaceful means and doing everything in our power to not allow provocation, to avoid external meddling in the region’s affairs, and to prevent various scenarios involving military solutions.
Furthermore, we agreed to avoid these types of scenarios when it comes to settling the Syrian crisis, without any kind of foreign meddling, and to support the mission of the new UN Secretary General and League of Arab States’ special envoy, Lakhdar Brahimi. We will do everything we can to ensure the success of his mission, which should result in seeking and finding a peaceful solution to the domestic Syrian crisis that will fully satisfy entire Syrian people.
I also thank the Russian leadership, Mr President and the Russian Government for their readiness to provide assistance to Iraq in lifting the mandate of Article 7, since our country has fully fulfilled its obligations. I repeat again that we are deeply grateful to the Russian side and hope that we will be able to resolve all the remaining issues that require implementation by the Iraqi side, now outside the framework of Article 7.
In the context of what was already said regarding the need to move forward in key areas of mutual interest, we agreed to intensify our efforts in trade, economic, scientific and technical cooperation through the intergovernmental commission. We will give corresponding instructions to the ministers overseeing these matters so that we can take concrete actions to implement the general ideas and intentions of our countries and our peoples to advance in developing the full range of bilateral cooperation.
Thank you very much once again.
Geography
Iraq
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
al-Maliki Nouri
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 10, 2012, 19:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting on harvesting progress and situation on grain market
The meeting addressed measures for stabilising prices on the grain market, issues of organising the sowing of winter crops and steps to increase the competitiveness of the agro-industrial complex following Russia’s accession to the WTO.
October 10, 2012
21:00
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
3 of 4
Meeting on harvesting progress and situation on grain market.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
Today we will talk about the performance of the agricultural sector. Harvesting is nearing completion and I want to thank all the farmers for their hard work, dedication and overall performance. This year has been very difficult in terms of weather conditions, and, unfortunately, this affected the harvest. All of this will be the subject of today's discussion.
However, despite the fact that the harvest will not be as good as last year’s, I should say that Russian agribusiness has undoubtedly remained competitive and in recent years has gained a very good pace, which gives us confidence that this year we will not experience any major setbacks in the supply of food, feed grain and so on.
Let me remind you that even during the severe drought in 2010 we produced enough grain and other basic crops to satisfy the domestic demand. Last year we had a good harvest, which allowed us to restore and strengthen Russia’s position in the global food markets. This year, the weather conditions have been difficult, as I have said, and as a result, the grain yield is lower than last year. We will hear the Agriculture Minister’s report on this issue. My understanding is that a little over 70 million tonnes have been harvested this year, and last year we had more than 94 million tonnes – that’s a big difference. However, I repeat, this is not a catastrophe. Adverse weather conditions have had a negative impact on the grain harvest, as well as the harvest of several other crops, not just cereals.
”The Government has already decided to start grain interventions. Part of the state fund will be put on the market to stabilise the situation on the grain market in the Siberian Federal District, the Urals and the Far East.“
There is a point I want to underscore, however. I have already said and I want to reiterate that this year’s harvest is sufficient to meet the domestic demand for bread, potatoes and other vegetables, and to supply the processing plants with the necessary raw materials for the production of flour, oil, sugar and all the major food products.
At the same time, grain prices are rising and this gives some cause for concern. We will discuss this today since it is the main reason for our meeting. There’s nothing unusual about it: when the harvest is low, the prices grow and when the harvest is good, the prices fall. In the latter case, farmers begin to experience problem, because their aim is to keep the prices at a steady level. There is always a need to find a middle ground, a balance, and we have certain mechanisms at our disposal to help us achieve this. In recent years, we have used these mechanisms with some success.
The most difficult situation has developed on the grain market in the Siberian Federal District. The grain harvest is almost one third lower than last year. As a result, the prices for the main grains in Siberia are much higher than in other Russian regions. Although traditionally, as you know, Siberia has always had the lowest grain prices in the country.
We must also bear in mind that the grain prices directly affect the cost of feed and, therefore, livestock products. In this situation, we must act quickly yet we must think through all our decisions carefully so that we have a full understanding of the possible consequences for both the consumers and producers of agricultural products.
Let me outline several aspects I see as most important here and to which I would like to draw your attention.
A week ago, I talked about the need to consider ways to stabilise grain prices. The Government has already decided to start grain interventions. Part of the state fund will be put on the market to stabilise the situation on the grain market in the Siberian Federal District, the Urals and the Far East.
”We are not going to introduce a ban on exports, which was justified following a devastating drought in 2010. Today the situation is different. At the same time, we must make certain that our exports are made up primarily of grain surpluses and do not affect domestic stability and the Russian market.“
I would like to hear your reports today on the progress made, what has already been done, in which Russian regions the grain will be sold, the criteria for granting access to trading, and whether there have been any problems in cooperation with the regional authorities.
Another point I would like to stress is that state grain reserves must not be used for profiteering or in any other way other than their intended purpose. We must not allow the export of the grain from our reserves under any circumstances. This is a shared responsibility of the federal and regional authorities.
Through careful and targeted measures, the Government must impact the price situation on the market, and ultimately the prices of socially important and sensitive products. This is a crucial economic and social policy challenge.
I ask the Government and the regional authorities to carefully monitor the grain interventions, their impact on the market and the way this will be reflected in the end situation at bread shops.
Second. A major price component is the grain and flour transportation costs. The reduced rail transportation tariffs for grain from Siberia and the Far East will be in effect until the end of the year.
I suggest we consider the possible support measures for our farmers starting from 2013, particularly with regard to grain transportation.
Third. This year, almost all of the world’s major grain producers have been hit by adverse weather conditions. The conditions were unfavourable in just about every major grain producing country. This is nothing for us to rejoice about because it will impact the entire global grain market, and the rise in grain prices will be felt globally.
Naturally, this makes it more profitable for businesses to export grain, but we must be aware that such actions will inevitably push up prices in the domestic market. I stress that in the current situation the main criterion for local agricultural producers must be to meet the demands of the Russian market.
”In order to lay a solid foundation for next year’s harvest, we must now take the utmost care with the autumn sowing campaign. Farms must be provided with seeds, equipment, fuels and lubricants, and fertilisers. I ask the Government and the regional authorities to closely monitor the autumn fieldwork.“
Of course, we are not going to introduce a ban on exports, which was justified following a devastating drought in 2010. At that time the problem was exacerbated by the fact the heatwave of 2010 had been preceded by the drought of 2009, so the weather affected the harvest for two consecutive years. Today the situation is different. At the same time, we must make certain that our exports are made up primarily of grain surpluses and do not affect domestic stability and the Russian market.
In order to lay a solid foundation for next year’s harvest, we must now take the utmost care with the autumn sowing campaign, which must be as efficient as possible and conducted at the optimum time. Farms must be provided with seeds, equipment, fuels and lubricants, and fertilisers. You know all that already. I ask the Government and the regional authorities to closely monitor the autumn fieldwork.
Finally, another important issue that I would like to discuss with you. Our country has become a full member of the World Trade Organisation. We have secured special terms of agricultural support. We returned again and again to the subject of what timely measures are to be taken to ensure the interests of our agricultural sector, and we talked about a variety of support mechanisms. I know that the previous Government worked on this issue and the current Government is continuing it, in fact jointly with the Presidential Executive Office, and individual Government departments on the other hand. Let us return to this highly sensitive issue today.
<…>
Geography
Altai Territory
Volgograd Region
Saratov Region
Topics
Agriculture
Persons
Karlin Alexander
Radaev Valery
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 10, 2012, 21:00
Text version