Events
Working meeting with Federal Migration Service Director Konstantin Romodanovsky
Vladimir Putin and Konstantin Romodanovsky discussed ways to implement the National Migration Policy Concept through to 2025.
June 13, 2012
15:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 3
With with Federal Migration Service Director Konstantin Romodanovsky.
See also
Concept of the State Migration Policy of the Russian Federation through to 2025
June 13, 2012
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Romodanovsky, first of all, our meeting today takes place just as you are about to celebrate the anniversary of the Service’s founding.
Director of the Federal Migration Service Konstantin Romodanovsky: Yes, the twentieth anniversary.
Vladimir Putin: I congratulate you and all of your staff. Over these years the Service has developed practically from scratch and has accomplished a lot at this time when the world, and Russia, is undergoing change. Migration is a sensitive issue for Russia’s people and for those who come to our country. It goes without question that we still need to do a lot to improve work, and in this respect I want to inform you that I have approved the Migration Policy Concept. We discussed for a long time the need to approve this document, and I know that you and your colleagues put much hard work into it. The main thing now is to make sure that it is implemented in practice and does not remain on paper only. 
What is the Service doing to ensure that this will be the case? What are you doing to make sure that everything that you and your colleagues discussed and set out in the Concept is actually carried out in practice?
Konstantin Romodanovsky: Mr President, first of all, on behalf of everyone working for the Service, I thank you for the attention you pay to migration issues and to the Service’s work. This means a lot to us. We realise that as a service reporting directly to the Government we enjoy additional trust, but also have additional responsibility. This is something very positive for us, and we will be sure to put it into practice.
Regarding the Migration Policy Concept, let me say that we have already sent an implementation plan to the relevant federal executive agencies for approval. This plan sets out in detail the areas of work and the steps we will take, including as regards the tasks that you gave us at the final meeting of the FMS board and the objectives that you formulated in your pre-election articles on interethnic relations and social policy. We have taken all of this into account and have already taken some steps. We have drafted amendments to the Criminal Code, the Code of Administrative Offences, the law on entry to and exit from the Russian Federation, the regulations on the legal status of foreign citizens, the Housing and Civil Codes. These draft amendments are currently undergoing approval by the federal executive agencies. This work is therefore underway and all of the measures set out in the Concept’s implementation plan will be carried out.
We realise that Russia’s migration model needs further improvement. We see the problems that require urgent solution. I hope that the Migration Service will succeed in its efforts and we will soon change Russia’s migration landscape. In this we can rely only on our own efforts.
Vladimir Putin: We discussed the work needed in terms of improving laws and regulations. Having the Concept is all very well, but we must make sure that its provisions work in practice and that the needed changes are made to the laws in force. This concerns migration flows and internal migration too. We spoke about the possibility of toughening policy in this area, though we must ensure at the same time that any changes respect our citizens’ rights. We must also work together with people coming from other regions of the country, and with immigrants arriving from abroad. 
You are in the process of drafting your proposals. I want to get a clear idea of what stage this work is at now and what solutions you intend proposing.
Konstantin Romodanovsky: Mr President, above all, we propose the legal amendments I just mentioned.
Vladimir Putin: Which specific laws will you amend, and what exactly do these amendments entail?
Konstantin Romodanovsky: We propose an amendment to the Criminal Code that will increase liability for wilfully leaving detention centres for foreign citizens. We propose making this a criminal offence.
Vladimir Putin: What sort of detention centres are you referring to exactly?
Konstantin Romodanovsky: I am talking about special detention centres for foreign citizens, readmission centres and suchlike. We also propose increasing penalties for organising illegal immigration and for entering or remaining in the Russian Federation while being prohibited from entry. In other words, if someone has been prohibited entry into Russia but enters the country through whichever means, this would be a liable offence.
We propose amendments to the Code of Administrative Liability making it possible to extend deportation and entry prohibition periods for people who have repeatedly violated our laws and for those who have been deported from the country by court order. All of the different aspects here have been taken into account.
Registration of our own citizens is a more complicated matter. This is a matter that requires our colleagues in the relevant services to make amendments to the Housing Code, for example, concerning residency rules.
Vladimir Putin: We discussed the possibility of introducing criminal penalties for repeated flagrant violation of the registration rules. 
Konstantin Romodanovsky: We are working on these proposals. The coordination and approval process is underway. We have had some differences with our colleagues here and it is not an easy process, but I think we will get everything completed.
Vladimir Putin: I do not really understand. Which colleagues are you talking about exactly? Say specifically, who has objections and on what grounds. We need to hear all of the different points of view in order to make a balanced final decision. We are talking after all about the social wellbeing of a large section of our population. On the one hand we have many people living in the big cities, and on the other hand, there are other citizens who are not violating any rules and laws and have the freedom to move from one place to another and live where they choose as citizens of the Russian Federation, and we must respect everyone’s rights here. Of course it is no easy task to regulate this area, but we cannot leave everything in its current state because it is absolutely obvious that the instruments at our disposal are not working properly. We have already discussed this matter.
Konstantin Romodanovsky: Yes, Mr President. We are limited here by the rule that gives foreign citizens the right to remain freely in the Russian Federation for 90 days.
Vladimir Putin: We are talking not only about foreign citizens but about our own citizens too.
Konstantin Romodanovsky: We cannot apply to our own citizens conditions that would be any worse than those applying to foreign citizens.
Vladimir Putin: Of course not, and there is no need to do so.
Konstantin Romodanovsky: If we want to have registration rules that more clearly tie registration to a particular place of residence, we need to introduce some kind of rules regulating obtaining residency. We do not have such rules as yet. There is the Constitutional Court ruling that restricts us in that we cannot…
Vladimir Putin: There is no restriction in that ruling. You might have guessed that I have consulted with the experts, including those who work together with the Constitutional Court. You have the legal grounds at your disposal for introducing tougher rules, and this is something that needs to be done. But this must be done publicly of course. Issues such as migration laws and all changes in this area should be decided only after thorough discussion with the public organisations and the public in general. I therefore ask you to speed up work on these proposals and then make sure that they are published online and go through a thorough and active public discussion. This means discussion not just with the Public Council and the Duma deputies, but also with public organisations, including groups representing the different ethnic communities. 
Konstantin Romodanovsky: Yes, Mr President. This is basically the way we worked when drafting the Concept. We had a broad panel of experts involved in the work on this document and we also received positive evaluations from the International Labour Organisation, the International Organisation for Migration, and the World Bank. We published the document on our website and received feedback through this channel too. We will continue to work in the same way.
<…>
Additional
Security Council meeting on migration policy
April 27, 2012
Topics
Migration
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 13, 2012, 15:30
Text versionEvents
Working meeting with Head of the Federal Service for Financial Monitoring Yury Chikhanchin
Head of Rosfinmonitoring briefed the President on the work to monitor public spending, particularly as regards public procurement contracts. International cooperation was discussed separately.
June 13, 2012
13:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 2
With Head of the Federal Service for Financial Monitoring Yury Chikhanchin.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Chikhanchin, I have just signed executive orders appointing you and your deputies to continue in your posts. You are not a newcomer to the agency. This is an important agency that plays a big part in fighting corruption, putting our finances in order, and combating money laundering.
I note that over these years, despite the complexity and confidential nature of your work, the Service has never had any leak of information that could be damaging for our country’s business and economy. I hope that you will continue to work just as intensely, thoroughly and carefully. 
I also want to take this opportunity to ask about the situation with monitoring spending, public spending above all, particularly as regards public procurement contracts.
Head of the Federal Service For Financial Monitoring Yury Chikhanchin
: Mr President, thank you very much for trusting my deputies and me to continue running the Service. We will work on fulfilling the missions you have set, as well as our earlier tasks. I would like to say just a few words about the international side of our work, seeing as Russia is due to report to FATF [Financial Action Task Force] next week, and as head of the Russian delegation I will make a general report. The report is ready and it is a positive one. There are some technical matters to attend to, as I reported to you earlier. Some legal amendments are required, but this will be done by the end of this year.
The second matter is…
Vladimir Putin: I know that you give a lot of help and support to our CIS colleagues in setting up similar organisations in their countries.
Yury Chikhanchin: We are continuing our work in this area. You know that I am the chairman of the Eurasian group [on combating money laundering and financing of terrorism (EAG)]. FATF also examines these countries’ reports, and we go there to give them our support. Essentially, this makes it possible to keep them off the ‘black list’.
Vladimir Putin: Keep these countries off the black list?
Yury Chikhanchin: Yes, above all the Central Asian countries. Our main allies at the moment are China and India. They are active in defending not only Russia’s interests but also those of the Central Asian countries. Many of the Eurasian Group’s initiatives do not have their equivalent even within FATF, and FATF is showing interest in these initiatives.
I want to say too, that we plan to hold the twentieth plenary session of financial intelligence services from around the world at the start of July. Four hundred people from 130 services will be coming.
Vladimir Putin: This will take place in Moscow?
Yury Chikhanchin: In St Petersburg on July 11. There will also be a competition for the year’s best financial investigation. Two investigations have made it into the final – one from Russia and one from the Philippines. Let’s hope that luck is on our side. This would be a big achievement indeed.
In October we are due to make a big report to the UN Counter-Terrorism Committee [CTC] on FATF standards, and we are preparing it now.
Regarding our priority instructions, we are indeed concentrating on public procurement contracts above all. My most recent instruction, which we are carrying out together with the law enforcement agencies, was to review all public procurement contracts that were carried out in less than a month. To my surprise, or perhaps to my regret…
Vladimir Putin: You are saying that it took less than a month to carry out contracts? What kind of contracts are these?
Yury Chikhanchin: A contract, say, for building a hospital within 20 days. The contract was worth more than 200 million. We are investigating it now. 
Vladimir Putin: This is a complete case of fraud?
Yury Chikhanchin: I think that there is probably every reason to investigate this case.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Chikhanchin, if you come across cases such as this one, you must immediately pass on all of the evidence to the law enforcement agencies so that they can open criminal cases.
Yury Chikhanchin: We have checked out these kinds of contracts and, working together with the law enforcement agencies, are in the process now of getting the information ready to be passed on. 
We are continuing our work in other areas too. We have cases in the housing and utilities sector and the defence industry, and this information will also be passed on to the law enforcement agencies. To give you one example, we have just investigated a case in the housing and utilities sector involving the Belokurikha Health Centre in Altai Territory. The former village heads had established a de-facto monopoly over the village’s housing and utilities sector, thus hiking up the cost of health centre vouchers. The information on this case has been passed on to the Prosecutor General’s Office now and to the presidential plenipotentiary envoy for monitoring. In other words, these cases are being dealt with.
<…>
Topics
Budget
Fight against terrorism
Persons
Chikhanchin Yury
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 13, 2012, 13:00
Text version