Events
CSTO summit
CSTO Collective Security Council meeting took place in the Kremlin.
December 19, 2012
15:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
9 of 10
Meeting of the heads of state of the Collective Security Treaty Organisation member countries in expanded format.
See also
Press statement following CSTO Collective Security Council, EurAsEC Interstate Council and Supreme Eurasian Economic Council meetings
December 19, 2012
The summit was attended by the heads of the Collective Security Treaty Organisation member states President of Armenia Serzh Sargsyan
, President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko
, President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev
, President of Kyrgyzstan Almazbek Atambayev
, President of Russia Vladimir Putin, President of Tajikistan Emomali Rahmon
, and CSTO Secretary-General Nikolai Bordyuzha
.
Following the meeting, a statement of the heads of the CSTO
member states was issued and a package of 18 summit resolutions was adopted including the basic aspects of military cooperation through 2020, on suspending Uzbekistan’s CSTO membership, and on the forecast for the situation in Afghanistan and measures to counter threats generated from it.
* * *
Speech at meeting of the heads of the Collective Security Treaty Organisation member-states in expanded format
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues, friends,
Please allow me as President of Russia, the country that is hosting today’s meeting, to begin by saying a few words.
We just met in a restricted format and Kyrgyzstan will now be chairing the CSTO. We agreed that in the expanded format, each of us will say a few words and then we will move on to reviewing documents and the agreements that have been prepared for signing.
I would like to begin by noting that today’s meeting was the last in a year that marked several CSTO anniversaries. We have marked the 20th anniversary since signing the Treaty and 10 years since the formation of the Organisation which over this time has steadfastly affirmed its role as a key element in assuring security in Eurasia.
The CSTO demonstrates a genuinely collective approach to resolving objectives in countering current threats and challenges. It understands the close interdependence of the global processes, the inviolability of the regulations of international law and the inadmissibility of interference into the domestic affairs of sovereign states.
Ignoring these principles, attempting to impose one’s own approaches on other nations, can lead to very serious consequences. The dramatic developments in the Middle East and North Africa are the most evident proofs to that.
By organising our work in the spirit of equality and joint responsibility, we were able to move forward in all of the organisation’s main areas of operation: military cooperation, fighting international crime (first and foremost, drug trafficking), and crises management.
Today’s meeting was the last in a year that marked several CSTO anniversaries. We have marked the 20th anniversary since signing the Treaty and 10 years since the formation of the Organisation which over this time has steadfastly affirmed its role as a key element in assuring security in Eurasia.
We have begun preparations for conducting peace-building operations, and we are strengthening the CSTO’s military potential, including the Collective Rapid Reaction Force. The latest joint exercises of the CRRF, Vzaimodeystvie 2012, were held in Armenia in September.
We are improving the governance system. Thus, the position of chief of the CSTO united staff will now be held for a period of three years, and will not be held concurrently with any other job. Alexander Studenikin was nominated for this post, the nomination was presented to the national leaders today and the heads of state confirmed their decision to appoint him to this post. Now CSTO has accumulated vast experience and has fully established itself as an organisation which allows to make long-term plans.
Today, we should adopt an important document, the Basic Aspects of CSTO Member-States’ Military Cooperation through 2020.
I would like to note the increased level of our foreign policy cooperation, our foreign policy coordination. In the last year, more than 15 joint statements have been made on current international issues.
We are also strengthening the CSTO’s cooperation with other international and regional organisations, first and foremost ones like the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation
and the CIS
. We are planning to continue these efforts in the future, working to establish an effective partnership network in Eurasia to counter threats to security.
Special attention should be given to the state of affairs in Afghanistan, particularly with the upcoming reduction of the international military presence there in 2014. Today the President of Tajikistan remarked, and I absolutely agree with him, that we should not forget about the elections to be held this year in Afghanistan, most likely resulting in some additional tensions. We must take all this into account in our work.
In implementing our agreements reached at the May 2012 CSTO Collective Security Council meeting, a forecast on development prospects for the situation in Afghanistan was prepared. It is very important to use this document as a basis for suggesting an adequate set of practical actions aimed at minimising possible risks to all our countries.
Another significant point on our agenda is the decision to develop our collective response potential for emergency situations.
At today’s meeting, CSTO chairmanship is being transferred from the Republic of Kazakhstan to the Republic of Kyrgyzstan. I would like to thank Mr Nazarbayev for his serious work in developing our Organisation, and to wish Mr Atambayev, who is assuming CSTO chairmanship, success.
We support the Kyrgyzstani CSTO chairmanship’s priorities and expect that the efficacy of our joint work will further increase next year.
Thank you very much for your attention.
Topics
CSTO
Foreign policy
Persons
Atambayev Almazbek
Lukashenko Alexander
Nazarbayev Nursultan
Rahmon Emomali
1 more
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 19, 2012, 15:30
Text versionEvents
Press statement following CSTO Collective Security Council, EurAsEC Interstate Council and Supreme Eurasian Economic Council meetings
December 19, 2012
21:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
Press statements following CSTO Collective Security Council, EurAsEC Interstate Council and Supreme Eurasian Economic Council meetings.
See also
CSTO summit
December 19, 2012
EurAsEC summit
December 19, 2012
Supreme Eurasian Economic Council meeting
December 19, 2012
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good evening, ladies and gentlemen.
We had a very busy day today. The main underlying theme of all our events was deepening integration. Our new objective is working jointly as partners within Eurasia. That is what we discussed at the CSTO
Collective Security Council meeting, and at the EurAsEC
Interstate Council and the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council meetings. I would like to note the constructive, highly substantive nature of our talks and all of the participants’ common focus on practical results.
As for the CSTO, the discussion we had confirmed the Organisation’s role as a key element for ensuring security in Eurasia. I will not linger on this topic since we all understand what this means. We continue to face quite serious threats from drug trafficking among other things – unfortunately, it is not decreasing, but on the contrary, going up.
According to data from international organisations, opium production in Afghanistan grew, I believe, by 18 percent in the last year. Many problems remain unresolved in fighting organised crime, terrorism, etc. Finally, plans are in place to withdraw the international coalition’s troops from Afghanistan soon, in 2014 which generates additional problems for us hence we must all start thinking about it now.
Today, we considered all these issues and discussed improving CSTO operation mechanisms that, in my opinion, will make this organisation more effective and allow it to meet today’s demands.
It was observed at the EurAsEC Interstate Council session that the Community successfully fulfilled its mission to promote integration processes. The Customs Union between Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan
has been fully functional since July 2011.
Since the beginning of 2012, 17 fundamental agreements have already gone into effect to form the Common Economic Space. Its supranational regulatory body – the Eurasian Economic Commission, which is taking over the functions of further deepening integration – has also been set and started working.
Such functions include implementing the agreements reached at meetings between heads of state and government. This was another topic we covered today in great detail.
In connection with moving forward and creating the Customs Union and the Common Economic Space
, it is clear that the EurAsEC’s operations must be reformatted, its structures optimised. But we agreed that this organisation will be maintained and continue to function as some of its members, such states as Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan, are members of this organisation but are not yet members of the Customs Union, and they must be part of the common integration processes.
The EurAsEC Court and EurAsEC Interparliamentary Assembly are continuing their work. Their goal is to ensure that cooperation within the framework of the Customs Union, the Common Economic Space and EurAsEC develops in parallel, transforming into one integrated format – the Eurasian Economic Union.
The Supreme Eurasian Economic Council meeting confirmed an understanding of the importance of rapidly advancing integration processes within the framework of the Customs Union and the Common Economic Space.
Eurasian economic integration is a conscious, independent, sovereign choice by each of our nations. The main goal is to do everything necessary to launch the Eurasian Economic Union by January 1, 2015.
The Eurasian Economic Commission has developed a plan for promoting this goal. We have instructed the cabinets of three countries to intensify their efforts so that this governmental plan can be adopted by May 1, 2013, with a draft agreement presented for signing by May 2014 so that it can come into force on January 1, 2015. This is a crucial evolutionary phase and it is proceeding according to plan.
We agreed to increase outreach in order to position the Commission on the international arena.
Today’s talks confirmed that multidimensional integration in Eurasia is certainly gaining momentum. Most importantly – and I want to particularly stress this – it is generating positive results.
Since the Customs Union began operations, trade between the three countries has increased by 10 percent, while our turnover with the rest of the world has grown by only 4.7 percent in the same timeframe. As you can see, the difference is significant, but what is even more significant and what is even more important is that we have a much more attractive trade structure.
In trade between the three countries the share of machines and equipment is as high as 20 percent, while accounting for an average of only two percent of our turnover with the outside world. And this speaks to the fact that we are not just adequate partners, but are also very appealing and effective partners in terms of the development level of our production forces, the development of our transport infrastructure and cooperation between our major companies. And our cooperation is certainly increasing our common competitiveness.
Topics
CSTO
EurAsEC
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 19, 2012, 21:00
Text version