Events
Meeting with President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko
Vladimir Putin and Alexander Lukashenko discussed the development of Russian-Belarusian cooperation and integration into the Customs Union and Common Economic Space.
September 15, 2012
16:00
2 of 2
Meeting with President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Lukashenko, I am very glad to see you and to have this opportunity to speak with you. I hope you will enjoy your time here.
We will be able to discuss our bilateral relations, which are developing very successfully, and to talk over our integration projects. We have noted a positive development in all three countries [within the Customs Union
of Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan]. Our trade and economic ties are developing dynamically and investment cooperation is growing. Overall, the results of our integration efforts are clear for the economy, and as a direct consequence for the social sphere and the improvement of living standards in our countries.
I am happy to see you. Welcome!
President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko
: Thank you, Mr Putin. We have two good reasons not to feel like working today: the weather is exceptionally good – it is seldom so fresh in the summer – and it is the weekend, but as I heard it is a working Saturday in Sochi, a subbotnik, so we can say that we have joined the rest of the city in this initiative.
More seriously, Mr Putin, thank you for taking the time for this meeting. There are issues that we need to discuss and they may require some decisions. I think we will be able to adopt a number of decisions in the near future, perhaps at the next meeting of the Supreme Council if we agree on the date.
I would like to inform you about the developments here, and I have to be honest that the situation on our common border is not particularly encouraging, unfortunately, especially in terms of migration. There has been a significant rise in migration, and I do not understand what has caused it.
Vladimir Putin: Migration from where and in which direction?
”We have noted a positive development in all three countries [within the Customs Union of Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan]. Our trade and economic ties are developing dynamically and investment cooperation is growing. The results of our integration efforts are clear for the economy, and as a direct consequence for the social sphere.“
Alexander Lukashenko: Through Belarus to the West, mostly.“We have noted a positive development in all three countries [within the Customs Union
of Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan]. Our trade and economic ties are developing dynamically and investment cooperation is growing. Overall, the results of our integration efforts are clear for the economy, and as a direct consequence for the social sphere“
As for the economy, as you have rightly said, everything is stable and there have been some positive developments in the integration process, such as an increase in trade. We have 50 states lined up to sign a trade and economic cooperation [agreement] with Common Economic Space
. This shows a great deal: almost half of the world and many major powers are interested, so we can talk about it as well. In addition, we should discuss the recent developments in the CSTO
and the Union State.
Vladimir Putin: I can tell you about the results of the APEC Leaders’ Week in Vladivostok.
Alexander Lukashenko: Especially what went on behind the scenes, the details you did not speak about.
Vladimir Putin: There weren’t any secrets. I am sure that on the whole you have a very good idea of what was discussed. There were no surprises at the forum; the only thing special about it was that it took place in a region that is the locomotive of the global economy and the atmosphere there was more positive than in other regions of the world.
Nevertheless, the region has its own concerns and its own views on what should be done and how to ensure that this development is not stopped. In my speeches there I repeatedly stressed that Russia did not represent exclusively its own interests but also the interests of the Customs Union and the Common Economic Space, and that we were acting on behalf of Belarus and Kazakhstan. I must say that our partners have expressed great interest in this.
Some countries would like to conclude a free trade agreement with Common Economic Space. The negotiations of the working group with Vietnam have been practically concluded. I believe we should continue these efforts.
There are other countries and regions with developed market economies that also raised the issue, but we should carefully weigh the pros and cons because in such matters we must consider commodity items, commodity groups, and align our interests. But the interest expressed was genuine and sincere. This testifies to the recognition of our common market and the attractiveness of the Customs Union and the Common Economic Space, and the prospects that our partners see in cooperation with us.
<…>
Geography
Belarus
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Lukashenko Alexander
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 15, 2012, 16:00
Text version