Events
Working meeting with Minister of Culture Vladimir Medinsky
Mr Medinsky briefed Vladimir Putin on the Ministry’s current activities, in particular, measures taken to raise wages in the culture sector.
November 9, 2012
17:00
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
With Minister of Culture Vladimir Medinsky.
* * *
Minister of Culture Vladimir Medinsky
: Mr President, I want to begin by updating you on the implementation of your executive orders of May 7. The Ministry of Culture was given a number of specific instructions, including to establish five cultural development centres, increase electronic libraries’ stocks, make the best films and performances freely accessible online, and develop the Kultura internet portal.
Work is now fully underway in all of these areas and I can report to you on the situation with each of them. I can even say that in some areas, some of the work has been completed already before the funding has been made available.
We optimised the system in such a way that we have now completed the work on setting up virtual museums. They are online now and everyone can take part in the virtual visits they offer. We are actively making films and performances available online. This work is going ahead according to schedule.
We want to do some creative building on the kultura.rf [culture.ru] portal and establish a similar portal in the tourism sector, primarily for domestic tourism, and also a Russian history portal, all the more so as this year is the Year of History in our country.
See also
Executive Order on measures to implement state social policy
May 7, 2012
Executive Order on implementing state policy in science and education
May 7, 2012
The biggest task you set the Ministry is to raise wages in the sector. Following your instruction, we are in the process of optimising the culture sector establishments, taking into account the additional funding that you have decided to allocate for wages next year. Let me stress that this optimisation is not about layoffs, but is simply a process of improving financial relations and taking a more thorough approach to internal accounting in culture establishments, that is, the work carried out by the directors of our museums, theatres, circuses and so on.
From the start of next year, we will be able to use the additional federal funding, and we expect to raise the wages of people working in federal cultural establishments by 30–33 percent. I am talking here not of the bosses, but of the staff – the research staff, museum staff, and archival personnel. If these establishments’ heads show enough initiative in the optimisation effort this pay rise will be more substantial. 
Over the month following your decision, I travelled to many regions and spoke with the regional heads. I can report to you that the trend you have set for raising wages in the sector has been taken up practically everywhere, and the regions are in the process of finding the reserves to fund this now. I am sure that there will not be a single region that is not giving your initiative its support.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good. Of course, you need to pay attention to the regional cultural establishments too, not just the federal ones.
Vladimir Medinsky: This is the top priority.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, because, as you know, there are many such establishments, and many of them are both cultural and educational – various creative schools, schools of art, music schools. You need to work in this area too, together with the Education Ministry and your colleagues in the regions. 
<…>
Additional
Meeting on modernising regional education systems
November 7, 2012
Topics
Culture
School
Persons
Medinsky Vladimir
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 9, 2012, 17:00
Text versionEvents
Working meeting with Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu
Mr Shoigu proposed Valery Gerasimov as the new chief of the General Staff of Russia’s Armed Forces.
November 9, 2012
11:40
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 3
With Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu (left) and proposed Chief of the General Staff of the Russian Armed Forces Valery Gerasimov.
* * *
Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu
: Mr President,
I propose Valery Gerasimov as the new chief of Armed Forces General Staff. He is a military man through and through, someone who has spent his career in the armed forces and is respected there, and he has a wealth of experience at General Staff itself as well as in the field. He has taken part in military operations too, of course.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Gerasimov, which years were you First Deputy Chief of the General Staff?
Valery Gerasimov: From 2010 to 2012.
Vladimir Putin: You worked two years in the post?
Valery Gerasimov: Eighteen months.
Vladimir Putin: You are an experienced person. We will have more opportunities to talk, to discuss the issues facing the Armed Forces today, the issues facing the army, navy, and air force.
Of course, one of the top priorities is re-equipping the Armed Forces, but this is not our only task. There is also work to do on improving the Armed Forces’ structure and command.
I know you from earlier positions, and I think the Minister has chosen a good candidate. I hope that you will work with maximum effort and effectiveness.
Valery Gerasimov: Commander in Chief, I thank you for your confidence in me.
I think the General Staff’s efforts should focus entirely on the main goal of guaranteeing that our Armed Forces are combat ready and able to carry out all missions given them. I will do all in my power to achieve this goal. 
Vladimir Putin: The General Staff has a big say in deciding what kinds of arms we supply to the different Armed Forces branches and troops. We do have a problem to settle, and it is something that can be taken care of in routine fashion, but the objective of course is to keep problems to a minimum.
The problem is that of late we have often run up against the Defence Ministry changing the demands it places on the defence industry. This is natural of course, because changing circumstances in life constantly require us to make adjustments. Science and technology in this sector develop fast, and new means of warfare are emerging all the time. Of course we need to make the latest advances our reference, but at the same time, a degree of stability is also essential.
I hope very much that you and the Minister will succeed in building a good and stable partnership with the defence industry companies.
<…>
See also
New appointments at Defence Ministry
November 9, 2012
Personnel changes at Defence Ministry
November 9, 2012
Additional
Sergei Shoigu appointed Defence Minister of the Russian Federation
November 6, 2012
Topics
Armed Forces
Persons
Shoigu Sergei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 9, 2012, 11:40
Text version