Events
Security Council meeting on migration policy
The meeting addressed key points of Russia’s state migration policy concept and measures for its implementation.
April 27, 2012
17:00
Gorki, Moscow Region
7 of 7
Meeting of the Security Council.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Good afternoon,
Today we will discuss the draft concept of the state migration policy.
The topic of migration is a highly resonance issue in our lives. People talk and argue about it. Migration issues are the subject of some fairly serious discussions taking place in our society. So we need to determine our key short-term and long-term goals. And we must do that taking into account the global experience. Because our experience, as well as foreign experience, shows that migration processes throughout the world have become systemic in nature, the number of migrants is growing from year to year, but the actual process of migration keeps becoming more difficult and unwieldy. And I am not referring only to migration in our nation, but global migration overall.
The world is becoming more transparent, and the movement of large streams of people is a given. Throughout the world, nations are also trying to find the key to resolving serious problems involving migrants. I am referring first and foremost to the use of their labour potential, as well as their sociocultural adaptation, which is even more complicated and involves significant spending.
Resolving migration-related issues in our nation is critical to forming a civilised labour market and ensuring employment, as well as strengthening the positive trends in Russia’s economy and the development of integration processes in the post-Soviet space.
”Resolving migration-related issues is critical to forming a civilised labour market and ensuring employment, as well as strengthening the positive trends in Russia’s economy and the development of integration processes in the post-Soviet space.“
According to official data – again, I emphasise, this is official data – since 2000, about seven million people have arrived in Russia. It is in large part thanks to this influx that the natural population decline was counterbalanced and the labour market stabilised in certain areas. I am referring to construction, the service sector, many areas of trade, manufacturing industries, and in some cases, agriculture.
Experts predict that migrants may also offset a whole range of negative socioeconomic trends in the upcoming decade, such as shrinking workforce and structural imbalance on the labour market.
At the same time, the lack of an effective system for monitoring migration flows (unfortunately, this is a fact), as well as entrepreneurs’ pursuit of cheap labour (this too, sadly, is a fact) leads to higher numbers of those migrants who are working illegally. This is a major breeding ground for the shadow economy, for corruption and for a variety of crimes. As a result, all of this leads to spikes of xenophobia and interethnic conflicts, which is very dangerous for our nation. We still have many problems with helping migrants adapt, and at the same time, defending their rights and freedoms.
Clearly, our migration policy must fully respond to the current realities and changes that are happening in our nation and throughout the world. The main goal of this migration policy remains as before: meeting the needs of the economy by providing a corresponding workforce, first and foremost by broadening opportunities for our compatriots to return to Russia as permanent residents. In this context, I would like to draw your attention to several major issues.
First, it is imperative that we complete the formation of a system to effectively resolve the full spectrum of issues pertaining to migration policy. For example, up until now, not a single government agency has had complete information on the number of illegal immigrants in our nation. And the calculation methods are very different. Thus, we see different figures, but we still do not fully understand the scale of the problem. We must improve mechanisms for determining our nation’s foreign labour force needs. Perhaps we should also look into simplifying procedures for issuing a whole range of documents.
Second, we should create conditions to allow people to be economically mobile, particularly for the regions with a so-called surplus labour force. Both the government and private companies should work to promote this.
”Russia remains an attractive place to work for an enormous number of people. They must behave decently and live decently in our nation.“
Third, our fight against illegal migration must be much more decisive. Our nation has a rather significant, I would even say, a very large number of foreigners whose legal status is not defined, as well as those who are violating residency rules. Most of the foreigners with undefined legal status or those violating residency rules are not paying taxes. As a result, they exist outside state control, sink to the very bottom of the social structure and join criminal groups and organisations.
Fourth, we have some serious problems with unresolved issues pertaining to migrants’ sociocultural adaptation, as I mentioned earlier. Unfortunately, we must admit that the efficacy of implementing special programmes that promote foreigners’ integration into Russian society is still low. Yes, it isn’t just our problem. There are many such problems in other nations as well, European nations and others, but that does not mean that we should simply wash our hands of it, stating that sociocultural adaptation problems exist not just in Russia but in nations with higher living standards and a higher level of law and order as well. On the contrary, we must be firmer in this respect, given that we have problems with other issues.
And finally, fifth, we should have a more active international component – we must cooperate with CIS nations and other states on migration issues. Practice shows that it is much easier to work together in resolving problems pertaining to countering illegal migration, optimising readmission mechanisms and, of course, unifying migration legislation. Not all of our neighbours take pleasure in cooperating with us on this issue, but that does not mean we shouldn’t encourage them to do this both through moral appeals and by other means at our disposal. You all understand what I am talking about.
Migrants must comply with our legislation. And in this regard, Russia remains an attractive place to work for an enormous number of people, even though we have many problems of our own. They must behave decently and live decently in our nation.
Colleagues, I have indicated several problems; we have more of them in the area of migration, but in any case, I would like to say that we need a powerful and effective migration policy.
<…>
Topics
Migration
National security
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 27, 2012, 17:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with United Russia party core group
Dmitry Medvedev accepted the proposal to head United Russia.
April 27, 2012
14:00
Gorki, Moscow Region
6 of 6
Meeting with United Russia party core group.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Good afternoon, colleagues. Please take your seats.
I will be brief. I welcome you all and am very pleased to see you. It is a lovely spring day outside, and so let’s talk about the spring and our future prospects.
Chairman of The United Russia Supreme Council Boris Gryzlov
: Mr President,
Three days ago, on April 24, the United Russia’s core group had a meeting with the party’s chairman, Vladimir Putin. He shared his views on the results of the election campaigns, and made an important announcement for us all. He said that seeing as he has been elected President and will take office in the inauguration ceremony on May 7, he thinks it right for him to step down from the post of United Russia chairman. We, the party’s members, accept this decision.
He made another important announcement, too. He proposed that the party put forward Dmitry Medvedev’s name to head the party at the next congress. This proposal received our active support. You headed United Russia’s list in the State Duma election, and the party obtained a decent result that reflects a high level of support among the voters. Along with the State Duma election there were also municipal elections too. The results from the municipal elections in December and March gave United Russia 68 percent of municipal mandates and 67 percent of mandates to head municipalities. In other words, around two thirds of our population supports United Russia.
United Russia is still a leader today. We have 238 seats in the State Duma. Over the first months of its work, the new State Duma [formed following the December election] has shown that we can give real incarnation to the decisions and proposals coming from the party itself, the Government, and the Presidential Executive Office. We are also passing the draft laws that you send to the State Duma, Mr President, and are making the necessary decisions. Indeed, despite the harsh attacks in the tabloid press, the things said about us in the internet, and even the political protest fever that we have seen since last December, United Russia’s membership is growing.
Taking the figures from January up to now, we have 5,000–6,000 new members a month on average. You said at your news conference yesterday that you will join the party, and we are looking forward to having you in our ranks. We welcome this and we are waiting for your official announcement and hope that you will come to the party congress on May 26 (this will be the party’s XIII congress and the General Council Presidium has already decided on its organisation) already a party member so that we can address the main issue on our agenda – electing a party chairman. This post would be yours, and you would be able to count on the entire congress’ support. I think this would be the best possible decision. 
Dmitry Medvedev: Friends and colleagues,
First of all, thank you very much for the trust that you place in me in making this proposal. I also want to thank Vladimir Putin, who made this proposal and put forward my name as candidate for the post of party chairman.
To say some banal but completely sincere words, this is indeed great trust and a great responsibility. I have for a long time now seen developments within the party as something that concerns me too, and have relied on United Russia’s support in carrying out state policy and pursuing our political objectives. But this is not just a matter of the party’s future. It is ultimately about our country’s development, where we are going, what kind of Russia we will have, and what will happen.
I therefore want to thank you all, first of all, and thank the party chairman for making this proposal. Second, I want to say that I officially accept it. I think this will help to take us forward and strengthen our unity. Third, in reply to what Mr Gryzlov said just now, I want to repeat something I said recently. 
Our political system is still young and developing. It still has many problems. But if we want to be honest, honest above all with our voters and our people, we must take a clear and honest position on one particular issue, namely, that if a particular political organisation supports you, it should be to this organisation that you tie your future. I therefore will join the ranks of United Russia.
In general, I think that for our country to develop in modern and harmonious fashion and for our political system to develop along the lines we see in most modern and developed countries, the party’s future leaders (and I am sure the party has a bright future and will be around so long as our political system continues to develop and so long as it has the public’s support) should also be members of the party, simply so as to set an example and make it clear to everyone whether they are looking at the situation from the inside or for whatever reason are separating themselves from what is going on.
We have gone through different stages in our political system’s development, and there was a time when the party chairman was the country’s president, but the circumstances were a bit different then. Let me say, however, that in the future the president should be a member of a political party, otherwise it is hard to explain to people exactly which political force is in power. What is the difference, for example, between a president backed by United Russia, and a presidential candidate supported by the communists? This is a matter for our future development. 
As for my own future, if — as we agreed and proposed to the last party congress and the nation at large — the State Duma supports my candidacy for the post of prime minister, then we will have completed the political construction that gives us the president as guarantor of the Constitution – a president backed by United Russia and who remains close to United Russia, a prime minister who is a member of United Russia and who, if the congress approves, will head the party, and our multifaceted political system. We will have a civilised political system, and I think this is very important. 
Once again, friends, I thank you for your trust.
<…>
Topics
Parties
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 27, 2012, 14:00
Text version