Events
Meeting of the Commission for Strategic Development of the Fuel and Energy Sector and Environmental Security
Vladimir Putin chaired a meeting of the Commission for Strategic Development of the Fuel and Energy Sector and Environmental Security. The issues discussed included draft Energy Security Doctrine, the current trends in production, processing and marketing of natural gas, and the prospects of electric power cooperation between Russia and the European Union.
October 23, 2012
17:30
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
2 of 6
With Presidential Aide Elvira Nabiullina and Rosneft CEO and Executive Secretary of the Commission for Strategic Development of the Fuel and Energy Sector and Environmental Security Igor Sechin.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
This is the second meeting of the Commission for Strategic Development of the Fuel and Energy Sector and Environmental Security. Our first meeting held in July 2012 showed that this is an interesting and useful format. We have a new venue for deep, multifaceted discussions of key, strategic matters pertaining to energy sector’s development.
Our today’s agenda consists of three main issues.
First, we will discuss the draft Doctrine of Russia's Energy Security, which was prepared by the Energy Ministry. This document aims to address a wide range of tasks, including ensuring a reliable supply of energy to consumers, innovative development of the fuel and energy sector, energy efficiency of all sectors of the Russian economy and non-discriminatory access of our exporters to foreign markets.
Regular renewal of enterprises’ production assets and maintaining these assets in a safe and efficient condition are our unquestionable priorities.
We will formulate strategic planning documents on the basis of the Doctrine and implement a long-term energy security policy. The Doctrine outlines a system of indicators for the assessment of key groups of internal and external risks. Today, we will conduct a comprehensive analysis of the Doctrine’s provisions, and I think it should be adopted in November.
In the future it will be necessary to monitor and assess the main indicators outlined in the Doctrine, thus ensuring control over the situation in the energy sector so that timely decisions are made on strengthening our country’s energy security.
The second item on our agenda is also directly related to energy security and the long-term prospects of strengthening Russia's position in the global energy markets. I am talking about current production trends and the proactive response to these trends in production, processing and sale of natural gas, which we will talk about today.
In recent years, we have seen a change in the energy market configuration. There is no need to explain this to you; you are all aware of the situation and understand what is happening. European countries, for example, are consistently working to create a common gas market. They are diversifying their sources of supply and adopting internal decisions that are not always coordinated with their main partners and are not always right, in my opinion, from the point of view of international law, but such decisions are made. We are in dialogue with our partners, and I hope that we will reach an acceptable consensus, but nevertheless we must consider these trends.
There is tough competition among gas exporters for the long-term and short-term contracts. However, energy consumption is rapidly growing in the Asia-Pacific region: China, Japan, which has increased its share of hydrocarbons since the Fukushima tragedy, India, and Russia’s other eastern neighbours are large and promising consumers. Given the existing transport infrastructure in Russia, this opens up new opportunities for the exporters of domestic energy resources.
Another important global trend is the growth of trade in liquefied natural gas. Such major players as US and Canadian companies have already begun to move in this direction.
I would like to note that more and more countries are adopting new gas production and processing technologies. For example, in the United States, as you know, new technology is used to increase the cost-effectiveness of shale gas production. That has caused some serious environmental problems, but, nevertheless, the technology continues to be used. The sale of the by-products makes it profitable even given the low domestic prices in the United States. Politicians, experts and the business community are all talking about a shale revolution. In 2011, according to our data, the output of shale gas in the United States rose to 214 billion cubic metres.
All of us know this well; we are not novices on the gas market and understand its laws. Therefore, we must be very prudent in our actions and at the same time very flexible.
In this regard, I ask Gazprom to conduct the necessary analysis and report to the Commission on the main principles of its gas export policy. The Commission must be briefed on the way the principal Russian gas company is planning to organise this work because a great deal in the Russian economy depends on its effectiveness. The Energy Ministry must make adjustments to the gas industry development plan to 2030 and our Eastern Gas Programme, and report on the results to the Commission.
Our priority, and I want to stress this, must be the domestic market, meeting the needs of the Russian economy, businesses and consumers, deep processing of raw materials, the development of gas chemistry and the maximum use of all gas components and by-products, as well as market diversification, taking into account the potential of Asian countries, as I have mentioned, and gas delivery methods.
An important area that will dominate in the future is the development of domestic gas processing and its use in the production of motor fuel. Gazprom should incorporate a special subsidiary [for that purpose] in the near future, or, perhaps, it has already been incorporated, and in that case we must support it in every way.
Despite the measures that are already being taken, much of associated gas continues to be wasted. About a quarter of the volume produced is simply burnt off: that is 24.6%, or 16.2 billion cubic metres. This is more than the total consumption of some European countries in a year.
Let me reiterate: we must take full account of the current trends in the global gas market in cooperation with our international partners, to find new mutually acceptable forms of cooperation, to be closer to the end users. Taken together, these steps will increase the export potential and competitiveness of Russian energy resources and enhance the status of our country as one of the leaders in the global export market.
Finally, the third item on our agenda is cooperation with the European Union, our closest partner and major consumer, in the electricity sector.
Russia has traditionally supplied large amounts of electricity to EU countries. First of all, this applies to our closest neighbours, Scandinavia and the Baltic region.
Thus, in 2011 we exported about 5.5 billion kilowatt-hours of electricity to the Baltic States. This is more than half of the total energy consumed by a country like Lithuania, and meets more than 20% of the total consumption of the Baltic States. Importantly, electricity from Russia is supplied to our partners without any interruptions even in the winter periods of peak demand.
Today it is essential to consolidate the principles of intergovernmental cooperation in the energy sector with the EU countries and the EU as a whole, to develop a set of measures that will improve the competitiveness of the Russian electricity sector, and not only to keep our traditional markets, but also to expand to new markets in the near future.
Colleagues, today I would like to hear your proposals on priority steps in all these areas. Thank you very much for your attention. Let’s get to work.
<…>
Topics
Energy
Energy efficiency
Environment
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Commissions and Councils, Commission for Strategic Development of the Fuel and Energy Sector and Environmental Security
Publication date: October 23, 2012, 17:30
Text versionEvents
Gas production launched at Bovanenkovo field
Vladimir Putin watched the launch of Bovanenkovo gas field via a video link-up.
October 23, 2012
16:15
1 of 5
Gas production launched at Bovanenkovo field. Photo: TASS
Taking part in the videoconference were Presidential Aide Elvira Nabiullina
, Energy Minister Alexander Novak
and Rosneft CEO Igor Sechin
. Gazprom CEO Alexei Miller
reported on the launch of production at the gas field.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends,
I want to welcome all those who have gathered in Yamal today, all those who took part in implementing this major, large-scale project in the Yamal Peninsula.
Natural gas reserves at the Bovanenkovo field, which we are launching today, are enormous: they amount to 4.9 trillion cubic metres of gas.
We are implementing a number of major projects this year, both in production and infrastructure, including the second leg of the Nord Stream pipeline and the South Stream project. These extensive programmes testify to the fact that Russia is a major producer of natural gas and a reliable supplier to the domestic and foreign markets.
I want to thank everyone who played a part in the launch of the Bovanenkovo gas field. This work was done in very difficult climatic conditions and its success was ensured by our highly qualified professionals: workers, engineers and scientists. You have made a great contribution to the sector’s success, as well as the development of our national economy. It opens new horizons for the expansion of the domestic market and strengthens our export potential.
Suffice it to say that 115 billion cubic metres of gas will be produced at the Bovanenkovo field every year, and this figure will rise to 140 billion cubic metres in the near future. This amounts to almost the entire volume of our exports to Europe (a little less, but nearly the entire volume). This is a tremendous amount. In fact, it is comparable to the amount of gas produced in the Soviet Union at the beginning of large-scale production. This event is on the same scale.
The total reserves in Yamal will allow us to produce 340–360 billion cubic meters of gas by 2030. This is an enormous amount, and it will guarantee for decades ahead that we will be able to fulfil our obligations not only to our partners abroad, but also to supply gas on a large-scale to Russian cities, towns and villages.
The new Bovanenkovo-Ukhta gas pipeline was built especially to supply gas to the Unified Gas Supply System of Russia. This technologically unique pipeline will carry gas from Yamal to the central regions of the Russian Federation.
However, much remains to be done. In particular, it is important to continue the comprehensive development of gas fields in Yamal and the north of the Krasnoyarsk Territory. We plan to build a modern oil and gas region here, put into operation dozens of promising fields, link them with roads and gas pipelines and create thousands of new jobs. This is all possible and I'm sure it will be achieved.
In addressing these issues, I count on responsible and concerted efforts of the federal and regional authorities, and gas sector companies. We will discuss these and other issues in this sphere at a meeting of the Commission for Strategic Development of the Fuel and Energy Sector and Environmental Security.
In conclusion, I would like to thank once again the engineers, workers and everyone who worked at this gas field for their contribution to this challenging and vitally important project, which was implemented in accordance with the highest environmental standards. This is essential in regions such as Yamal and the Far North in general.
I want to congratulate you once again on your great success and wish you all the best.
Congratulations on the launch of production!
<…>
Topics
Energy
Persons
Miller Alexei
Nabiullina Elvira
Novak Alexander
Sechin Igor
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 23, 2012, 16:15
Text version    Events Vladimir Putin met with governors from five regions who won in the October 14 elections   Meeting participants included Amur Region Governor Oleg Kozhemyako, Belgorod Region Governor Yevgeny Savchenko, Bryansk Region Governor Nikolai Denin, Novgorod Region Governor Sergei Mitin, Ryazan Region Governor Oleg Kovalev and First Deputy Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Vyacheslav Volodin.    October 23, 2012  20:45  Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region                                                                                                    1 of 9 Vladimir Putin met with governors from five regions who won in the October 14 elections.        The President congratulated the governors on their election and wished them success in their work. * * * President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues, I wanted to meet with you not only to present you with certifications on taking office, but first and foremost, to congratulate you on getting elected. I believe the previous system for selecting regional leaders was also quite democratic. After all, deputies from the regional legislative assemblies voted for the future governors. Still, direct voting by secret ballot certainly involves a special level of responsibility. We often say that it invokes responsibility on both sides: the voters take on part of the responsibility by supporting a candidate while the candidates accept even greater responsibility [toward voters], particularly those candidates who won in this election. But I would like to point out the following: there are many voters – hundreds, thousands, millions of people who voted for you – and this responsibility is spread equally among all of them. On the other hand, the same enormous responsibility lies exclusively on your shoulders, and your responsibility is certainly far greater than that of any average citizen who is eligible to vote. That is what I would like to focus on today. Clearly, you have gained people’s confidence and in this regard, people trust you as experienced individuals who have shown yourselves in a positive light in your previous years of work. But it is also clear (and you know this better than anyone else) that there are many problems and many unresolved issues, therefore the election is not the end, but the beginning of really hard and highly responsible work. It is now time for the most important part of the process, as you must carry out the plans and objectives that you yourselves formulated during your electoral campaigns, stating that this is an important component in your lives. People certainly expect that you will do as you promised, and that your actions will mirror your words. I had no doubt that the current governors, particularly those who have proven themselves in recent years, will be supported by our people throughout the Russian Federation’s regions. But like your voters, I also expect that you will engage in efficient, persistent, goal-oriented efforts, so that Russian citizens living in your regions perceive the results. One way or another, it will have a certain effect on life throughout Russia, I mean, the five regions you represent play a significant, notable role in the life of the entire nation. I once again congratulate you and wish you success! <…>         Topics  Regions         Persons    Denin Nikolai    Kovalev Oleg    Kozhemyako Oleg    Mitin Sergei    Savchenko Evgeny  1 more                        Publication status Published in sections: News, Transcripts  Publication date:    October 23, 2012, 20:45  Direct link: en.kremlin.ru/d/16704    Text version        NaN /  