Events
Meeting with President of Armenia Serzh Sargsyan
Dmitry Medvedev and Serzh Sargsyan discussed current Russian-Armenian cooperation matters and the regional agenda.
January 23, 2012
11:45
Sochi
2 of 2
With President of Armenia Serzh Sargsyan.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Mr Sargsyan, it is a pleasure to see you.
We have this fine tradition of meeting in Sochi, in the mountains, in wintertime. I see many good symbols in this tradition.
We will discuss now the current state of our bilateral cooperation and look at last year’s results. The year was not bad overall, especially in terms of our trade results. We will talk about the various aspects of our cooperation, from economic ties to military technical cooperation. Looking to the future, we will also look at big projects in areas other than developing the sectors in which our ties are already solidly established and permeate the whole fabric of our bilateral economic relations.
I propose that along with our bilateral relations we also discuss regional issues. Life is complex and places us before a number of difficult challenges, including here in this region. We will later continue the discussions on one of the most complex regional problems – settling the Nagorno Karabakh conflict – together with our Azerbaijani colleague.
I wish you a warm welcome and am very happy to see you again in Sochi.
President of Armenia Serzh Sargsyan
: Mr Medvedev, thank you for the invitation.
These very useful meetings have indeed become a tradition. Thank you for the efforts that you put into resolving the Nagorno Karabakh problem. These meetings and the effort and time you give to resolving this problem make it possible to keep the situation in the South Caucasus more or less under control. They are therefore very useful and give us a good opportunity to discuss our bilateral matters too. 
I agree fully that last year produced some decent results, with, in any event, a roughly 15-percent increase in bilateral trade, which is substantial. Thank you for your readiness to discuss big projects. This is very important to us.
<…>
See also
Meeting with the presidents of Azerbaijan and Armenia
January 23, 2012
Geography
Armenia
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Sargsyan Serzh
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 23, 2012, 11:45
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of Azerbaijan Ilham Aliyev
Dmitry Medvedev and Ilham Aliyev discussed current Russian-Azerbaijani relations and the situation in the Caucasus region.
January 23, 2012
13:00
Sochi
2 of 4
With President of Azerbaijan Ilham Aliyev.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Mr Aliyev, I wish you a warm welcome.
I am happy that we are continuing our tradition of holding these wintertime meetings in Sochi. They give us a good opportunity to exchange views on how our cooperation is developing, talk about the future, and look back on the last year, which I think produced what I could call some decent results as far as our economic ties went, not to mention the several big events that took place in the humanitarian sector too. These meetings also give us the chance to look at developments in our region in general. We are not indifferent to events taking place in the Caucasus, with which our countries are so tightly bound, just as we are not indifferent to events in other neighbouring parts of the world.
“We are not indifferent to events taking place in the Caucasus, with which our countries are so tightly bound, just as we are not indifferent to events in other neighbouring parts of the world.”
Of course, our trilateral meeting with the Armenian President is very important. Many such meetings have taken place over the last years. In some areas we have made progress, while in others there are still some big hurdles to clear, but I think that this is a useful dialogue and I hope that these kinds of contacts will continue in the future.
Once again, I wish you a warm welcome to Sochi in this snowy weather, and I hope you will have the chance not just for discussion, but also to get a little rest.
President of Azerbaijan Ilham Aliyev
: Thank you very much, Mr Medvedev, for the invitation to come to Sochi.
This is indeed an excellent tradition that gives us the chance to see each other and talk, even if we meet on a very regular basis, and indeed, saw each other just last month in Moscow. This all reflects the nature and spirit of our countries’ relations, the dynamism, constant consultations, and growing potential of our bilateral cooperation in all areas. 
I agree that we had a successful year last year in our bilateral ties: our political cooperation strengthened, we put forward new initiatives, the increase in our trade was in the tens of percentage points, and our trade structure is improving. 
We see a positive dynamic throughout the whole spectrum of our bilateral ties, which makes us very happy. We place great importance on our cooperation with Russia. Russia is our strategic partner, and in 2011 we began to bolster this relationship with even more practical acts.
I want to thank you, too, for your continued effort to find a solution to the Armenian-Azerbaijani conflict, the Nagorno Karabakh conflict. Many meetings have already taken place and, as you noted, they have produced hopeful moments. There have been moments too, when pessimism got the upper hand, but the process continues and the fact that you are continuing your efforts gives us further cause for optimism. Azerbaijan seeks the swiftest settlement to this conflict in order to bring peace to our region.
I want to take this opportunity to thank you personally for Russia’s support in Azerbaijan’s election to the UN Security Council. 
Dmitry Medvedev: Once again, I congratulate you on this.
Ilham Aliyev: Thank you very much. Your support was very effective and sincere, and our country’s leadership and people are grateful to Russia for this.
I assure you that over these coming two years in the Security Council we will work in close cooperation with you and will strive to fulfil the hopes of the 155 countries that supported our election.
Once more, thank you for this chance. I hope that 2012 will be a very successful year for our relations.
Dmitry Medvedev: We hope so too.
<…>
See also
Meeting with the presidents of Azerbaijan and Armenia
January 23, 2012
Geography
Azerbaijan
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Aliyev Ilham
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 23, 2012, 13:00
Text version