Some things may seem less obvious but the people who live n Vladivostok know what was happening to the bay here for decades, and what types of sediments have accumulated on the shores and on the seabed. To make the ocean clean itself, we had to build a system of sewers, although this need may not have been immediately apparent. We invested in such infrastructure projects which will help us to develop the region in the long term.
As for the airport, I was told more than once that it is not expedient to build such a huge runway because there are not so many flights operating from here. However, I am confident that there will be more and more flights as new infrastructure is built, and soon this runaway will no longer be able to handle all the traffic. This is where we invested most of the funds.
Speaking about the preparations for the Leaders' Week, most of the funding was used to build this campus. However, we all understand that any venue could have been chosen for the Leaders' Week and it could have been much cheaper. However, there would not have been any Federal University. We would not have created such a strong intellectual centre in the Russian Far East. I think that we should make such investments to implement these kinds of projects. Speaking about the development of Eastern Siberia and the Far East, we should start with creating an intellectual foundation, and this requires the necessary funds. I am convinced that these projects will be accomplished in the future.
Our major goal now is adding intellectual substance to these walls. However, we are not starting from scratch here. We already have the Far East Federal University. On this basis, we can attract experts from around the world and set other large-scale goals.
Another expense incurred due to the preparations for the Leaders' Week has been providing security for the event. However, most of the money was spent on buying equipment for the special services and the law enforcement agencies. How will this equipment be used? Will be discarded? No, it will be used by these various agencies and services. They will be used to hold the Universiad in Kazan, the Olympic Games in Sochi, and for organising the G8 and G20 in other Russian regions. Nothing was spent in vain.
The APEC Leaders' Week has left us a large heritage. Certain funds had to be invested in organisational arrangements. However, I think that these costs were kept at a minimum, and the total costs are fully justified.
Question: Mr President, thank you for your condolences in connection with the earthquake in China.
To which sectors will Russia attract investments from China to develop the Far East? Also, a lot of young people in the Far East want to leave this region. What measures does the Government take to encourage them to stay? Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: As for spheres that could attract foreign investments, including from China, they are very diverse. First and foremost, we would like, as I have mentioned, to work with our partners, including our Chinese partners, on new and innovative technologies, on the technologies of the future.
Let me draw your attention to the fact that the Far East includes clusters that were created long ago and that have certain capabilities for growth. These clusters are being built anew or revitalised. Let's take a look at shipbuilding cluster. Incidentally, one of the shipbuilding companies there is created with the participation of Chinese capital. I think they are working through a Hong Kong-based company but it is a Chinese investment and we know that. The second such enterprise is going to open with the participation of Korean capital. This is the first sphere.
There is also the potential to set up aviation equipment manufacturing companies. Now, together with our Chinese partners, we are considering working in two areas of aviation manufacturing. First of all, this concerns the creation of a large helicopter based on Russian technology. This helicopter was lauded by our Chinese colleagues, as it was used in the rescue operations following a major earthquake a couple of years ago. These are the largest helicopters in the world in terms of load bearing capacity. They can lift 20 tons. We supplied them to China and they conducted a very successful rescue operation. Our Chinese colleagues immediately expressed an interest in designing a new generation of helicopters with a similar load bearing capacity. We are currently working very successfully together and we could think about establishing another manufacturing facility here in the Far East.
Third, we are designing a wide-bodied aircraft with China. We know that this task is tough. Two companies – EADS and the US Boeing – dominate this market. However, we must do our best to find our niche based on open, honest competition. Russia's technological capabilities and China's financial and intellectual resources give reason to believe that we will cope with this task.
”We are in favour of establishing the Common Educational Space, and building comprehensive cooperation between the relevant agencies, research centres, educational institutions and the business community.“