Events
Meeting on the organisation of recreation holidays for children
Vladimir Putin held a meeting on the organisation of recreation holidays for children.
August 7, 2012
18:00
Zerkalny settlement, Leningrad Region
1 of 5
Visiting the Zerkalny Youth Creativity Centre.
Before the meeting, the President visited the Zerkalny Youth Creativity Centre. Mr Putin toured the centre’s new residential halls, athletic fields and playgrounds, as well as the sports and recreation centre.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon,
It is not by chance that we have met here in the middle of the summer holiday season. I think this is a model facility and I found it enjoyable and interesting to find out for myself the level and class of services offered at this centre. I hope you enjoyed this visit too.
We must give credit to the former and present Governors of St Petersburg, as well as the government of the Leningrad Region for their support to this institution and for their improvement of its quality, as well as to the centre’s management and counsellors.
However, we haven’t met here just to pay tribute to everyone involved in running this centre. Our task is above all to discuss the progress in arranging children's recreation holidays this year, both in terms of organising holidays and improving children’s health. I want to emphasise that the organisation of children’s holidays has changed, in accordance with decisions adopted earlier.
The change has been substantial: the responsibility for organising children’s summer recreation has been transferred to the regions and municipalities. I would like to ask you to analyse how this work has been proceeding this year. Perhaps there are some problems. In fact, I am sure there are problems you would like to highlight. Let’s talk about it, analyse the situation and see what can be done to change some things for the better, and perhaps there are some changes that can be made before the end of this season. Most importantly, we will consider what must be done next season.
I would like to point out that Russia has an extensive infrastructure of children’s recreation facilities: all in all, there are over 48,000 institutions. It is planned that 8 million children will have enrolled in them by the end of the year, and that is more than 50% of all school-age children in the Russian Federation. The funding allocated for this sector is also substantial: over 40 billion rubles [over $1.25 billion] from municipal, regional and federal budgets. This includes municipal and regional funds, plus 4.5 billion rubles from the federal sources for co-financing summer holidays for children in difficult situations.
The total amount of funding is 10% higher than in 2011. That is not 10% only in absolute terms but also adjusted for inflation, which was 6.1% last year and the forecast for this year is about the same. We will see as we review the results of the year, but I think that both in absolute and in relative terms we will have a small increase in funding.
However, no matter how good these numbers look, we all realise that unfortunately they do not address all the issues of summer recreation for children. Of the 48,000 establishments almost 41,000 are so-called camps that provide day care; that is, children spend only several hours a day there. There are only 463 institutions like Zerkalny, where children can enjoy a real holiday and improve their health at any time of the year.
Clearly, there is a need for more year-round facilities and summer camps in the countryside, and most importantly, they must be affordable: both the price and quality should be higher. Sorry, I meant to say that the quality should be higher and the price must certainly be lower. (Laughter). I don’t think it could get any higher – it’s very expensive as it is.
I want to emphasise this point: the cost is too high for families. Yes, the regions subsidise some of the fee, paying it for the parents, and different regions pay different amounts, from 10 to 50%. Therefore, the subsidies are only 10% in some regions. Nevertheless, the overall cost is too high, and I will come back to this later.
Many of the resorts are in dire need of renovation and new equipment, but the content of children’s activities is equally important. In addition to good medical care, which is absolutely necessary, they must provide food, accommodation, and interesting recreation activities. It shouldn’t be just free time spent at a camp or health resort; they must learn new skills and develop, engage in artistic and scientific activities, learn foreign languages, do sports, and enjoy every opportunity for self-fulfilment and growth.
Naturally, it is essential to have high-level professionals in order to upgrade the quality of children’s holidays, but that is a separate issue. We must promote the development of student tutor teams, to continue and develop this practice in active cooperation with the regions.
Special attention should be paid to the staff. Heads of federal and regional educational institutions must give particular importance to this aspect of their work. We all realise – and you as professionals in this field know it better than I do – that it is not easy to gain the respect of teenagers today. Teachers need more than knowledge; they must have character, good comprehensive training, and the ability to earn the teenagers’ respect. That is not easy to achieve.
Our approach should be that that this very important social sector must have real competition, that funding must be available for the state, municipal and, most importantly, private institutions. That is a major challenge. Why? Because if the money comes from the regional budget, to whom will the regional authorities allocate the funding first? Who? To their own institutions, right? But they should give money to those who provide the best services, and not to their own institutions. How should this process be organised? It is not easy, but we must succeed, and then we will improve the quality while the price can be decreased. I want to go back to my slip of the tongue: the price will be lower and the quality will be higher.
The Government will also participate in this effort. Mr Livanov [Education and Science Minister] and Mr Govorun [Regional Development Minister], you should consider together with the regions how to organise the allocation of funding. Naturally, the regions must work on this on their own as well. I will ask the Agency for Strategic Initiatives to return to these issues, especially since it has a strong department for social projects.
This meeting is taking place in a broad format. Its participants include representatives of relevant state agencies, as well as those who work at children’s health facilities. I hope that today we will have an informative and productive discussion.
Let's get to work.
<…>
See also
All news about trip to Leningrad Region
August 7, 2012
Geography
Leningrad Region
Topics
Children
Social services
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 7, 2012, 18:00
Text versionEvents
Vladimir Putin answered journalists’ questions during his working trip to Leningrad Region
In particular, the President commented on the open letter written by musician Andrei Makarevich on the level of corruption in Russia, and the statement by former Chief of the General Staff of the Russian Armed Forces Yury Baluyevsky on Russia’s involvement in Georgian-South Ossetian conflict.
August 7, 2012
19:00
Zerkalny, Leningrad Region
1 of 2
Vladimir Putin answers journalists' questions during his working trip to Leningrad Region.
* * *
Question: With the fourth anniversary of the conflict in South Ossetia upon us, let me ask you about the documentary film, “A Lost Day of War”, that has appeared in the internet. I do not know if you have seen it or not. 
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: No, when did it come out?
Question: It’s not out yet, available only on the internet.
A number of figures, including Chief of the General Staff of the Russian Armed Forces Yury Baluyevsky, state quite firmly in this documentary that indecisiveness cost Russia the first day of the war in the Caucasus, and as a result, people were killed.
In particular, Baluyevsky says that until you gave a few kicks and got people moving, everyone was in a state of hesitation. What can you say about this? What was the real situation? Could you comment?
Vladimir Putin: The level and nature of the relations between my colleagues and I, and the kinds of decisions we make, especially in matters of security, do not allow us to talk of things in these sorts of terms.
Question: Where was our military intelligence?
Vladimir Putin: It was working. I think the military intelligence did its job.
Question: So, you do not agree with the film’s makers, who think that Russia lost a day in the war?
”The kinds of decisions we make in matters of security do not allow us to talk of things in these sorts of terms [commenting on the opinion that indecisiveness cost Russia the first day of war in the Caucasus]. A decision to use the armed forces is a very serious matter indeed. You need to think ever so carefully before making such a decision.“
Vladimir Putin: A decision to use the armed forces is a very serious matter indeed, because it amounts to an order to begin military operations, which means there will be shooting and loss of life. You need to think ever so carefully before making such a decision. This is a very difficult and responsible matter.
Question: So, did it take long?
Vladimir Putin: Well, I don’t know if you could call it long or not, you can calculate it for yourselves.
Question: A night at least?
Vladimir Putin: More like three days.
Question: Three days?
Vladimir Putin: Yes, of course. When did the troops actually start their offensive, start shooting? Somewhere around the 4th or 5th, if I recall. I don’t remember exactly, but I think it was on the 5th.
Response: But the Georgian army was already in action at this point.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, it’s them I’m referring too. Their troops started their offensive somewhere around the 4th or 5th, and on the 6th mass shooting began with artillery fire, tanks, and multiple rocket launchers. 
Question: Sorry, who spent three days thinking, them or us?
Vladimir Putin: It was them who launched the attack. We know the subsequent development of events. But let me stress again that deciding to use the armed forces is a very serious matter, and so of course you need to think it through properly first. You always need to think carefully first.
Question: Mr President, on a different subject, newspaper Moskovsky Komsomolets published on its website yesterday an open letter addressed to you by [musician] Andrei Makarevich, which has drawn a big reaction. Have you seen the letter? Could you comment on the issue he raised?
Vladimir Putin: I read the letter on my way here to the meeting today. What can I say? We are all aware of the corruption problem. We’ve been talking about it constantly over these last years. Corruption is a tough problem for any society. In some countries it is less of an issue, and in others it is extremely serious. I think Russia falls into this second category.
Unfortunately, corruption is a big issue in practically all transition economies because there are still a lot of unregulated matters within the economy itself, and the legal regulatory framework is still only being put into place. Corruption is a two-way street, and so it would have been fitting to send a second letter to the business community too, since they are heavily involved too in provoking the kinds of situations that allow corruption to flourish.
By the way, the law places equal responsibility on the bribe-giver and the bribe-taker. As for the fact that the authorities must step up their fight against corruption, this is absolutely clear.
This is not a simple task. It cannot be resolved through punitive measures alone but requires a multifaceted approach that includes an educational dimension and development of the economic conditions and instruments that would make it possible to eradicate this scourge. This must be a multifaceted effort that involves the whole of society, including the media.
Question: Mr President, if Makarevich is so clever and writes about corruption, maybe you could make him one of your advisers?
Response: An adviser on fighting corruption, together with [Alexei] Navalny.
”Corruption is, unfortunately, a two-way street, and so it would have been fitting [for Andrei Makarevich] to send a second letter to the business community, since they are heavily involved too in provoking the kinds of situations that allow corruption to flourish.“
Vladimir Putin: That people are drawing attention to this problem is already a good thing. I doubt that they can tell us how to actually eradicate corruption or propose effective methods for fighting it, though they do of course highlight the general directions in which we need to move.
That we need to develop our democratic institutions, civil society and the media is all very correct. This is all needed, but it is not enough in itself. More deep-reaching and serious work is also needed. We must change people’s thinking. I mentioned the need to appeal to the business community too. After all, they also contribute in large measure to fostering corruption in their efforts to gain the advantage over their business rivals, including in battles for state, municipal and regional procurement contracts.
Question: Mr President, let’s turn to the Olympics. There’s still plenty of time before the Games end, but I think one could say that we’ve never seen such a defeat yet as we’re seeing this time, and I’m not just talking about the situation compared to when it was the Soviet team competing, but even past Games in which we competed as the Russian Federation. What’s your opinion?
Vladimir Putin: There have been problems with events in which our sports organisers and specialists hoped for medals, and in other events we have won gold where we did not expect it. All of our victories are the result of thorough and meticulous preparation. Sport is sport and we will have to look at the results for the Games as a whole and only then assess what was successful and what was not.
Question: I think everyone knows now that we don’t have any children’s sports schools of the kind we used to have.
”To eradicate corruption, we must change people’s thinking.“
Vladimir Putin: I have already spoken publicly on this matter. We do have children’s sports schools and some of them are preparing our future Olympic pool of athletes. But all of these sports schools are under the Education Ministry’s jurisdiction and in practice are therefore organised and supported at the local government level, and this goes for their financing too. 
In the world of modern sport this is obviously not enough, and, as in some other areas of life and work, we will have to take another look at what the Soviet period accomplished, in other words, we will have to transfer these sports schools to the Sports Ministry and ensure proper financing for their equipment and material needs. What we have at the local government level is not enough. It is difficult to make all of the necessary investment at this level.
Furthermore, these schools as they are at the moment do not have the mission of producing top international-level professionals, and this is also important. They have their own tasks and base their methods on the Education Ministry’s standards and objectives – developing harmonious and well-rounded individuals and so on. This is all very good, but it is not enough for building up an Olympic reserve, which requires a more narrowly specialised approach.
Question: Mr President, in three days’ time, Anatoly Sobchak would have celebrated his 75th birthday. Do you think someone like him is needed in our country today?
Vladimir Putin: Of course, there is always a need for such people.
As I have said many times before, Mr Sobchak was a great patriot and a very progressive person, very decent, honest and open. In some things this was his plus, and in some things perhaps a minus, but then again, he was not a politician in the traditional sense of the word.
He did not speak in nuances but was always direct and to the point, and this even caused him a few problems as a politician, but as an individual he was an outstanding person, someone out of the ordinary, and such people are always needed in our country.
Thank you very much.
See also
All news about trip to Leningrad Region
August 7, 2012
Geography
Leningrad Region
Topics
Media
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 7, 2012, 19:00
Text version