Events
Address to Russian Citizens
March 2, 2012
04:00
Address to Russian Citizens.
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Citizens of Russia,
On Sunday, March 4, we will be voting for the President of our nation. In accordance with the Constitution, the head of state will be elected on the basis of universal, equal and direct suffrage. Every adult citizen has the right and opportunity to vote for the candidate he or she wants to see as president.
We all want change for the better: in our cities, towns and rural communities, we strive for our nation to be democratic and prosperous, and for people to live in dignity and security. We all need order and stability, respect for and strict observance of human rights and freedoms.
The current election campaign was held in a climate of high civic activity. It showed that Russian society has become more mature and that it clearly articulates its demands toward the government.
”The future President must continue with economic modernisation, do everything to ensure the prosperity and general well-being of our citizens, ensure our nation’s defence capability and security, and strengthen Russia’s prestige around the world.“
This means our citizens understand that our future depends on the upcoming elections. They are prepared to shoulder their responsibility for our country. And the results of the political reform that I proposed in my Address to the Federal Assembly will allow our people to participate more actively in governing our nation.
The President of Russia is the head of state. The Constitution endows him with very broad powers. This is a strenuous and extremely demanding job. And the future President must be capable of performing it effectively: he must continue with economic modernisation, do everything to ensure the prosperity and general well-being of our citizens, ensure our nation’s defence capability and security, and strengthen Russia’s prestige around the world.
Citizens’ trust and support is very important to a President’s work. I had the opportunity to see this for myself many times. Only you, the voters, can decide which candidate deserves your ballot. I am certain that your choice will be the right one.
On March 4, together, we must determine the course our nation will follow for the next several years. Our future depends on each one of us. Come to the polls and cast your vote.
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 2, 2012, 04:00
Text version