Events
Meeting with NOVATEK CEO Leonid Mikhelson
Mr Mikhelson briefed Vladimir Putin on NOVATEK’s operations on the domestic gas market, in particular, on the Yamal LNG project.
November 19, 2012
14:45
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
With NOVATEK CEO Leonid Mikhelson.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Mikhelson, our atomic icebreakers are currently taking a Russian vessel carrying a Norwegian cargo (LNG – liquefied natural gas) along the northern route to Korea. Indeed, a record quantity of freight has been shipped via the Northern Sea Route this year, and the navigation season has lasted a record long time. It is good to see that our vessel and our icebreaker are working there. In this respect, I want to ask you how the work on the Yamal LNG project is going?
chairman of the Management Board of Novatek Gas Company Leonid Mikhelson: Everything is going to plan, Mr President. Our partner does not have a big stake (Total holds a 20 percent stake), but it is a reliable partner, and the most important thing is that everything is going to plan. We have almost completed the preliminary FEED project design work and have submitted the project for evaluation. We have productive cooperation with the State Expert Evaluation Department and with environmental evaluation officials, and we are thankful to them for this. We expect to get the results from them within a month.
A tender for EPC contracts is underway. We should have all the bids in by the first half of December, and we will then have practically all the information and permits we need to examine the investment decision.
Vladimir Putin: Your company, together with Gazprom, or Gazpromexport, rather, is responsible for the work to conclude preliminary contracts for LNG exports to the main customers abroad. We know the procedures for this kind of work and know that investment can be raised only — or chiefly at least — on the basis of existing contracts. I hope therefore that, though little depends on you here, you will nonetheless carry out this work together with Gazprom very soon. 
Leonid Mikhelson: We held a big road show on all the markets and already have preliminary proposals. Once we get the final proposals from the EPC contractors we will be able to give a guaranteed date for filling the first tanker and will be able to sign sales contracts. There are some small technical matters related to our legislation that we will need to settle in order to open the way for project financing. Perhaps I could present a written report on this matter later. 
The main thing is that we are keeping to schedule. It is also very important that the instructions given in the December 2010 resolution are also being carried out as planned, and for this we say a big thank you to the Transport Ministry and other agencies.
We have begun the work on building a seaport at Sabetta. We are also building an airport in the settlement of Sabetta. A contract for building the first new atomic icebreaker has been signed. The authorities support this project and everything is being carried out as per the resolution.
Vladimir Putin: I discussed this matter recently with Gazprom’s heads and I think that the future port’s capacity could be expanded. It could definitely become a multipurpose port. I ask you to work on this matter together with your colleagues and with the Transport Ministry.
Leonid Mikhelson: We looked at the matter of how in principle to organise an investment project for building a branch railway line to Sabetta from Gazprom’s line to the Bovanenkovo field. The big issue is not so much finding the investment as the tariff policy – having a common tariff and having Russian Railways responsible for all of the transportation. This is the real question. If we have the railway there then the port really will be a multipurpose facility.
Vladimir Putin: This is what we must do then, all the more so as the state authorities are going to invest in the canal leading to the port anyway. Every ruble invested must be spent as effectively as possible.
Leonid Mikhelson: Of course.
Vladimir Putin: What is your situation today on the domestic market?
Leonid Mikhelson: We are developing well on the domestic market. We will sell more than 60 billion cubic metres of gas this year and plan for sales of around 70 billion cubic metres next year, taking into account the volumes we purchase from SIBUR.
Our strategy of choosing the best customers was probably not entirely the best, and so two years ago we changed it and are now working as Gazprom does, following the regional principle. We cover almost all of Chelyabinsk Region and are looking at other regions too, the housing and utilities sector and households, and we are also looking at developing gas distribution organisations and working with new customers.
The problem we have run into, Mr President, is that, unlike the segment under Gazprom’s high pressure, the lower segment of the domestic gas market is still working according to rules set forth 20 years ago and that are completely unsuitable for today’s situation with regards to all the permits, approvals and fuel regimes. Small and medium-sized business and little enterprises all want to get gas and end up spending from 18 months to 3 years going through all the procedures. If possible, we would like to make our proposals on how to change this situation and speed up development of this segment of the domestic market. I think that consumption of more than 10,000 cubic metres a year requires fuel regime approvals from the Economy Ministry.
Vladimir Putin: Put your proposals on paper and I will ask our colleagues at the Energy Ministry to go through them together with you and Gazprom.
Leonid Mikhelson: Thank you, Mr President.
Vladimir Putin: That’s agreed then.
<…>
Topics
Energy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 19, 2012, 14:45
Text versionEvents
Working meeting with Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Rogozin
Mr Rogozin briefed Vladimir Putin on the situation with the state defence procurement orders and put forward a proposal to unite two Izhevsk arms makers into a single company – Kalashnikov Company. 
November 19, 2012
13:45
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 2
Working meeting with Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Rogozin.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Rogozin, you have a broad range of responsibilities. What shall we start with?
Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Rogozin
: Mr President, I want to start with the defence procurement orders for this year as they stand at the moment. To date, 94.3 percent of the orders from the main customer – the Defence Ministry – have been placed, and the orders from all other customers have been placed. The main problems that we face are more or less the same issues that we discussed during the meetings you held over the summer: changes to the orders once the contracts have been placed. In other words, the demands placed on the companies performing the contracts change too often. As far as financing goes, the situation looks a lot better this year than in 2011, but there are still problems. The problem is above all in systemic planning of the defence procurement orders. 
Now the intergovernmental working group headed by the Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office [Sergei Ivanov
] has been set up to monitor performance and placement of defence procurement contracts, and its members include the people responsible for these matters. Also, in accordance with your Executive Order, the Federal Service for Defence Contracts has been brought under the Government’s responsibility, has had its powers substantially increased and can carry out objective oversight of defence procurement contracts. I hope that these steps will enable us to improve the situation.
Overall, in accordance with the state arms programme, we have already started drafting the new state arms programme for 2016–2025 three years and three months ahead of the new financial period. We will soon submit to you draft executive order on procedures for drafting the arms programme. These procedures will reduce the risk of mistakes because we will carry out a thorough analysis of the materials and technological capabilities in the industry in terms of being able to perform specific contracts and requirements. In other words, we are acting in accordance with your instructions and hope to see an improvement in the situation already next year. 
Vladimir Putin: The general price-setting principles need to be settled. This has been the subject of much discussion and there are many problems here. You have already had enough trouble with this yourself, but we still have yet to see a common set of principles.
Dmitry Rogozin: This is true.
Unfortunately, with work still being handled in manual regime, things reach the point where you, the President, have to make the decisions yourself on the most complicated cases, nuclear submarines, for example. We hope though, that the State Duma and Federation Council will pass the law on state defence procurement by the end of the year. This law will give both the people placing and performing the orders a lot more room to manoeuvre in terms of choosing the optimum state contracts that will take into account the specific situation with each kind of good – more technologically complex goods and simpler products.
Vladimir Putin: Work together with the economic bloc in the Government to get this completed. This matter needs to be settled.
Dmitry Rogozin: Yes, Mr President.
I also want to inform you about a few decisions regarding optimising the industry itself. You recently signed an executive order on developing the Tactical Missile Corporation’s work. Now, in accordance with this decision, we are concentrating intellectual, testing, and industrial potential in this important sector of developing cruise missiles. 
We now need to take another important step to concentrate industrial potential. I am referring here to the ammunition and firearms sector, which we work with on a daily basis, but which is in a very problematic situation at the moment. I have a proposal to make, Mr President, and I hope for your support. 
In Izhevsk, our main firearms industry centre, we have two enterprises, Izhmash and Izhmekh, and both are in a troubled state. They have a lot of problems because there were no Defence Ministry orders for years. The Defence Ministry already has a lot of automatic firearms in its stockpiles and therefore did not place orders for new weapons. But there are orders for civilian firearms and sports and hunting guns. In order to concentrate potential and preserve Izhevsk’s industrial capability, I propose merging these two makers to form a company within the Rostekhnologii State Corporation under the Kalashnikov brand. This is a truly global brand.
When I was Russia’s envoy to NATO in Brussels, I often noticed the completely unique and I would say barbaric attitude to Russian brands, including copying our guns and other weapons without getting our permission and without paying any attention to copyright. I therefore hope you will support this merger plan so that we can combine the design potential and develop a modern mass-production firearms manufacturer.
Second, in accordance with your words at the latest meeting of the Commission for Military Technology Cooperation, I propose that we begin a decisive combat to protect Russian designers’ copyright on the global market.
Vladimir Putin: This is something we should long since have started doing. In actual fact, we are always making attempts in this direction, but what we need is a more concerted effort now.
As for the merger proposal, this is possible of course. The goal must be to improve the situation and under no circumstances make things worse. Of course, there are always many social issues that arise in these sorts of cases, and I ask you to give them your closest attention.
<…>
Topics
Armed Forces
Persons
Rogozin Dmitry
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 19, 2012, 13:45
Text version