Events
The Government Cabinet has been formed
Vladimir Putin announced at a meeting with Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev that he has signed executive orders on the Cabinet’s new composition and organisation.
May 21, 2012
14:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
With Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Medvedev,
In accordance with the Constitution, you made your proposals for Government Cabinet ministers and deputy ministers and set out your ideas on the Cabinet’s organisation. Everything has been done as we agreed: I met with each of the candidates you recommended for the various posts.
The executive orders have been signed now. I want to wish you and your colleagues good luck. I think the best thing now would be to get the new Government Cabinet members together and announce the appointments.
Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev
: Mr President,
Thank you for examining so attentively the proposals made and candidates named. This attention from the President is very important for the Government Cabinet’s future members, and so, I think to talk with them now would most certainly be the right thing. Once more, thank you for examining my proposals. 
Vladimir Putin: How many new faces do we have? It seems to me that three quarters of the Cabinet are new people.
Dmitry Medvedev: Yes, by my calculation, the Government Cabinet now is around three quarters made up of people who entered the Government only very recently, or are joining it for the first time.
<…>
See also
Meeting with the Government Cabinet
May 21, 2012
Executive Order On the Structure of Federal Executive Bodies
May 21, 2012
Executive Orders on the new Government Cabinet signed
May 21, 2012
Additional
Vladimir Putin received proposals on Government structure and composition
May 15, 2012
Topics
Civil service
Persons
Medvedev Dmitry
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 21, 2012, 14:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with the Government Cabinet
Vladimir Putin met with the new Government Cabinet members.
May 21, 2012
15:15
The Kremlin, Moscow
3 of 8
Meeting with the Government Cabinet.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen,
We do not have that many ladies present here, unfortunately, but there are still some.
Mr Medvedev and I have finally formed the new Government Cabinet of the Russian Federation, and I will now read you the executive orders on appointments.
First Deputy Prime Minister – Igor Shuvalov.
Deputy Prime Minister – Vladislav Surkov.
Deputy Prime Minister – Dmitry Kozak.
Deputy Prime Minister – Dmitry Rogozin.
Deputy Prime Minister – Arkady Dvorkovich.
Deputy Prime Minister – Olga Golodets. Ms Golodets will oversee social issues. 
Deputy Prime Minister and Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoy to the North Caucasus Federal District – Alexander Khloponin. 
Finance Minister – Anton Siluanov.
Energy Minister – Alexander Novak. Mr Novak was previously deputy finance minister.
”Much has been accomplished over these last years, but we have not completed all of what was planned, and there is still much more work to come.“
Economic Development Minister – Andrei Belousov.
Labour and Social Protection Minister — Maxim Topilin.
Transport Minister – Maxim Sokolov.
Sports Minister – Vitaly Mutko.
Agriculture Minister – Nikolai Fedorov.
Communications and Mass Communications Minister – Nikolai Nikiforov.
Regional Development Minister – Oleg Govorun.
Minister in charge of Russia’s Far East Development and Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoy to the Far Eastern Federal District – Viktor Ishayev.
Industry and Trade Minister – Denis Manturov.
Natural Resources and Environment Minister – Sergei Donskoy.
Education and Science Minister – Dmitry Livanov.
Minister of Culture – Vladimir Medinsky.
Minister of Healthcare – Veronika Skvortsova.
Justice Minister – Alexander Konovalov.
Defence Minister – Anatoly Serdyukov.
Foreign Minister – Sergei Lavrov.
Minister of Civil Defence, Emergency Situations and Disaster Relief – Vladimir Puchkov. 
Interior Minister – Vladimir Kolokoltsev.
Minister for Relations with the Open Government – Mikhail Abyzov.
See also
Working meeting with Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev
May 21, 2012
Executive Orders on the new Government Cabinet signed
May 21, 2012
Executive Order On the Structure of Federal Executive Bodies
May 21, 2012
Colleagues, I wish you all success.
You have very concrete and also very complex work ahead. The global economy faces many uncertainties and there are many factors that are not yet clear. This is the environment in which you will be working to carry out Russia’s development programme and continue taking us forward. Much has been accomplished over these last years, but we have not completed all of what was planned, and there is still much more work to come. 
Mr Medvedev and I discussed in detail just now the tasks before the Government today. I wish you success.
Topics
Civil service
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 21, 2012, 15:15
Text versionEvents
Vladimir Putin met with head coach of Russia’s national ice hockey team Zinetula Bilyaletdinov
May 21, 2012
16:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 6
With head coach of Russia’s national ice hockey team Zinetula Bilyaletdinov.
See also
Congratulations to Russia’s national ice hockey team on winning the world championship
May 21, 2012
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: I wish you welcome, Mr Bilyaletdinov, and congratulate you and the entire team.
Head Coach of Russia’S National Ice Hockey Team Zinetula Bilyaletdinov: Thank you very much.
Vladimir Putin: You gave us a magnificent victory that has made the whole country very happy.
This was your debut too in a way, and so I congratulate you as the team’s trainer.
It was not so much even the team’s play we watched with such pleasure as the battle they fought to clinch the champion’s title. I am sure that many people appreciated the skill and spirit that our players showed.
Credit for this goes to the many generations of coaches, right from those under who the team members started training when they were still very young. Of course, the players themselves are talented people who know how to pull themselves together when needed and put on their very best performance, which they did under your guidance.
Once again, I congratulate you all. Pass on my best wishes to the team. I hope that they will yet perform just as well as at this championship.
Zinetula Bilyaletdinov: Thank you.
The team did indeed show its spirit and showed that it really is a team. The players gave the best of themselves and took each match seriously. There were no ‘easy matches’ – they gave their best on every occasion. I thanked them and passed on your congratulations.
This was a team that was not easy to beat, and that was why we had such success.
Vladimir Putin: I think I woke you up yesterday.
Zinetula Bilyaletdinov: No, I was working at that moment, watching the game and going through some of the particular moments in the match. Then I got your call and we had our conversation.
We were set solely on victory.
Vladimir Putin: It’s wonderful that it all worked out. I cannot remember an occasion when a championship has gone so well, without a single glitch, not one, and not just winning the matches, but winning with very good results.
It was not so much even the team’s play we watched with such pleasure as the battle they fought to clinch the champion’s title.
Zinetula Bilyaletdinov: Yes, the team put on a strong, smooth and steady performance.
Vladimir Putin: They really worked like a well-oiled machine.
Zinetula Bilyaletdinov: That’s absolutely right.
They did a great job and worked as we hoped they would. They fulfilled their mission and did what we asked them. In this respect, they did well indeed, did everything they had to, and it all worked out. They felt this and believed in themselves, and this brought them the results they achieved.
Vladimir Putin: No one had any serious injuries?
Zinetula Bilyaletdinov: You can never completely avoid injuries. There were no serious injuries, but bumps and bruises are all part of the game, and no one pays them much attention. There was one point when we wondered if Semin would be able to keep playing or not, but he said, “Give me an injection. I’m going to play no matter what.” The players were in a positive mood and ready to fight.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, they were ready to fight. I had the same feeling the day before when I spoke with you, that they had their hearts set on victory alone.
Zinetula Bilyaletdinov: Mr President, on behalf of the team, let me present to you this puck from the championship. This is one of the real pucks, and you see here that it bears the championship’s emblem.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much. Let me congratulate you once again.
Topics
Sport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 21, 2012, 16:30
Text version