Events
Meeting on countering terrorism
Vladimir Putin held a videoconference on countering terrorism and crime.
October 16, 2012
16:00
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
2 of 4
At the meeting on countering terrorism.
Taking part in the meeting were Interior Minister Vladimir Kolokoltsev
, Defence Minister Anatoly Serdyukov
, Director of the Federal Security Service Alexander Bortnikov
, Chief of the General Staff of the Russian Armed Forces Nikolai Makarov, Deputy Interior Minister and Interior Troops Commander Nikolai Rogozhkin, and heads of counter-terrorist units of the North Caucasus Federal District.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues. Let’s get to work.
I want to welcome everyone who has gathered here in Moscow and our colleagues in Grozny, in the North Caucasus.
Today we will discuss the performance of our key agencies responsible for countering organised crime and terrorism. We will talk about coordinating the efforts of different agencies working in this sphere and neutralising one of the most serious and dangerous threats to our nation and its citizens: the terrorist threat.
The first thing I would like to note is that we should continue to act with utmost decisiveness. A great deal has changed in recent years: new highly effective methods for combatting organised crime and terrorism have appeared. As a result, our agencies have become much more efficient. At the same time, we pay a high price for every mistake, therefore we must act relentlessly, decisively and, when necessary, aggressively, and always stay one step ahead. But this aggression must be directed at militants, terrorists and criminals, and great care must be taken to protect law-abiding citizens, ordinary people in the course of any counter-terrorist operations.
”In the past several months, 479 militants have been detained and 313 terrorists have been killed during clashes, those who refused to surrender, including 43 ringleaders.“
Our armed forces, security and law enforcement agencies have recently made a number of important strides forward in this area. In the past several months, 479 militants have been detained and 313 terrorists have been killed during clashes, those who refused to surrender, including 43 ringleaders.
We must continue to act in coordination. The efficiency of our efforts to a large extent depends on our teamwork. The terrorist infrastructure must be destroyed. Our law enforcement agencies have learned to do it, but let me reiterate: we must work unremittingly, striving for maximum coordination.
Recent exercises in the North Caucasus demonstrated, among other things, that now that the period of intense fighting with the deployment of the Armed Forces ended several years ago, the coordination of actions has taken on special importance in the current conditions. The events that were held and which are now being completed are necessary in order to ensure that the officers and military personnel from various departments of different ministries feel that they are part of a single team and understand each other without a word. This is very important.
Second, I would like to note that in the next several years Russia will host a number of high-profile events, both in politics and sports. It is a matter of honour for law enforcement agencies and special services to do everything in their power to ensure that these events take place in a positive working or festive atmosphere, and are not marred by anything. This is a major challenge for the entire global community and for Russia because we can see what is happening in many countries. We have some tensions and hot spots in this country, but we also have great strength, skills and means to promptly remove any possible threats. I want to draw your attention to this and call upon you to ensure that you begin to tackle these challenges in good time.
It is essential to continue coordinated targeted military operations in order to stop terrorist activities of those who do not wish to lay down arms. Unfortunately, they still remain. It is important that these efforts give the most effective results possible in the future, so that all counter-terrorism operations are worked out in detail, and the actions and resources of the various ministries and agencies are coordinated, as I said.
Next. The information campaign, the work with the public must reach a qualitatively new level, especially in the regions where these special events are held or where the terrorist threat is still making itself felt.
In conclusion, I want to thank all those involved in counter-terrorism operations, who risk their lives for our citizens to live in safety and to feel safe. This is an enormous, crucial and highly difficult, but very necessary work for our country.
Let's begin our meeting.
<…>
Topics
Fight against terrorism
National security
Persons
Bortnikov Alexander
Kolokoltsev Vladimir
Serdyukov Anatoly
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 16, 2012, 16:00
Text version