Events
Meeting with President of the Russian Academy of Sciences Yury Osipov
Vladimir Putin had a meeting with President of the Russian Academy of Sciences Yury Osipov.
May 14, 2012
14:15
The Kremlin, Moscow
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Osipov, let’s talk about the different areas of work and the various results.
President of the Russian Academy of Sciences Yury Osipov: Mr President, we are in the process of reviewing the results right now. As you know, we always hold our general annual review meeting in May. We have already sent our report to the Government. I can tell you that we have achieved big results, fundamental results, in a number of the most important areas of modern science, including in mathematics, physics, chemistry, biology, the Earth sciences, space research, and fundamental medicine. Results have also been achieved in the humanities and social sciences, of course.
I want to inform you that we have made progress in innovation activity too. This is part of the mega-projects currently underway in the country. Results here include new catalysers, medicines, medical instruments, materials, developments in petrochemicals, and much more.
We have also greatly stepped up our work in environmental protection, in particular through the programmes that you initiated on protecting biological diversity. This work is going very well. People are enthusiastic about these projects and the work is very interesting. In the past, this kind of work did not get any kind of special support, but now it is being supported.
Turning to the problems, with your support we launched a pilot project several years ago to raise scientists’ wages. We launched that project and did indeed achieve results, but we did not receive any funding for carrying out the project and financed it ourselves through internal cuts. This has distorted our budget somewhat, with around 70 percent now going on wages, which is not a normal situation.
If you recall, when you last came to our general meeting, you expressed your support for our idea on a pilot project to modernise our material and equipment base. The idea then was not to spread resources thinly across all institutes, but to establish top-class centres for collective use of unique equipment.
Universities would be able to use these centres too. You expressed your support for the idea then, but sadly, the crisis then came along and is still dragging on, and the matter remained unresolved. I completely understand the reasons for this, but it is perhaps important to return to this discussion now, all the more so as young people are going into science now, young scientists have started receiving housing, and wages have risen a little. If we could make that extra effort now it would be very important. 
Vladimir Putin: Good, let’s look at it, discuss it with our colleagues and think it over.
<…>
Topics
Economy and finance
Science and innovation
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 14, 2012, 14:15
Text versionEvents
Working meeting with Accounts Chamber Chairman Sergei Stepashin
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Accounts Chamber Chairman Sergei Stepashin.
May 14, 2012
13:15
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 3
With Accounts Chamber Chairman Sergei Stepashin.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Stepashin, I know the Accounts Chamber is hard at work. You have some results for the first quarter, and the half-year will soon be coming up. What, in your view, are the biggest results over this period?
Accounts Chamber chairman Sergei Stepashin
: First, among other things, acting on your instruction, for the first time ever in the Accounts Chamber’s history, we are working together with the chambers in each region to carry out a comprehensive audit of how effectively budget money allocated to the housing and utilities sector has been spent. This is the most complex, costly, and also interesting area. We will have the results by October.
Second, Mr President, something for which I am very grateful is the move over to the contract system, which we discussed six years ago now. Audits of state defence procurement, the defence procurement orders in general, including medical orders, revealed the loss of up to one trillion rubles [$33 billion]. This does not mean that the money was stolen, but it does indicate a big problem in terms of effective use of budget funds. 
The Accounts Chamber has now been included in the working group that will complete drafting work on the law on the contract system. I see this as the second stage, because economising and ensuring the conditions for effective use of budget funds once the contract system is in place are very important indeed.
There is a third thing that I wanted to see you about, and I thank you for finding the time to meet today. During your election campaign, you spoke of the need for a new approach to choosing the people who run the Accounts Chamber.
Furthermore, Mr President, in December, the UN General Assembly examined the issue of independent financial monitoring for the first time. Evidently, the 2008 crisis put this issue on the agenda, and the UN General Assembly passed a resolution on the need to bring the national legislation of UN member countries into line with international law.
Under the Russian Constitution of which you are the guarantor, in Russia international law has priority over national law, and so we have drafted a new version of a law that will enable us to work according to international standards.
We worked closely with you during your time as Prime Minister, and so you know about the situation. These are the three main things I wanted to talk about today. There is one other thing, given that you are now President. At the Communications Ministry’s request, as soon as the 14 billion in budget rubles in funds and 14 billion rubles from other sources were made available for installing web cameras at polling stations, we carried out an audit and found that the funds were spent effectively on the web cameras, making it possible to conduct a transparent election. This is a fact, whether one likes it or not.
Second, and a very good thing, is that these web cameras were installed in schools, and what’s more, approximately a quarter of them were installed in regions where there was previously no real communications link with Moscow. These cameras are connected for information reception to the President Boris Yeltsin Library in St Petersburg, and to the Academician Kutafin Moscow State Law Academy in Moscow, where, as you recall, young lawyers took part in the election campaign. A legal assistance centre has been opened there now using the web cameras. This is thus a direct result and example of genuinely effective use of budget funds.
Vladimir Putin: Nothing has gone missing?
Sergei Stepashin: I give you my honest word that in this case, nothing has gone missing.
Vladimir Putin: Excellent, but I ask you to keep monitoring the situation, so as to make sure this equipment does not vanish anywhere.
Sergei Stepashin: Yes, of course we will do this. All of the other matters regard amendments to the budget (I am due to address the State Duma soon), which, it should be noted, all have a social focus.
We are targeting to have a deficit-free budget. Overall, oil prices are giving a big boost to budget revenue, and the Accounts Chamber has therefore given a positive conclusion on your decision to use additional revenue for increasing the budget.
We received the document from the Government just recently and have made our conclusion. I will address the State Duma on this matter on May 16.
Vladimir PUTIN: Thank you.
<…>
Topics
Economy and finance
Fight against corruption
Persons
Stepashin Sergei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 14, 2012, 13:15
Text version