Events
Statement for the media following Russian-Brazilian talks
December 14, 2012
17:00
With President of Brazil Dilma Rousseff at joint news conference following Russian-Brazilian talks.
See also
Talks with President of Brazil Dilma Rousseff
December 14, 2012
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Madam President, ladies and gentlemen,
Today we had very informative and constructive talks. We discussed key aspects of Russian-Brazilian cooperation and urgent international and regional issues. Particular emphasis was placed on enhancing business cooperation and partnership.
Russia and Brazil are expanding cooperation in energy, engineering, agriculture and in innovative sectors such as aircraft engineering, space exploration, IT and biotechnology, research and education, and training highly qualified professionals.
Last year, bilateral trade grew by over 10% to $6.5 billion. It is continuing to grow this year: in the first nine months of 2012 trade rose more than 7%. However, we cannot be satisfied with the absolute figures and our goal is to reach not less than $10 billion in the nearest future.
“The principle of expanding our partnership on the basis of quality is reflected in the documents signed today. These documents aim to strengthen industrial cooperation, expand bilateral economic and trade relations, and promote interaction in advanced science-intensive industries.”
The principle of expanding our partnership on the basis of quality is reflected in the documents signed today: the joint statement on the intensification of Russian-Brazilian cooperation, as well as an updated action plan of strategic partnership and a number of industry documents. You all saw them.
These documents aim to strengthen industrial cooperation, expand bilateral economic and trade relations, and promote interaction in advanced science-intensive industries. One of our main objectives is to promote investment cooperation and to introduce widespread use of our national currencies – the ruble and the real – in bilateral payments. This will make business cooperation between our two countries more resistant to shocks in the global economy and help build up strong technological ties between our companies.
In this regard I would like to mention the Russian-Brazilian business forum held today, which was attended by representatives of large national companies. Direct dialogue between our business communities is the most important condition for the successful development of business cooperation.
The number of joint projects is growing in all sectors. Production cooperation in aircraft and automobile engineering is expanding. In turn, we have seen an increase in the inflow of Russian investments in the Brazilian economy and of Brazilian investments in the Russian economy. Although the figures are still modest, we very much hope that we will see dramatic changes in the near future. There are ambitious plans and good projects that will generate hundreds of millions and even billions of dollars.
Cooperation in the humanitarian sphere has special importance for Russia and Brazil as countries with rich, unique cultures. A branch of the Bolshoi Theatre ballet school is open in the state of Santa Catarina, and Brazilian dancers, this school’s graduates, performed yesterday in the Swan Lake production at the Bolshoi. Madam President had the opportunity to enjoy their performance and appreciate their talent.
Our future plans feature the expansion of ties in research and education. We are ready to participate in Brazil’s national Science without Borders programme. We hope that many such programmes will be implemented jointly, and a program such as Science without Borders will play an important part in our partnership, and many Brazilian students will come to Russian universities to continue their education.
“Russia and Brazil share common approaches to key international issues with due regard for the central and coordinating role of the United Nations and the norms and principles of international law.”
In the coming years, Russia, and Brazil will host major sporting events: the Olympic Games and the FIFA World Cups. We have agreed to establish the closest possible cooperation, including the exchange of experience and professional training, security and logistics.
During today’s meeting we also discussed international issues. Russia and Brazil are strategic partners in the United Nations, BRICS
and the G20. We are interested in deepening cooperation through regional integration associations.
Russia and Brazil share common approaches to key international issues with due regard for the central and coordinating role of the United Nations and the norms and principles of international law.
In conclusion, I want to thank the President of Brazil and all our Brazilian colleagues and friends for today’s joint efforts. Thank you for your attention.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 14, 2012, 17:00
Text versionEvents
Beginning of meeting with President of Brazil Dilma Rousseff
December 14, 2012
14:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
With President of Brazil Dilma Rousseff.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ms President, friends, please allow me to sincerely welcome you to Moscow.
I would like to begin our meeting by congratulating you, Ms President. Today is your birthday, so please allow me to sincerely wish you a very happy birthday. We are truly pleased that you are spending this day here and celebrating this occasion in our capital. We are very happy to see you.
Relations between our nations are progressing quite intensively: this is true of our international cooperation and our participation in actively-developing international communities such as BRICS
; this is also true of our economic ties. In spite of the problems faced by the global economy, our trade and economic ties have been growing from year to year – both last year and this year.
Brazil is one of the biggest suppliers of agricultural products to our market. Among other products, it accounts for 41 percent of beef imports: nearly half of all the beef imported into Russia comes from Brazil.
But that is not the only area in which we are cooperating. We are also working together in the metallurgical industry and in high-tech sectors. Of course, we also have many other prospects.
We are happy to see you and your delegation, all of your colleagues.
Welcome!
See also
Talks with President of Brazil Dilma Rousseff
December 14, 2012
President of Brazil Dilma Rousseff
(retranslated): Mr President, I agree that our relations are strategic in nature. And it is no coincidence that we signed an agreement in 2010 clearly spelling out this nature of our relations.
I am very pleased to be here today, especially on my birthday. I would like to thank you for the lovely bouquet of flowers and thank the people of Russia for their hospitality.
Brazil and Russia are continental powers. Our populations are over 140 million people each. We have a great wealth of oil and other mineral resources, we produce big quantities of food. Our countries have great industrial potential which I think is a good foundation for further diversifying our relations.
I think we can further increase our trade. As you know, Russia is a supplier of fertilisers and commodities to Brazil while we export to Russia food products, including sugar. I think that we have very good opportunity to greatly diversify our trade structure and increase investments by Brazilian companies into Russian entities and vice versa.
Russia is a major oil producer and has world’s biggest reserves of oil and natural gas. I therefore think that at the moment our two countries have a task of strengthening our cooperation in trade and economy. We should actively promote investments in industry, in developing infrastructure, in energy and certainly in defence. Here I do not only mean weapons supplies but also a broad cooperation in the air and space sector.
<…>
Persons
Rousseff Dilma
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 14, 2012, 14:30
Text version