We have made some progress of late in all of these different aspects of modernising our armed forces, primarily in the changes we have made to our system of military planning and the use and organisation of troops. But we must continue the work to strengthen our defence capacity and put even more effort into this task than before. In today’s world there are many risks and threats, as you know well, and Russia must have the means to respond adequately to challenges of any nature, so as to be able to effectively guarantee our people’s security and country’s sovereignty, and fulfil our obligations to our allies. 
We need to set our armed forces on a qualitative new level over these coming years. This means that we must complete the process of putting into place a modern model for troop training and command and ensure that all units are manned with well-trained servicemen and have the modern equipment they need.
The Russian Federation Defence Plan through to 2016 will set out the main objectives and stages of this work. This basic document must be drafted and approved in December this year.
What are our biggest priorities, as I see them? First, we must carry out more intensive and better quality combat training. This is essential if we want our military units and divisions to have a high level of combat readiness. We remember the days when training exercises were a rarity. The situation has changed completely now. We have conducted more than 280 command and staff and field manoeuvres, naval exercises, and other exercises at various levels over the first five months of this year alone, and by the end of the year we plan to carry out around 300 more exercises in various areas, including in the Arctic region. 
We must also step up our cooperation with our allies in the Collective Security Treaty Organisation, and with our partners in the CIS and the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation, including through joint exercises that will enable us to address not just defence but also counterterrorism objectives. 
Second, another of our definite priorities is work to continue developing the new branch of our armed forces – the Aerospace Defence Forces. They took up combat duty on December 1, 2011, and today carry out a range of air and missile defence missions, early warning of missile attacks, and monitoring outer space, and make an important contribution to maintaining strategic parity.
I ask you to keep proper watch on all issues related to infrastructure development in this area. We plan to commission two new radar stations soon – in Armavir and Irkutsk, and by 2020, we must complete the work set out in the Aerospace defence Forces’ development plan. 
Third, the entire armed forces must undergo a complete re-equipment. Let me remind you that we have three years to bring the share of new equipment up to 30 percent of the total, up to 70 percent within five years, and in some cases even up to 100 percent. Our military arsenal must include the modernised Topol-M systems, the latest and most important space systems (important in terms of ensuring our defence capacity), air defence systems, aircraft, ships, and submarines. I ask you to report immediately any failures to meet the set deadlines or delivery-related problems. Everyone involved in the state defence procurement work bears personal responsibility.
The fourth priority I want to draw to your attention is the need for new approaches to the way the armed forces are manned. The main logic here is the need — for clear objective reasons — to gradually reduce the number of conscript servicemen and increase the number of professional servicemen. 
The plan is to increase the number of contract servicemen 2.5-fold over the next five years – up to 425,000 people. Let me say straight away that this is not an easy task for the budget, and we will need to keep close watch on the budget’s possibilities, but we must keep working towards this target. 
Contract servicemen will work primarily as sergeants and warrant officers, and also as specialists working with the new military equipment. We will soon introduce a new system of service for contract servicemen that gives them incentives for professional development and raising their qualifications. 
Let me stress that the selection process for contract service should be stringent, and the training centres and sergeants’ schools must provide effective training. The armed forces need people with the right moral and physical qualities, educational and professional level.
Conscript service must change too, again, for obvious reasons. Conscripts must concentrate on their main task – intensive training and preparation, all the more so as compulsory military service is now only 12 months. Of course, with only this short timeframe, use of conscripts for auxiliary work of various kinds should be kept to a minimum. 
Effort must also continue to improve provision of food and material supplies for conscript servicemen.
Let me say a few words separately about social protection for military personnel. As you know, decisions took effect as from January 1 this year, under which Defence Ministry service pay will increase 2.5–3-fold on average, and all military pensions will increase 1.6-fold. Furthermore, as we agreed, all servicemen in need of permanent housing must receive it in 2013 at the latest. We must complete construction of modern service housing by 2014. Enough money has been allocated for these tasks, enough funds have been set aside.Events
Reception to celebrate the 20th anniversary of Russia’s Security Council
Vladimir Putin congratulated Security Council personnel on the anniversary, thanked them for their competence and conscientious work, and outlined goals for the future.
May 30, 2012
18:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
3 of 3
At a reception to celebrate the 20th anniversary of Russia’s Security Council.
The President emphasised that the Security Council has always been at the forefront of key, decisive national development issues. According to Mr Putin, it was the Security Council that analysed and calculated the strategic decisions.
The President particularly thanked Security Council personnel for creating strategic planning documents – the National Security Strategy, military doctrine, and foreign policy concept. Mr Putin especially focused on the Information Society Development Strategy and the policy framework for developing science and technology, drawn up by the Security Council.
The President also stressed the necessity of increasing the experimental and analytical potential of the Security Council to resolve such priority issues as completing reform of military organisations and developing the defence industry complex, ensuring international stability and implementing integration projects in the post-Soviet area.
Also, Mr Putin said that the Security Council must give heightened attention to fighting terrorism and extremism, countering organised crime, and developing modern migration and national policies for Russia.
Topics
National security
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Security Council
Publication date: May 30, 2012, 18:30
Text version