Events
Meeting on improving judicial system
Improvement in mechanisms of selecting judges and holding them to disciplinary liability were the main issues discussed at the meeting.
February 1, 2012
14:00
Gorki, Moscow Region
4 of 4
Meeting on improving judicial system.
Dmitry Medvedev also announced having signed a law that will combat attempts to bribe foreign officials in the course of carrying out international transactions.
Taking part in the meeting were President of the Constitutional Court Valery Zorkin
, President of the Supreme Court Vyacheslav Lebedev
, President of the Higher Arbitration Court Anton Ivanov
, Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Sergei Ivanov
, Justice Minister Alexander Konovalov
, and Presidential Aide and Head of the Presidential State-Legal Directorate Larisa Brychyova
.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Colleagues, this is one of our regular meetings on developing the country’s judicial system. Before we start, I want to inform you that yesterday I signed an important law that sees Russia join the Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions.
See also
Law on Russia’s accession to the Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials
February 1, 2012
This is a much-discussed issue, and I have discussed it too with the heads of some of the international organisations. I think that joining this convention is a very important step and will help to harmonise our legal system with international standards in combating corruption. 
I remind you that last April, we made changes to the Criminal Code and the Administrative Offences Code. Not only actual acts of corruption carry criminal and administrative liability now, but so do proposals or promises to give money or other assets to foreign public officials in return for them taking specific action.
Passing a law is always just the first step of course, and we now have to make sure that these provisions start working fast and are implemented in our judicial practice, including with regard to our international obligations.
Colleagues, today we will discuss ways to improve the procedures for judges’ selection and for holding judges to disciplinary liability. These were the subjects we agreed to examine as there is a clear need for changes in these areas as part of the overall reforms of our court system that we have been systematically pursuing over these last years. You know that I raised this matter too last June at the St Petersburg International Economic Forum and St Petersburg International Legal Forum, following which I issued a number of instructions, including on this particular subject.
Some differences of opinion emerged during the discussions of the proposals. I think we are to discuss the different options and settle on a common approach and policy in this area, and reach agreement on the nature of the amendments that we should make to the laws on the court system.
Introducing competitive selection of judges would require some specific changes, such as recommendations from the president of the judges’ qualifications board, unlike the situation under the current procedures. This is something we should discuss too, because there are differences of opinion on this particular issue.
Whatever we do, the work to improve the procedures for bringing judges to disciplinary liability will also require us to establish a higher disciplinary board as a separate body within the court system at the federal level, and establish its regional boards too. They would take over the judges’ qualifications board’s powers for imposing disciplinary penalties, including early termination of judges’ powers as penalty for particular breaches of conduct. This is a matter we also must discuss and on which we need to settle our policy.
The Justice Ministry has already set out its position on this matter, on the list of disciplinary violations, clarifications to the type and nature of violations, and a number of other issues.
In short, I propose that we now go over all of these matters and settle on our final, consolidated position. Let’s start work. 
<…>
Topics
Court
Fight against corruption
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 1, 2012, 14:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Patriarch Kirill of Moscow and All Russia
Dmitry and Svetlana Medvedev congratulated Patriarch Kirill of Moscow and All Russia on the third anniversary of his enthronement.
February 1, 2012
16:30
Danilov Monastery, Moscow
1 of 7
Meeting with Patriarch Kirill of Moscow and All Russia.
Metropolitan of Smolensk and Kaliningrad Kirill was elected Patriarch of Moscow and All Russia at the end of January, 2009. The enthronement ceremony took place on February 1, 2009. It is the Russian Orthodox Church tradition to celebrate this anniversary every year.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Your Holiness, I want to congratulate you on the anniversary of your enthronement.
Time flies, three years have already gone by, and you have done much over this time to develop the Russian Orthodox Church and strengthen the relations between church and state.
We meet regularly to discuss the problems and priorities in our life today. I think that these contacts and your hard work have taken the relations between the Russian Orthodox Church and the state to a new level, and I do not hide the fact that this makes me very happy.
Your public work at home and abroad is very important. I realise how much effort this takes and I take this opportunity today to wish you health and success in your work as Patriarch, and to express the hope that this coming year will see the dialogue between church and state continue to develop in every aspect.
Once again, I congratulate you on the third anniversary of your enthronement.
Patriarch Kirill of Moscow and All Russia: Thank you very much, Mr President, for coming to the Moscow Patriarchate’s [Spiritual and Administrative] Centre at the Danilov Monastery on the anniversary of my enthronement. 
These three years have gone by very fast, but at the same time have been filled with such a huge number of important events that all of my previous life seems dull in comparison. Indeed, the impressions of these last years have been so strong that what went before just seems to fade from view.
You know better than anyone just what difficulties, sorrows and joys our country has gone through and what impact they have had, including on the Church’s life. I think that the level of relations we have achieved today between the church and state is evidence that the main problem in our people’s lives over the course of long decades was that of restricted freedom, lack of freedom to choose one’s worldview, and oppression of people’s real rights to live, believe, pray or not pray, and live in accordance with their conscience.
Today we can say loud and clear that these problems have been resolved in Russia. We see an example of this in the tens of millions of Orthodox believers who fill our churches, some coming often, others less so, who rush eagerly t see holy relics brought for display, raise their children, and work in all fields of life: as politicians, businesspeople, specialists, military men, scientists, doctors, teachers, workers, and farmers. They have no difficulty now combining their religious convictions with their professional lives and can raise their children in accordance with their beliefs.
All of this was written in the charters and international laws that our country signed and adopted in its time. But people never thought that it could all become reality so soon, and some thought it would never happen. Today we can look back at Russia’s history and see that it has happened, and this is perhaps one of our greatest achievements today.
There is not a single issue on the agenda for church-state relations that does not in one way or another concern people’s rights, dignity and merits, and ability to determine their own worldview and road in life.
The country has travelled a long way of course, and the Church has travelled a long way too, and what is very important is that the Church, the state, and a large part of society have kept up their cooperation all this time.
I take this opportunity to thank you and the Government, the executive and legislative branches of power, and the large number of public organisations – civil society institutions, as they are called now – that have taken part in this work. I hope that the wonderful progress we have made over these years will not be stopped by any political upheavals and that Russia will continue to advance, continue to gather spiritual and material strength, so that our people will feel free and know they have the chance to choose their own road in life and live a decent life.
With these words I welcome you and your wife on this anniversary of my enthronement and thank you for your cooperation.
Dmitry Medvedev: Thank you, Your Holiness.
Topics
Religion
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 1, 2012, 16:30
Text version