Events
Meeting with President and CEO of Statoil ASA Helge Lund
Vladimir Putin and Helge Lund discussed opportunities for cooperation between Gazprom and Statoil ASA on the Shtokman gas field development project.
May 25, 2012
17:00
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
Meeting with President and CEO of Statoil ASA Helge Lund.
Gazprom CEO Alexei Miller
also took part in the meeting.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, Mr Lund.
We met not so long ago to talk about expanding our cooperation in developing offshore oil production. We also agreed on that occasion to continue our contacts and continue working together on gas production, too.
You have a big and very good project with Gazprom. Gazprom is pursuing work and research and technology cooperation in several different areas. The Shtokman project mining asset has global significance and we have not made a final decision on it yet, but we need to make active progress. I think that we have every chance of moving forward. Indeed, we could take steps in this direction very soon, at the St Petersburg Economic Forum. I propose that we discuss these various matters today.
President and CEO of Statoil Asa Helge Lund: Thank you, Mr President, for taking the time to see me again. I take it as a signal of the importance of the energy sector for Russia and for the world.
Shtokman is a pioneering project, the first of its kind in a very, very harsh environment. It’s a big opportunity, but there are also many challenges that we have to solve on the way. Gazprom and Statoil are very aligned on the development concept, with a focus on LNG. Russian gas can penetrate the global market.
We’re working very hard to optimise the development concept and have a good dialogue with Gazprom on that. So we’re working very hard toward a meeting in St Petersburg and we’re making progress. I would like to tell you also that as I see it, Shtokman has importance beyond the project itself. We have the long experience from offshore projectsin Norway that they create a lot of ripple effects in the society. So one of the objectives here is to use this project as a catalyst to also develop Russian industry in the offshore sector.
Over 40 years, the Norwegian continental shelf, I think, has produced some of the strongest technology and service companies in the world, offshore. And that must be the objective here, as well. So I hope that in common, we can solve the remaining challenges and then move forward.
<…>
Topics
Energy
Persons
Miller Alexei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 25, 2012, 17:00
Text versionEvents
Informal meeting with the leadership of the Presidential and Government Executive Offices
Vladimir Putin held an informal meeting with the leadership of the Presidential and Government Executive Offices.
May 25, 2012
20:30
Barvikha, Moscow Region
1 of 2
An informal meeting with the leadership of the Presidential and Government Executive Offices.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good evening, colleagues,
Mr Medvedev and I have asked everyone to get together today, including the former ministers, some of whom have moved to the Presidential Executive Office today, and the newly appointed top officials of the Russian Federation.
By holding such a meeting we would like to emphasise that many of you know each other well and have been working together for many years, while some of you are new. In recent years, and I don’t just mean the past four years but the period before that as well, we have been able to build team spirit and work together in the interests of the country and its development.
Mr Medvedev and I would very much like to see that team spirit preserved. Each of you has your own job, I want to stress this, your own sphere, but we believe that the people who have gathered here are all experienced, friendly and considerate towards each other and, sharing a high sense of responsibility for the job you have been entrusted, and each of you is entitled to feel your colleagues’ support and know that they have your back. We want to make sure that you are all set to start joint, productive and efficient efforts in the interests of Russia.
Prime Minister of Russia Dmitry Medvedev
: I can only express my support for what Mr Putin has said. I would like to address all of you present here to say again that we have been working together for many years in different positions. All of us here truly are colleagues and friends in every sense of the word.
Now that Russia has embarked on a new stage in its political life, the President has taken office and the Government has been formed, it is particularly important for us to preserve the special team spirit that we have built over the past 12 years. That is a highly valuable resource that is there for all of us to use to ensure the sustainable development of our country and to tackle the challenges facing the President, the Government and other state bodies. We must continue working as we always did, like comrades who enjoy their work and the results that I hope we will achieve.
<…>
Topics
Civil service
Persons
Medvedev Dmitry
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 25, 2012, 20:30
Text version