Events
Talks with President of South Ossetia Leonid Tibilov
The meeting focused on bilateral cooperation and South Ossetia's socio-economic recovery and development.
May 12, 2012
14:30
Sochi
3 of 10
With President of South Ossetia Leonid Tibilov.
The talks continued with the participation of the delegations. Later Vladimir Putin and Leonid Tibilov
gave a joint news conference.
This is Leonid Tibilov's first working visit to Russia as President of South Ossetia.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, Mr Tibilov.
I am very pleased to see you. I know that this is your first trip to Russia since you were elected president. I would like to congratulate you again on this occasion.
We are all aware of the events preceding your election. I very much hope that the situation will improve. The republic has a great number of economic and social problems. Russia’s help was at hand, as in the most difficult moments of South Ossetia’s modern history. We will continue to support South Ossetia in the peacetime, when there is great need to accelerate economic and social recovery.
Today we will have an opportunity to discuss all of these issues in detail. I am very glad to see you.
President of South Ossetia Leonid Tibilov: Thank you, Mr Putin.
”Russia’s help was at hand, as in the most difficult moments of South Ossetia’s modern history. We will continue to support South Ossetia in the peacetime, when there is great need to accelerate economic and social recovery.“
First of all, on behalf of our nation and myself, I would like to congratulate you on taking office as President of the Russian Federation.
I want to note that Russian presidential election was held at high level in South Ossetia. More than 92% of the people who participated in the election voted for you.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Leonid Tibilov: I am pleased to note this. This suggests that the people of South Ossetia have great respect for you and associate with your name a bright future, progress, development and the evolution of our republic.
At present the people of South Ossetia are studying with great interest and enthusiasm the Executive Order of the Russian President of May 7, which states that the Republic of Abkhazia and the Republic of South Ossetia are states that require an element of security and must develop like other recognised states. We thank you for this attitude to our people. We know that your efforts have been focused on gaining the recognition of South Ossetia, on the formation of our state, and our people follow your progress closely.
Once again, I greet you on behalf of our people. Please accept my congratulations and best wishes. Thank you for everything you are doing and everything the great Russia is doing for South Ossetia. As for us, we will remain committed to the historical principle that our people have chosen: with Russia forever. We will continue along this path.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
<…>
See also
Press statements following Russian-South Ossetian talks
May 12, 2012
Geography
South Ossetia
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Tibilov Leonid
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 12, 2012, 14:30
Text versionEvents
Press statements following Russian-South Ossetian talks
May 12, 2012
14:40
Sochi
3 of 3
Press statements following Russian-South Ossetian talks.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Dear friends,
Together with Mr Tibilov we discussed in great detail everything that was done recently in the Republic of South Ossetia; we talked about existing problems and the future. I would like to recall that over the past two and a half years Russia sent 9 billion rubles [around $300 million] to restore the Republic of South Ossetia, and for 2011–2013 another 8.5 billion rubles have been allocated for that purpose. However, the scale of the problem is definitely bigger – and we were able to take stock of this again – than it is possible to solve even with the substantial financial means that Russia is providing.
We agreed that we will very carefully analyse the situation once again, taking into account all of its aspects. This applies to the security sector, and strengthening the security component of the Republic of South Ossetia itself. It applies to the development of the socio-economic sphere, particularly such areas as agriculture and processing. In social sphere, this refers to education, healthcare, wages and pensions. That is more or less the range of issues we discussed today.
We agreed to improve the existing mechanisms so that decisions are made more effectively and are fully implemented.
Naturally, our most important, fundamental goal is to improve the lives of people living in South Ossetia, facilitate the return of refugees and resettle those refugees who have been living in temporary dwellings in South Ossetia for more than ten years. This is a very acute social problem that requires a solution. Of course, this will be done on a step-by-step basis as the necessary funds are allocated.
“Our fundamental goal is to improve the lives of people living in South Ossetia, facilitate the return of refugees and resettle those refugees who have been living in temporary dwellings in South Ossetia for more than ten years. This is a very acute social problem that requires a solution.”
Mr Tibilov and I agreed to create a mechanism for mutual consultations and we will stay in constant contact during our work.
Thank you very much.
President of South Ossetia Leonid Tibilov
: A very important meeting for South Ossetia just took place. This is my first meeting with the President of the Russian Federation and I think it is very significant.
We exchanged views on many issues that affect the living standards of the people of South Ossetia. We made important decisions regarding further development and establishment of our republic. We discussed the development of public healthcare, educational development currently underway in our republic. The recovery planned for South Ossetia should proceed at a faster pace, so that citizens could see and actually feel the enormous support that the Russian Federation is currently providing.
We thank great Russia and President Putin personally for the tremendous support they have given South Ossetia, the people of South Ossetia, particularly in recent years.
The people of South Ossetia remember with gratitude the actions that the Russian side took to save it. In our work and in our deeds we will prove to your great Russian country that the people of South Ossetia can appreciate friendship, and that our country will always pursue the same policies as our ancestors, and make the same choice: together with Russia forever.
We will follow this principle and our future relationship will be directed towards further deepening these processes.
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much.
See also
Talks with President of South Ossetia Leonid Tibilov
May 12, 2012
Persons
Tibilov Leonid
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 12, 2012, 14:40
Text version