Events
Meeting with Prime Minister of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan
Mr Erdogan is in Russia on a working visit at Vladimir Putin’s invitation.
July 18, 2012
18:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 6
Meeting with Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
Following the meeting, Vladimir Putin and Recep Tayyip Erdogan
made press statements and answered journalists' questions.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister, friends, it is a great pleasure to welcome you to Moscow.
Our countries’ bilateral relations have reached a very high level over these last years thanks to our common efforts, and perhaps above all thanks to your efforts, Mr Prime Minister. It is enough to say that our bilateral trade increased by 25 percent last year and came to $34 billion.
Many Turkish companies are firmly established on the Russian market. We also have effective cooperation in the energy sector, not just in energy sales – Turkey is Russia’s second biggest consumer in this area – but also in hi-tech energy sectors such as nuclear energy. We are actively pursuing big joint projects and working closely together in the region.
We are very pleased to see you and we wish you welcome.
Prime Minister of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan (retranslated): Your Excellency Mr President, this meeting here today is particularly significant, following on from our meeting in Mexico. Today, we have the chance to discuss our cooperation in all the different areas, including the defence industry, political and economic cooperation, trade and cultural ties. 
Our countries do indeed have huge potential. You just noted that our trade reached a figure of $34–35 billion last year. We have especially big opportunities in the energy sector, and our work together in the nuclear energy sector will be one of the biggest investments in the region in recent years.
We are taking this step despite negative attitudes around the world to nuclear energy, but I am sure that if we carry out everything as planned, the completed project will dispel all criticism by those opposed to it.
I express my sincere thanks for today’s opportunity. Thank you.
<…>
See also
Press statements and answers to journalists’ questions following a meeting with Prime Minister of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan
July 18, 2012
Additional
Meeting with Prime Minister of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan
June 19, 2012
Geography
Türkiye
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Erdogan Recep Tayyip
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 18, 2012, 18:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with officers appointed to senior command positions
Officers appointed to senior command positions were presented and had their senior military (special) titles conferred at a ceremony held in the Grand Kremlin Palace’s St George Hall.
July 18, 2012
14:30
2 of 4
Presenting officers appointed to senior command positions.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Comrade officers,
It is a pleasure to welcome you to the Kremlin and congratulate you on your senior command appointments and new military ranks.
You have received considerable powers – additional powers for most of you – and at the same time new and greater responsibility for ensuring the security of our country and its people, for shaping and developing our modernised Armed Forces, law enforcement agencies and security services, and for strengthening the moral spirit among our servicemen.
This is more important than ever today, at a time when rising tension in the world requires us to improve our National Security Strategy. We must take into account the changing situation not only on our own borders but in other parts of the world too, in the Middle East, the arc of instability across North Africa, and Afghanistan.
“We will bring the share of new generation arms and equipment up to 30 percent of the total over the next three years, and up to 70 percent, and even 100 percent for some models – over the next five years.”
Reliably ensuring Russia’s security is our undisputed priority. We are modernising our Armed Forces, optimising the command system, and re-equipping them. The commissioning of the submarine Yury Dolgoruky – the first Borey design missile carrier – will be a big event for the Navy. We will bring the share of new generation arms and equipment up to 30 percent of the total over the next three years, and up to 70 percent, and even 100 percent for some models – over the next five years.
We will focus particularly on strengthening the officer corps and introducing modern training methods for officers. Training and teaching soldiers is one of the officers’ most important duties. The role of officer as teacher, helping to form a positive moral and psychological climate in the military units, is becoming ever more important today.
One of the key modernisation areas is the transition to modern standards for conscription and contract service. Our target is to bring the number of contract servicemen among soldiers and sergeants up to 425,000 by 2017. You have spent your lives serving in the Armed Forces and other security or law and order agencies, and many of you know that at the moment we have only 186,000 contract servicemen at this level. The task is thus not easy, but we will work on reaching this target, and will provide these people with a solid package of social protection guarantees, service pay, and give them preferential treatment in entering university or civil service. In other words, we will get the social elevators working again for people who serve their country. This should be effective. 
There has been big change in the law enforcement system too. Naturally, people expect effective protection of their rights and interests, protection of public order, and an uncompromising fight against corruption and organised crime. Professionalism, loyalty to your oath of service and to your duty must be priorities for all military servicemen and all Interior Ministry personnel.
The Federal Security Service has a key role to play in preventing terrorist threats and protecting the country’s and society’s interests. You should get early warning of all kinds of criminal plans and take timely action against attempts to destabilise the social and political situation in the country in general. The North Caucasus also remains a region of particular concern. 
The defence of our borders, the border guards service, and monitoring the use of state funds allocated for holding big international events such as the Sochi Winter Olympics or the APEC summit in Vladivostok are also priority areas for your attention. We are spending tens of billions of rubles on these international events.
The Foreign Intelligence Service has important tasks before it in the fast-changing international situation. Timely information gathering, full and rapid analysis, and forecasts of how events will develop in the world give us a solid base for setting and implementing domestic and foreign policy.
The Federal Guard Service displays a high level of professionalism in carrying out its duties. Timely work to keep the Service properly technically equipped and ensure it has the human resources it needs should make its work even more effective.
Countering terrorism, extremism and crime is not possible without competent and well-organised work by the investigative agencies. I remind you that we established the Investigative Committee as an independent body last year and gave it substantial powers. We hope its work will increase the number of crimes solved and improve the quality of investigations.
The Federal Drug Control Service must work together with the other law enforcement agencies, bolster its human resources and technical capabilities, and be more active in exchanging information with colleagues in Russia and abroad. It should take a balanced and modern approach to preventing and treating drug addiction and promoting a healthy lifestyle, focusing above all on young people. It is young people too, after all, who shape the face of our modern Armed Forces.
“The recent tragedy in Krasnodar Territory, in which dozens of people were killed and much damage caused, showed once again how important it is to have a modern public emergency warning system. This should be a centralised and technically reliable system that functions throughout the entire country.”
Maintaining a healthy atmosphere among the troops and building up and training conscripts’ and junior command staff’s psychological stability depends directly on the level of discipline and on fighting crime and hazing in the army. The military prosecutors must keep close watch on these matters.
Also present today are representatives of the Emergencies Ministry. With its vast territory and diverse natural and climate conditions, Russia has particular need of a service that can react fast and flexibly to any unexpected situations, and all the more so to predictable events such as major forest fires and floods. The recent tragedy in Krasnodar Territory, in which dozens of people were killed and much damage caused, showed once again how important it is to have a modern public emergency warning system. This should be a centralised and technically reliable system that functions throughout the entire country, in towns and in the countryside, at industrial facilities and social infrastructure facilities, and that covers all population groups without exception: adults, children, the elderly, people with disabilities. Warnings should be sent out using various information channels, including fixed and mobile telephones. You should use other modern methods too, and also perhaps at first glance more primitive but effective methods for warning people. This will help to save our citizens’ lives.
Colleagues, I am sure that you realise the scale of the tasks at hand and will make every effort to fulfil them.
Once more, I congratulate you on your new titles and appointments. I hope they will encourage you to pursue new achievements in the service of Russia and its people.
I wish you health, prosperity, and good fortune. I wish your families all the best too.
Thank you for your attention.
<…>
Comrade officers, once more, I congratulate you and wish you success.
Service in the military and in the law enforcement and security organisations is not easy and requires great attention and responsibility, but it is very honourable, for it is service to our country. 
I congratulate you and wish you success.
Topics
Armed Forces
National security
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 18, 2012, 14:30
Text versionEvents
Press statements and answers to journalists’ questions following a meeting with Prime Minister of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan
July 18, 2012
18:50
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 2
Press statements following the meeting with Prime Minister of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
See also
Meeting with Prime Minister of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan
July 18, 2012
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minster,
Allow me to briefly describe what we did today, what we worked on.
Mr Prime Minister and I had substantive talks where we discussed current issues in our bilateral relations, as well as the international agenda.
I stress that Turkey has been and continues to be our important strategic partner, a reliable partner. In the last few years, we have been able to elevate the quality of our relations to a very high level. Last year our trade increased by 26 percent and reached nearly $32 billion. Given this momentum – and we have every opportunity to maintain it – we could soon reach a level of $100 billion per year.
Our work has been particularly efficient in different areas of the energy sector; we are developing nuclear energy and giving a great deal of attention to infrastructure projects. We are also seeing the emergence of new areas of activity, including in the metal industry.
Turkey is a traditional vacation hotspot, one of the most popular among Russian people. Last year, 3.5 million Russian tourists visited Turkey. No doubt this is due to the quality of the services offered to Russian tourists in Turkey, but it is also the result of a purposeful simplification in the visa regime between our two countries.
We had detailed discussions concerning key issues on the international agenda, including the Syrian problem. Mr Prime Minister and I agreed to hold the third session of the [High-Level Russian-Turkish] Cooperation Council this autumn in Turkey.
”Turkey has been and continues to be our important strategic partner, a reliable partner. Last year our trade increased by 26 percent and reached nearly $32 billion. Given this momentum – and we have every opportunity to maintain it – we could soon reach a level of $100 billion per year.“
I would like to thank Mr Prime Minister and all our Turkish colleagues and friends for accepting our invitation and for the work that was done today. Thank you very much.
Prime Minister of Turkey RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN
(retranslated): First of all, I would like to express particular gratitude to His Excellency President Putin.
Today, we worked fruitfully during our delegations’ meetings and in our one-on-one meeting.
Relations between Turkey and the Russian Federation continue developing more and more in various sectors: we are cooperating in the defence industry, in culture and in trade. Our nations work closely in the region. We are trying to achieve our planned economic indicators, and by this year our trade reached $32 billion. We have demonstrated the political will to achieve the ambitious goal that we laid out earlier: to increase turnover to $100 billion.
Cooperation in tourism brings good results. As Mr President already noted, about 3.5 million tourists visit our country yearly, and this lays the groundwork for bringing our peoples closer together. I hope that in 2012, these figures will be even higher.
The largest-scale cooperation in our relations lies in the energy sector. As you know, Turkey generates 50 percent of its electricity at gas cycle power plants, and the Russian Federation is our top supplier of natural gas.
Indeed, during hard times, the Russian Federation always assisted when we had difficulties with natural gas supplies, provided us with support and helped us overcome the crisis situation, supplying additional gas.
Now, we are making a gigantic step in our cooperation – namely, by building a nuclear power plant. Investment volume for this project is about $20 billion. This way, the Russian Federation will implement and use cutting-edge, modern technology in our country. We are also planning subsequent phases in carrying out the construction of this power plant.
We cooperate closely with the Russian Federation in launching satellites into orbit. By the end of next year, we will have launched the Turkish GokTurk satellite. We are actively cooperating in the defence industry, and we hope to continue these steps in the future by using our results to the benefit of the entire region.
I would like to express my sincere gratitude for the hospitality shown to me and members of my delegation.
Thank you.
Question (retranslated): Mr Lavrov made a statement that the Turkish side shared information regarding the Turkish fighter plane that was shot down over the Mediterranean Sea. Is there a difference in the data presented by the Russian side and the Turkish side?
Recep Tayyip Erdogan: We simply exchanged information. We did not exchange documents. After the incident, Mr Putin and I spoke on the phone.
They gave us their information and we gave the information we had on the basis of our data, but we did not exchange documents.
Question: I have a question for Mr Erdogan. It is widely known that Turkey is a consistent and very harsh critic of Mr Assad’s regime and is prepared to see it change. At the same time it is known that Russia and Turkey, perhaps more than other nations, are interested in stability in the region.
Don’t you think that if Bashar Al-Assad’s regime is overturned, Syria could sink into complete chaos, which could affect neighbouring nations?
Recep Tayyip Erdogan: Thank you for your question.
First of all, we share the same views on assuring stability in Syria. We categorically oppose the violation of Syria’s territorial integrity.
You also know that about 18,000 people have lost their lives to date as a result of the actions of Syria’s autocratic regime. This is a regime that mercilessly kills its people. There are 40,000 refugees currently in Turkey, 150,000 refugees in Jordan and 20,000 refugees in Lebanon.
Our view is that in Syria the will of the people must triumph, and we would like for Syria’s fate after Assad to be determined by the Syrians themselves, rather than other alien forces. Let the Syrian people make their own decisions.
In this situation, there are important challenges faced by the UN Security Council, particularly its permanent members. The meeting held in Geneva essentially represents an important ‘road map’. We believe it is possible to achieve results within the framework of the decisions made in Geneva. But prolonging the process will result in the loss of human lives. People are being killed, just as they were in the time of Bashar Assad’s father.
Turkey hopes for an end to these large-scale killings. Let there be peace in Syria. Let the will of the Syrian people prevail and let Syria be saved.
Vladimir Putin: I can only add that Russia welcomes Turkey’s support in the Action Group resolutions in Geneva. This is a good foundation for coordinating positions in the future.
Thank you.
Geography
Türkiye
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Erdogan Recep Tayyip
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 18, 2012, 18:50
Text version