Events
Beginning of Russian-Kyrgyzstani talks in expanded format
September 20, 2012
12:00
Bishkek
Russian-Kyrgyzstani talks in expanded format.
President of Kyrgyzstan Almazbek Atambayev
: Mr President, distinguished guests,
I am very pleased to see you and to welcome you to Kyrgyzstan.
Mr President, it is symbolic that your visit is taking place as we celebrate the 20th anniversary of the Treaty of Friendship, Cooperation and Mutual Assistance between our two states.
I hope this will be a landmark visit that will mark a new stage in the relations between our countries. I am very grateful that you have accepted my invitation and I am very happy that we will sign a number of key agreements between our countries today.
Once again, I am happy to welcome you and your team.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, colleagues,
Thank you for the invitation and for the opportunity to meet today. However, I think we should address even bigger thanks to our experts who have been working hard for months to prepare the documents you have mentioned.
Indeed, this is a special year: we will celebrate the anniversary of our fundamental Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation and the establishment of diplomatic relations.
Despite all the difficulties that Kyrgyzstan experienced in recent times, primarily political difficulties, its relations with Russia have evolved consistently and steadily. I am pleased to note that Russia's share in Kyrgyzstan’s foreign trade is almost 22.5%, making us Kyrgyzstan’s biggest trading partner. In addition, we have increased trade by nearly 45% this year.
These are all positive developments and, without a doubt, the agreements that have now been prepared for signing and which will be implemented in the coming years will serve to benefit our relations and boost Kyrgyzstan’s economic growth and social development.
We are very pleased to have this opportunity to meet in an expanded format, take stock and sign the documents we have been working on for so long.
Thank you for your attention.
Geography
Kyrgyzstan
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Atambayev Almazbek
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: September 20, 2012, 12:00
Text version