Events
Working meeting with State Duma Speaker Sergei Naryshkin
Sergey Naryshkin briefed the President on the work of the Russian Parliament. The issues of legislative support for integration processes within the Customs Union and Common Economic Space were discussed separately.
May 29, 2012
12:15
1 of 3
With State Duma Speaker Sergei Naryshkin.
***
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Naryshkin, the work in Parliament is in full swing. There is still enough time until the end of the spring session, but I am aware that the Duma is still facing major tasks. I very much hope that our joint efforts will be consolidated and efficient, as in the previous years. In spite of the approaching summer, the deputies will work hard on fulfilling their entire plan and will work very closely with the Government.
State Duma Speaker Sergei Naryshkin
: Mr President, in my estimation, the Parliament is working as planned. Over one hundred draft laws and legislative initiatives are currently at various stages of consideration. The process involves heated political debates, which, in my opinion, is completely normal because the Parliament is the most diplomatic state agency by its nature.
I wish to inform you that a few days ago, I invited my colleagues, the Parliament Speakers from Belarus and Kazakhstan, to discuss the parliamentary dimension of the Eurasian integration.
“If we speak about the creation of the Eurasian Union, this is a challenge that cannot be tackled without an active contribution of our three countries’ parliaments.”
Vladimir Putin: We have already talked about this before.
Sergei Naryshkin: That’s right, and you gave me instructions on this matter. The process of economic integration is proceeding actively; a supranational body has already been set up and is operating successfully, and the next issue to be tackled is establishing a parliamentary dimension.
We have launched a working group mechanism composed of parliament members, experts and representatives of the academic community from our three states. The working group’s purpose is to draft a roadmap. Naturally, the Eurasian Inter-Parliamentary Assembly has to be established first, and sooner or later the question will arise of establishing a fully-fledged parliamentary institution of the Eurasian Economic Union at first, and later of the Eurasian Union.
Vladimir Putin: I believe this is very important. We need full legal support of all the processes that occur within the Customs Union and Common Economic Space. Ultimately, all decisions of the executive authorities should be supported and reflected in laws. And if we speak about the creation of the Eurasian Union, this is a challenge that cannot be tackled without an active contribution of our three countries’ parliaments. Therefore, we will support it. I will discuss it with my counterparts in Kazakhstan and Belarus. I am sure it will be supported by all the participants in the integration process.
Sergei Naryshkin: We expect the roadmap I just mentioned to be ready by early next year.
Vladimir Putin: Good.
<…>
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Naryshkin Sergei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 29, 2012, 12:15
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Russian national hockey team
Vladimir Putin met with the Russian national hockey team players – winners of the 2012 hockey world championship.
May 29, 2012
19:00
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
2 of 14
At a meeting with Russian national hockey team.
The President of Russia thanked the hockey players, coaches, and the President of the Russian Ice Hockey Federation Vladislav Tretyak for their enormous contribution to Russia’s victory in the 2012 hockey world championships. Members of the national hockey team were also awarded the title of Honoured Masters of Sports.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends,
On behalf of Russian fans and all sports-lovers, it is my great pleasure today to once again salute Russia’s national ice hockey team, to salute and congratulate you on your well-earned victory and express sincere gratitude for the way you played and the result that our entire nation witnessed.
Of course, this is not the first time that the Russian team wins the world championships. Moreover, we have won several times without letting our opponents score even one point. But what you did this time was truly exceptional. It was simply outstanding, the highest level of performance. You demonstrated everything: character, stamina, and talent – without a doubt, pure talent.
“I want to tell you that all of us, at least the people in my generation, have admired our hockey players since we were children, and you have given us another opportunity to do so.”
It makes me very happy that one of our players, Yevgeny Malkin, was not just chosen as the best NHL player of this year, but was also recognised as the Most Valuable Player at the world championships. Moreover, more than half of the team – half – played for the first time at this level and demonstrated their outstanding skills.
There are many more kick-offs ahead of us and ahead of you: the hockey world championships that will be held in our nation, as well as the 2014 Olympics in Sochi. I sincerely wish you success and want to say that all of us, all sports and hockey fans, are rooting for you.
I also want to congratulate our team of coaches. They have shown themselves to be truly remarkable. This was Zinetula Bilyaletdinov’s debut as head coach; we already knew that he was not just an excellent player, but a great coach too, and this time he has demonstrated it very clearly.
It is also nice that you took your revenge on our partners, friends and rivals, the Slovaks. In 2002, as far as I recall, our national team lost, though with a slight advantage, and our Slovak friends became champions. This time, the Russian national team was able to score a decisive victory.
I want to tell you that all of us, at least the people in my generation, have admired our hockey players since we were children, and you have given us another opportunity to do so.
I congratulate you and wish you future success.
See also
Congratulations to Russia’s national ice hockey team on winning the world championship
May 21, 2012
Vladimir Putin met with head coach of Russia’s national ice hockey team Zinetula Bilyaletdinov
May 21, 2012
Topics
Sport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 29, 2012, 19:00
Text version