Events
Video address marking the inauguration of the second section of the Nord Stream gas pipeline
In his video address, Vladimir Putin congratulated the project participants on completing the second section and bringing it to design capacity.
October 8, 2012
14:00
The official ceremony marking the pipeline’s completion took place at Portovaya Bay in Leningrad Region. The pipeline crosses the Baltic Sea, passing through the territorial waters of five countries, and links up to the European gas transport network in the town of Lubmin on the German coast.
The Nord Stream pipeline’s first section was opened on November 8, 2011.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, friends,
This is an event of major importance for us. The construction of the second line has been completed and the Nord Stream
gas pipeline is about to begin operating at full capacity. It will carry up to 55 billion cubic metres of Russian gas to European consumers annually.
Nord Stream is a large-scale multilateral project. The pipeline passes through the territorial waters of five Baltic states. Russian, Italian, German, Japanese companies took part in the construction and equipment delivery. The world's biggest banks have attracted a record amount of investments: 6.4 billion euros.
The pipeline uses unique technological solutions. Two and a half thousand kilometres of pipes were laid along the bottom of the Baltic Sea in less than two and a half years, working under the difficult conditions of the open sea at great depths.
”Nord Stream will meet Europe's growing demand for energy resources. Gas will be supplied directly by the shortest route, linking the major Russian gas reserves to European markets without transit risks, steadily and smoothly. We can guarantee this.“
Innovation technologies were applied in the construction. Over 100 million euros were invested in large-scale environmental research. Nord Stream will be operated in an automatic mode from an electronic control centre, without intermediate compression stations, which will reduce operating costs and CO2 emissions.
One of the largest hydrographic studies ever was conducted as part of the preliminary survey. An international team of scientists and engineers examined 2,500 square kilometres of sea floor, created a comprehensive system of environmental monitoring, and ensured the security of the Baltic Sea’s vulnerable ecosystem.
New transparency standards in international cooperation have been established at the design stage: the Baltic countries held over 200 public hearings and conferences analysing socioeconomic ramifications, including for commercial fishing and cultural heritage.
Nord Stream will meet Europe's growing demand for energy resources. Gas will be supplied directly by the shortest route, linking the major Russian gas reserves to European markets without transit risks, steadily and smoothly. We can guarantee this.
Russia has always complied and will continue to comply with its obligations as a secure and predictable fuel supplier to Europe. We hope that the European Union will contribute to the effective use of the Nord Stream’ potential.
Only through joint efforts will we be able to satisfy the interests of producers and consumers, and to strengthen energy security.
I am confident that Nord Stream will make a significant contribution to the economic development of our countries and the entire European continent.
I congratulate you on completing the project and wish you every success.
Topics
Energy
Environment
Russia–European Union
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 8, 2012, 14:00
Text versionEvents
Working meeting with Transport Minister Maxim Sokolov
Subsidised passenger traffic to and from the Russian Far East and developing regional air traffic were the main subjects of discussion.
October 8, 2012
12:40
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 3
Meeting with Transport Minister Maxim Sokolov.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Sokolov, there are several questions I want to discuss. The first is passenger traffic from the Far East. You recall that during one of our trips to the region, local women said they do not think it very fair that women are entitled to discount ticket prices only from age 60 onwards – the same as men – even though women retire earlier. We agreed then to fix this matter. What is the situation now?
Transport Minister Maxim Sokolov
: Yes, Mr President, the Government has already approved changes to the categories of passengers benefiting from discount prices for travel between the Far East and Siberia and European Russia. Women who have reached retirement age – starting from 55 – are now entitled to these discounts. 
Vladimir Putin: So their entitlement now starts at 55, not at 60.
Maxim Sokolov: That’s right. The discounts also apply to people with category 1 disabilities and the people accompanying them, and also passengers accompanying disabled children. An additional 400 million rubles was allocated this summer to finance this programme.
Vladimir Putin: Is there enough money to finance all of this subsidised travel?
Maxim Sokolov: We already see now that there is such demand for this travel that around 450,000 tickets worth a total of around 3 billion have already been sold. There was a shortfall of 100 million rubles to finance all of the subsidised tickets. The Transport Ministry made up the shortfall from its own budget, without having to increase the budget’s overall funding this year, and the money was used to meet the demand from all of the entitled passengers. 
Vladimir Putin: In other words, the programme will be carried out in full.
Maxim Sokolov: Yes. All those entitled will be guaranteed subsidised travel to and from the Far East.
Vladimir Putin: Excellent. That is a long-distance travel issue settled. Another issue that people often raise, however, is that of local travel, and this problem has persisted for a number of years now. We know there are many problems involved here. What is the Ministry doing now to resolve the situation? 
Maxim Sokolov: Developing regional traffic is one of the Ministry’s top priorities. Starting next year, our budget allocates an additional 5 billion rubles annually to develop regional traffic. Of this amount, 3.5 billion will support the subsidies I mentioned before, and we will carry out another programme with funding of almost 3 billion rubles to subsidise travel within regions. This will concern primarily regions in the Far East, Urals, Siberian, and Northwest federal districts, where air travel is often the only option for getting from one place to another.
This programme will target specifically not the main route carriers but regional carriers providing local travel services, and as I said, 3 billion rubles has been earmarked for this.
Aside from this, we are starting a pilot project next year in the Volga Federal District. The plan here is to increase five-fold the amount of regional traffic within the federal district based on co-financing from all of the district’s regions. If the project proves a success we will launch similar programmes the following year in the Northwest, Southern, and North Caucasus federal districts, where they are already being drafted.
Vladimir Putin: You need to work more closely with the Industry Ministry so as to acquire Russian-made goods. The Ministry needs to coordinate its needs with our manufacturers so that our foreign partners who have been supplying their goods so far know in advance what kind of timeframe they will have ahead in order to shift production here, for example, just as happened in the automotive sector, and you need to coordinate things so that our own aircraft manufacturers can develop production accordingly.
Maxim Sokolov: Mr President, the objective is clear. We are indeed working together with the Industry and Trade Ministry. We have subsidised leasing programmes for regional aircraft. We are currently working with the Industry and Trade Ministry on drafting proposals that will give priority use of these subsidies to Russian aircraft or to aircraft assembled on Russian territory.
Vladimir Putin: With a high degree of local production.
Maxim Sokolov: Yes, understood, Mr President.
Vladimir Putin: In other words, we do not need simple assembly of foreign-made parts, but localised production. Simple assembly operations can go ahead, but only in the short term.
Maxim Sokolov: Yes, this is not something that can all just take place overnight.
Vladimir Putin: It is essential to move in this direction, essential that everyone makes this change and not come to rely on constant supplies from abroad. Understood?
Maxim Sokolov: Yes.
Vladimir Putin: When will you and [Minister of Trade and Industry] Manturov report in detail on this matter?
Maxim Sokolov: I think we will be able to do so within a month. We are already working on it and will be ready to report on the actual programmes and projects that our companies are carrying out.
<…>
Topics
Regions
Transport
Persons
Sokolov Maxim
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 8, 2012, 12:40
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Sberbank CEO German Gref
Mr Gref briefed the President on the bank's performance this year.
October 8, 2012
14:20
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 2
With Sberbank CEO German Gref.
* * *
CEO and chairman of the Board of Sberbank of Russia German Gref
: Mr President, we have completed our second share placement. The window on the market opened for almost two days and, thanks to the Central Bank and Government’s joint effort, we were able to make the most of the opportunity. The corridor we were working within was based on a target of 5.2 billion at a price of 93 rubles per share. This is higher than the share price for the previous placement (89 rubles per share). This is the biggest privatisation deal in Russian history.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: You’re referring to the sale of 7,6 percent of our shares?
German Gref: Yes, that’s right.
Vladimir Putin: For every $100 invested 10 years ago, you have now made $3,700, as far as I know.
German Gref: Yes, that’s right. We are second after Apple in terms of yield for the last decade.
Overall, I think this is a very good deal for Russia and it got good publicity everywhere. Despite the big fall following the placement, we are holding stable at around 92 rubles per share. We still have a tough time ahead while adapting to the big number of shares now on the market, but we nonetheless forecast growth. Our fundamental indicators are all in good shape and we expect stable growth through the rest of this year. We will meet in full our obligations to investors.
Vladimir Putin: Good.
How did things go in Turkey?
German Gref: That was difficult work. Unfortunately, we had only a short time and faced stiff competition for this Turkish bank [DenizBank]. We and the National Bank of Qatar were the final contenders in the race to buy what is Turkey’s sixth-biggest bank. The bank is a good and very modern asset. It was being sold off by Belgian bank Dexia, one of Europe’s biggest banks. Dexia did not actually want to sell the bank at all, but had to at the regulator’s request.
The sales price was 1.3 percent of the capital value, around 2.7 billion euros. By the end of the year, depending on the actual results at the moment of sale, we will have to pay an additional sum in line with the change in net assets’ value, in other words, the bank’s profit over the course of this year. This will add on around 170 million euros. Overall then, the acquisition cost comes to around 3 billion euros, that is, approximately $4 billion. 
This is Sberbank’s biggest foreign acquisition ever, and it is a high-quality asset. The bank will make around $400 million in net profit this year on the Turkish market, and next year’s forecast is for net profit of $600 million. The acquisition gives us a good platform because in addition to being on the Turkish market, the bank is also present in five other countries, thus offering us a good platform for working in Asia. It has a good team and well-organised operations and product range. The bank is Turkey’s second-biggest lender in the agriculture sector, and we hope to obtain a good multiplying effect through our work with this asset. We can transfer some of our modern methods there, and there is a lot that we can transfer from there to Russia, especially as regards operations in the agriculture sector and work with small and medium-sized enterprises. 
The regulators have all reacted very positively to us. After the acquisition, the Turkish regulator lowered our capital adequacy ratio from 15 to 12 percent, which frees up capital for us. We will be able to steadily develop the bank for a number of years ahead now without having to inject more capital. I think the acquisition will help us to build an excellent bridge between our two economies. Turkey has big growth potential and we are Turkey’s second-biggest trading partner today, and first in terms of the rate at which our trade is growing.
Vladimir Putin: Turkish companies are very active and if the bank can service them and service the respective trade turnover, it will only benefit.
German Gref: Added to this, Mr President, is the fact that 1,400 Russian companies are working on the Turkish market now, including our strategic partner Rosatom, which has made huge investment in building a nuclear power plant. 
Vladimir Putin: Yes, this is a big project.
German Gref: I think we will be able to develop the business over the next few years and create a good bridge for Russian companies working on the Turkish market.
Vladimir Putin: How has Sberbank been performing on the domestic market over the last 6 months?
German Gref: Mr President, we summed up the results of the last 8 months. Our interest income over this period has increased by 26 percent compared to the same period last year. Our net profit for eight months comes to 239 billion rubles.
Vladimir Putin: How does that compare to the same period last year?
German Gref: It is around 8–10 percent higher than last year. We think that we can increase this profit further by the end of the year compared to last year’s result. This year has not seen the kind of drawing on reserves that we made use of last year, but we have produced stable financial results, earning around 27–29 billion rubles a month, and we expect to keep up this pace through to the end of the year.
Vladimir Putin: Which CIS
countries do you work in?
German Gref: We are present in Ukraine, Kazakhstan, and Belarus. We have decided for now to limit our investments to these three countries. We work in 20 different countries and do not intend to increase this number over the next three years. Over these next three years we need to build ourselves a strong international platform. This is a new experience for us and not an easy undertaking by any means. We bought a problematic asset in Eastern Europe. We got it on the cheap, but it is a loss-making asset and over the next three years we have to turn it around and get it profitable.
Vladimir Putin: Whereabouts in Eastern Europe?
German Gref: The Czech Republic, Serbia, Slovenia, Slovakia, eight Central European countries in total, except for Poland, which is a market we are interested in. We have gained a presence in all the Central European countries except Poland, but we will probably start looking at the Polish market after we finish developing our international platform. 
<…>
Topics
Banks
Persons
Gref German
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 8, 2012, 14:20
Text version