Events
Presenting state decorations
Dmitry Medvedev presented state decorations to 37 Russian citizens in a ceremony in the Kremlin’s Catherine Hall.
February 22, 2012
14:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 11
Ceremony for presenting state decorations.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Good afternoon, friends,
Today’s ceremony is taking place on the eve of the Defender of the Fatherland Day, an occasion widely celebrated throughout our country, in practically every family. I take this opportunity to congratulate sincerely all Armed Forces veterans and all of our soldiers and officers serving today and ready to carry out even the most difficult combat missions.
Considering the occasion, let me make special mention among those being decorated today of nuclear cruiser submarine commander Alexei Dmitrov. Under his command his crew has demonstrated on more than one occasion high standards of military professionalism and the best qualities of steadfastness and selflessness. First-rank Captain Dmitrov is receiving the high decoration of Hero of the Russian Federation today. 
Gathered here today are people from all walks of life, people who have achieved success in their lives. Your success is not due to luck, chance, and fortunate turns of circumstance (even if these things do play a part in everyone’s life), but is the result above all of your labour, stubborn effort, and desire to put all of your daily effort into your work. I am sure that everything you do provides an excellent example for your friends and colleagues and indeed for many of our citizens.
Here today we have people who work in the economy, those who are developing our education, cultural figures, people from a wide range of professions. It would take me a long time to list them all. I propose, therefore, that we move straight on to presenting the state decorations.
<…>
Once more, I congratulate you all on the Defender of the Fatherland Day. We always need to defend our homeland, and not only during times of war or great trouble. Each of you is defending our country by doing your job, standing up for your views and your values, promoting our culture, and simply defending our forebears’ legacy and achievements. 
Lyudmila Chursina quoted a line from Anna Akhmatova about storm clouds over the skies of Russia [“That the storm-cloud which broods over Russia may be changed to a nimbus ablaze”]. Of course, we seldom have a cloudless sky quite simply because of our country’s rather cold climate and enormous size. But this does not mean that we face dramatic problems and immense difficulties at this time. 
Certainly, we do have many difficulties. Each of you, every single one of you here today, tries to do what you can to make our life calmer and more comfortable, safer and secure, and quite simply more interesting too, which is something people in the humanities and cultural sphere are doing with success.
It is my sincere hope that this year will also be a successful one for Russia, even as the whole world remains in constant movement, global processes boil away, and economic crises continue. But I am confident that we can handle it all, now and in the future.
We count above all on professionals in this, on everyone who does not waste words but simply gets on with their jobs. You are these professionals. I thank you sincerely for serving our Fatherland. 
Topics
State decorations
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 22, 2012, 14:30
Text versionEvents
Visit to Russian Army Theatre
The President attended a gala concert celebrating the Defender of the Fatherland Day.
February 22, 2012
21:30
Moscow
* * *
Speech at gala concert celebrating the Defender of the Fatherland Day
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Good evening, comrades and friends,
I congratulate you all on the Defender of the Fatherland Day! Following tradition, February 23 is a day when we honour people whose life is closely tied to the Armed Forces, those who are ready to counter any threats to our security and help our nation day and night with weapons in their hands.
Choosing a military career always elicits feelings of deep, sincere respect in any normal nation. And I would like to once again take this opportunity to thank you for your selfless service, for your devotion to your nation.
This year, we mark a special anniversary in the formation of our nation. Our state has been developing for about eleven centuries and this development has been rich with examples of courage, strength of spirit, bravery, and heroism. Naturally, we must hold sacred the memory of our forefathers’ feats.
”Following tradition, February 23 is a day when we honour people whose life is closely tied to the Armed Forces, those who are ready to counter any threats to our security and help our nation day and night with weapons in their hands.“
On this day, in this hall, I am expressing sincere words of gratitude to veterans of the Great Patriotic War
, to all who fought and who worked behind the lines during this very difficult time. Let’s thank our veterans one more time.
Life on our planet is becoming increasingly complex; there are new threats to our security and instability is on the rise spreading to whole regions. It is also alarming to see that force-based methods are still being used in the world to resolve problems and conflicts.
Thus, given these conditions, any nation must know how to defend itself. For Russia, the largest nation on the planet, having modern and highly efficient Armed Forces is not just a necessity, but a matter of survival.
That is precisely why in all these recent years, we have worked to modernise and improve our Armed Forces, and I feel that we have already reached certain results: not in all areas, but in certain, perhaps the most critical areas.
Our troops have switched to a new management structure, gradually getting rid of ‘non-core’ functions. The state arms programme that will run until 2020 provides for renewing 70 per cent of all types of armaments, and up to 100 per cent for specific types. We have new troops to take up combat duty, including the Aerospace Defence Troops, and new missiles are being deployed.
”Regardless of the weapons we create, it is extremely important to remember that there are people behind all of these processes. So, taking care of those who have chosen the service in the Armed Forces as their primary occupation remains a priority in the development of our state.“
However, regardless of the weapons we create (this is our duty and naturally, we will fulfil everything we have planned), it is extremely important to remember that there are people behind all of these processes. So, taking care of those who have chosen the service in the Armed Forces as their primary occupation remains a priority in the development of our state.
In recent years, I feel we have made progress in this area and created a new system of increasing social guarantees for service members. This involves new military pay and resolving the housing issue. All this should help those who serve in the army to focus on fulfilling their main tasks in combat training; meanwhile, their families should feel comfortable and protected.
Clearly, there is more to be done and much of the work is still ahead of us. I sincerely hope that everyone present here and everyone serving in our Armed Forces will participate in this work.
Comrades, according to tradition, many of you will be celebrating your professional holiday today and tomorrow at your posts. The fact that our Armed Forces are currently capable of resisting any other armed forces, repelling any threat to our national security, gives our country confidence in the future.
Thus, I want to congratulate you on this holiday once more, wish good health to all of you, your loved ones, everyone present here today and everyone currently at their posts.
Happy Defender of the Fatherland Day!
Topics
Armed Forces
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 22, 2012, 21:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Gazprom CEO Alexei Miller
Mr Miller briefed Dmitry Medvedev about the progress with the South Stream project and gave an overview of the Russian-Ukrainian gas cooperation.
February 22, 2012
17:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 2
With Gazprom CEO Alexei Miller.
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Good evening, Mr Miller.
Gazprom is engaged in some major projects. Some of them have already been put into operation, such as Nord Stream, for example. Construction on other projects is just about to begin (I hope it will start very soon), particularly in the case of South Stream. How do things stand on this project, what are the latest events, what has been done, and what remains to be done?
Gazprom CEO Alexei Miller
: Mr President, we have completed the overall feasibility study for this project, which covers the underwater part of the South Stream pipeline as well as its sections in the transit countries in Southeast and Central Europe.
Dmitry Medvedev: Please tell us what they are, since not everybody remembers.
Alexei Miller: They are Bulgaria, Serbia, Hungary and Slovenia, with segments to Croatia, the Republic of Serbia and a pipeline to Greece. Today, Gazprom has prepared a new, adjusted schedule after Turkey gave us permission last December to build the pipeline through its exclusive economic zone. We have updated our schedule and will be ready to begin construction in December of this year.
Dmitry Medvedev: Understanding the pipeline construction process, as well as its key parameters like capacity, will be dependent on talks with our Ukrainian partners, because there are different options: we can give it greater capacity or stop at some middle point. How do things stand right now with our Ukrainian friends? What is the status of our gas cooperation talks?
Alexei Miller: Mr President, the issue recently under consideration – the design capacity of the South Stream pipeline – has now become even more relevant in the context of the unusual cold wave in Europe at the beginning of February. In early February, much of Europe had abnormally low temperatures; even the Danube froze, as did the canals of Venice, so our European consumers increased their requests for Russian gas.
For its part, Gazprom did everything necessary to fully satisfy the needs of European consumers. However, a significant volume of gas transiting through Ukraine did not arrive in Europe.
Dmitry Medvedev: Why?
Alexei Miller: On certain days, as much as 40 million cubic metres of gas remained on Ukraine’s territory, and this certainly caused damage to Gazprom’s finances and reputation. At the same time, in this situation, there is no effective mechanism to control the actions of Naftogaz of Ukraine.
Dmitry Medvedev: Do I understand correctly that this means siphoning off gas?
Alexei Miller: Our Ukrainian partners took as much gas from the export pipeline as they felt necessary.
Dmitry Medvedev: In other words, beyond the scope of existing rules and not on the basis of agreements?
Alexei Miller: They took as much gas as they felt necessary; moreover, they took gas intended for European consumers, and our Ukrainian partners knew this. They knew the volume intended for Ukraine, in accordance with the ten-year contract in effect between us.
Dmitry Medvedev: But they did not ask us to increase their volume of supplies during that time?
Alexei Miller: On the contrary, Mr President, at the beginning of this year, our Ukrainian friends had brought up the question of reducing supply volume.
Dmitry Medvedev: Yes, I remember, from 52 billion to 27 billion cubic metres. And nevertheless, during the abnormal cold wave, they took gas.
Alexei Miller: However, during the unusually cold wave, Ukraine was taking gas at the annual pace of over 60 billion cubic metres.
Dmitry Medvedev: I see. Please look into all these instances within the framework of corporate procedures and civil-law agreements between Gazprom and Naftogaz of Ukraine.
For my part, I wanted to say the following in this context. Naturally, we will need to determine the ultimate capacity of the South Stream pipeline. But in making this decision, I would like you to also take into account what happened at the beginning of this year. The situation was the same as in previous years, and overall, I feel it is a sufficient basis for instructing Gazprom to plan for maximum gas flow capacity in designing and building the South Stream pipeline. What was the volume?
Alexei Miller: It was 63 billion cubic metres of gas.
Dmitry Medvedev: We need to make calculations based on the highest figures, because we need to consider the future. Please give instructions to Gazprom entities and everyone involved in preparing the final project documentation. When will construction begin?
Alexei Miller: We will launch the construction in December. All the necessary instructions on gas pipeline design based on a 63 billion cubic metre capacity will be given without delay.
Dmitry Medvedev: Please let our Ukrainian friends know about this position, explain the reasons we are making the corresponding decisions and, of course, continue talks with them on potential gas cooperation, as we discussed with the President of Ukraine recently in Moscow.
Alexei Miller: Very well.
Dmitry Medvedev: Thank you.
<…>
Topics
Energy
Foreign policy
Persons
Miller Alexei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 22, 2012, 17:00
Text versionEvents
Presentation by foreign ambassadors of their letters of credence
Dmitry Medvedev received letters of credence from new ambassadors to the Russian Federation from the Republic of Korea, Switzerland, the USA, Lithuania, Cote d’Ivoire, Zambia, Indonesia, and Panama. 
February 22, 2012
13:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 10
Before the presentation by foreign ambassadors of their letters of credence. With Presidential Aide Sergei Prikhodko (right) and Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Ladies and gentlemen,
Let me start by welcoming you to the Kremlin and giving you my sincere best wishes for success in your important diplomatic work here in Russia. I hope that Russia’s bilateral cooperation with each of your countries will develop and be very productive indeed.
Our policy has always been a balanced one based on our readiness to engage in equal dialogue with all who seek it. This foreign policy has the support of the majority of Russians and this is by far the best guarantee that it will continue. Our people’s opinion is the one and only political factor that can influence our foreign policy.
We will continue our pragmatic foreign policy that seeks to achieve the global goal of building a fair and democratic world order. Our policy is based on the priority of international law and the guarantee of indivisible and equal security for all countries.
”Our policy has always been a balanced one based on our readiness to engage in equal dialogue with all who seek it. This foreign policy has the support of the majority of Russians.“
These same principles form the basis of our approach to the extremely complex international and regional issues currently being discussed practically every day in international and regional forums. I am referring to the Iranian nuclear programme and the situation in Syria, as well as to the earlier events in Egypt, Libya, and in the Middle East in general. We will take into account the impact the international community’s decisions could have on interfaith and interethnic relations and will not support decisions that ignore or do not give full consideration to these aspects.
Let me make one other point. We consider it unacceptable that vital decisions affecting the future of entire nations and peoples should be taken hastily under pressure from mass propaganda campaigns, especially when we are dealing with very complex regional situations. Whether in substance or in spirit this is not the right approach. We must not let the institutions of international law become devalued, especially organisations such as the United Nations, and must not let them become replaced by interest groups, ‘groups of friends,’ based on opportunistic or short-term political concerns or economic expediency.
All of you here are professionals capable of getting to the bottom of the real state of affairs, and you know very well that no one has the right to pass final judgement. Our common goal today is to preserve the international laws that govern the relations between peoples and countries, ensure unswerving respect for universal humanitarian standards, and prevent provocation and violence and the use of such acts as an instrument in international politics. 
Ladies and gentlemen, we hope very much for friendly and constructive relations with the countries you represent. We hope that your work here will help to strengthen the ties between us. Let me now say a few words about our relations with each of the countries you represent.
”We will continue our pragmatic foreign policy that seeks to achieve the global goal of building a fair and democratic world order. Our policy is based on the priority of international law and the guarantee of indivisible and equal security for all countries.“
We have fast-growing relations with the Republic of Korea, one of our priority partners in the Asia-Pacific region and a country with which we can develop many promising opportunities. It is in our common interest to take our relations to the strategic cooperation level by making them more effective in every area. Of course, we also want to work together to settle the nuclear issue on the Korean Peninsula. 
Our relations with the Swiss Confederation have undergone a noticeable upturn of late. Our ties go back almost 200 years. We have been having much more intensive contacts at the highest level, and have increased our humanitarian and economic cooperation. We have great respect for Switzerland’s neutral status and for its high standing as a responsible and honest mediator in very difficult situations.
Relations with the United States of America have traditionally been a priority for Russia’s foreign policy, and this will remain the case. Our relations are of particular importance for ensuring global security and simply making our world a more stable place. The atmosphere of political dialogue between our countries has visibly improved over recent years. This mutual positive spirit laid a foundation that has produced real practical results and enabled the signing of very important agreements.
Russia wants to deepen its cooperation with the United States in a broad range of areas, even in situations in which our assessments and approaches differ. I am sure that if we follow the principles of common sense, mutual respect, and equality we can work together to support global stability and security and in so doing lay the foundations to keep our relations growing in the future. This positive spirit was reflected in the messages that President of the United States Barack Obama and I exchanged just recently.
We hope for constructive, pragmatic, and mutually advantageous dialogue with the Republic of Lithuania in order to settle a broad range of trade and economic and humanitarian issues and pursue cooperation on Kaliningrad. I am sure that this straightforward and pragmatic approach would help to build greater confidence between us.
We seek to develop friendly and mutually beneficial relations with the Republic of Cote d’Ivoire (with which our ties go back 45 years now), all the more so as there are many promising areas in which we can develop our cooperation.
”Our common goal today is to preserve the international laws that govern the relations between peoples and countries, ensure unswerving respect for universal humanitarian standards, and prevent provocation and violence and the use of such acts as an instrument in international politics.“
We have a longstanding friendship with the Republic of Zambia, one of the African continent’s influential countries. I am sure that we can make a common effort to develop our bilateral cooperation more fully and bolster our ties in regional and international affairs.
We are happy with the high level of dialogue we have with the Republic of Indonesia and the way it is developing. The practical potential of our ties and our similar views on many of today’s key issues form a solid foundation for building up our cooperation in a broad range of areas, from energy and space to big infrastructure projects. We will continue to work together in the interests of strengthening peace and security in the Asia-Pacific region.
We are ready to deepen our cooperation and expand advantageous contacts at all different levels with the Republic of Panama and want to work together to strengthen our trade and economic ties.
Ladies and gentlemen, you have difficult and very important work ahead of you. Russia sincerely wants this work to be a success, and of course we are ready to provide you with all possible assistance.
Thank you for your attention.
Geography
Cote d'Ivoire
Indonesia
Lithuania
Panama
4 more
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 22, 2012, 13:30
Text version