The political system is such that it promises everything, but is not able to deliver. Citizens are used to living at a certain level, and there is nothing that could convince people in Spain, for example, that they should live the same way as people in rural China. China is ensuring its growth rates by using technology and a constant flow of millions of workers to large cities. That opportunity does not exist in Europe. So what’s the source of growth then? Debt, debt, debt. They have turned on the monetary printing press And these are the results of the problems that lie deeper. That is what caused the debt crisis.
I think that Germany’s leaders are taking a very pragmatic position that the systemic problems which led to this state must first be eliminated, and then additional resources should be injected. If the opposite is done then the additional resources will simply be dissolved, they will only provide a temporary ‘kick in the butt’. But there will not be sufficient acceleration in order to overcome the entire distance that would allow Europe to get out of crisis. Indeed, I think that this is pretty evident.
Yes, of course, the position must be flexible. Naturally, certain monetary measures – additional issues, attempts to artificially heat up the economy – have a short-term effect, but you know, that’s like a pill that simply reduces a fever but does not cure the disease itself.
So I think that systemic measures are necessary. In my view, those are exactly the kind of measures that EU leaders are inclined to use. And in any case, everyone within the EU leadership – and the people in all the EU nations in general are very competent and well-versed in economic matters – they all understand what needs to be done. The question concerns the political frameworks in which they find themselves, and whether these frameworks give them the opportunity to work in the right direction or hold them back. As for what our colleagues will ultimately do, that is, first and foremost, a European choice.
As for the idea of Russia joining the EU, we all understand perfectly well that this is not realistic either from the point of view of our size or our economic organisation. But I think we should most certainly look for means of rapprochement so as to make use of the synergy to be gained from combining the efforts of Russia and its European partners.
Someone like you is already very much aware of the fact that Russia has a highly educated population and a strong base in the fundamental sciences. We have abundant mineral resources and well-prepared human resources capable of learning new skills quickly. Look at the way our automotive industry is developing. Companies have opened up almost overnight and human resources training is rapid and effective. Everyone I speak with from among the company directors, the heads of German companies such as Volkswagen and others, the Japanese, they all say that they have absolutely no trouble finding local staff and training them very quickly. This is one of Russia’s advantages.
If we could combine the European Union’s technological capabilities with Russia’s huge territory and the opportunities our country offers, the resulting synergy would be tremendous and would make us all more competitive. Sadly, however, we are moving only very slowly in this direction.
Coming back to an issue I already spoke about before, Russia proposed joint work on a satellite navigation system a few years ago. Our colleagues expressed interest in the idea but in the end decided not to go ahead. What is the result? Russia has a fully completed satellite cluster of 28 satellites in operation now, while the Europeans have only launched 5 satellites, as far as I know. But if they had used the opportunities we offered for space launches and our development of the GLONASS system, both GLONASS and Europe’s Galileo system would be working effectively today and would be a real competition for GPS. Would this be a good or a bad thing? It would be a good thing of course, not because it would let us bite off a piece from someone else’s pie, but because it would develop this sector of the global economy in general. Greater competition would make the sector more effective and give it more weight. This is just one example.
We have made no progress towards introducing visa-free travel. Really, this is just laughable. Europe has visa-free travel with some Latin American countries. Is the crime situation there really any better than in Russia? Of course not. This is all quite absurd, you understand. I am at a loss really to understand our colleagues’ motivations here. These are things that are holding back rapprochement between Russia and the EU, and this is not a good situation.
Coming now to the Common Economic Space, in large part, we took the integration achievements in Europe as our reference model here. We do have a few advantages of our own though, because, as many of you no doubt realise, start discussing anything in the EU and the 27 countries with their 27 languages all make for such a bureaucratic nightmare that you feel like you’re never going to make it alive to actually getting to the point of what the various speakers are saying. No one has the strength to sit through it all. But we have the Russian language that unites us as a natural common language of interstate communication, and this is a huge advantage.
Furthermore, the infrastructure system – railways, energy sector infrastructure, aviation links – though we consider it still in need of further development, lays a solid base on which to build integration. This was our common infrastructure during the Soviet period. The countries that made up the Soviet Union then inherited its various parts, but we can use it in our common interests. There are railways for example that first cross Russian territory, then enter Kazakhstani territory, then come back onto Russian territory. Indeed, the situation is such that the heavens themselves incite us to integrate, and so this is what we are doing.
We decided that each country would use its national currency. On the one hand, this is bad because it does not let the ruble strengthen its position, but at the same time it is good, because each country can implement its own economic policy. When it comes to this area we need to take the European Union’s failures into account. We need to look at the debt situation there, the macroeconomic situation, the situation with the other main economic development factors, and the effect the common currency has had in the EU. It seems to me that in terms of their economic development level, not all of the participating countries have always measured up to the demands of the common currency system.