Events
Meeting of the Federal Security Service board
Dmitry Medvedev addressed an expanded meeting of the Federal Security Service board.
February 7, 2012
13:30
Moscow
1 of 3
At the expanded meeting of the Federal Security Service board.
***
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Good afternoon, friends and colleagues. It is a pleasure to welcome all of you at the expanded meeting of the Federal Security Service board.
The past year was as tough as the previous years for the Federal Security Service and other law enforcement agencies because the challenges you address jointly with your colleagues have remained in full. They include the neutralisation of militants in the North Caucasus, the prevention of terrorist attacks and other crimes, and an analysis of potential external threats. All this requires total concentration. Therefore, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the FSB personnel for faithfully performing their duties in the past year.
However, the national security system must improve continuously and we will increasingly focus attention on all its segments.
As always at the FSB board meetings, I will outline some of the service’s short-term priorities and I will begin with the most crucial area: counterterrorism.
In 2011, we achieved some tangible results through the use of force and preventive measures, with the coordination of the National Antiterrorist Committee. In total, 94 terrorism-related crimes have been prevented, including eight terrorist attacks. All that amounts to saved lives.
”In 2011, we achieved some tangible results through the use of force and preventive measures, with the coordination of the National Antiterrorist Committee. In total, 94 terrorism-related crimes have been prevented, including eight terrorist attacks. All that amounts to saved lives.“
At the same time, we have not been able to dramatically reduce the number of such crimes. I would like to note a few points in this context.
First. This year will be full of events, the most significant of which will be the presidential election. It is clear that this event may provoke different reactions and it cannot be ruled out that the militants from the North Caucasus will become more active; therefore, I demand increased efficiency in this area for the election period. The service must use all its operational capabilities, all the skills acquired in recent years, and last but not least, you must detect and prevent possible provocations of all types of extremists.
Second. It is necessary to raise the level of security at industrial and transport infrastructure facilities, as well as in crowded areas as the most vulnerable places. All the relevant decisions at the legislative and executive levels have already been made and significant resources have been allocated. Incidentally, I had a look a few days ago at the way these funds are being spent. There are a number of questions in this regard, including on a number of technology facilities. The spending must be reasonable. In any case, its aim must be to stop terrorist activity and eliminate any opportunities for committing terrorist acts.
Anti-terrorist security checks at transport infrastructure facilities – places where large numbers of people are concentrated – must be regular, and sometimes unplanned. Those found guilty of negligence must be held accountable and punished.
Third. At the previous FSB board meeting, which was held in late January 2011, I emphasised the need to neutralise new threats to security in the information sphere. There are many such threats and they are varied. This is a challenge currently being tackled around the world. In particular, it is vital to stop the promotion of terrorism, extremism and violence. I would like to hear what the FSB has achieved in this area in the past year, both through its own resources and in coordination with other colleagues.
”We must make every effort to ensure the security of the APEC summit, which will be held this year in the Far East. It will bring together the leaders of 20 nations and governments, as well as heads of leading international organisations. Everything must be at the highest level, including security.“
Fourth. We must make every effort to ensure the security of the APEC summit, which will be held this year in the Far East. This is the first time Vladivostok will be hosting an event of such magnitude. Let me remind you that it will bring together the leaders of 20 nations and governments, as well as heads of leading international organisations. Everything must be at the highest level, including security.
Last year FSB counter-intelligence revealed that the activity of foreign special services is not waning and they continue to pursue their aims. For obvious reasons, they are interested in our economic life, and domestic policy and a host of other spheres. The figures I am about to cite are not usually revealed but they demonstrate the achievements of the FSB. These are positive achievements.
In 2011, the activities of 41 employees of foreign intelligence services were stopped and 158 agents of foreign intelligence services were identified, including a number of Russian citizens.
Russia’s successful integration into the global economy and integration tendencies in the post-Soviet space also require improved methods of ensuring its economic security. New economic ties are being forged, there are new cooperation chains, as they are called, and technology transfer has expanded significantly. This is a good, positive process, and we will promote it in every way possible.
At the same time, the Federal Security Service must respond to cases of industrial espionage, which is common throughout the world, including against the interests of our country, and to counter attempts to oust Russian companies from international markets, which unfortunately happens fairy often.
The FSB Border Guard Service will continue its efforts to strengthen and equip the Russian borders in accordance with modern security requirements and taking into account the establishment of the Customs Union. Together with colleagues from Belarus and Kazakhstan, you must implement the entire range of border security measures at the external border of the Customs Union. Additional measures are called for to safeguard Russia's interests in a number of the world’s regions of critical importance to us, including the Arctic, as well as to protect aquatic bioresources.
”The FSB Border Guard Service will continue its efforts to strengthen and equip the Russian borders in accordance with modern security requirements and taking into account the establishment of the Customs Union.“
For its part, the state will continue to improve the social guarantees for servicemen, including the staff of the Federal Security Service. Military pensions for retired and reserve personnel have been substantially raised from January 1, 2012. The new system of calculating monetary allowances has been adopted by the Defence Ministry, the Interior Ministry and the Emergencies Ministry, and starting from next year this system will also apply to you, as well as your colleagues from the Foreign Intelligence Service, the Federal Guard Service and Special Facilities Service.
We will continue other lines of work. In 2011, more than 120 residential buildings were commissioned, which made it possible to provide flats for the majority of the Federal Security Service employees in need of housing. The service housing stock has also increased substantially.
Colleagues, I have outlined only some of the most important and established problems faced by the FSB. Naturally, the board will address other issues as well, such as improving intelligence-gathering activities, information security, personnel training, as well as the material, scientific and technological potential of the service, which is also vitally important in the modern world. 
I am confident that you will continue to perform your duties honourably and to do everything necessary to strengthen the security of our state. Thank you.
<…>
Topics
Fight against terrorism
National security
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 7, 2012, 13:30
Text version