Events
New Year’s Address to the Nation
December 31, 2012
23:55
Moscow
New Year’s Address to the Nation.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends,
We are saying goodbye to 2012 which becomes history. This was an important year for our country. I would like to sincerely thank you all for your efforts, your work and achievements, your trust and support.
In these moments, we are particularly aware of the fleeting of time, of how quickly our children are growing, how much we value our families and friends, and how much we love them.
Right now, each of us recollects the events, encounters and words that have been most important. We all hope that New Year’s Eve will bring us good luck and a bit of a miracle – which, they say, the New Year sometimes brings.
But ultimately and above all we rely on our own strength and on the people near us; on what we ourselves can achieve in our work, our studies and our creative expression; on how we can improve life around us and improve ourselves. We should become more responsive and benevolent, more generous and caring toward our loved ones, our children and parents, our friends and colleagues, and everyone who needs our support.
As we face the future, we naturally hope for positive, joyful changes, and our personal plans are inseparable from Russia, from our heartfelt, noble feelings toward our Fatherland. Its development and further advancement of its thousand-year-long history fully depend on our joint efforts and energy, our unity and responsibility, our aspiration to do as much good as possible. After all, only together can we, the people of Russia, move confidently forward, withstand all challenges, resolve the most difficult problems, and build a powerful, successful nation and a modern, prosperous, free society.
Friends,
Only a few seconds remain before the start of the New Year. I wish you good health, love and happiness! Let children be born and let all good ideas be realised. Let there be joy and harmony in every home and in every family. Then Russia, too, will stand strong and indestructible.
I wish you a happy New Year 2013!
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 31, 2012, 23:55
Text version