Events
Vladimir Putin congratulated Muscovites on City Day
Vladimir Putin spoke at the Moscow City Day celebration ceremony and congratulated the capital's residents on the 865th anniversary of Moscow’s foundation.
September 1, 2012
13:00
Moscow
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Dear Muscovites, Mr Sobyanin
, greetings to the Russian capital!
Moscow has always been and remains a symbol of our statehood and the economic, political and spiritual centre of our homeland. In different historical periods it united the whole country, rallied the people of different backgrounds and ranks, nationalities and religions, and strengthened the sovereignty of our Fatherland. At all times our ancestors built up and protected Moscow as the nation’s heart.
The desire shared by the entire country to uphold the capital led us to victory at the most difficult times. Moscow has always been one with the country, and Russia has always been one with Moscow. So it was in 1612, when the militia led by Dmitry Pozharsky and Kuzma Minin fought here, right here, on this spot at the walls of the ancient Kremlin. So it was in 1812 at Borodino, when soldiers showed unprecedented fortitude defending Moscow and all of Russia. And of course, we will always remember the feats of the Great Patriotic War heroes. It was from here, in Red Square, that Red Army soldiers left to defend the capital, and they won, they survived, they liberated our homeland and the world.
Our great nation’s distinguished history is reflected in the capital’s monuments, its museums, ancient churches, streets and avenues. It is a priceless treasure that belongs to all of Russia and we must take care to preserve it and pass it on to future generations.
Moscow is rightly proud of its cultural and historical heritage, and today it opens new opportunities for millions of people – to study, to work, to build their own businesses and raise children.
”The Russian capital is a city that looks to the future with large-scale, ambitious plans for the development of science and education, and manufacture of modern innovative products.“
The Russian capital is a city that looks to the future with large-scale, ambitious plans for the development of science and education, and manufacture of modern innovative products. I am confident that Moscow’s significant contribution to the development of the entire country will continue to increase. The main force behind the progressive, dynamic development of the capital is the energy of its people – your energy, dear Muscovites, your creative and professional potential and drive to success.
The city residents’ participation in running the city and elaborating its development plans must increase. It is vitally important that the city government and the mayor adopt this approach in their work.
As it responds to the growing demands of its residents, the capital aspires to be more than just a modern metropolis; above all, it must be a city that is comfortable to live in. Some progress has clearly been made already but a great deal still remains to be done. We must improve the capital’s entire transport system and build new metro lines.
Just yesterday a new metro station opened in Novokosino. And even the shortest, the most cursory meeting with this city’s residents revealed some of the most important and painful issues for the people living here, in one of the largest cities in the world: to get to work or home on time, to have access to quality health services, to feel certain that their children are getting a good education. All of that is vitally important for each resident of the capital. Indeed, Moscow has invested heavily in education and healthcare, in demographic programmes; it is changing the face of city parks and recreational areas, and expanding opportunities for sports.
Today is Knowledge Day, and I would like to congratulate all Muscovites on this holiday. It is a happy coincidence that these two holidays fall on the same day this year.
”Moscow is being transformed using the best international standards and best international practices and, at the same time preserving its unique identity and charm.“
We have paid a visit to one of Moscow’s schools today, and I am happy to say that we are seeing more and more such schools with modern educational programmes and a positive learning environment for children and teenagers.
I would like to draw your attention to one more aspect. I think it is very important that Moscow does not take care only of its own residents but always comes to the aid of those who need assistance. Muscovites did not remain indifferent during the recent tragedy in Krymsk: the capital helped to build social facilities and volunteers from Moscow came to work in the ravaged city. Muscovites collected and sent money, essential supplies and clothes to the affected areas and their residents. Your civic stand and empathy deserve our sincere respect. Thank you all!
Dear friends! Moscow is being transformed using the best international standards and best international practices and, at the same time preserving its unique identity and charm.
Along with other regions, the capital is contributing to the creation of a strong, prosperous and successful Russia. This is our shared goal and we will achieve it through joint efforts. I wish you every success and I congratulate Moscow, our nation’s capital, the capital of Russia, on its anniversary. Happy holiday!
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 1, 2012, 13:00
Text version