Events
Meeting with members of the Council for Interethnic Relations
The Presidential Council for Interethnic Relations was established on June 7 by the Presidential Executive Order.
June 9, 2012
13:30
St Petersburg
1 of 2
Meeting with members of the Council for Interethnic Relations.
See also
Council for Interethnic Relations has been established
June 7, 2012
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, everyone,
As you know, I have signed an executive order establishing the Presidential Council fro Interethnic Relations. The composition of the Council has been approved. I would like to note that the majority of the Council’s members are not government officials but civil society representatives, heads of national and nongovernmental organisations, experts and academics.
I believe this approach is logical and I think you will agree with me because the issues of interethnic development, interethnic harmony, require an open and broad approach that is at the same time extremely delicate and competent. The Council has become a platform for professional discussions that will help us arrive at strategic and substantive national policy decisions.
At the same time the Council is called upon to serve as a feedback mechanism: its members must be in constant contact with national associations, diasporas and the federal and regional authorities to give an objective and reliable assessment and to bring your conclusions to the agencies that will then be able to provide a timely response to potential risks and threats that can cause ethnic conflicts.
I think it is important that we begin this work without further delays. The period of parliamentary and presidential elections and elections to the federal government agencies has come to an end. As you know, I devoted a great deal of attention to this issue in my election programme. I believe this is one of the key priorities for Russia’s welfare and its future.
There are several points that I believe deserve our special attention.
”The issues of interethnic development, interethnic harmony, require an open and broad approach that is at the same time extremely delicate and competent.“
First, I ask all Council members to take an active part in the effort on drafting the National Strategy for the Russian State Policy. This document must be finalised by the end of this year. Naturally, it will be adopted only after a broad public debate.
It is essential to take all the details into account when drafting the Strategy: the issues of education, information regarding historical events, culture, promoting Russian and other languages of the peoples in our country. This is a very sensitive issue and it is vitally important. We have always been proud of our cultural diversity, which is the backbone of our multi-ethnic nation. It rests not on one, two or three pillars but on a great multitude of pillars. Therefore, we must treat our heritage with the utmost care.
Unfortunately, there are problems in this area and we have people here who have been working with these issues for many years and you know for yourselves that entire languages are disappearing. It would seem a language is something eternal but that is not so. In the previous decades, even in Soviet times, despite the criticism of that period, and there is a great deal that deserves criticism, but I know firsthand that a lot of attention and funds were allocated to support the publication of magazines and books in minority languages, and this caring attitude made it possible to keep the cultures of small nations alive. Unfortunately, much has been lost in recent years.
Second, I have already talked about the importance of mechanisms to monitor the situation in the sphere of interethnic relations, including those that will reveal the inefficiency, incompetence and lack of responsibility among some government officials, who violate people’s individual rights and interests. As we know, it is the injustice, corruption and outright prejudice that often become a breeding ground for interethnic tensions, and unfortunately, some people like to stir up ethnic tensions. So I would ask Council members to interact with human rights organisations and other civil society institutions. Together we must adjust the mechanisms for the prevention of potential conflicts and dispute resolution in cases that have an ethnic aspect.
Third. I will ask Council members to join in the examination of the legislation on ethnic and migration policy. In particular, this applies to draft laws aimed at increasing the liability for violations of migration legislation. Our legislation must be clear and undemanding for respectable citizens, including those who come to Russia from abroad, and hard on those who ignore our laws and cultural and behavioural norms accepted in Russian society.
”Together we must adjust the mechanisms for the prevention of potential conflicts and dispute resolution in cases that have an ethnic aspect.“
Finally, I hope that the Council will play a constructive role in developing interethnic, inter-faith and intercultural dialogue, in promoting society’s consolidation around a principled position – a decisive rejection of any manifestations of separatism, national and religious extremism and radicalism.
In conclusion, I would like to stress once again: national accord, strong interethnic ties, peace and harmony are defining issues for our society and for the integrity of the Russian state. In fact, it is a foundation for a stable and sovereign Russia, for tackling long-term challenges in the economy, social sphere, nation-building and foreign policy. Every step taken in the field of interethnic relations must be meticulously verified, accepted by society and effectively implemented. The cost of errors and inconsistent actions is extremely high. Therefore, I have great hopes for our common, intense and highly meaningful work.
I have known many of you for a very long time, for many years, as very decent people, champions of efforts in this area of our public life, who know the problem well. That is all I wanted to say at the outset. Once again I want to emphasise that I have great hopes for our effective joint efforts.
<…>
I think it was a very good idea we heard just now on establishing a festival showcasing folk arts of different Russian regions and ethnic groups.
”National accord, strong interethnic ties, peace and harmony are defining issues for our society and for the integrity of the Russian state. It is a foundation for a stable and sovereign Russia, for tackling long-term challenges in the economy, social sphere, nation-building and foreign policy.“
Udmurtian grandmothers, as you know, gave a striking demonstration recently of how much attention this can attract and how close it is to the hearts of all people in Russia. And I am sure that everybody, regardless of their ethnic background, watched not just with curiosity but also with great enthusiasm the way these grannies from Udmurtia represented our multinational country at an international cultural event that had never witnessed such performances. Therefore, I think we could use this experience to realise your proposal. Let's think about it and write it up it in the near future.
In general, I think we are on the right path. I very much hope that all members of the Council will work actively. It is already clear that you have a lot of ideas and proposals and your assessments are profound and absolutely correct. I am confident that we will be able to achieve a great deal together in culture and in improving administrative procedures.
What is very important, and I would like to return to this issue one more time and focus your attention on this, our legislation must be fully in line with and adequate to the challenges and threats we face – in fact, not just Russia but all the other countries, too. This does not mean that we should simply toughen legislation but it must be adequate to the threats we face.
Somewhere legislation may be tightened, but in any case it is vital that such laws must be debated by the public and that representatives of various nations and ethnic groups participate in improving Russian legislation. We must make sure that people living in any part of the country, including the indigenous nations and those who have moved to those areas, realise that all civil society organisations have taken part in adopting relevant laws, that they have expressed their opinions and consider the adoption of such legal acts to be timely and appropriate for present day demands.
This is very important, and our efforts should be directed at ensuring that society accepts the laws and the improvement to the current legislation that are necessary not only to make us feel more confident and stable, but also to build the prosperity of our country. I am certain that our efforts will be successful.
Topics
Interethnic relations
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Commissions and Councils, Council for Interethnic Relations
Publication date: June 9, 2012, 13:30
Text versionEvents
Working meeting with President of Ingushetia Yunus-Bek Yevkurov
Vladimir Putin congratulated Yunus-Bek Yevkurov and all the inhabitants of Ingushetia on the 20th anniversary of the republic’s founding. The socio-economic situation in the region was discussed separately.
June 9, 2012
12:30
St Petersburg
3 of 3
With President of Ingushetia Yunus-Bek Yevkurov.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Yevkurov, it is your [republic’s] anniversary.
President of Ingushetia Yunus-Bek Yevkurov
: Yes, we are celebrating our anniversary.
Vladimir Putin: I would like to congratulate you, the head of the republic, and all of its inhabitants. Your republic is a very important constituent entity of the Russian Federation, located in a complicated region. All the problems of the southern parts of our country are concentrated there. But I think future prospects are good; you and I have talked about this many times. I very much hope that despite the fact that big problems remain there, existing positive trends will continue to develop, and eventually people will feel that their lives are changing for the better.
Yunus-Bek Yevkurov: Thank you, Mr President.
In general, we have prepared for the republic’s anniversary pretty well: both my predecessors and all those who have been working during the past 20 years. It is a tangible result of two decades of work in the republic. As you correctly remarked, our constituent entity of the Russian Federation has problems, but also advantages; it is a full-fledged subject of the Russian Federation.
I would like to briefly dwell on what we have prepared. If we take the socio-political situation today, I consider it peaceful and stable. We can compare what we have today with other times and situations. Naturally, today we are celebrating what we have accomplished together in honour of the republic’s 20th anniversary. But in making certain plans with regards to our socio-economic development, we were already focusing two and even three years ago on what we will come to this anniversary with.
Today’s indicators are very good. Looking at things as they are, among the regions in the North Caucasus Federal District, we are in the top twenty Russia’s regions, ranking 13th, in terms of industrial production growth rates, real incomes and salary increases. And this is not our own estimate – you can check it against the Regional Development Ministry’s socio-economic status indices. This is a good sign.
As for the index of industrial production, we are looking at similar periods of 2010–2011 and the beginning of this year, and we have a 20.5-percent increase, which is also a good sign. Judging by these figures we hold first place in the North Caucasus Federal District, which is a good position. The maximum volume of goods shipped has increased several fold, and this trend is continuing this year. In general, if asked to describe the situation I would say we are making very rapid progress.
I would like to thank you especially for the oil and gas industry in our republic, because you acknowledged and were sympathetic to our problem. Rosneft is working very well. Today we have an increase in output of around 17 percent, but most importantly the republic’s revenues constituted over 600 million rubles last year alone. Before that we even subsidised the powerful Gazprom; this problem existed. Now a powerful dynamic is visible, and it is also affecting social facilities. This field is a major source of help for us.
With regards to agriculture, last year we replaced 100 percent of our agriculture equipment.
Vladimir Putin: Did you take the opportunity to lease the equipment at 50 percent?
Yunus-Bek Yevkurov: Yes, we did. To date we have replaced a 100 percent of our equipment, and the output of agricultural products has sharply increased, and more people are now working in the fields. This is also a big plus.
As for the budget, in terms of tax collection levels and tax revenues we hold one of the top positions in Russia. If we take 2010–2011, we increased tax collection in the republic by 50 percent.
Vladimir Putin: And what about utility bills?
Yunus-Bek Yevkurov: There is positive dynamic, not big, but still, but we are failing in gas. We are currently undertaking certain measures and I think we will fix the situation in this regard. In general, collection in this area is also proceeding apace. Perhaps not as fast as we would like, but it is still occurring.
I would like to talk separately about investment. We have worked quite hard to attract non-governmental, private investment. In this regard the state guarantees that are currently in place are a huge help. If we compare 2010 and 2011, private investments have tripled. This year with the help of state guarantees and other sources we are planning to attract up to 20 billion rubles in private investment in the republic.
Vladimir Putin: In which sectors?
Yunus-Bek Yevkurov: In agriculture. One of our investors is building quite a powerful elevator. We already want to sign an agreement with the Grain Union because it needs large supplies: 250,000 tonnes.
The Achaluki [mineral water] factory, one of our biggest, is developing. At present it produces 20,000 bottles per hour, and in the future the output will increase to 60,000 bottles.
Vladimir Putin: From a local water source?
Yunus-Bek Yevkurov: Yes, the local Achaluki spring: the water there is very good.
Mining industries and processing, including the construction sector: these are the fields where very significant investments are flowing.
I would also like to draw your attention to the road fund that we have established; it’s very large. 
Vladimir Putin: How much did you receive this year for the road fund?
Yunus-Bek Yevkurov: More than 500 million rubles.
Vladimir Putin: That’s decent. What was the figure for all the roads last year? 
Yunus-Bek Yevkurov: 70 million rubles.
Vladimir Putin: And this year it’s 500 million: that’s a big difference.
I wanted to ask you something that we agreed with all regional leaders, that is to pay due attention to the roads in rural areas and the roads in settlements.
Yunus-Bek Yevkurov: Basically, that’s what we are doing. Even though this year, considering the approaching anniversary, we worked more on the roads between villages, but next year we will start to build more in rural areas too. Nevertheless, it’s a big amount for this year and a big advantage.
Vladimir Putin: Did you reach the set levels regarding the teachers’ wages?
Yunus-Bek Yevkurov: We did. And here too we hold a leading position being the first both in terms of timeframe and the actual implementation of these commitments.
Vladimir Putin: What is the situation with facilities that are subject to renovation as part of healthcare reform?
Yunus-Bek Yevkurov: Work is in progress and I would like to talk about this for a second. The modernisation of education and healthcare took an important step forward with regards to procuring modern equipment. The next step is major renovations underway in all hospitals.
Vladimir Putin: How much money did you receive from the federal budget for these purposes?
Yunus-Bek Yevkurov: For healthcare we received more than 2 billion rubles for two years. This year we will spend these funds; no failures there, everything under control.
Vladimir Putin: Work is proceeding according to schedule?
Yunus-Bek Yevkurov: Yes it is.
Vladimir Putin: But you must not forget about the salaries for healthcare workers, given the changes in standards.
Yunus-Bek Yevkurov: I want to boast about our good indicators in this respect: in two years we reduced our dependence on subsidies from 92 to 84 percent. This is a good figure, but we are still reviewing certain measures in order to increase wages. We have a significant lack of service personnel – nursing and cleaning staff – and we are trying to raise their salaries by at least 20 percent at the expense of local budgets. Of course, our budget does not allow us to do everything we would like.
Vladimir Putin: But do not forget about this issue.
Yunus-Bek Yevkurov: We will not.
Vladimir Putin: Good.
<…>
Geography
Republic of Ingushetia
Topics
Regions
Persons
Yevkurov Yunus-Bek
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 9, 2012, 12:30
Text version