Apec Economic Leaders’ Meeting chairman and VTB Bank CEO Andrei Kostin: I think Mr Putin's speech has touched on many interesting issues that have generated numerous questions. I would ask the audience to actively take advantage of this opportunity and put its questions to the President of Russia.
As regards attention devoted to the Far East, to Primorye Territory, I have already addressed this in my answers to previous questions. I think that — or rather I do not think, I am sure, I know that one of the Russian Federation’s priorities in the near future is the development of its eastern territories. Both because this is very important to us, and because a significant amount of economic activity is already shifting to the region. If we are rational – which we would like to be – we must develop the infrastructure here. The most important thing is to be able to transport people and goods efficiently. That's the main thing.
Over the past few years we have significantly – and I would like to stress this point – greatly increased the possibilities of rail transport in an easterly direction, but our railway is unable to cope with the growing volume of traffic. At present the Trans-Siberian Railway is transporting more cargo than in record Soviet years, when goods were transported all over the Soviet Union, its current infrastructure is insufficient. So for that reason we had to improve it and we will continue to do so.
Then, as you know, the energy potential of the region is simply enormous. I have already pointed out that the energy systems of the European and Far Eastern parts of Russia have never been integrated. So unfortunately it's just a fact: energy here is more expensive than in European Russia, and prices are higher. This inhibits economic development. Not only do people have a hard life, it also encourages depopulation, because it is better to live where things are cheaper and infrastructure is more developed. But one of our most urgent tasks is developing existing energy resources and integrating them with the infrastructure in European Russia. For those reasons we will increase production of natural gas, oil and other mineral resources.
You know, I came here from Northern Russia, a part of the country which is actually eastern too: Eastern Siberia. There on just one peninsula, Yamal Peninsula, proven reserves of natural gas total 55 trillion cubic metres. Judged on a planetary scale these are simply enormous, and the area itself is one that you can walk through. These are huge reserves! And I'm not even talking about other deposits near Irkutsk. There are simply huge reserves here! For example on Sakhalin, seeing as gas from the island has just reached us, reached you (I say us meaning all of us who live in Vladivostok, and we are now living in Vladivostok). This is only the first step. And I very much hope that people feel this, and that we will stabilize population flows. More than that, we want to attract people here. In some places where work is proceeding actively, we are already witnessing labour inflows. We have huge energy potential with regards to the development of hydropower resources. Of course, we have to address the issues of environmental protection, particularly in the case of hydropower, extremely seriously. And we will do so.
As for our current facilities, of course you understand that we built this centre in three years. We did so deliberately: we didn’t just build some buildings, facilities, or five-star hotels to accommodate my colleagues, heads of state and government in luxurious conditions. All my colleagues know what those conditions are. But a chic environment does not matter to them, rather the business climate is what is important. I simply know this as I have been personally acquainted with them for many years now.
We did something different. We have invested significant funds, really hundreds of billions to develop Russky Island, develop infrastructure, and create a new scientific and educational centre in Russia’s Far East. And this will all be transferred to the university for future generations. I think that this is a very good decision. Of course, we can’t invest such resources to create additional centres and it would be impractical too. But for example, we are going to build the Vostochny Cosmodrome in Amur Region, develop transportation, build a system of airfields, develop aviation, and so on and so forth. We will develop the fishing industry; there are many problems there, and I will not talk about them now, but we will do this. Naturally, we will work at this aggressively.
Andrei Kostin: Mr Sechin would like to ask a question.
Vladimir Putin: Long time no see, Mr Sechin. Go ahead, please.
Andrei Kostin: If I may just say, as the moderator, that today is Mr Sechin’s birthday. I would like to congratulate him and wish him every success, health and happiness, and all the best.
Rosneft President Igor Sechin: Thank you.
Mr President, colleagues,
In April 2012, the Russian Government issued Executive Order No. 443, and you signed it on April 12, on economic support measures for major investment projects in hydrocarbons extraction on the shelf in difficult conditions.
Mr President, can we expect that the leaders of Asia-Pacific countries will consider the reduction of import duties or other charges on goods and raw materials that are produced in the course of these projects and supplied to these countries? Such a decision, in our view, could help reduce the risk for private investors, would create additional opportunities for promoting these products if the profits are reinvested in new projects. Because, on the one hand, Russia undertakes to subsidise the supply of these products to the Asia-Pacific markets, and the reduction of import duties could provide additional support for these projects.
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: I think this question should be addressed to the leaders of our partner countries. I cannot answer for them whether they will cut the import duties or not. But in general, I believe that we will move forward in a common market and free trade zone development, which was initially seen as a top priority at APEC’s inception.We recently signed an agreement on a free trade zone in the CIS, and almost all of the countries have ratified it now. We also established the Customs Union and the Common Economic Space, which I mentioned just before, and which bring together three post-Soviet countries: Russia, Kazakhstan, and Belarus. These steps are not just our common response to the challenges the crisis has brought, but they also open up new opportunities for common projects with the APEC economies.
”I want to stress just how important it is now to build bridges between the different parts of the world. In this respect I think that one of our priority tasks is to keep global and regional markets open.“
We are in talks on a free trade agreement between the Customs Union and New Zealand. A joint report has been drafted on beginning a similar process with Vietnam. Further talks of this kind are possible. Dozens of countries from the Asia-Pacific region have already expressed their interest in establishing special trade and economic relations with the Customs Union and the Common Economic Space formed by the three countries I just mentioned.““
By the way, our country’s position here at the Vladivostok summit is in fact the consolidated position of the three integration partners – Russia, Belarus, and Kazakhstan. We are not standing still. We are already at work with our partners on establishing the Eurasian Economic Union, which is a higher stage of integration involving more supranational functions and a coordinated macroeconomic, technology, and financial policy. Our aim is to build a powerful centre of regional development. The future Eurasian Economic Union could also become a link between Europe and the Asia-Pacific region. 
I want to stress just how important it is now to build bridges between the different parts of the world. In this respect I think that one of our priority tasks is to keep global and regional markets open. We end up paying a high price for the illusion of simple solutions. The tempting medicine of protectionism eases the pain for a time, it is true, but it stops us from curing the economy as a whole and limits our trade and investment opportunities. 
Let me remind you that global trade shrank by 12 percent at the peak of the crisis in 2009. This was the biggest contraction in global trade since the end of World War II in 1945. Of course, this was above all a direct consequence of the financial markets’ collapse, but it was also the price we paid for the upsurge in protectionist measures, and in the end, we all had to pay.
No one denies governments’ right to protect their own countries’ markets and national business. Of course they have a duty to support particular companies or economic sectors. I know about this from experience and can tell you about how these decisions are made, for Russia has also taken such steps. In 2009, for example, when I was Prime Minister, I visited a company in southern Russia that produces agricultural machinery. When I arrived at the site I saw that finished goods were everywhere, but there was nowhere to take them. The company was at a standstill, people were without work, and no one was buying the goods. But this was a company employing hundreds of thousands of people. The goods were stockpiled everywhere, even on the railway platforms, and made it almost impossible to move. In a situation like this, of course you start to ask yourself what can be done. Of course various solutions such as limits on imports and ensuring domestic industry’s interests start to come to mind. And indeed, we did take some measures in this sense. We had not yet joined the WTO at that point and had the right to take these measures.
The European Union also took such approach to protect a number of its own companies, especially in the automotive industry. In some circumstances this is even justified, because otherwise not just national economies would suffer, but the global economy would too.
The real issue lies elsewhere, and namely, in the fact that we need clear and comprehensible rules for these kinds of actions. It is not good when we put one thing formally on paper and then do something quite different in practice, although I do understand that in some situations there is not really any choice.
”We need to dot the ‘I’s and agree on an acceptable level of protective measures for protecting jobs during crisis periods. Most important of all is to establish mutual trust and clarity in this area.“
But, as I said, we need clear and transparent rules for decision-making here. In other words, we need to dot the ‘I’s and agree on an acceptable level of protective measures for protecting jobs during crisis periods.
Most important of all is to establish mutual trust and clarity in this area. This is what we should work towards. This is the approach that Russia will take in the World Trade Organisation. As a full-fledged member of this organisation we will play an active part in drawing up fair rules for international trade. We think it essential in this respect to set the special norms that will enable countries to support particular economic sectors that are most vulnerable and sensitive to global instability. These measures will help us to rectify the shortcomings in the WTO’s own rules and regulations and will strengthen the organisation as a global body able to effectively resolve international trade issues and respond to new challenges.
I stress that Russia supports intensifying the APEC forum’s integration agenda too, in the interests of further liberalising trade and investment in line with the Bogor Goals. This is not just a declaration. We are confidently expanding our economic presence in the region.