Events
Russian-Kazakhstani talks in expanded format
June 7, 2012
20:15
Astana
During Russian-Kazakhstani talks.
President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev
: Mr Putin, Russian friends,
I am happy to welcome you and the representative Russian delegation to Astana. Your visit in your new position and the visit by Dmitry Medvedev one week ago serve as evidence of the exceptionally high level of our relations and interstate ties.
I will take this opportunity to once again congratulate you, Mr Putin, on your election as President of the Russian Federation, as well as the upcoming Russia Day holiday on June 12.
This year marks the 20th anniversary of the Agreement on Friendship, Cooperation and Mutual Assistance between our nations, signed on May 25 in Astana and ratified by both sides.
Kazakhstani-Russian relations are developing in the traditional atmosphere of mutual understanding and trust. We view Russia as an important political and economic partner, and your personal involvement in all these relations, Mr Putin, was decisive.
Today, we are partners in the Customs Union and the Common Economic Space, and we are working to create the Eurasian Economic Union (this is another issue to which you have given your constant attention), and this integration process is very important, very deep within the post-Soviet space. As the integration locomotives, our nations can demonstrate the expediency and necessity of this process to everyone.
Our bilateral relations are developing on the basis of our nations’ joint action plan. Today in Kazakhstan, we have three and a half thousand joint Russian-Kazakhstani enterprises. In 20 years, the indicator for reciprocal turnover has reached its highest level in history, over $24 billion, and has grown by nearly 40 percent. One of the growth factors was, indeed, the function of the Customs Union.
Near-border interregional cooperation plays an enormous role in bilateral relations, and we will be holding our meeting this year in Pavlodar – in September, as we agreed. This provides a good boost: 50 per cent of our turnover occurs between our regions.
Such is today’s high level in our relations, Mr Putin, and now, we must take these relations to a qualitatively new level.
I pass the floor to you.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Nazarbayev, colleagues, friends,
First of all, I want to thank Mr President for his invitation to visit Kazakhstan. For us, this is not a celebratory event, although it is a real pleasure to be among friends in friendly Kazakhstan; for us, this is a working event, first and foremost because the volume of trade turnover and the diversification in our contacts is such that it requires constant attention at the highest level.
Today, we will sign multiple documents that will lay the foundation for developing our relations and supplement existing documents. But I would like to draw your attention to the purely practical decisions made earlier, such as the joint action plan. The current plan for 2011–2012 is being implemented successfully, but this is the third plan of its kind; previously, we had plans for 2007–2008 and 2009–2010. And I suppose we should give instructions to begin work on preparing a plan for the next two years, so that we can advance with confidence, understanding the areas in which we must proceed, where our highest priorities lie.
And our areas of priority are well-known: not just energy, although our energy sector is quite diversified, but also high-tech production, engineering (we have some very good projects in this area as well), space exploration through the joint use of Baikonur, and work in a whole range of other areas.
I want to once again thank you, Mr Nazarbayev, for constantly giving your personal attention to developing ties with the Russian Federation – and not just in the economic sector, but in security as well. I am referring to your leadership in developing and strengthening the Collective Security Treaty Organisation, as well as cooperation between military agencies and military technical cooperation.
I want to once again assure you that the Russian Federation is determined to consistently follow all our agreements. I am confident and certain that our meeting today will promote the development of our relations.
Thank you very much for your attention.
<…>
Geography
Kazakhstan
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Nazarbayev Nursultan
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 7, 2012, 20:15
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of Iran Mahmoud Ahmadinejad
The meeting took place in the sidelines of the SCO summit.
June 7, 2012
11:30
Beijing
With President of Iran Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.
See also
Shanghai Cooperation Organisation summit
June 7, 2012
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, colleagues and friends,
I want to extend my warmest greetings.
Iran is our long-term traditional partner, our neighbour and our closest partner in the Caspian Sea cooperation. Russia and Iran have a long tradition of communication and cooperation. Russia has great respect for the history of Iran and its present-day life and people.
Today our economic interaction is quite extensive. We are constantly in contact on all matters on the international agenda.
I remember your warm hospitality during my visit to Tehran. I would like to convey my best wishes to all our friends and hope to see you in Russia. We are in constant contact with regard to the acute problems that are now referred to as “Iran’s nuclear programme” throughout the world.
You have completed extensive work on the construction of a nuclear power plant in Bushehr. The plant has been launched, it is gaining momentum and will soon reach its full capacity. We have always supported the right of the Iranian people to modern technology, including the peaceful use of nuclear energy. However, I want to emphasise that I mean only the peaceful use.
You know our position: we are consistent supporters of the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. We are also familiar with your position and the position of the Iranian leadership, which is that Iran is not working on creating nuclear weapons. That is what we proceed from.
I am very happy to have this opportunity to meet with you and our colleagues today on the sidelines of the SCO
summit, to discuss a wide range of bilateral issues and outline the prospects for the development of our contacts (I am confident that there is at least one area – economic cooperation – where we can achieve much more than we have up until now), as well as talk about the preparations for the next Caspian summit.
The legal issues in the Caspian have not been completely settled, but no one is interested in resolving the problems of the Caspian Sea as much as the Caspian littoral states.
I am very happy to see you.
President of Iran Mahmoud Ahmadinejad
(retranslated): I am very glad to see you again. I would like to congratulate you on your victory in the presidential election and I am sure Russia is facing a period of prosperity with you in this position.
I agree with you on the points you have made. We have good experience in the long history of cooperation between our countries. We are friends and neighbours, who must work together to expand this cooperation ­– both history and the future demand it.
We attach great importance to Russia. Russia is a powerful and great nation that was able to recover from great problems with honour and take its rightful place in the international arena. Our approach to relations with Russia is commitment to stable cooperation, and we see no obstacles to its growth.
As you correctly pointed out, the Bushehr nuclear power plant has become a symbol of positive and constructive cooperation between our two countries, so we can expand interaction in various spheres. With regard to trade and economic ties, we are ready both to increase trade and to expand mutual investment.
We can also develop cooperation in culture and tourism. The Caspian Sea is a good foundation for interaction between our two countries. I believe that Russia and Iran can reach an understanding and invite other countries to take part in this dialogue. We have a good opportunity to use the full potential of the Caspian basin.
The current situation in the region and the world requires a more serious and broader cooperation between Iran and Russia. In other words, Russia and Iran are now on the same side. There are those who are opposed to progress and development of both Russia and Iran. Our cooperation can contribute to strengthening stability and security in the region, especially considering the fact that NATO has now turned its gaze to the east.
I believe that we can negotiate and agree on achieving a breakthrough in relations between our countries given the fact that both Your Excellency and I are interested in it. I think we have all the prerequisites for such a step. This applies to the customs infrastructure and interbank cooperation, as well as the issues of standards. We can open the way to growing bilateral trade and investment. I think this is realistic, not only for our two nations, but also for the two states.
We have had a very constructive telephone conversation, and your visit to Tehran was excellent. Our views are very close to yours, we have reached a number of important agreements, which has allowed us to open the door to a more active development of cooperation in the future.
On my part, I am very interested in paying a visit to Moscow and make a return gesture to your visit to Tehran. I am confident that relations between our two nations, two states will expand and deepen further.
<…>
Additional
All news about state visit to China
June 5 − 7, 2012
Geography
Iran
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Ahmadinejad Mahmoud
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 7, 2012, 11:30
Text versionEvents
Press statement following Russian-Kazakhstani talks
June 7, 2012
20:30
Astana
President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev
: Mr Putin, ladies and gentlemen,
I welcome the President of the Russian Federation following the Russian elections, and want to congratulate you again here in Astana (to Vladimir Putin) and to wish you success and good health.
The President of Russia and his respectable delegation arrived in Kazakhstan on my invitation for his first visit following his inauguration. We touched base, summed up the results of the work already done, and outlined our goals for further developing cooperation between Russia and Kazakhstan. We have very tight, close, good-neighbourly, trust-based relations as allies.
Russia, Kazakhstan and Belarus are currently members of the Customs Union and the Common Economic Space. Following the codification of all documents on January 1, 2015, we will begin the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union. This is the deepest integration process in the post-Soviet space. Russia and Kazakhstan are doing everything so that it serves as an example, so that other states grow interested in this organisation.
Today, we looked into a wide range of issues within our nations. We marked the 20th anniversary of the Agreement on Friendship, Cooperation and Mutual Assistance, signed in 1992. Twenty years have passed, so many changes have taken place and we have amended this Agreement by a special Protocol.
We have been saying for a long time that citizens of Russia and Kazakhstan in near-border areas should be able to spend up to 30 days in the other nation without a visa. Today, we have finally signed this agreement as well.
We discussed serious issues in our mutual relations and noted that trade turnover between Russia and Kazakhstan has reached a historic high: $25 billion. We have set a goal to increase it to $40 billion in the next several years. Three and a half thousand joint enterprises are working in our nation. This also speaks to the high level of our relations.
We discussed further economic cooperation. Energy is our primary area of collaboration – we are cooperating in the Caspian Sea. We have solid joint companies in the nuclear sector to mine uranium deposits in Kazakhstan. Kazakhstan’s role is to extend uranium enrichment to get nuclear fuel. I think that in the future, we will work with our Russian partners on building a nuclear power station in Kazakhstan. The most advanced station we had was the VR-350 and we want to look into creating a similar station.
We have solid cooperation in the fuel and gas sector – this year, we were able to broaden the Caspian Pipeline Consortium to 67 million tonnes per year. The added oil production capacity will be go through Russian territory, so beginning next year, this station’s capacity will increase from 23 to 67 million tonnes.
We had a detailed discussion on the development of our cooperation in the space sector. The Baikonur Cosmodrome, which launched the first person on our planet into space, is a common source of pride for Russia and Kazakhstan and works for the good of our nations. We spoke about deepening cooperation between Russia and Kazakhstan and participation by Kazakhstani specialists in this field, educating young people, and most importantly, maintaining the infrastructure of the city of Baikonur. Today, a special statement by both Presidents was adopted on this issue.
And we agreed that we will celebrate the Agreement’s 20th anniversary in Moscow. These 20 years have been 20 years of friendship and trust between our nations. Relations kept improving and we held concurrent positions on international policy.
We resolved other issues discussed today, as befits two nations that have such a high level of cooperation.
I thank you, Mr Putin, for your visit and welcome all the members of the Russian delegation.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ladies and gentlemen,
For my part, I would like to thank the President of Kazakhstan for this invitation.
This is certainly not our first meeting. All our meetings have taken place in a very warm, friendly atmosphere and at the same time, they have always been very substantive and business-oriented. It was no different today.
In addition to the issues Mr Nazarbayev just mentioned, we also discussed possible cooperation in the field of chemistry; we heard about it again just now. We talked about cooperation in engineering. Two of our companies – the well-known AvtoVAZ and Sollers UAZ – are determined to make their own investments here. The cars will be manufactured here, in Kazakhstan, and the first production phase will involve around one hundred thousand units.
We spoke about cooperation in energy, of course, as well as the space sector, with the use of Baikonur. Indeed, we prepared a joint statement on this matter and we will work on implementing all our plans.
But most importantly (I would like to talk about what is most important), we are reaching these results in large part by eliminating administrative barriers, and that is the result of integration between Russia and Kazakhstan. All of you know this, but I want to emphasise it once again: one of the initiators of these processes was the President of Kazakhstan.
And the result has been achieved: by eliminating administrative barriers, as a result of creating the Common Economic Space, the gross domestic product of Russia and the other participants of this process – Kazakhstan and Belarus – has increased by several percent.
We will continue moving forward in this direction. The next step is the creation of the Eurasian Union. It requires additional attention and additional efforts from both sides, but we are determined to go all the way, as we had planned.
Thank you for your attention.
Geography
Kazakhstan
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Nazarbayev Nursultan
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 7, 2012, 20:30
Text version