Events
Launch of Baksan hydroelectric power plant
Vladimir Putin observed the launch of Baksan HPP via video linkup.
December 22, 2012
18:00
Sochi
The station was under reconstruction for the past two years following an attack by militants in July 2010. The Baksan HPP has been completely restored and modernised, and is now the most modern power plant in the North Caucasus.
During the videoconference, Vladimir Putin congratulated the station’s staff and all workers in the industry on their professional holiday, the Energy Worker's Day.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends, colleagues,
I want to congratulate all of you who have gathered today in Kabardino-Balkaria and all the energy industry professionals in the country on your professional holiday, the Energy Worker’s Day, which we celebrate on December 22. Energy is one of the most important sectors of our economy, one that we can safely call a base industry.
There can be no development without energy – this is something that everyone understands, including people who don’t work in the industry. Today it is a high-tech industry, employing talented, hard-working and energetic people. Today's event is the best proof of this: the launch of the Baksan hydroelectric power plant, which is timed to coincide with the Energy Worker’s Day.
Congratulations to all of you. I want to emphasise that this is a very important facility for our country, which will increase production capacity in Kabardino-Balkaria, create new jobs, and secure the supply of electricity to industries and the people in the republic.
The hydroelectric power plant was virtually built anew in a relatively short period of time in a new location, and with increased capacity. This is a good sign that nothing can halt the progress of Russia and the North Caucasus.
I want to thank all the engineers, employees, workers, the republic’s administration and all those who took part in the reconstruction of the facility.
I know that you have done a huge job. I congratulate you once again on the holiday and on today’s event, whose importance for the Republic of Kabardino-Balkaria cannot be overstated.
<…>
The Government found it possible to recapitalise RusHydro by a very large sum: 50 billion. This funding is intended for development projects in the Trans-Baikal Region and the Far East. Our plans to develop the eastern part of the Russian Federation are extremely important areas for energy development in the country. So we’re all expecting (and by ”we“ I mean all the people of this region and the whole country) efficient and successful work in the near future.
Let’s launch the power plant.
<…>
Geography
Kabardino-Balkarian Republic
Topics
Energy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 22, 2012, 18:00
Text version