Events
Meeting with Chief Rabbi of Russia Berl Lazar and President of the Federation of Jewish Communities of Russia Alexander Boroda
Mr Lazar and Mr Boroda briefed Vladimir Putin on the upcoming opening of the Russian Jewish Museum of Tolerance in Moscow.
November 7, 2012
19:00
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
With Chief Rabbi of Russia Berl Lazar (left) and President of the Federation of Jewish Communities of Russia Alexander Boroda.
The Russian Jewish Museum of Tolerance is an educational and exhibition centre that brings museum exhibitions, a library, a research centre, conference rooms, and exhibition galleries together under one roof.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends,
I know that you have completed your work on the establishment of the Jewish Museum of Tolerance and Memorial Centre. Since it is located in Russia and is the result of our joint efforts, I suggest we call it the Russian Jewish Museum of Tolerance, which would be more accurate.
I have vivid memories of my visit to Yad Vashem [the Holocaust Memorial] in Jerusalem. It left a truly lasting impression, a very strong impression. The idea behind your museum is similar – we have discussed recreating such a project here in Russia.
People of many nationalities suffered during World War II in the former Soviet Union and Russia, and I remember when we talked about it, your idea was to create a museum and a memorial centre to the Russian and Soviet Jews killed by the Nazis, but also to keep alive the memory of all the peoples in the Soviet Union and the Russian Federation who fell victim to Nazism.
I am very pleased that this event coincides with the visit of the Israeli President to Russia, because he will have an opportunity to see what we have achieved together. It gives me great pleasure to offer my congratulations on this momentous occasion.
Chief Rabbi of Russia Berl Lazar: Thank you very much and thank you for all your help.
Indeed, I think that the significance of this event for the President of Israel will go far beyond the opening of the museum. This is a confirmation of a new era in the life of Russian Jews, and this museum is one of its manifestations.
The story the museum will tell will not be limited to the war years and the most important events and the tragedy of the Jewish people, but we also wanted to tell the story of modern Jews. How do Jews live in Russia today? Their lives are comfortable for the first time in many years, and largely this is thanks to you, as well as the efforts of all peoples of Russia, who truly live and work together today for the nation’s prosperity.
I would like to add that the museum’s most valuable aspect for us is the fact that it is a Centre of Tolerance, because we are aware that this is a major challenge facing Russia and it must be addressed. There is far less anti-Semitism in Russia today than in the past, and perhaps our experience can also be useful to others.
We can see that such issues can be resolved with the active involvement of the state. We want life to become easier for everyone and we hope that this centre will give a real impetus to a new vision of how we can live together and help each other.
Vladimir Putin: That’s right. You said a very important thing, that there is less anti-Semitism in Russia today. Of course, it means that some anti-Semitism remains. It certainly doesn’t exist at the state level but it can still be encountered in everyday life.
For us, for such a multi-ethnic and multi-religious country as Russia, it is vitally important (as I have said many times) to ensure that representatives of every, even the smallest nation, the smallest ethnic group feel and perceive Russia as their homeland.
This is possible only when every person, regardless of religion or ethnicity, feels completely comfortable and secure in the knowledge that his or her rights are protected by society and the legal system. This is essential, and the new museum, which will open tomorrow, will contribute to the attainment of this goal.
There is one more point I would like to highlight. The opening of this museum is to a certain extent our response to Israel and the Israeli Government for the monument they opened to the Red Army and the sacrifices made by our country for the good of the Fatherland and for victory over Nazism in World War II. I think that this is also an essential element that will serve to strengthen relations between our nations at the state level.
President of the Federation of Jewish Communities of Russia Alexander Boroda: Mr President, I would like to add a few words about the museum that we are going to open tomorrow. It is an unusual museum, built with the use of cutting edge technology and the latest advances in science. There is a separate pavilion with video materials and interactive panels.
We believe it will attract many young people, children and families, who will visit the museum and see these technologies at work. This is the first such a museum in Russia and the world. The people who worked on creating it say that nothing like that was ever made before, that there is no such precedent.
At the core of the exposition at the Centre of Tolerance, which will open tomorrow, are also videos and interactive panels, and these materials are used to teach children and young people respect for the elderly, the understanding of problems faced by the disabled, as well as interethnic, religious and racial tolerance in the form that they can relate to.
We hope that this centre becomes firmly established as a popular venue among children, and that Moscow Education Department includes visits to the centre in its programmes. Then we will see concrete results and perhaps this experience can be replicated in other cities. We want the centre to train education professionals to teach a wide range of aspects of tolerance.
Vladimir Putin: This is a very good model. I remember when I first visited the newly opened synagogue (this was about eight years ago), I saw how in addition to the religious part, it also had a gym and a restaurant – it became a genuine cultural and religious centre.
Now the Russian Orthodox Church is about to open a similar centre. I hope very much that the other traditional religions in our country will follow this example because these are excellent leisure centres for the whole family.
People can come with their children and spend a whole day there: they can do sports, visit the temple, the library and so on. This is a very good example that is already being copied. I hope that the museum that will open tomorrow will also be replicated across the country.
<…>
Topics
Religion
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 7, 2012, 19:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting on modernising regional education systems
Vladimir Putin held a meeting on modernising regional education systems. Mr Putin gave particular attention to raising teachers’ wages in the regions and ensuring that schools are properly equipped.
November 7, 2012
18:00
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
4 of 6
Meeting on modernising regional education systems.
During the videoconference, the President heard reports from the governors of Perm Territory, Kurgan Region, and Krasnodar Territory.
The President instructed the Education and Science Ministry to keep the regional education system modernisation process under its ongoing supervision.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
Our meeting today is on the state of progress of our project to modernise the general education system in the regions. The project was planned for a timeframe of 2.5 years and is nearing completion now, or at least the purely federal component is nearing completion. I remind you that this comprehensive programme was launched more than a year ago, and the project’s main priorities were fixed in presidential executive orders issued in May this year.
Providing quality education and raising teachers’ qualifications and social status are our key policy priorities for the coming years. We realise that the general education system must meet our people’s demands, be affordable and open, fair, and offer equal opportunities for all.
”Providing quality education and raising teachers’ qualifications and social status are our key policy priorities for the coming years. We realise that the general education system must meet our people’s demands, be affordable and open, fair, and offer equal opportunities for all.“
Feedback from the teachers themselves, which I will speak more about later, shows that the education professionals as a whole have reacted very positively to the programme. What matters is that the project is developing and the surveys show an increasingly positive assessment coming from teachers over the last year.
The project’s success depends in large part on the effort the regions put in. We have a linkup here with our colleagues in Perm, Krasnodar, and Kurgan, and I will give them the floor during the meeting so that they can tell us how the work is going in their regions.
There are plenty of good examples, but unfortunately, the opposite is also true, and we find examples of blatant inaction and a formalist approach to work. We are to raise the demands and be firmer in such cases.
I expect to hear from the Education and Science Minister [Dmitry Livanov
] a detailed report on the project’s state of progress. You will be our main speaker today, and I’d like to hear from you on all aspects of the work and how things are progressing. At the same time, I want to draw your attention to a few other matters I think are important. 
First is the need to ensure the right conditions for children’s education, including measures to develop and better equip schools. I know that not all teachers and classrooms have modern equipment yet. Even in cases when the equipment has been delivered, the surveys show that one fifth of teachers have not been able to make use of it yet because of poor internet access and a lack of the necessary manuals and software.
Let me say to you all here and in the regions that we need not just formal reports on budget money spent. This is the easy part. We also need real change in the quality of the education process itself.
See also
Executive Order on measures to implement state social policy
May 7, 2012
Executive Order on implementing state policy in science and education
May 7, 2012
On Knowledge Day, Vladimir Putin visited a Moscow school
September 1, 2012
For your reference, 80 billion rubles [$2.6 billion] in federal budget money was allocated to the regions in 2011–2012. This is a considerable amount of money in the education sector. Another 40 billion rubles [$1.3 billion] has been earmarked in 2013. Regional budgets contributed a total of 8.8 billion rubles in 2011, and this total will come to 10.8 billion rubles for this year. As we always say in such cases, each ruble must be accounted for and put to effective use.
Second, we agreed with the regions that one of the main criteria for evaluating the project’s effectiveness would be that teachers’ wages are in line with the average wage in each particular region. This is something we have been talking about for the second year in a row now. I note that 62 regions fulfilled this task last year, while in the rest, teachers’ wages have been raised by 30 percent or more, but have still not reached the average for the region.
Right from the start, when we first discussed this matter, I agreed that it would be difficult for some regions to bring wages into line with the regional average in just a year, but almost all of the regional governors promised that within two years they would all do it. What do we see in reality though? I think the Minister will tell us more about this.
According to the survey results, 61.3 percent of respondents said they had had a pay rise at the end of 2011, and in 2012, 51.6 percent said they had had a pay rise, a total of 40.5 percent said their wages are at the same level as last year, and 7.9 percent said their wages are now lower than at the end of 2011.
Wages have risen faster for teachers on high and middle incomes. In other words, wages have been raised wherever it has been easiest to do so. I will not give the absolute figures right now, but there are some worrying facts about teachers’ pay, which remains very low.
Average wages are rising now around the country. Wages in schools, especially teachers’ wages, should follow suit. Why do I put such stress on this? The fact of the matter is that we are getting worrying signals from some regions. Instead of continued growth, average pay for teachers has decreased. The regions at greatest risk of not meeting the set objectives are the Republics of Chechnya, Daghestan, and Ingushetia, and Vologda, Magadan, and Chelyabinsk Regions.
”Education is a sector in which we must avoid inconsistent action and constant turns from one direction to another. We must explain and clearly justify all of our actions and management decisions. We are to be in constant and open dialogue with the public and with the professional community.“
Of course, we all know that the wage dynamic in the education sector has its own specific features. Wages cannot rise from month to month. Traditionally, bonuses are paid at the end of the year, and holiday pay is paid at the start of the summer. Wages objectively always decrease a little in July and August. What I am talking about is the average wage, which should be higher now, after the first three quarters of 2012, than it was at the end of 2011.
Let me stress, however, that it is unacceptable when some regions, in order to post good statistics, pump up teachers’ pay at the end of the year only to bring it down again at the start of the following year.
None of you can resort to this kind of ‘arithmetic’. Not only is this disrespectful towards our people, but it discredits the whole objective and the authorities in general. We promised that average wages for teachers would increase in line with the increase in average wages in the economy as a whole, and we must keep our word.
I would like to hear from the Education and Science Minister on how supervision of the project’s key components is being carried out. Which regions are struggling to meet the set objectives? What has been done and what do you plan to do to fix this situation?
Third, wage rises should be pegged to structural changes in the education system and higher professional demands on teachers themselves. It is fair that the best teachers should receive higher wages. The regions in their efforts should use the most effective methods of encouraging quality and conscientious work.
Teachers’ performance should be evaluated not on the basis of what individual higher-ups think, but on criteria that are clear and transparent for the teachers and for society in general.
These criteria should be set out in the professional standards. The first sets of professional standards – for maths, literature, and Russian language teachers – should be ready by March 2013, and the teachers and experts must be involved in their drafting. The Education Ministry has already received the relevant instruction, and I ask the Minister to say a few words about this too, today.
Fourth, we have to seriously review the situation in teacher training. This concerns both training for students and teachers’ professional development programmes.
As for the aspects I think are important here, future teachers need a good solid basic education, and so I think we should make more use of the possibilities our classical universities offer for training teachers.
Education is a sector in which we must avoid inconsistent action and constant turns from one direction to another. We must explain and clearly justify all of our actions and management decisions. You all know what I am talking about. There were no chance figures in the last Government Cabinet, and the same is true now, when our current minister was previously a deputy minister and the rector of one of Moscow’s biggest universities.
”We must ensure that the quality of education our children receive and the living standards of their teachers continue to rise. This work goes beyond the scope of what a single project can achieve and will be a long-term undertaking. Achieving these goals is the guarantee of our country’s success.“
When people do not understand what is happening, then mistakes and glitches in the overall process start occurring, and in education lack of understanding among the public is a very serious thing. We are to be in constant and open dialogue with the public and with the professional community. This demand applies to the authorities at every level. The regions must decide clearly how many teachers their schools need and what disciplines will be taught based on real demands, and get the universities to train specialists in accordance.
Teachers working in schools must have the conditions they need to be able to constantly improve their knowledge and skills and raise their qualifications. As the education modernisation project has shown in full measure, teachers have a huge desire for professional growth.
Colleagues, we must ensure that the quality of education our children receive and the living standards of their teachers continue to rise. This work goes beyond the scope of what a single project can achieve and will be a long-term undertaking. Achieving these goals is the guarantee of our country’s success.
I therefore particularly stress the point that once the federal financing ends the work to modernise education in the regions must continue. This is extremely important. After all, we allocated additional funding from the federal budget in order to set this process in motion.
Starting from the middle of next year, the responsibility for continuing this work, including providing the funding, will be fully in the hands of the regions. I therefore ask the Education and Science Ministry to continue monitoring this project even after the additional federal funding ends. The Ministry should coordinate this process with the regions and provide them with all methodological and other such help as may be required.
Reports are coming in from the regions that they are seriously lacking methodological material on carrying out education system modernisation. I ask the Education Ministry to give this its particular attention and to continue monitoring the situation with teachers’ pay, based on a common and justified approach.
I therefore ask that the regional budgets’ expenditure be analysed at this stage. This is something the Finance Ministry can do. You have all the information on this. I ask you to analyse the spending planned for general education in 2013 and for the 2014–2015 period, so that the regional budgets can make the necessary adjustments in time.
I propose that we return to the discussion of the education modernisation project’s results for 2012, and also look in detail at the plans for next year. I ask the Government to draft the relevant report by February. Of course, the bulk of the work will fall once more to the Education and Science Ministry.
<…>
Topics
Regions
School
Persons
Fursenko Andrei
Golodets Olga
Livanov Dmitry
Nabiullina Elvira
3 more
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 7, 2012, 18:00
Text version