Events
Press statement following EurAsEC Interstate Council and Supreme Eurasian Economic Council session
March 19, 2012
18:30
Press statement following EurAsEC Interstate Council and Supreme Eurasian Economic Council summit.
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Ladies and gentlemen,
My colleagues have asked me to make a statement on the results of the EurAsEC Interstate Council and the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council meeting at the heads-of-state level.
We spent our time productively, engaging in discussions, at times rather intense ones, on how to further promote integration processes. We have made a number of decisions specifically aimed at ensuring that integration follows a predictable scenario and we ultimately form the Eurasian Economic Union by 2015.
We spoke about how to coordinate our approaches and further promote integration. We decided to instruct our governments and the Eurasian Economic Commission’s Board to improve performance of the corresponding institutions of the Eurasian Economic Union and to make steps toward a more compact operation thereof, so that the employees of the relevant agencies do not overlap in their activities but rather pursue the main tasks within the Eurasian Economic Commission.
Our agenda also involved establishing a number of new agencies. We agreed that the national leaders will continue discussing these issues, most likely in May of this year, when we might be holding our next EurAsEC summit and a new session of the Interstate Council.
We expect that a comprehensive agreement on the new union will be drafted and signed by January 1, 2015. We do not have a lot of time left, since we remember the formation of the European Union, beginning in the 1960s and even as early as the 1950s, followed by the Maastricht Treaty, and ultimately, the Treaty of Lisbon – the overall process took far more time. We do not have that much time; we have less than three years ahead of us, in which we must complete all these processes.
We discussed many issues concerning our cooperation within the Customs Union format with participation by Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan.
Today’s meeting was quite beneficial because we were joined by our friends from observer-states. I think the way we discussed all the issues, absolutely sincerely and on an equal basis, was truly illustrative for them.
See also
EurAsEC Interstate Council and Supreme Eurasian Economic Council summit
March 19, 2012
We talked about the Customs Union’s advantages, as well as certain difficulties that may arise and have already arisen for states that are not members of the Customs Union. Well, that’s life: if you participate in any kind of international association, you gain a certain set of benefits, and if you do not participate, you may face certain difficulties. We felt it was important to convey our position to some of our observer-states.
We discussed the issue of unifying passport and visa control. We agreed that our efforts in this highly important but complicated area will continue. In any case, all our actions must be aimed at liberalising the movement of capital, works, services, and labour force within the Customs Union. Further expert work will be continued in order to prepare a corresponding “road map”.
Overall, I would like to say that I am absolutely satisfied with today’s meeting. Although we spent quite a bit of time on procedural points, these activities allow us to identify the similarities and differences in our positions and find possibility to advance the integration process through all existing opportunities.
I would like to thank my colleagues for their thorough, substantive approach to all the issues we discussed. And I would like to thank you for your work. Goodbye.
Topics
EurAsEC
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: March 19, 2012, 18:30
Text versionEvents
EurAsEC Interstate Council and Supreme Eurasian Economic Council summit
A summit of the Eurasian Economic Community Interstate Council and Supreme Eurasian Economic Council took place at the Grand Kremlin Palace.
March 19, 2012
18:20
The Kremlin, Moscow
9 of 16
Before the start of the EurAsEC Interstate Council and Supreme Eurasian Economic Council summit.
See also
Press statement following EurAsEC Interstate Council and Supreme Eurasian Economic Council session
March 19, 2012
Protocol on amendments to the statutes of the EurAsEC court has been submitted to the State Duma for ratification
March 19, 2012
In his opening remarks as the summit’s host, Dmitry Medvedev proposed discussing, in particular, implementation of the last EurAsEC
summit’s agreements on reorganising the Community and issues related to integration development in the post-Soviet area.
Besides Russia’s president, the summit’s other participants are President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko
, President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev
, President of Kyrgyzstan Almazbek Atambayev
, President of Tajikistan Emomali Rahmon
, and the heads of state of EurAsEC observer countries – President of Armenia Serzh Sargsyan
, President of Ukraine Viktor Yanukovych
, and Acting President of Moldova Marian Lupu. Also taking part in the summit are EurAsEC Secretary-General Tair Mansurov and Chairman of the Eurasian Economic Commission’s Board Viktor Khristenko
. The participants were joined later by the members of their delegations.
The summit participants signed the following documents: Decision of the EurAsEC Interstate Council On Progress on the Draft Agreement on Reorganising Eurasian Economic Community; Decision of the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council On the Start of the Eurasian Economic Commission’s Operation; Decision of the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council On Progress on the Implementation of Decision No. 70 by the Heads of State of December 9, 2010 On Unification of Passport and Visa Control in the Customs Union’s Member-States. 
* * *
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev: Colleagues and friends,
Once more, I wish you a warm welcome to this expanded meeting of the EurAsEC Interstate Council and Supreme Eurasian Economic Council.
We had very productive and useful talks in narrow format. We agreed on how to continue developing the integration processes and how the EurAsEC institutions will operate over the coming period. We also agreed that soon, once the authorised representatives and the Board hold additional consultations, the next EurAsEC summit will examine the specific options for reorganising these institutions.
The Customs Union between Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan has been operating in full since July 1 last year and the legal agreements at the base of the Common Economic Space came into force from January this year. We have thus launched the process of building the common market that will see a free flow of goods, services, labour, and capital between our countries. 
This, in our view, is a project of paramount importance, and the discussions during the meeting in narrow format showed that it is based on a clear concept and has clear prospects ahead.
I propose that we now hear from Mr Khristenko on the specific issues regarding the EurAsEC Board’s work. 
President of the Eurasian Economic Commission’S Board Viktor Khristenko: Presidents,
In accordance with your decisions, the Eurasian Economic Commission commenced work from the start of this year. Over this time Commission’s Council has held two meetings. The first meeting decided its members and also its chairman – Mr Rumas, deputy prime minister of Belarus.
Starting from February 1, 2012 the Board’s members have all been carrying out their duties and have been holding weekly meetings in accordance with the agreement [on its operation], examining matters of substance related to customs and tariff regulations, introduction of protective measures in the common market, clarification of codification issues and so on.
Of course, organisational decisions account for a substantial portion of the work at the moment. These decisions concern procedures for examining the issues that come up. In particular, we are actively in the process of setting up consultative committees that include official representatives of the member-countries’ governments.
We have already set up three consultative committees so far: on trade policy, on tax policy and administration, and on health and phytosanitary measures. This allows us to cover activities in these areas on an on-going basis, making use of the expanded powers that the commission has received.
The human resources side of things is one of the big issues the commission needs to address, and in accordance with the agreement that was signed, all appointments are made through a competitive selection procedure. This selection process is already underway and the Commission has already opened around 350 positions for applications. At the moment, we have around three people competing for every one position. 
We have already appointed eight department heads. These are very experienced, efficient and professional people who have held important civil service positions in their own countries. I am certain that over these next two months we can put together the backbone of our professional team in accordance with the agreements on each country’s representation. I remind you that under the agreements, 6 percent of the positions go to Belarus, 10 percent to Kazakhstan, and 84 percent to the Russian Federation.
I can also tell you that the formal organisational procedures are completed now and the Commission has thus been duly registered as a legal entity, registered with all the relevant agencies, and has opened ruble and foreign currency accounts. We have full cooperation with the member-countries’ finance ministries and our work is thus being funded on a routine basis now.
The Russian Federation Government is in the process of completing work to assign an appropriate building to house the Commission. All in all, our activity is fully underway and I think we are working at a decent pace. 
Dmitry Medvedev: Thank you, Mr Khristenko.
We agreed during the meeting in narrow format not to open a separate discussion, given that we share a common position on the matters of substance on the agenda, and so I think we can move on to signing the documents.
<…>
Additional
EurAsEC Interstate Council meeting
December 19, 2011
Geography
Armenia
Belarus
Kazakhstan
Kyrgyzstan
3 more
Topics
EurAsEC
Foreign policy
Persons
Atambayev Almazbek
Khristenko Viktor
Lukashenko Alexander
Nazarbayev Nursultan
3 more
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 19, 2012, 18:20
Text version