Events
Russian-Serbian talks
Vladimir Putin had talks with President of Serbia Tomislav Nikolic, who is in Russia on a working visit at the President of Russia’s invitation.
September 11, 2012
19:30
Sochi
See also
News conference following Russian-Serbian talks
September 11, 2012
Vladimir Putin and Tomislav Nikolic
discussed the expansion of cooperation between the two nations in trade, economy, and fuel and energy sector, in particular the implementation of the South Stream strategic project.
The Russian and Serbian Presidents made press statements following their talks and answered journalists’ questions.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President,
Allow me to warmly welcome you to Russia. We had a very brief meeting a few months ago and we agreed to see each other again, to take more time to talk about our bilateral relations. I am very happy that we will have this opportunity today.
To begin our discussion, if we start by addressing our trade and economic ties, I would like to note that I believe we have had good momentum in recent years since our turnover has grown. Unfortunately, during the first half of this year, we have observed some decline, so we are to analyse why it occurred and figure out what is to be done to reverse the situation.
I hope that after the Government in Serbia is formed, co-chairs will be appointed on both sides and the Interstate Commission can begin working in full.
Naturally, I am prepared to discuss political issues and to hear your views on the situation in the region overall. Welcome!
President of Serbia Tomislav Nikolic (retranslated): Thank you for your invitation, Mr President,
I see this as both a continuation of our meetings and the beginning of entirely new relations between Russia and Serbia.
I know that there has been some stagnation, particularly in trade between Russia and Serbia. But this is because Serbia went through its own set of problems – elections and the formation of a new Government. Our Government is now formed, members of the Serbian part of the Interstate Commission have been appointed, and a Commission’s meeting has already taken place in Moscow. We expect that we will begin working in this direction.
I would like to thank you for your personal contribution to the success of the air show in Belgrade [commemorating the 100th anniversary of military aviation in Serbia] and for the participation of three Russian aircraft in the air show.
A meeting was also held between our defence minister and your colleagues who oversee the defence industry. We have established relations between ministries in the energy sector. Thus, all Serbian representatives who have spoken to Russian representatives are confident that this is the start of an absolutely new phase in the relations between Serbia and Russia.
I thank you for the support I feel from the Russian representatives with whom I have been in contact. This is a good foundation for building our relations so as to serve the interests of both Russia and Serbia.
We are awaiting the start of construction for South Stream, part of which will pass through Serbia. Representatives from Russia and Serbia assume that this could happen at the beginning of December. They did not have the courage to do so themselves, so they asked me to invite you to participate in the construction launch ceremony. I now officially invite you to participate, to join us for the launch of construction of the Serbian section of South Stream.
<…>
Geography
Serbia
Topics
Energy
Foreign policy
Persons
Nikolic Tomislav
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 11, 2012, 19:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with London Paralympic champions and medallists
Vladimir Putin met at the Kremlin with members of the Russian Paralympic team – champions and medallists at the London Paralympics.
September 11, 2012
12:00
16 of 16
With champions and medallists at the London Paralympics.
The President presented state decorations to gold medallists at the London Paralympics. Five athletes were awarded the Order of Honour, and 37 – the Order of Friendship.
The Russian Paralympic team came in second in the overall team ranking thus achieving its best Paralympic result ever. The Russian athletes won a total of 102 medals, including 36 gold, 38 silver and 28 bronze medals, and set 14 world records in swimming and track-and-field.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends,
It feels like it was just recently (and I think it was three weeks ago) that we sent our Paralympic national team off to London. And now, we are meeting again at the Kremlin, this time to congratulate you on your outstanding results.
Indeed, in this short span of time, many striking events have taken place in your lives and in the lives of sports fans both in our nation and around the world.
I want to once again congratulate you on your outstanding performance at the XIV Paralympic Games in London. You truly demonstrated the highest level of athleticism and you also demonstrated your will and ambition to become true winners, and confidently made our team one of the leaders in Paralympic sports.
Your performance certainly made an impression on everyone. Just four years ago in Beijing, our team placed eighth in the overall rankings, and as you recall, when our Paralympians first began competing for the Soviet Union (I believe this was in Seoul), we took 12th place – the entire USSR team was only in 12th place overall. In London, we were second. This is a true achievement, simply a triumph by our national team.
I would like to particularly address those who helped our Paralympic athletes. I am not just talking about our wonderful coaches, consultants and doctors, but also the people who built special equipment, the assistants, and the sparring athletes who literally went into victory with the Paralympians hand-in-hand. I am also talking about your families and relatives, your friends who inspire you, support you and get you pumped up for competitions, who help you to withstand and overcome all your difficulties with dignity.
In the tense battle between the best of the best, you defended our nation’s athletic honour and our flag, and you made a very significant input into Russia’s overall achievements. It is absolutely fair that your bonus will be just as high as that of the Olympians, and that you will receive state decorations as well. You certainly deserve them.
”Through your outstanding performances, you are essentially encouraging and giving confidence to those who find themselves in difficult life situations, breaking the usual stereotypes and hang-ups and generally changing the public’s attitudes toward peoples’ capabilities, broadening the horizons of hope. I am certain that this is the main mission of a Paralympic athlete.“
It is no exaggeration to call the Paralympic Games a triumph of moral courage, the absolute triumph of the will, determination and faith in yourselves. I think that is precisely why, with every passing day, with each victory, the Paralympic Games have been becoming more prominent and interesting, both in our country and throughout the world. And people are not just rooting for you and appreciating the Paralympians’ unique mastery of their sports – I saw on television that the bleachers were filled and I know that millions of people are watching the [Paralympic] television broadcasts to be charged with your indomitable energy, learning from your insistency and winning attitude.
For each of us, the Paralympic athletes serve as a bright example of a positive, honest and courageous outlook on life. Through your outstanding performances, you are essentially encouraging and giving confidence to those who find themselves in difficult life situations, breaking the usual stereotypes and hang-ups and generally changing the public’s attitudes toward peoples’ capabilities, broadening the horizons of hope. I am certain that this is the main mission of a Paralympic athlete, which you are carrying out with such dignity and confidence, and in which we will always support you, gradually implementing one of the key goals of the Paralympic movement – to create all the necessary conditions for athletes to allow them to improve their mastery of their sports, inspire and delight the world.
Some progress has already been made for the practice of top level athletes. Here, we are aiming toward the very best professional standards: the educational and training process, the manufacture of technical equipment see implemented cutting-edge sports technology more and more actively.
We have built the first specialised base for training Paralympians. At the same time, our main goal, our main challenge, is to make Paralympic sports truly accessible and attractive. Here, of course, we very much count on your support. Naturally, you yourselves, your athletic and personal biographies, serve as an outstanding example for many people, but no less important is your direct participation in putting together programmes to develop sports and in working with young people.
In supporting the Paralympic movement, a great deal depends on the position of the nation’s regions and towns. I believe that officials at all levels must work on these issues more substantively and persistently, including by getting you involved in resolving challenges to create a barrier-free, accessible, comfortable environment for the life, creativity, education and work of millions of people.
Overall, I am certain that we should work more actively on promoting Paralympic sports and their constructive, positive ideas. And of course, the media play a special role. Part of that work should involve full-fledged coverage of Paralympic competitions on the television and the radio, providing direct broadcasts of performances by our stunning athletes.
I want to repeat again that it is impossible to overstate the moral and spiritual, humanitarian, and social significance of the Paralympic movement. We will put all our efforts into ensuring that Russia becomes one of its key participants, holding a confident place not just within the group of leaders in global Paralympic sports, but also among the nations where there are genuinely equal opportunities for all of the people without exception.
I once again congratulate you on your exceptional results at the Games in London and your well-deserved state decorations. Thank you for your enormous contribution to developing sports in Russia, as well as all of Russian society. I want to wish you good health, moral courage, and many more brilliant, well-deserved triumphs.
Congratulations on your victory!
<…>
We have just heard some very good, kind final words for this ceremony: “We are one nation and we must move forward!” And we will do exactly that, relying on people like you. Thank you very much for your success.
Topics
Sport
State decorations
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 11, 2012, 12:00
Text versionEvents
News conference following Russian-Serbian talks
September 11, 2012
22:30
Sochi
3 of 3
News conference following Russian-Serbian talks.
See also
Russian-Serbian talks
September 11, 2012
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good evening, ladies and gentlemen.
I have just ended talks with the President of Serbia, Mr Nikolic. We will also hold talks in expanded format with the government ministers and big business representatives, but we had a detailed discussion just now one-on-one.
This was our second meeting, and I want to start by noting the friendly and trusting spirit in which it took place. Our relations continue to grow today, and remain true to the historic friendship between our two fraternal peoples. Of course we base our ties on the reality of today’s situation too, and we are committed to deepening our cooperation in all areas. Our plan is to build our relations up to the strategic partnership level.
Trade and economic ties were at the centre of our attention today. Our bilateral trade increased by 42 percent in 2011 and reached a figure of more than $2 billion. We have made some good progress in investment cooperation. Russian companies are well represented in key sectors of Serbia’s economy. This includes the energy sector, where Gazprom Neft and LUKOIL are active. We are carrying out mutually advantageous projects in non-ferrous metals, machine building, tourism, and the banking sector. At the same time, there are plenty of opportunities for continuing to intensify our ties.
We link our energy sector prospects not just to supplying Russian energy resources, but also to taking part in big joint projects at the European level, projects such as South Stream, for example. Our companies are ready to act as partners in modernising Serbia’s energy sector. We already have some successful examples of cooperation here, such as the reconstruction of the Banatsky Dvor underground gas reservoir.
We have interesting infrastructure projects too. In particular, we have plans for joint development of Serbia’s railway network. Russia’s Emergencies Ministry is also cooperating actively with its Serbian colleagues. 
A unique humanitarian centre was set up in Nis. It helps people during the winter cold, and provides assistance during the summer fire season too, including with aircraft. Operating through this centre, our aircraft have worked in neighbouring countries in the Balkans too. A lot of work has been done over the last years to clear mines on Serbian soil. Total area of more than 1 million square metres was cleared in 2011–2012.
We discussed efforts to revive interest in studying Russian in Serbia. The Russkiy Mir Foundation is very active here. We certainly also think it important in humanitarian terms, even if this is not large-scale work, to support Orthodoxy in Serbia and Kosovo. The kind of assistance I am talking about involves help in looking after and restoring Orthodox holy places.
We discussed Kosovo, of course. We will firmly adhere to the principle of the United Nation’s unconditional primary role. We think that a solution should be found through negotiations and on the basis of UN Security Council resolution 1244.
In conclusion, I want to thank Mr Nikolic and all of our Serbian colleagues for a very interesting, substantial and frank discussion.
President of Serbia Tomislav Nikolic (retranslated): Ladies and gentlemen,
It was an honour, pleasure, and big responsibility today to head the Serbian delegation on this first official visit to the Russian Federation as President of the Republic of Serbia.
Relations between our two countries have always depended on the governments rather than the peoples. If our people were asked down the ages, they would always speak in favour of the closest possible cooperation between our countries.
I am sure that we have opened a new chapter in our relations. Our ties are based not only on common history, faith, traditions, culture, and similarity of languages, but also on mutual economic benefit.
We discussed the big projects in which Russian private and state capital can take part, working together on other countries’ markets, and political relations. Serbia is working towards fulfilling all the conditions for becoming a full member of the European Union, and Russia does not see here any obstacle for cooperation.
We also discussed the extent of our cooperation and the standstill in our work together at the start of this year. We talked about intensifying cooperation and about how to take our relations to the level our good and friendly fraternal ties deserve.
I hope that we will start work on the [South Stream gas pipeline] 400-km stretch across Serbia by the end of the year. I hope that we will have the honour of seeing the Russian President at the launch of work on the gas pipeline. 
We have also opened a new chapter in our military technical cooperation. But more than anything, we want to thank the Russian Federation for the help its aircraft based in Nis provided in fighting fires in Serbia. I hope that our neighbouring countries, which also got such help, will join in this gratitude.
Our intergovernmental commission now has a lot of work ahead, for all of our various desires must now be embodied as actual projects. We hope to see President Putin make a visit to Serbia very soon.
Question: I have a question for President Nikolic. President Putin said just now that you talked about Kosovo. Could you share the details? Did you discuss the situation in the region?
Tomislav Nikolic (retranslated): Serbia is faced with the end of ‘supervised independence’ in Kosovo. European Union representatives were involved in carrying out these measures. We have been in talks with the interim administration and interim institutions in Kosovo, in Pristina, with the purpose of ensuring that our citizens have better and safer lives there. But we cannot take part in talks that would consolidate independence. Serbia cannot allow any change of status through the use of force. After all, we renounced the use of force in 1999. Serbia is grateful to the Russian Federation and the other Security Council members who did not agree with Kosovo’s self-proclaimed independence. Let me say to you as a person that no one who agrees with Kosovo’s independence would ever win in Serbia. We will not resort to force in any way, however, but will act within the UN framework.
Question: Mr Putin, you spoke about energy cooperation. We know the problems Gazprom is having in Europe at the moment, or rather, the claims it faces, and the investigation underway. What kind of future energy sector cooperation would be possible in Serbia aside from the South Stream project?
I have another unrelated question. In your recent interview to Russia Today television channel, you commented on Mitt Romney’s designation of Russia as America’s main foe. He has a good chance of winning the election. If he does, how will you work with him?
Vladimir Putin: On the energy sector cooperation issue, first of all, we hope that any matters still unclear for our partners on the European Commission can be clarified soon so that we can all keep working together calmly. I hope this will be the case. We are involved in big infrastructure projects such as Nord Stream together, and indeed, we expect to have the confirmation soon that the second part of the work on this project has been completed, and we have planned a ceremony to launch the pipeline’s second line on October 8. Western Europe is the primary consumer of the gas to be piped.
I mentioned the South Stream project, in which Serbia will take part. This is another big infrastructure project that is in the interest of all of Europe. Of course we must do all we can to avoid any complications and problems with our European partners. We will try to ensure this throughout the talks we conduct. No doubt, we will look for opportunities to sell our products on other markets too. I spoke with many Asian leaders about these possibilities while in Vladivostok. They are hoping to see Russia bring its resources to their energy markets. We will speed up work on liquefied gas exports, and will offer our energy resources to the global market.
In this context, Serbia has a good location as a European transit country and could play a very advantageous part not just for itself but also for its partners in Russia and Western Europe. Our big energy companies are among the biggest taxpayers in Serbia. They are the biggest investors and the biggest taxpayers, and I hope they will continue to consolidate their positions there.
I mentioned the Banatsky Dvor underground gas reservoir. I hope that our cooperation will not end here. Not only LUKOIL and Gazprom Neft are operating in Serbia, other companies are also looking for opportunities to cooperate. Our companies are ready to work with not only Serbian partners but also with European partners on the Serbian market, if such opportunities arise. These are all possibilities as far as the energy sector goes.
Turning to your second question, yes, in my interview on Russia Today I said that Mr Romney considers Russia the USA’s main foe, but if he is elected president we, I included, will work with him as the elected US leader. 
Every situation has its pluses and minuses. It is a minus that Mr Romney sees us as his country’s main foe, but the fact that he states this so frankly and openly suggests that he is a direct and candid person, and this is a plus. We will look at the pluses rather than the minuses.
In fact, I want to thank Mr Romney for stating his views so clearly and freely. In doing so, he confirmed once again that we are right in our stance on the missile defence issue. I think he has convinced not only us, but also the international community and our European partners. He has strengthened our negotiating position on this sensitive and very important issue, bolstered Russia’s position in these talks.
His election is not something we can influence, and we have no intention of trying. I already said that election campaign rhetoric plays a big part in all of this. But even casting aside the rhetoric, Mr Romney’s words do reflect a real view that exists. The important thing, as we see it, is that even if Mr Romney does not win this election, in four years’ time, he or someone with similar views could come to power in the United States, and we are to keep this in mind as we work on ensuring our country’s long-term security.
Thank you.
Geography
Serbia
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: September 11, 2012, 22:30
Text version