Naturally, we also discussed humanitarian issues, although in some general terms. Nevertheless, we are giving them a great deal of attention. I know that this fall, Ukraine will hold Days of Russian Education and Culture, and within the framework of these events, presentations will be made on Russia’s leading universities and research schools. There will also be presentations regarding current achievements by educators and scientists, as well as interesting educational programmes.
I hope that Mr Yanukovych will respond favourably to my invitation and come to the Russian Federation on a state visit this autumn.
Thank you for your attention.
Question: I have a question for both presidents about the documents signed today, specifically, the first two.
Regarding the Declaration on Strategic Partnership between Ukraine and Russia, what does this document contain, what is it about?
Also, regarding the agreement on dividing the Sea of Azov and the Black Sea, what principles is it based on? 
Viktor Yanukovych: The Declaration reflects the overall nature of our relations in all the different cooperation fields. In short, it highlights these relations’ strategic nature.
Vladimir Putin: I agree with Mr Yanukovych’s assessment. We see this as a fundamental bilateral document of the kind our countries have not yet had. It really does reflect our cooperation priorities – political cooperation, economic ties in various sectors, and our cooperation in border areas and so forth. 
What I want to stress, in other words, is that this is a basic document that lays the foundations for our relations in practically every area of cooperation.
”It is very clear that energy, oil and gas should not be our only absolute priority, although these are important, of course. Our priorities should be the high-tech production sectors: aircraft engineering, air and space, telecommunications, transport.“
Regarding the agreement on the Sea of Azov and the Black Sea, it is not about dividing these seas: we are not about to divide up the Black Sea between us, and will leave the Sea of Azov alone too. The agreement is about definitively demarcating our borders here.“it is very clear that energy, oil and gas should not be our only absolute priority, although these are important, of course. Our priorities should be the high-tech production sectors: aircraft engineering, air and space, telecommunications, transp“
Let me note in this respect that our foreign ministries and our experts have reached principled agreements on how to ensure that this meets both countries’ interests. We all examined this today, and overall, Mr Yanukovych and I both agree with the approach proposed.
The point of this document is set our colleagues in the spirit for completing this work and signing the relevant agreement. What we did today was to confirm the principles upon which this work will be based. By and large, the rest is now just a question of legal procedures.
Question: I have a question for the President of Ukraine.
Mr President, you recently sent your Presidential Address to the Parliament and for the first time did not deliver it personally there. The Address contains an interesting passage on Ukraine’s foreign policy, naming integration with Europe as the top priority. Russia, meanwhile, got placed in a fine group that includes the USA and China. 
De facto this document is yours, but de jure you have not said this. My question, therefore, is, does it state your personal position, the Foreign Ministry’s position, the state authorities’ position, and, in the run-up to October, is there some kind of public consensus on this issue?
Viktor Yanukovych: This document is not something new but is based on the strategy that has already been adopted in the form of some of our basic documents. The law on the basic principles of our domestic and foreign policy, for example, states that Ukraine makes integration with Europe a priority. This same law defines Ukraine’s status as being outside all blocs, and so on.
As for the Address, it is also a strategic document with lengthy preparation gone into it, and what it states is the natural and consistent continuation of the policies that we began in 2010.
Vladimir Putin: I would just like to add a couple of words.
That Russia has been put together with countries such as the People’s Republic of China and the United States of America does not offend us in any way but on the contrary flatters us. We are happy to be with them.
As for the European Union taking precedence, this does not offend us either, because we understand the scope of cooperation, technology and so on that is behind this. Ultimately, deciding priorities of this kind is the sovereign choice of each country and people, and we will of course respect these decisions. 
I hope that the EU, despite the problems it is going through with Greece, Portugal, Spain, and Italy, will pay attention to the post-Soviet countries too, which have declared their choices so clearly. I hope the EU will draw its conclusions in this respect. We all want cooperation with Europe. Russia wants it, Ukraine wants it, and so do the other post-Soviet region countries. 
Question: I have a question for the Russian President on the gas sector. Under what conditions would Russia be willing to revise the price formula for gas sales to Ukraine? Kiev has been seeking this for more than two years now.
Vladimir Putin: Do you remember the words of that book we all love so much, ‘Can I get the chairs in the evening and give you the money in the morning?’ ‘Yes, but the money comes first!’Events
Meeting with President of Ukraine Viktor Yanukovych
Vladimir Putin met with President of Ukraine Viktor Yanukovych.
July 12, 2012
19:00
Yalta
With President of Ukraine Viktor Yanukovych.
See also
Visit to the camp of the Night Wolves Motoclub
July 12, 2012
Before the meeting, on his way from Sevastopol Airport to Yalta, Vladimir Putin made an unscheduled stop at the camp of the Night Wolves Motoclub.
 * * *
Beginning of the meeting with President of Ukraine Viktor Yanukovych
President of Ukraine Viktor Yanukovych
: Good afternoon, Mr Putin,
It is a great pleasure to welcome you to Crimea. The weather has been a little hot here, but I know that on the way here you have already had an opportunity to chat with your friends, the bikers.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: They are expecting you, too.
Viktor Yanukovych: That’s good, I’ll be happy to pay them a visit. I have passed on my greetings to them and said, “Go ahead and meet with the Russian President first, and I will come over later.”
Vladimir Putin: I told them that the last time we met you suggested that we get on our bikes, remember the old days and ride over.
Viktor Yanukovych: We can do that, no problem.
Mr Putin, today will see a very important event in our relations: the [Russian-Ukrainian] Interstate Commission, which you and I have established, has prepared some very important documents, some of which will be signed by the two of us, and the rest by the representatives of our state agencies.
I think the Declaration on Strategic Partnership will have a special place among them. The decision has been made for us to begin joint efforts towards deepening our strategic relationship, and I think both Ukrainian and Russian citizens are waiting for this. I think we will have enough time today to discuss many issues, so I hope you will not be in too much of a hurry.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Yanukovych, we can work as long as we need to.
Viktor Yanukovych: This meeting is taking place in Crimea. They say everyone who comes here gets a positive result – it must be something in the air. I hope we will have a good result, too.
We have state visits scheduled for the near future: I will visit Russia this year and we expect to see you in Ukraine next year. It is therefore very important that such high-level meetings have continued at the same intensity. Today we will have an opportunity to discuss the results this interaction has produced.
Bilateral trade has grown substantially, exceeding $55 billion last year. This year, we did not have a very good start but our experts say that the harsh weather last winter had a great impact on the situation.
Nevertheless, we have by now nearly reached the trade targets that had been planned, and I hope that we will manage to at least duplicate last year’s performance, and most likely will exceed last year's impressive figures.
Once again, welcome to Ukraine. I am very glad to see you and hope that our meeting today will be fruitful.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much. First of all, thank you for the invitation. We have been planning this meeting and our joint work for a long time.
As you know, I am accompanied today by a very big and highly representative Russian leadership team. It includes ministers in charge of various fields, primarily the economic bloc, but not exclusively. We have a great deal to discuss.
I fully agree with your assessment of the positive trends in trade and the economy, which have posted very good growth. Ukraine occupies approximately 6.2% of Russia's trade. That is a very impressive figure.
I believe Ukraine is in the fifth place among our major trade partners, and we will do our best to make a quick recovery from the minor setback we experienced in the first quarter of 2012, as you have said.
I think this should also be one of the subjects we discuss today. Let’s talk about it, analyse the processes that are taking place and the way they are unfolding. I am absolutely confident that this year our results will be as good as last years’, and perhaps even better.
Apart form these issues, we have many other matters of mutual interest. I am referring to a number of major projects that are being planned and which will certainly be realised, I have no doubt about that.
We will work as long as you consider necessary.
Viktor Yanukovych: Thank you.
<…>
Geography
Ukraine
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Yanukovych Viktor
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 12, 2012, 19:00
Text version