Events
Meeting on social problems of single-industry towns
Vladimir Putin held a meeting on addressing the social problems facing single-industry towns. Comprehensive development of the labour market and launching job creation projects in these towns were the main subjects of discussion.
October 22, 2012
16:40
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 7
Meeting on social problems of single-industry towns.
Excerpts from transcript of meeting on resolving social problems in single-industry towns
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
Today, we will address once again one of the serious problems affecting our economy, one of the big social sector issues too, namely, the problem of the single-industry towns. Towns where life depends on one or two companies were particularly hard-hit by the recent crisis. I remind you that we were quite effective in our response then and created 190,000 temporary jobs and 60,000 permanent jobs. Overall, however, although unemployment is now at a record low of around 5.1 percent in total, and around 1.3 percent – around a million people – if we count only the registered unemployed, the situation in the single-industry towns is still worrying.
”We need to work with each and every city individually, seeking out options for resolving problems and never forgetting that every dismissal from work affects the fate of individuals.“
I will not name the figures now, but the relevant government commission and the Economic Development Minister [Andrei Belousov], who have been working on this problem for quite some time now, along with all of our colleagues involved in this issue, know that the problems are still a long way from being completely resolved. We have around 300 of these single-industry towns and the problems are still quite serious.
Vnesheconombank
, which we have got involved in working on these problems right from the start, during the crisis period, has developed around 40 job creation projects in these towns with total financing of 400 billion roubles. These programmes must be launched as soon as possible.
I want our colleagues from the regions to hear from our Government colleagues on how the work on this very important economic and social issue is going, and I would like to hear myself what they have to report.
<…>
”We set the goal to create 25 million new high-tech jobs. We have been able to at least partially accomplish this goal during the crisis period. We always strived to ensure that these new jobs would be qualitatively different. I would want you to continue working in the same fashion.“
The Government Commission and the Government itself are constantly working on this issue, and as I see, they are keeping it under control. At the same time, I want to draw attention to the fact that the situation in the global economy remains tense and uncertain. We know and understand where this unsettlement in the global economy can lead, how it reflects on national economies, including ours. So I would like to draw your attention to a few points.
We need to continue keeping these issues under a constant control. And regardless of how much we are criticised for being too “hands-on,” this is the case when we need to work with each and every city individually, seeking out options for resolving problems and never forgetting that every dismissal from work affects the fate of individuals, the state of Russian families, children, and the material well-being of our citizens.
We set the goal to create 25 million new high-tech jobs. And overall, we have been able to at least partially accomplish this goal during the crisis period. When we were creating new jobs, we always strived to ensure that these new jobs would be qualitatively different. I would want you to continue working in the same fashion.
  Topics
Labour market
Regions
Social services
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 22, 2012, 16:40
Text versionEvents
Press statements following meeting with President of Ukraine Viktor Yanukovych
October 22, 2012
17:45
Press statements following Russian-Ukrainian talks. With President of Ukraine Viktor Yanukovych.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues,
Our meeting with President of Ukraine, Mr Yanukovych, was held in a business-like, friendly, honest atmosphere, as is typical for us.
Our talks confirmed that the development of cooperation and partnership between Russia and Ukraine is our common, strategic choice. It is based, first and foremost, on the strong bonds of friendship between our peoples, and regardless of the political situation, there is no reasonable alternative to this course.
This is clear in the example of Russian-Ukrainian economic ties: many sectors of our industry are interdependent and complementary, with thousands of companies and enterprises working directly within the production cooperation framework.
See also
Meeting with President of Ukraine Viktor Yanukovych
October 22, 2012
Today, Ukraine is firmly in fourth place among Russia’s main foreign trade partners, and the first among CIS
nations. Last year, our mutual trade turnover grew by 36 percent, surpassing $50 billion. We need to maintain and consolidate this trend.
We discussed the additional reserves that can be used to achieve this and how to reduce our economies’ dependence on the complicated processes that are underway in the global economy, on global markets.
Given the high degree of integration between our economies, we will work more actively on projects in areas where Russia and Ukraine are truly leaders. I am referring to nuclear energy, aircraft manufacturing, metallurgy and aerospace. A concrete step taken in this direction is the protocol signed today on the supply of goods within the production cooperation framework. It is about simplifying the procedures for reciprocal delivery of component parts, materials and equipment in sectors where we are building common production chains as much as possible.
Broadening investment, trade and industrial ties would help to remove barriers hindering the movement of goods and services, capital and labour. So during the talks, we also touched on the important topic of Ukraine’s participation in integration processes underway in the CIS.
”The development of cooperation and partnership between Russia and Ukraine is our common, strategic choice. It is based on the strong bonds of friendship between our peoples.“
Ukraine was one of the first nations to ratify the CIS Free Trade Zone Agreement. In doing so, we perceive Ukraine as a country with a pragmatic attitude toward strengthening and promoting cooperation and integration.
We also discussed humanitarian issues. The Days of Education and Science of the Russian Federation were successfully held one month ago in Kiev. They included presentations of Russia’s leading universities, the latest achievements from Russian educators, and new educational programmes. There was a useful exchange of experience. Another important joint project will be the 200th anniversary of the birth of the great poet Taras Shevchenko in 2014. The President of Ukraine and I agreed to give instructions to our respective governments to begin joint all-around preparations for this anniversary, which is significant to both our nations.
In conclusion, I would like to say the following: the parliamentary election campaign is wrapping up in Ukraine, and we sincerely hope that the elections to the Verkhovna Rada will ensure further steady democratic development of the brotherly Ukrainian nation. We hope that after the election, the course toward close cooperation between our nations will gain additional momentum.
I would like to thank Mr Yanukovych and all our Ukrainian friends for their constructive approach to all the issues we discussed.
President of Ukraine Viktor Yanukovych
: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen,
We just completed our bilateral talks. I feel that they were quite productive and were held, as always, in a trust-based and constructive environment, an atmosphere of complete mutual understanding.
Mr Putin and I discussed nearly the full range of current issues in bilateral cooperation. We noted the enormous potential in Ukraine and Russia’s relations and how it is imperative to focus our efforts on using it to the fullest extent. In particular, it is especially important for our nations to further develop cooperation in areas where we already have good results, i.e., nuclear energy, aircraft manufacturing, aerospace, energy, and other high-tech, science-driven sectors.
”Ukraine was one of the first nations to ratify the CIS Free Trade Zone Agreement. In doing so, we perceive Ukraine as a country with a pragmatic attitude toward strengthening and promoting cooperation and integration.“
According to the results from last year, our nations have already surpassed pre-crisis figures in bilateral trade. But we won’t stop there, and we both believe that we should continue taking joint steps to progressively increase our bilateral turnover volume. Our common refusal to apply any restrictive measures in our mutual trade will help us in achieving this goal.
We also gave significant attention to issues of bilateral cooperation in energy. In this regard, I would like to stress that we are continuing talks on the so-called gas issue, which is very relevant for Ukraine, and we expect to work out an economically sound, fair formula for establishing gas prices for our nation.
Today’s meeting also confirmed mutual understanding of the fact that completing the contractual and legal formalisation of the Russian-Ukrainian state border must be accompanied by a set of measures allowing for the development of existing business contacts, as well as for free travel of citizens between Ukraine and Russia.
I would also like to note that the President of Russia and I discussed our desire to maintain active political dialogue, particularly at the highest level. Thus, we had a concrete discussion of the possible schedule for our bilateral contacts in the near future.
The success of the Ukrainian-Russian Interregional Economic Forum in Nizhny Novgorod is quite significant in the context of broadening our interregional cooperation. We specifically discussed preparations for this event, which has become a tradition and is held under the patronage of the Presidents of Russia and Ukraine.
Today, we also signed two intergovernmental documents: the agreement on readmission and the protocol on the supply of production cooperation goods. Their implementation will help to intensify Ukrainian-Russian cooperation in two key areas: deepening near-border cooperation and strengthening direct trade and economic ties between the two nations’ enterprises.
Overall, the results of today’s meeting have confirmed that both sides are committed to further dynamic development of bilateral relations based on strategic partnership.
Thank you for your attention.
Geography
Ukraine
Topics
Economy and finance
Energy
Foreign policy
Persons
Yanukovych Viktor
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 22, 2012, 17:45
Text versionEvents
Beginning of meeting with President of Ukraine Viktor Yanukovych
October 22, 2012
17:00
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
With President of Ukraine Viktor Yanukovych.
See also
Meeting with President of Ukraine Viktor Yanukovych
October 22, 2012
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President,
It is a great pleasure to see you. Thank you for accepting the invitation and coming for this visit. There is no need to repeat what we all know about the immense scale of our cooperation, which is developing well in our political ties, in international affairs, and in the economy too. Our bilateral trade is growing and our ties continue to become more diversified. The deep level of cooperation between our companies is well known and I have already spoken about it. There are some companies in both countries that simply would not be able to work effectively without each other.
I think your visit is timely. I am very pleased that we have these regular contacts, not just at the presidential level, but at the government and ministerial level too, and between our companies that work together.
I am very happy to see you and wish you welcome.
President of Ukraine Viktor Yanukovych
: Thank you, Mr President.
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov visited Ukraine last week on your instruction. Our ministers went over most of the issues that we will discuss today, and I imagine you have already been briefed.
I have come of course in order to keep the gap between our contacts short, as longer gaps never bring any benefit, and to discuss and settle some of the current issues before us, many of which you just mentioned. 
First, I want to say that our agencies have finally reached an agreement on cooperation in the space sector, on research and joint work, as we discussed, between Kazakhstan, Ukraine, and Russia in this sector. Three launches are now being planned.
I think this is an important and topical sector in terms of helping to spread use of modern technology that is a driving force of economic growth today. We should probably settle the situation in the aircraft manufacturing sector too, today, seeing as our manufacturers are waiting for our decisions in this area. In the nuclear energy sector the relevant companies are ready to begin their work, and after we make our joint decision we will be able to launch the new cooperation programmes between our countries in this sector.
”Ukrainian goods play an undisputed priority role in a number of sectors on the Russian market. This is so important for future development of both economies that it is only natural to put in place special conditions for developing these cooperation ties. ‘
I also want to discuss current matters, our relations with the Customs Union, for example, because we still hold to our previous view and consider that deepening our cooperation with the Customs Union will benefit our goods producers. We should keep on steadily deepening these relations as this will only benefit the economy.
Of course, I also want to congratulate you on your birthday.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Viktor Yanukovych: Let me tell you that nothing changes after 60. Everything continues and life looks even more beautiful. 
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much for your congratulations and for the deep analysis of our relations.
On the Customs Union, as we have discussed before, it is always up to each country to decide for itself whether to join this or that organisation. But given the depth of our cooperation, including in the key sectors you listed just now such as nuclear energy, the energy sector in general, aircraft manufacturing, space sector, shipbuilding, and other important sectors that characterise an economy’s level of technological development in general, not to mention joint scientific research and so on, we should analyse things in terms of a single comprehensive whole.
You have to look too at the markets our countries work on. Ukrainian goods play an undisputed priority role in a number of sectors on the Russian market. You export a large share of your produce and a lot of aviation equipment to Russia. Almost all Russian helicopters are fitted with Ukrainian-made engines, for example.
Viktor Yanukovych: Yes of course, from Motor Sich.
Vladimir Putin: And there are other areas of cooperation in the aircraft-manufacturing sector too.
This is all so important for future development of both economies that it is only natural to put in place special conditions for developing these cooperation ties. But this is a process of negotiations of course. I have been discussing it with my colleagues too, as you know, — with the President of Kazakhstan and with the President of Belarus. This is a reciprocal process and must go hand-in-hand with a deep analysis of our mutual interests, and take these interests into account.
We will discuss this today too.
Viktor Yanukovych: And we will discuss the gas sector.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, and the gas sector too.
<…>
Geography
Ukraine
Topics
Economy and finance
Energy
Foreign policy
Persons
Yanukovych Viktor
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 22, 2012, 17:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Rosneft CEO Igor Sechin
Vladimir Putin met with Rosneft CEO Igor Sechin.
October 22, 2012
15:30
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 3
With Rosneft CEO Igor Sechin.
Mr Sechin
briefed the President on the signing of an agreement on purchase by Rosneft of BP’s stake in TNK-BP.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, Mr Sechin.
I know that you have been in talks with one of Rosneft’s potential strategic partners. How is the work going and what are the results?
Rosneft CEO and chairman of the Management Board Igor Sechin: Mr President, following on from your instructions on making Rosneft more effective, and from our recent meeting in Sochi at which we and BP briefed you on our plans, I want to inform you that we have just concluded the main talks on our cooperation with BP.
I can inform you now that we have signed an agreement on the terms and conditions of Rosneft’s acquisition of BP’s stake in Tyumen Oil Company (TNK).
Vladimir Putin: What will happen with the Russian participant in the TNK-BP joint venture?
Igor Sechin: We support the idea of consolidating this asset under one single management, and BP takes the same position. It is very important that this asset work according to a common plan with Rosneft, because only in this way can we achieve the level of synergy that will dramatically raise the performance of a number of both Rosneft’s and TNK’s deposits and refineries. I am talking about fields such as Suzun-Tagul and Verkhnechonsk, and the refinery group.
In this respect we have been working closely with TNK’s private shareholders, the AAR Consortium, and have concluded a similar agreement on the acquisition with them too.
Vladimir Putin: On the terms and conditions for acquisition of their stake?
Igor Sechin: On the principles for acquisition of their stake on arm’s length terms similar to those we agreed on with BP.
Mr President, let me add that we just received the news that this plan has just got official approval from BP, which had the right to either support the deal with AAR, or to refuse its support and turn to other procedures. 
”This is a good deal [between Rosneft and BP], a major deal of importance not just for the country’s energy sector but for the entire Russian economy.This sends an excellent signal to the Russian market and to the global energy market too, and is further evidence of the confidence our partners have in working on the Russian market. ”
Just an hour ago, BP officially approved the deal with AAR, and so we can now begin the relevant procedures with this consortium.
In the aim of optimising the financing structure of the deal with BP, we proposed that the settlement also takes into account the approximately 12.85-percent stake in Rosneft that will go to BP as part of the deal.
Vladimir Putin: In other words, the Russian Federation Government’s plans on reducing state interest in companies in which the Russian Federation holds a controlling stake will be taken into account.
Igor Sechin: Exactly, Mr President.
We undertook this work in general upon your instruction, with the aim of obtaining a comprehensive result that would fulfil your objective of reducing the state’s interest and finding a strategic investor with the needed technology.
One of the main elements of this deal was the offer we received from BP to buy a 5.66-percent stake in Rosneft from the state. This will thus give BP a consolidated stake of more than 19 percent of shares in Rosneft.
Vladimir Putin: This sends an excellent signal to the Russian market and to the global energy market too, and is further evidence of the confidence our partners have in working on the Russian market. This is a good deal, a major deal of importance not just for the country’s energy sector but for the entire Russian economy.
I want to thank you for your work. I hope that you will succeed in building a good partnership with this foreign company, British Petroleum, which I hope will very soon become one of your biggest shareholders.
BP has been working in Russia for a long time now and with positive results, and I am sure that this deal will benefit our partners and benefit Rosneft, one of our sector leaders. I wish you success. 
Igor Sechin: Thank you very much.
Mr President, if you permit, I would like to address my thanks to everyone who worked on this deal, and to our partners from BP. This truly is a historic deal and we are grateful for your support. Without the support and attention you gave it, it would have been difficult to get everything done in such a short time.
Let me assure you that the effort was worth it. This deal will make Rosneft the world’s biggest company in terms of liquid hydrocarbon production and in terms of reserves. Taking into account Rosneftegaz shares, the deal will be the third-biggest in the oil and gas sector to date, after the mergers of Exxon Mobil and Total–Elf.
Counting Rosneftegaz shares, the deal is worth around $61 billion and is an acquisition of great significance, a complex deal, of course. We will complete the work on it.
Vladimir Putin: I know that you have reached an agreement with our partners on the Rosneft share price. The price is good and even gives a small bonus. This sends out a good signal. I congratulate you and wish you success.
Igor Sechin: Mr President, one of the biggest achievements to come out of this deal is that we succeeded in reaching an agreement that has obtained the support of appraisers, leading financial consultants, major global banks, and legal advisers. The Rosneft share price as approved for this deal under our agreement has been set at $8 per share. 
<…>
Topics
Energy
Persons
Sechin Igor
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 22, 2012, 15:30
Text version