Events
Meeting of Council for Culture and Art
Vladimir Putin held a meeting of the Presidential Council for Culture and Art.
September 25, 2012
18:15
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 4
Meeting of the Council for Culture and Art.
The agenda focused on the relevant areas of modern cultural policy and support for creative initiatives, the preservation, use and promotion of Russia’s historical and cultural heritage, the future of humanities education, helping young people develop their creative potential, and improving the practice of international cultural cooperation.
On September 19, the President signed Executive Order amending the Provisions on the Council for Culture and Art, and approved the new composition of the Council and its Presidium.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends, colleagues,
It has been a long time since the Council for Culture and Art met in such an expanded format. The last meeting was in May 2007. Meanwhile, there are many new issues and I am sure we will have a vigorous debate, especially since the Council has many new members. This is the first time that it includes representatives of public, non-profit organisations and the media, secondary education professionals, and many colleagues from the Russian regions.
I stress that our objective was for the Council to reflect the diversity of Russia’s cultural environment. Before we proceed to the discussion, I would like to draw your attention to some issues that I think are particularly important.
”To a large extent, culture built up Russia’s prestige and influence in the world, and objectively made it into a great power. We are mindful of this and should make efficient use of our humanitarian resources, increase international interest in our history, traditions, language and cultural values.“
We must admit that our approach to culture remains sector-specific. We often forget that culture is an integral part of all aspects of our lives and cannot exist on its own, in isolation from society. A person is shaped primarily by the cultural environment, or the cultureless environment, as it sometimes happens, unfortunately. The collective portrait of our society directly depends on the quality of this cultural environment; it shapes us and our children. Throughout Russia’s history, culture educated and enriched our nation, it was the source of its spiritual experience and the basis for the consolidation of our multi-national people.
To a large extent, culture built up Russia’s prestige and influence in the world, and objectively made it into a great power. We are mindful of this and should make efficient use of our humanitarian resources, increase international interest in our history, traditions, language and cultural values. We are proud of the Russian culture, its traditions and historical achievements. Culture is a living organism that is constantly evolving and needs an influx of new energy and a revitalising creative competition. National culture cannot be isolated; it should be constantly absorbing new phenomena, global trends and innovations.
I think you will all agree with me that our national culture originally, from the outset, developed as multinational, as various peoples became part of the multinational Russian state, and throughout modern history, our culture has always been open to everything new in the world.
However, along with the obvious cultural advances, we are increasingly confronted with cultural poverty, with all kinds of fakes and cultural fast food. This poses very serious risks. The main danger is that we may lose our cultural identity, our national cultural code, our moral core. This weakens and destroys society. Society that lacks cultural traditions is very easy to manipulate. It loses immunity to various extremist, destructive and even aggressive ideas. Unfortunately, the debate on this issue often focuses around the favourite Russian question “why?” and we should think more often about “what is to be done”.
”Only the state can provide adequate funding for projects and maintain the incomes of culture professionals – the people whose job it is to preserve our cultural heritage and restore monuments – as well as to create the legal conditions for the expansion of the public-private partnership in this area.“
Today, many culture professionals are concerned about a decline in humanities subjects in the modern education system. I fully share this concern. The objective of schools, pre-schools and universities is not just to pass on knowledge and skills; they must focus on character-building, teach critical independent thinking, and mark a clear line between good and evil. I am convinced that the most important task of education is to shape a person’s spiritual culture and taste, the value systems and worldview.
Another fundamental question is how to make our cultural policy the subject of a true partnership between the public and the state. Today we see many examples of sincere, honourable civic initiatives on the preservation of the national heritage. This position certainly deserves support. It should receive strong backing, including through such modern forms as state grants. This does not mean, however, that the burden and responsibility for these critical spheres should be shifted onto volunteers and community activists. Only the state can provide adequate funding for projects and maintain the incomes of culture professionals – the people whose job it is to preserve our cultural heritage and restore monuments – as well as to create the legal conditions for the expansion of the public-private partnership in this area.
Earlier today the Prime Minister and I discussed incomes in the social sphere, and we have a common view on this issue. We can note with satisfaction the growth in incomes across the economy. At the end of last year, the average salary in the economy was around 24,000 [rubles], and this year will be about 26,800 [rubles]. There are monthly fluctuations but the figure will be somewhere around 27,000 [rubles]. The average for the culture sphere, however, will be around 12,800 [rubles] this year, which is almost half. That is certainly unfair.
Next year we plan to increase salaries for all culture professionals by 6%, which corresponds to inflation. We have decided to increase the funding for culture to 4 billion rubles next year with the aim of raising salaries, and we plan to do this regardless of the numerous challenges facing the budget. This will allow us to make a significant step forward in this sphere, one that we have not made in the past years. On average, salaries will increase somewhere in the range of 30–33%, and this figure could be even higher if cultural institutions are efficiently restructured and optimised – and I am addressing all heads of cultural institutions. I urge you to act in this way – this does not mean that you should take abrupt measures without thinking it through, but I am sure experienced managers understand what I mean.
”We must make optimal use of such mechanisms as public control, expert assessment and debate in all areas that are as sensitive and crucial as the preservation of cultural and historical heritage. This is the objective requirement of the time, a conscious policy of engaging a maximum number of people in national affairs and making key strategic decisions. Modern information technologies make it possible to do this effectively.“
Of course, we need to develop efficient mechanisms that would allow us to use historical and cultural heritage safely and effectively. I believe that we need to expedite the establishment of a clear system of state control and public monitoring of cultural heritage and on the whole move away from the protection of individual monuments to the comprehensive protection of historical cities and villages.
Special attention should be devoted to small towns across Russia with their unique culture and spirit. Incidentally, this is a powerful resource for the development of the tourism industry, with its enormous potential for small and medium businesses, and the creation of thousands of new jobs. I ask the Culture Ministry to tackle these issues in close contact with the Council for Culture, and to prepare a government report on the state of cultural monuments, reflecting all the existing problems and proposals on how to resolve them. The report must be submitted to the Government in October and open to public discussion.
I emphasise that we must make optimal use of such mechanisms as public control, expert assessment and debate in all areas that are as sensitive and crucial as the preservation of cultural and historical heritage. This is the objective requirement of the time, a conscious policy of engaging a maximum number of people in national affairs and making key strategic decisions. Modern information technologies make it possible to do this effectively.
I believe that the work of state agencies must also be open and accessible as they join efforts with public organisations, including our Council and other Presidential councils governing humanitarian issues. They should provide feedback and help coordinate the interests of various professional and social groups. We could create a website that would provide updated information on the work of the councils, their achievements and progress made in implementing instructions. I propose that the Council for Culture should become a pioneer in this area, especially since many of those present have interesting initiatives, which we have previously discussed. I think they have great potential.
I support the idea of establishing four committees as part of the Council for Culture. They will be responsible for the practical dimension of our work so that we don’t just meet once or twice a year and talk about abstract problems. Such four subcommittees could certainly be useful and I fully agree with the authors of this idea. We must attract the public, experts, and everyone who is interested and cares about these efforts. We should discuss the formats of the committees’ work and their priorities.
<…>
  Topics
Culture
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Commissions and Councils, Council for Culture and Art
Publication date: September 25, 2012, 18:15
Text versionEvents
Joint news conference with Prime Minister of Luxembourg Jean-Claude Juncker
September 25, 2012
22:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 3
Joint news conference with Prime Minister of Luxembourg Jean-Claude Juncker.
See also
Meeting with Prime Minister of Luxembourg Jean-Claude Juncker
September 25, 2012
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good evening, ladies and gentlemen.
Today, Mr Juncker and I had a substantive conversation about key issues in our cooperation, as well as the international agenda.
Cooperation between Russia and Luxembourg is developing successfully and may be certainly classified as partnership. We are maintaining regular, trust-based political dialogue and cooperating on a mutually beneficial basis in the trade, economy, science, technology, and in the humanitarian sector.
Luxembourg is a major investor. Together with China and the Netherlands, it is one of the top three investors of capital into the Russian economy. The figure is quite high – 36.7 billion dollars. We are well aware that this is largely due to the repatriation of Russian capital. Nevertheless, if it passes through Luxembourg’s financial and banking system and returns to Russia’s economy then that, too, is positive.
Among other areas, investments are being directed toward the implementation of new technologies and such important sectors of the Russian economy as infrastructure, communications, including satellite and space-based communications, the metallurgical industry and medicine. Innovative projects include producing energy efficient glass, developing joint pharmaceuticals and a host of others. Many of these are being implemented on a multilateral basis.
Luxembourg’s banking circles are assisting in the development of Russia’s securities market and its full-fledged integration into global financial markets. This is a very important area of our cooperation. We will continue to broaden economic ties between Russia and Luxembourg. Our joint commission plays a special role in this process. Mr Juncker and I agreed that the new co-chairs from Russia and Luxembourg will hold another session of this commission soon.
We intend to foster tight cooperation between Luxembourg and Russia’s regions. Already, a significant number of Russian regions are working directly with partners from Luxembourg. We know that during this current visit, Mr Prime Minister will go to the Republic of Tatarstan and Tambov Region. We are glad to see the development of cooperation on a regional scale. I am certain that it will benefit our bilateral relations.
During our talks, we discussed the situation in the Eurozone. I am very grateful to Mr Juncker. Mr Prime Minister is not just the Prime Minister of Luxembourg, but also a major European politician (I am certain of this, and he knows that this is my point of view). He has presided over the Euro Group for many years – a group of which the finance and economic ministers are members. And naturally, it was very important for us to hear an assessment of the situation in the Eurozone from a direct source.
We also touched on the problems in the relations between Russia and the EU. For our part, we emphasised our interest in transferring to a visa-free travel regime as quickly as possible. I am very pleased that Mr Prime Minister shares this approach. I hope that our other colleagues, including colleagues from the European Commission, will also work on implementing these joint goals more actively.
I sincerely thank our colleagues from Luxembourg, all our colleagues and Mr Prime Minister personally, for today’s constructive dialogue and productive joint work.
Thank you for your attention.
Prime Minister of Luxembourg Jean-Claude Juncker
(retranslated): Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, the relations between Russia and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg are excellent, just like the relations between the President of the Russian Federation and the Prime Minister of Luxembourg.
We have been maintaining a rich dialogue for many years now. We have some disagreements as well as convergences in views. Ultimately, there are more similarities than differences. Thus, we discussed bilateral issues existing in our relations.
I am very grateful to the President of Russia for his agreement to improve aerial service between our nations and, of course, our agencies will continue advancing in this regard. I thank the President of Russia for understanding Luxembourg’s concerns on eliminating visas. And we fully understand Russia’s position, since this issue must be resolved adequately, taking into account the ambitious objectives that stand before Russia and the European Union in their cooperation.
And I am very happy that the State Duma will be ratifying the agreement on avoiding double taxation between Russia and Luxembourg this October, as the President told me.
We spent a long time discussing problems pertaining to issues that are still unresolved with regard to the Eurozone’s debt burden. As the president of the Euro Group, I thank Russia for its policies demonstrating loyalty and consistency toward the Eurozone, which is of decisive importance for us.
We also talked about the situation in the region. Russia is an important regional player in this, shall we say, complicated region of the world. Moreover, we discussed the issue of human rights in Russia and other countries. In addition, we spoke about issues regarding the situations in Syria and Afghanistan.
I thank Russian President Vladimir Putin for finding the time for today’s meeting, which serves as another testament to our friendship.
Question: Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I have several questions: on Syria, the tensions between China and Japan, and on the Eurozone, but I will stick to one question and ask you about human rights. You said that you and Mr Putin discussed at the start of your meeting the things the Russian federal government intends to and should do to improve the human rights situation in Russia, taking into account the criticism from organisations such as Human Rights Watch and European parliamentarians’ groups.
Jean-Claude Juncker (retranslated): Yes, I have discussed the human rights issue with the Russian President during our personal meetings and our telephone conversations. To be honest, I do not like to lecture others on human rights, but I do discuss the issue. I want to make myself clearly understood on this point: in order to play an effective part in helping to resolve these problems I am happy to discuss such issues, but not at news conferences. We did discuss these matters, raised the question, but, frankly, I do not want to repeat everything we said here before you now. I think it is sufficient for you to know that we did discuss this issue.
”Cooperation between Russia and Luxembourg is developing successfully. We are maintaining regular, trust-based political dialogue and cooperating on a mutually beneficial basis in the trade, economy, science, technology, and in the humanitarian sector.“
Vladimir Putin: Yes, we did talk about this matter. Mr Juncker and I have known each other for a long time now, and I think he would agree that we have good and friendly relations. He is frank in sharing with me his point of view on all the various issues, including human rights issues, and we discuss things openly and freely, without any limitations. 
As for international human rights organisations’ assessments, they make various assessments about the situation in many different countries. I have already given some examples. It is enough to look at their assessments of the prison system, say, in some of the European Union countries. We all see the things that are going on there. We have problems here in Russia too. My only objection is that attention should not focus on Russia’s problems alone.
There are common problems that we share. In many Muslim countries now, for example, people are protesting against the release of an anti-Islamic film that they see as a violation of their rights. I have not heard about anyone being punished for this. There are always going to be differences in understanding about where to draw the lines between the natural limits that specific cultural, historical and traditional frameworks place on human rights, and the rights that should be universally recognised and upheld without any limitation and universal common moral and spiritual values that we must all defend and protect. My basic position is that Russia does have problems in this area, as do all countries, and we always discuss them openly with our partners, including with Mr Juncker.
Question: My question is for both leaders and concerns one of the issues you discussed, namely, the Eurozone’s problems. Mr Junkcer, as a specialist and one of the people most closely involved in this matter, how do you see the outlook as far as the crisis goes? How likely is it that it will worsen, and what possible solutions do you see?
Mr Putin, in this respect, my question for you is: should Russia be worried about its assets? How big is the risk to Russian assets?
And I’d like to tack on a question about relations with Europe, only of a more indirect kind. As things stand at the moment, Russia abolished daylight saving and stayed on winter time, but this creates communication problems as it puts us on different time. There has been a lot of talk in Russia lately about going back to summer time. Could you tell us your point of view? Are you for or against this idea?
Jean-Claude Juncker (retranslated): Friends, I think this issue does not really concern Luxembourg. Time zones and the problems of time zone differences do not affect us because of our country’s small size, so, if you don’t mind, I will not answer this question. 
Regarding the Eurozone, as I explained to the President and the Prime Minister, those who think that the Eurozone is about to collapse soon are severely mistaken. The Eurozone partners are strongly committed to keeping the common currency and maintaining the zone’s financial stability. We are a lot stronger than we look, and are ready to battle any difficulties we may encounter on the way.
We are better prepared than we were a few years ago. We have put in place a financial stability mechanism, which I will announce on October 8 as an officially launched programme. This instrument will enable us to respond to immediate short-term risks and fluctuations that could negatively impact our financial stability. I am absolutely certain that we can and must guarantee the Eurozone’s financial stability, and I know we are up to the task. I am not saying that this will be easy, but I can say honestly that this is our objective and we are putting all our hopes and efforts into this work.
Vladimir Putin: On the question of our assets, our gold and currency reserves, it is true that we keep a substantial share of these reserves in euros (slightly less than half, but this is the biggest share). We are fully aware of the risks, but we take the view that the European economy’s fundamentals – and this is the most important thing in the end – are solid enough to maintain the common currency in place. At any rate, we see the European Commission and the Eurozone’s key actors’ determination to improve the situation, and we have confidence in their policies.
On the daylight savings debate, I have not been following these discussions just of late, but I am aware of the attention Russian public opinion has been giving this issue.
As we know, Mr Medvedev made this decision when he was President. I discussed the matter with him recently, and he is willing to change that decision, but the question is simply a matter of how best to go about the change.
This matter came up during the election campaign too, and I said then and say again now that we will analyse the whole situation once more, look at how the decision that was taken has worked in practice, and then, without haste and fuss, we will make a final decision. The decision will be made at the Government Cabinet level. I think this would be the best and most proper way to go about resolving this problem.
Thank you.
Geography
Luxembourg
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Juncker Jean-Claude
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 25, 2012, 22:30
Text version