Events
First phase of Boguchansk Hydroelectric Power Plant has been launched
Vladimir Putin observed the launching ceremony for first-phase operations of the Boguchansk Hydroelectric Power Plant in Krasnoyarsk Territory via videoconference.
October 15, 2012
17:15
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
Vladimir Putin observes the launching ceremony for first-phase operations of the Boguchansk Hydroelectric Power Plant in Krasnoyarsk Territory via videoconference.
Other participants in the videoconference included Deputy Prime Minister Arkady Dvorkovich
, Energy Minister Alexander Novak
, Basic Element CEO Oleg Deripaska
, RusHydro CEO Yevgeny Dod and Krasnoyarsk Territory Governor Lev Kuznetsov.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
Today we have an important and very pleasant event. Today, we will witness the launch of the first phase of the Boguchansk Hydroelectric Power Plant. As you recall, the work to build it began back in Soviet era, in 1980. Then in the mid-1990s, 1994 to be specific, everything came to a halt. It was only in 2006 that we resumed efforts to implement this project fully. Today, a very important step is to take place: we will be launching two units. The entire project should be completed soon.
I should say that in the last four years, we brought 12 giga-watts of new energy generation into operation, and by the end of this year we should be implementing 6 more giga-watts. These are very rapid rates.
The new power plant will certainly give strong momentum to the economy of the entire Krasnoyarsk Territory, as well as all of Siberia, increasing the reliability of its consolidated power supply system and offering new opportunities for developing the economy. This will include new production facilities and new social services such as stadiums, hospitals and educational institutions, because it is impossible to build anything if there is not enough electrical power.
This no doubt includes the Boguchansk Aluminium Smelter, a major company that creates many new high-level jobs. I very much count on the executives of RusHydro and RUSAL to do everything in order for these projects to develop as vigorously as possible for the good of our people.
This is a very good example of a public-private partnership. I already mentioned the RusHydro and RUSAL companies; this work was structured through involvement of Vnesheconombank and the level of its organisation was commendable. Aggregate investments in the project exceeded 90 billion rubles [about 3 billion dollars] – these are very serious investments. As of October 1, 2012, 77 billion rubles have already been invested, including 60 billion rubles from the RusHydro and RUSAL companies, and 17 billion from Vnesheconombank.
”The new power plant will certainly give strong momentum to the economy of the entire Krasnoyarsk Territory, as well as all of Siberia, increasing the reliability of its consolidated power supply system and offering new opportunities for developing the economy.“
Boguchansk HPP will be at its full capacity very soon and I would like to point out the need for strict adherence to all environmental requirements.
There is one more issue to which I want to draw the attention of all the participants in this project, as well as regional and local authorities. Constructing such facilities certainly affects people’s interests. It is done for the people, but it also affects their interests – particularly those who live in the nearby areas. I am not sure that all the social issues are fully– this is something I want to stress – fully resolved. I demand that the authorities at all levels and the executives at the companies take this into account. Of course, these efforts should be supervised by the governors. In the immediate future I expect information and reports on what has been done for people who are being displaced, what has been done to maintain environmental safety, and in general on all issues of this nature.
But overall, I would like to once again emphasise that this is a major event for the economy of Siberia and all of Russia. I congratulate all of you on this result.
I give the floor to our colleagues.
Viktor Uporov [General Director of Boguchansk HPP Construction Company]: Good evening, Mr President,
Today is a momentous day for hydropower construction workers and energy sector professionals: the power plant is ready to launch its first hydraulic unit. The construction history of the Boguchansk HPP stretches back over the past 30 years. The launch was initially planned in 1992. On October 25 we will celebrate the 25th anniversary of damming Angara. However, the construction was halted with the beginning of perestroika.
One of the oldest veterans of Boguchansk HPP construction is with us here today: Dmitry Sarikiyan started working at the hydroelectric power plant in 1981. He participated in the laying of the first block of concrete and damming the Angara River. He is still working on the construction site. We have many people like him, and thanks to their dedication the construction project kept going strong through the most difficult years.
Mr President, in October 2005, you issued instructions to the Government of the Russian Federation to complete the construction of the Boguchansk HPP. Teams of designers, construction and installation companies embarked on the project; factories received orders for manufacturing equipment. The city of Kodinsk came to life again. Work began in the Krasnoyarsk Territory on the construction of roads, power lines of the Boguchansk Aluminium Smelter and other facilities.
Mr President, we are very grateful to you for the years of hard work for the benefit of the people, for developing Eastern Siberia and all of Russia.
In May 2012, we began filling the reservoir. The pre-commissioning work began at the site under the direction and control of lead engineers and the Federal Service for Supervision of Environment, Technology and Nuclear Management. We plan to launch three hydraulic units in the near future, gradually put the remaining six generating units into operation, and the Boguchansk HPP will reach its design capacity of 3,000 mega-watts in 2013.
The power plant has cutting edge monitoring and control systems. Having learnt a lesson from the accident at the Sayano-Shushenskaya HPP, we provided for closing gates and guide vanes in case of power outage, and a host of other solutions. The Boguchansk HPP is the most advanced and one of the top five largest hydroelectric power plants in Russia.
Mr President, two hydraulic units of the Boguchansk HPP have passed through the entire complex of commissioning and testing procedures and are ready to be put into operation. Will you give the order to launch two hydraulic units of the Boguchansk Hydroelectric Power Plant?
Vladimir Putin: Launch the units.
Viktor Uporov: Construction veteran Dmitry Sarikiyan will press the start button together with a representative of our young professionals, Roman Perevalov.
Vladimir Putin: Go ahead.
Viktor Uporov: Launch the units.
Our colleagues are approaching the hydraulic unit’s control panel and are about to press the start button. This is the most reliable and modern automatic control system. At the moment, the automatic system is processing the launch algorithm. Now you can hear a noise: the guiding device is opening, the shaft is rotating and the unit is gaining momentum. The synchronisation is in progress.
Vladimir Putin: Congratulations to all of you, to everyone who worked at the site and continues to work here: the builders, engineers and workers.
Mr Sarikiyan, how did you feel when the work practically stopped in 1994? How did you manage to keep the site in the condition in which it was when we resumed the work in 2006?
Dmitry Sarikiyan: Naturally, when the construction was halted, there was some uncertainty; we did not know what the future held for us. But we were confident that a construction project of such calibre would have to be resumed one day. That gave us strength. When it was decided to resume the construction of Boguchansk HPP, the people were very happy. You could say that they had waited for that moment for thirty years. This would be an unforgettable event in the life of any person, but if you put your sweat and blood in the project, it’s a real holiday. 
Vladimir Putin: How many people worked here in the 1990s? How many people were employed in the project in the period from 1994 to 2005?
Viktor Uporov: The Boguchansk HPP employed about 600 people.
Vladimir Putin: And now?
Viktor Uporov: We have over 4,000 people working at the construction site.
Vladimir Putin: I congratulate you once again on this momentous event, and I want to thank you with all my heart for your hard work, your patience and your confidence that the power plant will be completed.
Good luck to you! All the best.
Viktor Uporov: Mr President, we would like to invite you to the launch ceremony in the autumn of 2013, when all nine units will be in operation and the power plant will reach its full capacity.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you, I will be happy to attend. Thank you.
Geography
Krasnoyarsk Territory
Topics
Energy
Persons
Deripaska Oleg
Dvorkovich Arkady
Novak Alexander
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 15, 2012, 17:15
Text versionEvents
Meeting on improving efficacy of asset management in power supply sector
Vladimir Putin held a meeting on improving efficacy of asset management in power supply sector.
October 15, 2012
18:00
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 4
Meeting on improving efficacy of asset management in power supply sector.
Participants in the meeting included Deputy Prime Minister Arkady Dvorkovich
, Energy Minister Alexander Novak
, head of the Federal Tariff Service Sergei Novikov, as well as Federal Grid Company of Unified Energy System and Interregional Distribution Grid Companies Holding executives.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues,
We have gathered today to discuss the key issue of developing the electric power industry, First and foremost, we will be analysing how to increase efficiency in managing companies of the sector.
I should note straight away that the power industry has been and is a highly important component in Russia’s economy. Russia’s energy security depends greatly on its reliable and stable functioning. “Energy security” is such a vague term, but we all understand that without the electric power industry, without developing power grid facilities, there may be no industrial manufacturing growth.
We also cannot improve the social sector or our export potential without developing the power industry and our power grid facilities. I recall very well – and you probably do, too – the problems that we faced after the so-called “ice rain” when all the weak points of the power grid became absolutely clear, such as lack of capacities, low quality of performance and deterioration at times.
”The power industry has been and is a highly important component in Russia’s economy. Russia’s energy security depends greatly on its reliable and stable functioning.“
In the 2000s, significant structural transformations were made in the sector, private investors got involved, and over the last five years capital investments in the power industry have accounted for over 3.7 trillion rubles [$120 billion]. We have brought over 90,000 kilometres of electric power lines into operation. I will also note that the Federal Grid Company of Unified Energy System (FGC UES) currently owns more than 124,000 kilometres of backbone power lines, while the Interregional Distribution Grid Companies Holding (IDGC Holding) is managing over two million kilometres of distribution grids in 69 regions of Russia. Their main task is to ensure reliability, quality and accessibility to electric power supply services for consumers. The two companies have launched major investment projects and within next three years, FGC UES intends to implement an investment programme worth over 500 billion rubles [$16 billion], while IDGC Holding plans to invest over 300 billion rubles.
At the same time, the logic of economy demands changing and improving the management mechanisms in electric power companies. As you remember, we discussed this issue at the first session of the Commission for Strategic Development of the Fuel and Energy Sector and Environmental Security, I believe, on July 10 of this year. The ministries have already prepared specific suggestions.
However, before we review them, I want to draw your attention to a few key issues.
First, changes in the management should ultimately benefit the consumers of these companies’ services. Our people and organisations should be able to connect to electrical grids without delays and problems, ideally at financially justified prices, at reasonable rates. At the same time, as I said earlier, it is very important how much a consumer will pay for electricity.
Russia’s large energy resources and their relatively low cost remain its economy’s competitive advantages, even though in recent years their cost has increased significantly and continues to grow, in part due to an increase in the grid component cost that, on average, accounts for over one third of the cost of electricity for the end consumer – more than one third. New, better managementmust play an important role in curbing the growth in electricity prices.
”We will have to increase the efficacy of the common technical power supply network and its competitiveness, first and foremost, by reducing the share of capital and operational costs of the companies, introducing an energy efficiency programme, and reducing electrical transmission losses.“
Second, we will have to increase the efficacy of the common technical power supply network and its competitiveness, first and foremost, by reducing the share of capital and operational costs of the companies, introducing an energy efficiency programme, and reducing electrical transmission losses. We will need broader use of innovative approaches to grids exploitation, intellectual energy networks and energy systems.
Synchronising programmes for developing backbone networks and distribution grids is also an important objective, as is conducting a unified technological policy.
Third, I believe that in adjusting the management mechanisms for power grid facilities, it is imperative to take into account the interests of all the companies’ shareholders. The measures taken should be viewed positively by the investment community, including minority shareholders.
As you recall, at the recent VTB Capital RUSSIA CALLING! Investment Forum both Russian and foreign entrepreneurs once again stressed the need to protect the rights of minority shareholders more effectively. Overall, we know perfectly well that the economies where the rights of minority shareholders are securely guaranteed, see more money inflow, and the money feels safer there.
Right now, the state holds controlling stakes in the main energy companies. It holds a 79.55 percent share of the capital stock in FGC UES, while minority shareholders account for 20.45 percent. The corresponding figures for IDGC Holding are 54.52 and 45.48 percent of shares. I think that we all understand that the percentages of minority shareholders are significant and securing their rights is an important condition for attracting new investments, as I already said, both Russian and foreign. For them, it is very important to have a favourable business climate, reliability, and predictability of our steps.
Overall, I would like to note the importance of continuing daily efforts to create an effective institutional environment for attracting investments in energy. The Cabinet must make a series of key regulatory decisions by the end of the year. I am referring to mechanisms for the wholesale and retail market, the gradual elimination of cross-subsidies, and clear and predictable rules that are necessary for attracting long-term investments in the electric power network.
We certainly must remove various barriers for entrepreneurs in getting connected to power grids. Unfortunately, we still have not fully resolved this problem. At the end of last year and the beginning of this one, we took a number of steps that were assessed quite highly by market participants and generally reflected positively on the development of the national electric power complex. But it seems we did not do enough, and this work will need to be continued.
As for possible structural changes, they must be deliberate, thought-out, without any excessively impulsive actions; they must be based on the practical operation of the companies in recent years. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that both market participants and the governors of the Russian Federation’s regions regularly raise questions about improving the management mechanisms. But this does not mean we should act impulsively, without thinking through all the consequences of every step that you will be proposing today in this domain.
Let us begin our work.
<…>
Topics
Energy
Persons
Dvorkovich Arkady
Nabiullina Elvira
Novak Alexander
Ustinov Anton
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 15, 2012, 18:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Central Election Commission Chairman Vladimir Churov
Mr Churov briefed Vladimir Putin on the results of elections held in a number of regions around the country.
October 15, 2012
16:30
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
Meeting with Central Election Commission Chairman Vladimir Churov.
Local and regional elections took place in 77 regions around Russia on a single voting day on October 14. Five regions elected governors through direct popular vote, and six regions held elections to the regional parliaments.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Churov, regional and local elections have just taken place. What are the preliminary results?
Central Election Commission chairman Vladimir Churov: Yes, the single voting day is over. Almost 5,000 election campaigns took place in 77 different regions around the country, and there were almost 60,000 registered candidates. Following the election system reforms, 27 different parties were able to take part in the elections, 26 parties put forward lists of candidates, and in the final result 25 parties actually took part in the voting.
As for gubernatorial elections, which were taking place for the first time after a long hiatus, turnout was quite decent at 50 percent and higher. We expected a good turnout, as there was a lot of interest in the gubernatorial elections. The turnout was a bit lower for the elections to regional legislative assemblies, but was at a similar level to the last round of regional elections.
Vladimir Putin: It seems to me that’s always the case: the turnout is always a bit lower for the elections to regional legislative assemblies. 
Vladimir Churov: As far as the results go, United Russia is in the lead, followed by the Communist Party [KPRF] in second, the Liberal Democratic Party [LDPR] in third place in general, A Just Russia in fourth place, and in fifth place – the first time with such a result – Patriots of Russia. In the Republic of North Ossetia-Alania they got a quarter of the vote and won almost a fifth of the seats in the republic’s parliament.
See also
Law on single election day
October 3, 2012
I should also mention the successes of some of the new parties. Newcomers such as the Communist Party of Social Justice got around 3 percent of the vote on Sakhalin, as did Right Cause, though this is an older party. The Republican Party, which has had its official registration restored, broke the 5-percent threshold in the Bryansk Region.
Overall the elections were calm. We received just over 50 appeals on the voting day, some of which were purely formal in nature.
Weather conditions in the Far East and Siberia were not the best, with snowfalls, but we made sure that voting took place even in the most remote and difficult-to-access regions. During a videoconference this morning I asked about whether voting had taken place on Cape Krilyon. The border guards there helped to organise the voting. There are not many voters out there, but all the necessary was done. 
The web cameras were working for all of the gubernatorial elections, and at the regional authorities’ initiative web cameras were installed at all polling stations for the Kaliningrad mayoral election, and at all polling stations taking part in local elections in the Moscow Region towns of Pushkino, Voskresensk, and Khimki.
Acting on the requests from the regions we sent out around half of all of the electronic ballot boxes that we have, equipping 2,500 polling stations with them.
Vladimir Putin: So this technology is performing well?
Vladimir Churov: The voters like these machines because they talk too.
Vladimir Putin: And were there glitches of any kind?
Vladimir Churov: We’ve got the full statistics on that. To date, we have 27 polling stations where work was temporarily halted. At 5 polling stations the problems were mostly due to ‘human error’, things like the commission getting mixed up about which stamp to use.
Vladimir Putin: Were there any violations registered?
Vladimir Churov: Yes, our data and the Interior Ministry reports recorded a number of violations. The Interior Ministry reports give a figure of just over 100 cases, including administrative cases. This figure covers all participants in the election process: the members of the electoral commissions, above all the district commissions, and also the observers, including observers from the media.
There were around 100,000 observers. That is an approximate figure. We did not count the total figure, but we know there were a lot. There were tens of thousands for the gubernatorial elections alone. In total, nationwide, 50 people were removed from the polling stations, and in each case a report on administrative violations was drawn up.
Vladimir Putin: Could these violations affect the election results in any way?
Vladimir Churov: Not at all. I saw myself how the elections took place in towns where there were problems in the past, in Kasimov, for example, where local elections caused quite a stir during the summer, and Voskresensk, where there were all sorts of problems back in 2003. But this time, now that we have replaced the old local election commissions with new members, there were no problems with the voting.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Churov, I want to thank you and all the members of the Central Election Commission and all of your colleagues in the local and regional commissions for their work. This work is always high-pressure and requires a lot of dedication, organisation, and discipline. Your colleagues have displayed these qualities and I thank you for this. 
The election results are not a surprise for me. I think they reconfirm the voters’ support for the current institutions of government and our policies to develop Russia’s statehood, and I thank the voters for their support.
I will meet with the newly elected leaders. We are in constant contact, and I will of course remind them that the public wants to see effective and energetic work from them. The main task of those elected, whether deputies of legislative assemblies or executive heads, is to resolve the tasks facing their regions and the country as a whole. People expect to see real results from their work. There are still a lot of problems, but the overwhelming majority of those elected are experienced professionals who know how to work. They now have to prove their qualities and live up to the trust the voters have placed in them.
I hope too, that they will pay attention to the demands of those who did not win in these elections. Far from all of the opposition parties’ demands are unacceptable or unnecessary. On the contrary, they have many useful proposals, and their views should be taken into account too in work together. Once again, thank you very much for organising these elections.
Vladimir Churov: Mr President, on behalf of our electoral system, let me thank you for signing the very important law enabling us to set up the district election commissions for the term of five years. Given that the election process in general in Russia is becoming more open and better organised, it will be easier for us to train the local election commissions over a five-year period. We have already introduced a testing system and will soon complete work on the procedures for establishing the local commissions. By next April, in accordance with the law’s provisions, we will start establishing these new ‘semi-professional’ district election commissions. We are very grateful to you for this law, as it was a longstanding request of ours.
We also want to thank the law enforcement agencies. We have a joke that goes: ‘the police work ideally on voting day, so let’s hold elections every day’. The police worked as well as always and there were no serious incidents. Everything went smoothly and our local election commission members felt safe. There was just one incident – in Saratov Region.
The situation in Khimki was potentially tense by evening, but there too, I was monitoring the situation and I think the police worked very well, without any problems.
Vladimir Putin: Good, this is very pleasing to hear. Let me say again that in my view, after the presidential election, this is the latest big step in strengthening our country’s statehood and putting in place the conditions for energetic and effective development over the coming years and the medium term. Thank you very much for your work.
<…>
Topics
Civil service
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 15, 2012, 16:30
Text version