Events
Meeting with representatives of Russian and Spanish business communities
Vladimir Putin and King Juan Carlos I of Spain had a discussion with representatives of the Russian and Spanish business communities on bilateral cooperation prospects in various sectors of economy.
July 19, 2012
17:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 5
Meeting with representatives of Russian and Spanish business communities.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Your Majesty,
Friends and colleagues,
Once more, I wish you a warm welcome to Moscow. 
Before starting the business part of our lunch, I want to congratulate Your Majesty and all of our Spanish colleagues on your football team’s victory in the European Championship. This was an outstanding achievement not seen in a long time – winning the world cup and also winning the European championship twice in a row. We all enjoyed watching your team’s performance and we wish you success. As you know, Russia has the honour of hosting the World Cup in 2018, and we hope that our fans will have the chance to see Spain play here then. 
As for our business relations, I said to His Majesty just before during the meeting in narrow format, that we are happy overall with the way our cooperation is advancing. We have been making progress in a broad range of areas.
To give you a brief outline of how the Russian economy looks today, I can repeat a few facts and figures that most of you are already familiar with.
”We have not postponed any of our policy measures in the social sector. We regularly adjust social benefits and pensions and have introduced several new and effective social support measures.“
We are satisfied overall with the state of Russia’s economy at this difficult time. Our GDP grew by 4.3 percent last year, and this was the biggest increase among the major European economies. Unemployment has dropped substantially, and at 5.4 percent is now lower than the pre-crisis level in 2008. Our inflation is still quite high by European standards, but is at its lowest level here in 20 years, with a figure of 6.1 percent last year. At the same time, the Central Bank and Government reserves continue to grow. The Central Bank’s gold and currency reserves now come to $514 billion, and we also have the two Government reserve funds with $60 billion and $85 billion. This makes for quite a stable situation in the economy and enables us to meet our social sector commitments.
We have not postponed any of our policy measures in the social sector. We regularly adjust social benefits and pensions and have introduced several new and quite effective social support measures. It is especially pleasing to see that slow but nonetheless visible change is taking place in our demographic situation. We had the biggest increase in population last year for the last 19 years. Unfortunately, we still face a population decline problem, but that we achieved the best result in the last 19 years nonetheless shows that families are starting to plan for the longer term and are feeling more confident now, even though the problems in the global and European economies affect us today in one way or another and obviously cause us concern.
Many of our economic sectors – the chemicals industry, metals sector, and the energy sector – most certainly feel the effects of what is happening in Europe, given that Europe is their main export market, and Russia is also a big market for European companies too.
Overall bilateral trade between Russia and the European Union came to the very decent amount of $394 billion last year. Trade grew even further over the first quarter of this year. In this situation, any problems in the European economy automatically cause ripples for us too, as traditional export markets for our goods contract and prices fall. We therefore hope very much that the European countries will overcome today’s problems, and we will do everything we can to help in this.
We hold a substantial portion of our gold and currency reserves in euros and cannot allow ourselves to take any unilateral steps that might undermine Europe’s currency. Indeed, we do everything we can to help maintain stability in this area.
We know that Spain is going through difficulties and that the Spanish government is having to take some tough but in our eyes unavoidable measures in order to stabilise the situation. We understand what you are doing and what difficulties you are having to overcome, and we think that you are taking absolutely the right course of action. The experts in Russia think that the measures the European Commission and the individual countries are taking to raise financial discipline and consolidate budget capability are definitely steps in the right direction. 
”The biggest problem at the moment is that we still have not concluded a new basic agreement between Russia and the EU. We hope that we will settle on compromise solutions and parameters that make both sides happy.“
A Russia-European Commission summit took place in St Petersburg in June, at which we had the chance to exchange views on the shape of our relations today. Our EU colleagues told us about their plans, and I must say that we felt optimistic, seeing that the European Commission is determined to pursue tough and difficult but necessary measures to fix the problems. 
The biggest problem in our relations at the moment is that we still have not concluded a new basic agreement between Russia and the EU. We hope that work on this agreement will go ahead without hiccups and that we will settle on compromise solutions and parameters that make both sides happy.
As we see it, the EU is still putting excessive demands on Russia at the moment, including with regards to full liberalisation of the energy sector. I think these demands are excessive because foreign participation in Russia’s energy sector is already more than 25 percent overall. To be honest, I know of only few countries that have such a high level of foreign participation in this sector. As for the other main energy suppliers, for the most part, their energy sectors are totally monopolised by state or quasi-state companies. Russia’s energy market has already been liberalised to a large extent and a quarter of it is in the hands of foreign investors. 
Investment in Russia continued to grow last year. We hope to attract an even bigger flow of investment. In this respect, one of our priorities is to encourage private investment, including foreign investment. This is why creating a favourable investment climate in Russia is such a big priority for us. 
We see cooperation with our Spanish partners as very important and of great interest in the general European context. Meeting before with His Majesty and the energy minister and other colleagues in narrow format, we talked about the possibilities for carrying out very promising big projects worth hundreds of millions and in some cases even billions of euros. This means new jobs, new technology, and also work together in other countries’ markets, in Latin America in the case of energy sector projects, and in markets in Europe and Asia. We believe we have already achieved some good results, including in machine-building, transport machine-building, and space exploration. There are many other interesting and promising areas for cooperation, and we take the view that these initiatives are all possible and will be carried out.
It is a great pleasure to welcome Spanish business leaders to Russia today. I hope that you will have the chance to communicate directly with your Russian partners present here, and make use of this opportunity to discuss what has been done so far and outline promising plans for the future. 
Thank you for your attention.
King Juan Carlos I of Spain
(retranslated): Mr President,
This is my third visit to Russia in the last five years, and I have received a very hospitable welcome each time.
”One of our priorities is to encourage private investment, including foreign investment. This is why creating a favourable investment climate in Russia is such a big priority for us.“
Spain faces serious challenges at the moment. We are determined to overcome them. We are working very seriously on the budget issues at the moment. We realise that spending cuts are necessary, but they are not enough alone to overcome the crisis. We also have to take measures to encourage growth. To this end we are undertaking deep-reaching structural reform of our economy in order to restore confidence in our markets and set ourselves once more on a trajectory of growth and new job creation. 
Europe has reached the important point when it must show its firm commitment to keep the common European project alive and working. If we do not stabilise the debt situation and inject new vigour into the lending sector, we will not achieve overall development.
In this sense, the latest decisions by the European Council and the EU members are the first step in the right direction. The time has come for Europe to strengthen the measures it is undertaking by reinforcing its institutional structure. The time has come to give the European project a new boost and reaffirm our determination to work in this direction, as we have from the very beginning. Spain has come through past crises an even stronger country, and we are sure that we will emerge from today’s crisis stronger too, and that the measures we are taking will produce results.
Russia is our strategic partner, and although far away geographically, Russia is close to us. We have excellent bilateral relations, but we think there is great potential to develop them further, and big opportunities for further growth. 
I stress the importance of our economic relations in this respect, Mr President. Representatives of some of our biggest companies have come with me on this visit. Almost all of these companies are currently bidding in tenders organised by Russia, are ready to sign or have already signed contracts with local partners. These are leading companies in energy, infrastructure, transport and engineering, all of them wanting to take part in the various projects that are part of your national modernisation programme. We hope to see Spain play a very active and initiative-taking role in the Partnership for Modernisation that Russia and the European Union have signed.
I also note the tourism sector. We expect to see the number of Russian tourists visiting Spain pass the 1-million mark for the first time in 2012. As you know, Spain has always consistently supported abolishing visas, because this would increase the number of tourists on both sides and in both directions. 
I want to raise my glass to Russia now, to the friendship between us, and to fruitful cooperation between our countries.
<…>
Geography
Spain
Topics
Economy and finance
Foreign policy
Persons
Juan Carlos I
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 19, 2012, 17:30
Text versionEvents
Vladimir Putin presented Russian National Award to King Juan Carlos I of Spain
Vladimir Putin presented King Juan Carlos I of Spain with the certificate and honorary symbol of laureate of the 2010 Russian National Award for Outstanding Achievements in Humanitarian Work.
July 19, 2012
13:50
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 4
With King Juan Carlos I of Spain.
The Russian National Award was conferred to King Juan Carlos I
 by presidential executive order of February 23, 2011. For certain reasons, Juan Carlos I was unable to attend the award ceremony on June 12, 2011 at the Kremlin.
The King of Spain donated the monetary portion of the award to restoring temples in the Spanish city of Lorca which suffered an earthquake in May 2011.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Your Majesty, ladies and gentlemen, friends,
It is truly a great privilege for me to present this honorary symbol of Russian National Award laureate to King Juan Carlos I of Spain.
Those who become laureates of the award for outstanding achievements in humanitarian work do not require any introduction as their actions speak for themselves. These are bright, distinguished individuals who have made an enormous input into promoting moral and humanitarian ideals. All of this fully applies to you, Your Royal Majesty.
You are well-known in your homeland; as the King of Spain, you are a symbol of national unity. You have earned this unique trust through your devotion to the interests of your state and your adherence to the high ideals of European culture. You have always been attentive to people, their concerns and their needs. Many in your country rightfully believe that the King understands their problems like nobody else.
You are greatly respected in Russia. We recognise your successes in the humanitarian sector, as well as your support for “people’s diplomacy,” which helps citizens better know and understand one another, eliminating stereotypes and building joint plans. Through your multifaceted work, you truly promote the reinforcement of mutual understanding and trust between peoples.
We know you as a dedicated advocate for intensifying contacts between our countries’ civil societies, citizens, and business communities. It is symbolic that you arrived in Moscow today with a substantial delegation of Spanish entrepreneurs.
We are always happy to see you in our country as a cherished guest and a true friend of Russia.
Please allow me to once again congratulate you, Your Royal Majesty, on being conferred the Russian National Award. Let me wish you personally, all the members of the royal family, and all the people of Spain success and all the very best.
Thank you for your attention.
King Juan Carlos I of Spain (retranslated): Mr President,
I would like to start this speech by expressing my condolences and solidarity on behalf of the Spanish people in connection with the tragedy of the recent flooding in Krasnodar Territory. Through you, Mr President, we would like to express our sincere condolences to the families of the victims and everyone who has suffered.
Mr President, I am proud that I will be receiving the honorary symbol of the Russian National Award for Outstanding Achievements in Humanitarian Work from you today. This award confirms the historically friendly ties uniting our nations. I am proud to be in the company of the outstanding individuals who have also received this award.
Russia and Spain are ancient, great peoples and nations. Our relations have roots spanning many centuries. In 1667, the first Russian ambassador to Spain arrived at the port of Cadiz, and it was there, in the city of Cadiz, that the first Spanish Constitution saw the light of day a century and a half later, in 1812. This was a significant year for the history of our countries, since it was the year of the first Patriotic War in Russia. Both of these events have promoted the rise of our nations. This year, we are marking their 200th anniversary. I am pleased to say that Russia was the first country to recognise the Cadiz Cortes by way of a treaty of friendship and sincere union and alliance, which was signed by Emperor Alexander I.
The Cadiz Constitution became an example for all other nations and gave rise to political processes that gripped all of Europe, inspiring the political development of our brotherly nations in Latin America; it also became a symbol of freedom in Russia.
Spanish thinker and philosopher Jose Ortega y Gasset said that Spain and Russia are two key points on what he called “the great diagonal of Europe”. And although we are far from the continent’s geographic centre, we are essential to understanding Europe’s identity and humanitarian input.
Spain welcomes the achievements of your country on the path to progress, already being observed in your nation over the last 20 years. Russia has become a first-rate partner for Europe. Our ties go far beyond the framework of geographic vicinity, because Russia and the European Union are members of one large family. And in this sense, you certainly understand that as far as relations with Europe are concerned, you can always count on Spain’s support.
Because of the entrepreneurial spirits of our peoples, our countries have been able to quickly surpass the bounds of their geographic zone and surroundings, building bridges to America, Asia, the Pacific Region and North Africa. I spoke about this in St Petersburg, when we were launching the Year of Russia in Spain and the Year of Spain in Russia – it is impossible to understand Europe without understanding the footsteps and contributions of our states. The challenges we are facing in the 21st century require joint actions.
European countries and Russia have proven their ability to cooperate in overcoming global threats and challenges such as terrorism and maritime piracy. On the other hand, the processes of political transformation and change currently underway in the Arab World and in North Africa open opportunities for building mutual understanding and cooperation. We are responsible for this together and must join forces to put an end to the dramatic events in Syria. No doubt, all of this must occur within the framework of the United Nations.
Mr President, Spain and Russia are strong because of their people and the international community is going through a period wherein our peoples’ values, such as pride in one’s nation, courage, hard work and a sense of purpose, are highly important and necessary. We are living through a very difficult time: we need to develop a vision of the future and work together to achieve our joint goals. Our pan-European space must become an area of prosperity and progress. Our peoples deserve this.
Mr President, it is a great honour for me to accept this award. I know that we must cooperate for the sake of freedom and modernisation, taking into account our joint responsibility for the world’s future. At the same time, I believe that we must not forget about the humanitarian achievements that we have reached. Thus, I would like to say that I am donating the monetary portion of this award to rebuilding the city of Lorca, which suffered from an earthquake in 2011. I very much hope that the damage will be repaired.
I want to once again express my condolences in connection with the recent flooding in Krasnodar Territory.
I thank you from the bottom of my heart.
Geography
Spain
Topics
Foreign policy
State awards
Persons
Juan Carlos I
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 19, 2012, 13:50
Text versionEvents
Meeting with King Juan Carlos I of Spain
Vladimir Putin and Juan Carlos I discussed prospects for developing Russian-Spanish relations.
July 19, 2012
14:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 2
Meeting with King Juan Carlos I of Spain.
Earlier, the President of Russia presented the King of Spain with the Russian National Award for Outstanding Achievements in Humanitarian Work in 2010.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Your Majesty, please allow me to once again sincerely welcome you to Moscow.
I would like to thank you for accepting our invitation and congratulate you one more time on receiving the National Award of the Russian Federation.
Your decision to donate the monetary part of this award to help a city that suffered from an earthquake is truly an excellent use for this money.
I want to thank you for your condolences in connection with the great tragedy in the south of Russia, where many people died as a result of flooding.
I want to note, Your Majesty, that relations between our countries are developing very successfully. This is true of the economy and of our political contacts.
I am very pleased to note that you have brought a large group of Spanish entrepreneurs with you. We will now have the chance to meet and talk with them.
I am certain that your visit will serve as another occasion to explore opportunities that remain unused.
Now, with the global economy going through difficult times, such contacts are most useful as behind every project and every investment, there are companies, people and new jobs.
We are very happy to see you. Welcome!
King Juan Carlos I 
Of Spain (retranslated): Thank you very much for your welcome, and thank you very much for this award – it is an honour for me personally and for all the people of Spain.
I would like to note that I arrived here accompanied by a significant delegation that includes Spanish businesspeople, as you have already noted. The goal is to develop the already excellent relations existing between Russia and Spain even further.
This morning, I had the chance to meet and speak with the mayor of Moscow. He and I discussed the project for expanding Moscow: this is a large-scale, highly significant project.
My delegation, the delegation of entrepreneurs, includes representatives of various sectors: energy, infrastructure, defence. I should say they represent world-class companies. For example, in use of wind energy or renewable energy resources, our companies are at the forefront.
My delegation also includes two ministers: the Foreign Minister and the Industry, Energy and Tourism Minister, as well as two state secretaries one of whom is in charge of trade issues, while the other is responsible for promoting Spain throughout the world.
I would like to personally thank you for the warm welcome I experience every time I visit Russia. Whenever I come here, I always feel at home.
Thank you.
<…>
Geography
Spain
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Juan Carlos I
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 19, 2012, 14:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with State Duma party faction leaders
Vladimir Putin met with the leaders of the four State Duma party factions: United Russia, Communist Party, A Just Russia, and LDPR.
July 19, 2012
19:00
1 of 8
Meeting with State Duma party faction leaders.
The meeting saw an exchange of views on the State Duma’s spring session, and also discussion on legislative initiatives for the upcoming autumn session.
This was Mr Putin’s first meeting with the State Duma party faction leaders since taking office as president.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
You know that just a few hours ago in Kazan, attempts were made on the lives of President of the Spiritual Directorate of Muslims of the Republic of Tatarstan Ildus Faizov, and Head of the Spiritual Board of Muslims of the Republic of Tatarstan’s Educational Department Valiulla Yakupov. Mr Faizov was wounded and is in hospital, and Mr Yakupov was killed. 
I just spoke before with the director of the Federal Security Service. The law enforcement agencies will do everything possible to identify and punish the criminals. I have no doubt that they will inevitably be caught.
These events remind us once again that the situation in our country is far from ideal and that we all must remain very vigilant, all of the political forces that want to strengthen Russia’s unity and ensure order in our land so that our people can live in peace, raise their children, and develop the economy. We must analyse the situation in the country very thoroughly and in our political decisions act in the people’s good and not in corporate or group interests. As for party interests, they can be but secondary considerations in this respect. What has happened is a serious signal. 
Overall, we are aware of the situation in particular regions, but it is not enough simply to be aware. We are to understand what is going on, analyse the situation and make timely decisions. In the case of this particular tragic event, no pre-emptive steps were taken.
”We always must remember when making our decisions where we are, what challenges we face, what consequences each decision might have, and how they will affect our country’s life in general.“
But let’s come back to the purpose of today’s meeting. We are meeting in expanded format today, with three deputies representing each faction. I hope that this will give the factions and the political parties they represent in parliament greater opportunities not only for their leaders but also for other members to voice their opinions and set out their vision on the ways and means for developing our country, our economy, and our social and political spheres.
The State Duma has just ended its spring session. You have worked hard and our political system has undergone many changes. The decision was taken, as you know, to make it easier to set up new political parties, the procedures for gubernatorial elections were changed, and proposals were made on changing the way the Council of Federation is formed.
All of these decisions were the right ones and were motivated by the changing situation in our country, and I noted at the start the importance of keeping up with the situation. We always must remember when making our decisions where we are, what challenges we face, what consequences each decision might have, and how they will affect our country’s life in general.
As I just said, I think we have made absolutely the right decisions. They now should be properly implemented. We must ensure that our decisions are applied in civilised fashion in practice, based on the laws. They must be carefully and calmly put into effect in strict compliance with the spirit and letter of the laws we pass. At the same time, we must ensure that destructive forces have no chance to use these decisions to attempt to destabilise Russia. We must not leave any avenue open for them to use terrorism and crime.
As you know, the global economy is in a difficult situation and is going through troubled times. Many countries are taking austerity measures to curb social spending and reduce their social spending commitments.
Fortunately, the economic transformations we have undertaken in Russia have so far saved us from having to follow suit, and our economic policy has enabled us to continue so far to meet all of our social commitments.
As the law requires, we index all social payments. We have been raising pensions and raising service pay for the armed forces and security services. The Defence Ministry is raising wages, and the Interior Ministry will do so too, starting in January 2012, and the other security agencies are taking similar steps. We do not foresee any circumstances that could make us change these decisions.
”We index all social payments. We have been raising pensions and raising service pay for the armed forces and security services. We do not foresee any circumstances that could make us change these decisions.“
You are aware of the social sector policy initiatives that I set out in my election campaign articles. I spoke about them at the recent State Council meeting too, as some of you know. I take the position that everything I set out in those articles and in the Presidential Executive Orders of May 7 will be certainly implemented. 
The Government is hard at work preparing the budget now. The upcoming autumn session will see the very important undertaking of passing what is our country’s basic economic law – the national budget for 2013 and the following two years.
This is a complex process, as we all well know. Most of you have worked on the budget before and you know how complicated a task this is, but we must pass it. I want to once again emphasise in this respect the importance of refraining from any populism. It would be extremely dangerous to let state spending start ballooning to unjustifiably high levels today, because tomorrow we might end up forced to make drastic spending cuts. It is not at all in the people’s interests to feed them promises and give away all the resources today. The wisest policy is one that will ensure our economy’s sustained development and enable us to fulfil our promises and meet our commitments without undermining the budget itself.
This is obviously not an easy task and is always the result of compromise. Any budget is always the result of compromise. We have so far succeeded in reaching such compromise based on a mutually acceptable and reasonable platform. I hope that this time will be no different.
”The wisest policy is one that will ensure our economy’s sustained development and enable us to fulfil our promises and meet our commitments without undermining the budget itself.“
The Government has difficult tasks ahead in this respect. As I have said, including during my Address to the State Duma, one only needs to look at what is going on in other countries, including developed market economies, where they are quite simply cutting budget spending, cutting pensions and social benefits. In Spain they just announced that they will not pay Christmas bonuses, and that resulted in strikes there. In other words, when social spending gets out of hand, governments end up having to make cuts. What does this lead to?
You know what is happening in Greece. In Italy, the number of suicides has more than doubled, and this is in what always looked to us like prosperous Europe.
We are heavily dependent on Europe. Our markets are there. Bilateral trade with Europe comes to $394 billion – a huge amount of trade. If the markets there shrink, we will inevitably feel the consequences too.
I met with steelworkers a few days ago, and they are feeling the effects of the problems on the global markets. Some companies export two thirds of their output, some one third, but even a third of output is already a lot. It would be very hard for us to try to offset their losses in export earnings through domestic demand if the export markets shrink. The situation is the same in the energy sector, and I want you to remember this. The energy sector revenues account for half of our budget, and so we must be very careful indeed. I pay so much attention to the budget issue because it is so crucial for the short and medium term.
Colleagues, I do not want to make a long speech. We are here to discuss the results of the session that has just ended, and to look ahead at the work coming up in the second half of the year.
I will end here. Thank you very much.
<…>
Topics
Parties
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 19, 2012, 19:00
Text version