Events
Meeting with Premier of the State Council of the People’s Republic of China Wen Jiabao
Vladimir Putin held talks with Premier of the State Council of the People’s Republic of China Wen Jiabao during his official visit to China.
June 6, 2012
10:15
Beijing
2 of 3
With Premier of the State Council of the People’s Republic of China Wen Jiabao.
* * *
Premier of the State Council of the People’S Republic of China Wen Jiabao (retranslated): Mr President,
It is a great pleasure to meet with you. I want to congratulate you on your inauguration as President of the Russian Federation.
The international situation remains very complex today, and in this context strengthening the strategic cooperation between our countries is not just in China’s and Russia’s basic interests, but has great importance for ensuring peace and stability throughout the world.
Mr President, I know that you and President Hu Jintao held friendly and fruitful talks yesterday, and this in itself symbolises just how successful your current visit to China is.
I want to take the opportunity today’s meeting offers to exchange views on all issues of interest to both sides.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, Mr Premier.
It is a great pleasure to meet with you again. We did indeed achieve a lot yesterday with President Hu Jintao and signed a large number of agreements. 
I know how this work takes place. You and I have worked together for four years, and I know that it is the governments in both countries that are primarily responsible for organising these kinds of meetings.
I am very pleased to have this chance to continue our work together and continue our business and personal contacts too. The Russian and Chinese prime ministers will have their next meeting in autumn, and I am sure that this will mark yet another step in developing our multilateral strategic partnership.
<…>
See also
Russian-Chinese talks
June 5, 2012
All news about state visit to China
June 5 − 7, 2012
Geography
People's Republic of China
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 6, 2012, 10:15
Text version