Events
Meeting with Russian Foreign Ministry staff
Vladimir Putin met with Russian Foreign Ministry heads and staff in the run-up to their professional holiday, Diplomats’ Day, which Russia marks on February 10.
February 11, 2013
15:15
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 3
At a meeting with Russian Foreign Ministry heads and staff.
See also
Congratulations to Foreign Ministry staff and veterans on Diplomats’ Day
February 10, 2013
At the meeting, the President awarded state decorations to a number of diplomats.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
I want to start by congratulating everyone here and all of our country’s diplomats on the professional holiday — Diplomats’ Day.
Foreign Ministry personnel who have received new appointments, state decorations, and senior diplomatic rank have been invited to today’s meeting. This is an occasion not only to recognise your personal services, but also to recognise the Foreign Ministry’s high standard of work in general.
Russia’s diplomats have always been distinguished by their professionalism, dedication, and deep understanding of our country’s national interests. You continue and build on these traditions as you responsibly and competently carry out your difficult missions.
The Presidential Executive Order On Measures to Implement Russia’s Foreign Policy outlines the priorities for our country’s diplomatic work. Many issues related to diplomatic work were the subject of detailed discussion at the Russian ambassadors’ conference last summer.
The general aims, tasks, means of realisation of our strategic policy lines in world affairs are reflected in the new draft of Russia’s foreign policy concept that has been submitted to the Presidential Executive Office.
”Our foreign policy work needs to pursue above all the goal of creating a good environment for Russia’s steady national development. Continued social and economic growth and a better quality of life for our people are impossible without multifaceted, effective cooperation with other countries.“
We all know well that our foreign policy work needs to pursue above all the goal of creating a good environment for Russia’s steady national development. Continued social and economic growth and a better quality of life for our people are impossible without multifaceted, effective cooperation with other countries. This cooperation must be equal and based on mutual advantage and trust.
We must continue our concerted efforts to make international relations more stable and predictable and work towards building a common and indivisible security system. 
We must continue our active efforts to find peaceful settlements to conflicts. Sadly, the number of conflicts in the world is growing, not falling, and they negatively affect the global situation. We must strive for strict compliance with the principle of supremacy of international law and make the United Nations the central pillar in the international system not just in word but also in deed.
Russia’s successive presidencies of major international groups and organisations will help to promote these principles and approaches over the coming years. You know that this is part of our overall plans.
The APEC summit in Vladivostok was a successful experience, and we now need to work just as responsibly on organising the G20 summit here in Russia, followed by the summits of the G8, BRICS, and the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation. 
The Foreign Ministry has a big responsibility for giving the Russian presidencies of these groups its needed substance. The Presidential Executive Order gives the Foreign Ministry the coordinating role here, and the work you undertake should reflect this in practice.
With the world going through troubled times and developments happening fast, the Foreign Ministry must not only respond swiftly but has to stay a step ahead of events. Such are demands today on the Foreign Ministry and all other agencies engaged in foreign policy and foreign economic activity. 
”We must continue our concerted efforts to make international relations more stable and predictable and work towards building a common and indivisible security system.“
The days of classic diplomacy have, if not completely become a thing of the past, then at least undergone considerable change. You and your colleagues have to work on economic matters too, today, develop business ties, provide the support for various economic projects, and help to open up promising new markets. 
We need to add to this energy and food security issues, global climate change, science and technology cooperation, cultural and humanitarian ties, work with civil society in all its different dimensions, and support for our compatriots abroad and for Russian citizens in difficult circumstances abroad.
Competent use of ‘soft power’ methods is ever more of a priority. We need to boost the Russian language’s position, be active in promoting a positive image of Russia abroad, and learn how to organically integrate ourselves into the global information flows. 
All of this and much more are part of the tasks that diplomats must address in their everyday work. The benchmark for the professional standards and personal qualities that Foreign Ministry personnel must aspire for is rising all the time. 
These demands presuppose, of course, that diplomats will see their service’s prestige continue to grow too, and their working and living conditions continue to improve. The state authorities will continue to give this their closest attention.
In conclusion, I sincerely congratulate you all once again on this holiday and wish you success. Allow me now to perform a duty that gives me great pleasure and present these state decorations. 
<…>
Topics
Civil service
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 11, 2013, 15:15
Text version