Events
Meeting with Gazprom CEO Alexei Miller
Chairman of Gazprom’s Management Committee Alexei Miller briefed Vladimir Putin on the progress with the Nord Stream and South Stream gas pipeline projects.
April 3, 2013
18:30
1 of 3
With Gazprom CEO Alexei Miller.
The President also asked Mr Miller
to continue drawing up the projects for the Yamal-Europe 2 gas pipeline and a branch gas pipeline to Kaliningrad Region.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Miller, let’s discuss the gas transport system’s development. We have already discussed the system’s development at the domestic level, the work on linking up the pipeline systems in the European part of Russia, and the pipeline construction work that has already begun in the eastern part of the country.
You reported on the plans to link up the European system and the developing eastern gas transport system that will serve the needs of our consumers at home. Today, I’d like to hear about how work is going on developing the export pipeline routes. 
The Nord Stream project is close to completion. I know that you are looking now with our British partners into building another pipeline specifically to take gas to Britain. In this context, I’d also like to hear about what is happening with the branch pipeline to Kaliningrad Region.
Another thing is that with all the work on the Nord Stream and South Stream projects, we have all but abandoned the Yamal-Europe 2 project. Work on South Stream has begun and is gathering pace now. However, I’d like you to return to the Yamal-Europe 2 project too. I know that you are in active discussions with our partners on this. This project would increase reliability of gas supplies to Poland, Slovakia, and Hungary.
But we realise that with the Nord Stream pipelines coming on line, the Yamal-Europe 2 project cannot simply be a copy of the Yamal-Europe 1 pipeline. My question therefore is what are the best options in your view for expanding our capacity in this area, and what have you agreed on with our partners?
chairman of the Management Committee of Gazprom Alexei Miller: As far as the Nord Stream and South Stream mega projects are concerned, Nord Stream was built in strict accordance with the project timetable. We built two pipelines and took the system to its design capacity of 55 billion cubic metres of gas in October last year. 
As you instructed, we started South Stream’s construction last December. We are fully confident that the first section will be completed by December 2015, and we will start delivering gas to the European Union via Bulgaria. All four sections will be completed by December 2017, and the South Stream pipeline system will have capacity of 63 billion cubic metres.
As you noted however, there is still the issue of guaranteeing reliable and stable supplies to Central and Eastern Europe, to countries such as Poland, Slovakia and Hungary. In this respect, as you instructed, we have drawn up a project for a gas pipeline that will run from Belarus, given that transit via Belarus through the Yamal-Europe 1 pipeline is the best option in economic terms at the moment.
Gazprom currently has ownership of this gas transport system, and this is the most efficient route – in terms of logistics – for us to deliver gas to our customers in Europe.
Market analysis shows that we would be looking at a volume of around 15 billion cubic metres of gas. We have held talks at the corporate level with our partners in Hungary, Slovakia and Poland. We are ready to begin the preliminary feasibility studies and start work on the pre-investment phase. 
There is an understanding that this project could come on line once the South Stream project is completed. It would be a continuation of the work that we are doing in general to guarantee more stable and reliable gas transit to the European Union countries.
As for the deadlines, we could be looking at 2018–2019. If we get the instruction, we will settle more precise deadlines, settle the exact route, and also work out the investment required of course. We already know for certain that a project of this type would be extremely effective. Our partners at the corporate level are very interested in working together on it.
Vladimir Putin: I understand that if this project goes ahead it would put an end to the concerns our Polish friends have had and would also ensure more reliable supplies to Hungary and Slovakia.
Alexei Miller: Yes, Mr President, supplies would be more reliable. In fact, reliability would be 100-percent guaranteed in this case because if we take Poland, for example, we would be delivering gas via Gazprom’s pipeline on the Polish border, and this would amount to essentially a transit-free route.
Vladimir Putin: What is happening with Kaliningrad Region?
Alexei Miller: You asked us to look at the options for building a branch pipeline to Kaliningrad Region. We did the studies and now have a favourable report on the feasibility of building a branch pipeline from either the first or second section of the Nord Stream system.
We held talks with the Kaliningrad Region authorities and met with the governor. We have settled on the supply volumes. The region needs a maximum volume of 4.6 billion cubic metres.
Currently, gas is delivered to the region via Lithuania. The volume supplied comes to 2.5 billion cubic metres a year. This means that we need to get 2 billion cubic metres delivered via one of the Nord Stream pipelines. 
We met with the Nord Stream management. They say this is technically feasible. The next step would be to discuss the project with the Nord Stream shareholders and get their approval. We are continuing our talks with our foreign partners in Nord Stream and will report once we have the results.
Vladimir Putin: If any problems come up, this is also something that could be carried out when the third section that will deliver gas to Britain is built.
Alexei Miller: Yes of course.
Vladimir Putin: Absolutely no restrictions there. Work it through. I will send the according instruction to the Energy Ministry regarding the plans to bring units at the Baltic Nuclear Power Plant on line. We need to have a full picture of Kaliningrad Region’s energy supplies. We need to do this in order to develop the region’s energy system in full and have a clear and predictable view of the possibilities in this area, as this is important for developing the region’s economy in general over the coming future.
<…>
Topics
Energy
Persons
Miller Alexei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 3, 2013, 18:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting of the Commission for Military Technology Cooperation with Foreign Countries
The meeting reviewed the results for 2012 in the military technology cooperation sector. Vladimir Putin said that Russia’s total military exports came to more than $15 billion in 2012. The meeting also discussed promising markets for Russian military exports and how to develop cooperation ties with partner countries.
April 3, 2013
13:30
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 2
Meeting of the Commission for Military Technology Cooperation with Foreign Countries.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
Last December, we made a preliminary summary of the military technology cooperation results for 2012 and agreed to hold a final review of the year’s results in 2013, once all the necessary data had come in. 
We can now make this review and, as we noted last year, we can say that the situation in the sector is satisfactory. We had growth of 12 percent in the sector and our total arms exports came to $15.2 billion. 
This is one of the best results in this sector and it gives us reason to state confidently that the Russian Federation is an undisputed leader in arms and special equipment sales. Only the USA can match us. We have more than a quarter of the global market. As I just said, only the USA is slightly ahead.
All of the other countries, our partners in this sector, sell much smaller amounts of arms, though they are countries with advanced technology and are certainly leaders in the particular high-tech fields that are widely used in arms production.
Russia sells military goods to 66 different countries, and has signed military technology cooperation agreements with 85 countries. In other words, there are opportunities for developing our relations in this sector with quite a large number of countries.
It is good to see that our orders portfolio got a substantial boost last year and currently has orders worth $46.3 billion. We need to keep building on these positive trends because this not only brings in solid revenue for the country’s budget but also helps to develop high technology, boosts our defence companies’ earnings and helps them to preserve jobs and invest in promising new research and development.
At the same time, there are also problems, difficulties that we will discuss today. As you know, these problems are related above all to the difficult situation in the global economy. Some countries are simply short of money at the moment and find it more expedient to prolong the service life of the arms and equipment they already have and postpone new import contracts. Other countries look to obtain manufacturing licenses and develop their own defence industries.
Our work has to take into account all of these things. This is the reality that we need to be aware of, and we need to respond promptly to the changes taking place in the world. In this respect there are several points I want to make.
”The Russian Federation is an undisputed leader in arms and special equipment sales. We have more than a quarter of the global market.“
First, our work on strengthening cooperation ties with our main partners should focus particularly on long-term cooperation programmes and the special intergovernmental commissions’ work. We have enough of these commissions and we need to work actively with them and make greater use too, of the practice of providing state export loans.
Of course, these loans must be based on market principles and not be like the loans the Soviet Union used to accord for ideological reasons, and that no one ever saw again. Our work in this area is built on market principles and we need to develop it. This is a normal practice around the world, including in countries with recognised market economies. 
Timely loans made on market terms will help to promote our goods and create markets for subsequent maintenance of goods and for later sales of additional equipment and spare parts. I will not list right now the countries with which we are already working this way – you know them anyway. I just want to say that we already have positive experience with this kind of work and we need to develop it and make broader use of it. 
Finally, we need to attract potential buyers with convenient and attractive new payment methods. This is also something we have discussed in the past. It is important to develop not just maintenance and post-sales services, but in the appropriate cases to also organise joint production. 
This is all the more important because, as I said, if our companies earn timely and substantial export revenue, they will be able to pursue timely research and development too, carry out design work, introduce new goods and technology and market them on the military goods market. This will all enable our companies to stay a step ahead. 
Further, we need to open up new markets for our main exports. To do this we need to be more active in offering a full range of services from maintenance to personnel training. This is tried and tested method for gaining a more solid footing in the market.
Of course we also need to improve the military technology cooperation mechanisms themselves. The steps in this direction that we have already taken demonstrate that this is necessary work, and we need to continue it. What steps am I referring to specifically? 
We authorised some defence industry companies not just to sell goods through the organisation that operated essentially as a monopoly in this area, but also to make direct export sales of spare parts, repair and modernisation services for military goods, and carry out joint research and development. Military exports have increased as a result. This is a positive experience and we should keep this in mind. 
I also want to mention the new military technology cooperation development agreement that we signed with Belarus. It provides for simplified military export procedures. As a result, advanced new arms models are being delivered more rapidly and we have built more effective cooperation chains. 
It was maybe easier to do this with Belarus than with other countries, given that we have longstanding cooperation in this sector that in the case of some companies goes back to the Soviet period. But it is in any case a positive result and is certainly something we could develop with our other partners in this sector.
Let’s discuss all of this. Let’s start work.
<…>
Topics
Economy and finance
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Commissions and Councils, Commission for Military Technology Cooperation with Foreign States
Publication date: April 3, 2013, 13:30
Text version