Events
Reception for graduates of military academies
Vladimir Putin congratulated graduates of military academies and universities on completing their studies.
June 26, 2013
14:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
4 of 4
With graduates of military academies and universities.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Comrade officers,
I wish you all welcome and congratulate you on successfully completing your studies.
Here, in the Kremlin’s ceremonial halls, one gets a special sense of the splendour of our country’s history and its glorious military feats. It is here that we meet to honour our military academies’ best graduates. 
Our armed forces and officers’ corps have always built on our history and continued the victorious traditions of all the generations of those who defended our country. It is in this that our armed forces take their source and moral strength.
We remember how during the Great Patriotic War, appeals to our history, national values, and military traditions inspired our army and people to fight the enemy. It was at that time that the guards were revived and decorations were instituted that bore the names of legendary commanders such as Suvorov, Kutuzov, Nakhimov, and Ushakov.
Today, as we undertake our ambitious programme to develop Russia’s Armed Forces, we continue to draw on tradition, and one of our symbolic decisions was to restore the names of particularly distinguished units in the Russian and Soviet armies. I think this symbolises the unbroken continuation of our country’s history and military traditions.
It is your duty to be equal to the courage and valour of your predecessors and teach this to your subordinates. This mission requires you to be not simply a professional who knows his work well, but a true commander and mentor, who can set an example of principled and resolute behaviour.
Russia’s officers have always been distinguished by their noble character and respect for the soldiers. As the well-known philosopher Ivan Ilyin said, “the Russian army will never forget the tradition Suvorov set, which sees each soldier as an individual.” This has always been the case and always will be.
Your mission comes at a difficult time of great responsibility. Sadly, there are not fewer security threats in the world, and there are plenty of tasks before us. We need to be able to respond adequately to any potential threat and defend our national interests in any corner of the world.
We will not economise on strengthening the armed forces and raising servicemen’s status. We all know that a strong army is essential for a strong, sovereign Russia.
You therefore have a lot of hard work ahead. You are entering the armed forces at a time when we are undertaking large-scale re-equipment, giving our forces the modern weapons they need, and introducing the latest troop and unit command tactics. This places much greater responsibility on you all, and also requires much more intensive combat training. These are all tasks that will be on your shoulders. I am sure that you will be up to the job. I am counting on you.
Some of the officers here today will soon enter the ranks of the law enforcement agencies and security services. You will be responsible for very difficult areas of our country’s security, including areas such as fighting terrorism and extremism, reliably protecting our people from crime and corruption, and maintaining public law and order. This will require your professionalism, decisiveness, and ability to carry out your missions in even the most difficult situations.
Comrades, the state authorities will continue to do everything possible to give you decent conditions for your work and for your families’ lives. Our goal is to give our servicemen the highest level of social guarantees, just as servicemen in other countries receive. 
The service pay reform has been completed now. Service pay has risen substantially in the armed forces and all of the law enforcement and security agencies. Military pensions have also increased noticeably and will be indexed for inflation. We will take concrete measures to improve healthcare provision, build up a network of modern military garrisons with all the needed social infrastructure, and create jobs for servicemen’s family members.
Officers who were on the waiting list for permanent housing as of January 1, 2012, will all receive housing by 2014. From there, we will provide housing according to a regular programme, without any long waiting lists, I hope. A military housing mortgage loan system has already been launched for this purpose. We will also continue our work to develop the service housing stock. 
Comrades, I am sure that you will always carry out your missions to safeguard our country’s sovereignty and security, reliably protect Russia and its people, and wear your uniforms with honour.
I wish you success and I wish prosperity and happiness to your families.
I propose a toast to continuing the Russian officer corps’ military traditions. To our glorious armed forces and to a great Russia! Hurrah!
Topics
Armed Forces
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 26, 2013, 14:00
Text versionEvents
Founding congress of the Association of Russian Student Sports Clubs
Vladimir Putin addressed the founding congress of public youth organisation the Association of Russian Student Sports Clubs.
June 26, 2013
17:45
Moscow
2 of 3
Founding congress of the Association of Russian Student Sports Clubs.
The association’s main aim is to develop mass student sport and organise competitions and events to promote youth sport and a healthy lifestyle.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Let me start by thanking the Sechenov First Moscow State Medical University for offering this venue, giving you the chance to spend two days here at this renowned university, discussing the issues that have brought you together. 
It is an interesting and noble purpose that has brought you together, namely, the establishment of the Association of Russian Student Sports’ Clubs. 
Student sports clubs and associations of this kind began developing in the 19th century, and in 1911, I think it was, the first student associations were established, first in St Petersburg and then in Moscow. 
By the start of World War I there were students’ sports clubs at 40 of the country’s 104 higher educational institutions. What you are doing today, therefore, continues traditions long before started by your predecessors. 
It is symbolic of course that the association is beginning its work on the eve of the students’ main sports event – the World Universiade in Kazan. This is the biggest student sports event and is vivid evidence of just how important sport is for students all around the world, including in Russia.
Taking part in university sport is not just a prestigious thing to do. Taking part in competitions helps to forge one’s character and inculcates a love of sport and physical culture that continues onward through the years. I know from my own experience that this is something that usually stays with you for the rest of your life.
The founding of your association is a symbol of continuing the traditions that I referred to just now. Student sports clubs bring together people who think alike, and in this respect I think that you should not just limit yourselves to organising sports competitions. 
Student clubs of this kind can channel students’ immense potential into attaining big constructive goals and have an impact on creating the conditions for developing sport. You can exert this influence through dialogue too, above all with the heads of your universities.
As you know, the new law on education will take effect from September 1 this year. This law clearly prescribes universities’ duties to facilitate development of physical culture and sport. I see the rector of Moscow State University nodding. As he heads the country’s leading university, he can set the example and all his colleagues around the country will follow.
One of the aims of organising Sports clubs is to promote sport and a healthy lifestyle. This is very important for our society in general and for supporting young people’s growing desire to get involved in physical culture. 
Another area is work with groups of fans and team supporters. Anyone can become a fan and support their team after all, regardless of their own level of sports training. 
I emphasise too, that sports clubs can cultivate and train athletes for even the highest-level competition. I am sure that these clubs will produce people of whom our entire country will be proud. But the most important thing of all is to develop mass sport and get as many students and young people as possible into sport.
This was something we discussed at a meeting with representatives of student sports clubs at the Kremlin in January. Some of you here today were probably at that meeting. There are a few points I particularly want to stress in this respect.
First, the student clubs should be fully open to people of all political views, faiths and ethnic groups. This is especially important in a country such as ours. 
You need to prove your usefulness through your action. Don’t wait for demand to come, but go out yourselves to identify the problems ahead of you and resolve them. Set up sports groups and clubs in traditional sports and in emerging new disciplines.
Second, your association can serve as a kind of ‘social lift’ for people looking to get involved in public life. This is a useful practice and what’s more it offers the chance to get experience while working in a needed area. It is an opportunity to acquire the needed skills, learn how to organise people, how to promote one’s proposals and ideas, and how to build relations with the university officials. This is all important. 
Third, you should get influential members of the university management, prominent sportspeople and cultural figures, businesspeople and journalists involved in your work.
I noted that the student sports club movement started back in the 19th century. People such as Chekhov were active supporters of student sport. Other well-known names were active too. I won’t list them now. I think you will remember them during your organisational work.
I specifically mention this because our country’s thinkers have always supported this area of young people’s lives. I am sure that this will continue to be the case, and I am sure you will be able to get them actively involved in your work. 
Let me say again that top-level sports achievements and our athletes’ success at prestigious international competitions are certainly important and necessary, but the main thing is to make sport and an active lifestyle the norm for Russian society, make them today’s trend, as one might say now. I hope the Association of Student Sports Clubs will become one of the leaders in taking us towards this goal.
I wish you success. Thank you very much for your attention.
Topics
Sport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 26, 2013, 17:45
Text versionEvents
Meeting with IAEA Director General Yukiya Amano
Vladimir Putin met at the Kremlin with Director General of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) Yukiya Amano.
June 26, 2013
16:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
3 of 6
Meeting with IAEA Director General Yukiya Amano.
Continued cooperation between Russia and the IAEA on peaceful nuclear energy use and international cooperation on nuclear non-proliferation were the subjects of discussion.
Russia’s delegation at the meeting included Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Sergei Ivanov
, Presidential Aide Yury Ushakov
, Rosatom State Atomic Energy Corporation CEO Sergei Kiriyenko
, and Permanent Presidential Representative in international organisations in Vienna Vladimir Voronkov.
Mr Amano is in Moscow to take part in the high-level international conference Nuclear Energy in the 21st Century, which will take place in St Petersburg on June 27–29.
* * *
Beginning of meeting with IAEA Director General Yukiya Amano
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Director General,
It is a great pleasure to see you again. I would like to congratulate you on your election to a second term as the International Atomic Energy Agency’s director general. Your first term was a success and we have established good professional relations.
Russia has supported the agency’s work right from the outset, back in 1957. We consider the IAEA an important instrument for work in the very sensitive area of nuclear technology in the world.
Tomorrow, you will be taking part in St Petersburg in an international conference on developing nuclear energy. I wish the event success and I’d like to say a few words about our big plans for developing nuclear energy here in Russia.
We plan to develop our nuclear power industry over the coming years, using the safest and most advanced technology, namely, the WWER reactor that you know well.
As you are well aware, we are carrying out all of our plans using what we call post-Fukushima technology, that is, technology that guarantees maximum safe use of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes.
Mr Director General, we hope to continue our cooperation, hope you will support our initiatives, and we are ready to make our contribution to this influential and respected international organisation’s work under your leadership over the next four years.
Director General of the International Atomic Energy Agency (Iaea) Yukiya Amano (translated from Russian): Thank you very much. I am very pleased to see you again, Mr President.
I think the international conference taking place in St Petersburg is a very timely event, as two-and-a-half years have now gone by since the Fukushima accident. Furthermore, we know that your country is one of the leaders in designing and developing nuclear technology.
This international conference will give us the opportunity to discuss the future of nuclear energy and the measures we can take. I also want to thank you for the support you give the IAEA and me personally.
I hope that our cooperation will only keep developing, because in Russia we do indeed see a good partner with great opportunities for the future.
<…>
Topics
Energy
Persons
Ivanov Sergei
Kiriyenko Sergei
Ushakov Yury
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 26, 2013, 16:00
Text version