Events
OECD Forum on Tax Administration
In a videoconference Vladimir Putin addressed the participants of the 8th meeting of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) Forum on Tax Administration, which is taking place on May 16–17 in Moscow.
May 16, 2013
13:45
Sochi
1 of 3
In a videoconference Vladimir Putin sent his greetings to the participants of the 8th meeting of the OECD Forum on Tax Administration.
Taking part in the videoconference were head of the Federal Taxation Service Mikhail Mishustin and Director of OECD Centre for Tax Policy and Administration Pascal Saint-Amans.
The OECD forum is attended by over 50 delegations representing the tax authorities of the OECD and G20 member states and other countries, as well as representatives of seven international organisations working in the tax and customs administration.
The forum's agenda includes such issues as improving the tax administration of the largest multinational corporations, co-ordination of international efforts to combat the erosion of the tax base and offshore tax evasion, as well as innovative development of tax administrations.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends, colleagues,
I am very pleased that you have chosen Moscow as a venue for your forum. Unfortunately, my schedule of meetings with international colleagues has taken me away from the Russian capital, but we take very seriously the work of the tax authorities and Mr Mishustin’s colleagues around the world.
Regrettably, your efforts are not praised in poems or songs, because not many people enjoy giving their money to the tax office, and it has been like that at all times. But this does not diminish the value of your services; on the contrary, in today's world, no modern state can exist without an efficient tax administration. Your governments’ economic policy largely depends on the way you organise your work. In the long run, the extent of the tax burden largely determines the investment climate and the final economic result.
Russia – as well as many other countries – has always had problems in this area and many of them still remain, but all the same, we are moving forward and improving our tax administration, including through the support of our colleagues from abroad. As you probably know, according to the World Bank, Russia has made good progress in tax administration and rose from 105th to 64th place in the world and has even surpassed many of our colleagues from OECD. Of the 34 OECD member states, we have overtaken 14 countries in terms of the tax administration quality.
Naturally, a great deal is still to be done. We are taking the necessary steps to remove the opportunities for tax evasion through offshore zones and for the legalisation of the proceeds from crime. I hasten to note that in all of these activities the Russian Government relies on the advice of our colleagues from the OECD, for which we are very grateful.
Other areas of our tax system are also developing, becoming more modern and more convenient for taxpayers. Many people are submitting their tax declarations in electronic form. Approximately 76% of companies already pay taxes electronically. A significant number of individuals, citizens of the Russian Federation, are doing the same using the opportunities presented by the Internet. Their number amounts to about two million people.
This autumn we will host the G20 summit in St Petersburg and we wish good luck and effective collaboration to all of you who met in Moscow today. It is very important for us to hear your recommendations and your suggestions for the St Petersburg G20 summit.
I note that we attach great importance to the cooperation of tax authorities. In this regard, let me remind you that we recently made the decision to share tax information at the request of other countries’ tax authorities. Colleagues, I hope that this position of the Russian leadership will meet with a positive response from our colleagues abroad and that our tax authorities can rely on your support should it become necessary.
In conclusion, I would like to ask Mr Pascal Saint-Amans to pass on to us any recommendations that the OECD or the participants of this forum in Moscow may have for the Russian Government on the eve of the upcoming G20 Summit in St Petersburg in September.
<…>
I want to wish all the meeting participants the best of luck, and I hope you will enjoy the professional and business-like discussion of all the core issues. I also hope you will have time for sightseeing in the Russian capital. I assure you that there is a lot to see in Moscow, and I hope you will have some free time to enjoy your stay here.
Thank you very much.
<…>
Topics
Taxes
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 16, 2013, 13:45
Text versionWith President of South Africa Jacob Zuma.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, dear friends, I am very pleased to welcome you to Russia.
We are meeting for the third time in a short period – just over a year – and this is a good sign. It is a sign that we pay a great deal of attention to each other, and we believe that relations between the Republic of South Africa and Russia have good prospects.
In fact, we have very good political contacts, not only bilaterally but also in the international arena, within a variety of key international organisations.
Our economic ties are developing. Last year, our volume of trade suddenly increased by 66 percent, even by more than that. And growth in the first quarter of this year was more than 17 percent.
Many Russian companies have shown an interest in working in your country’s market, and some are already doing so quite actively, especially in the mining industry. I must add that South African companies are beginning to operate in Russia, and are quite successful. We have a lot to talk about; I’m very glad to see you, Mr President.
President of South Africa Jacob Zuma: Thank you very much, Your Excellency,
Mr President, I am very happy to be back here once again. And I am happy that we agreed, when we were in South Africa during the BRICS summit, that the time was too short to complete our discussions, as you were also invited to the BRICS summit. You were also there on the working visit with the Government of South Africa. We could not finish because the combination of those two needed enough time.
And I am happy that we agreed to continue the discussion as this working visit now, so that we could discuss all the matters you have just mentioned. And indeed, find a very positive way of strengthening our relations. And I am happy that you have also noticed the economic character, state of growth, and deepening of our relations; we are very happy.
And I believe that as partners in BRICS we need to have a lot in common. As I indicated when you were in South Africa – South Africa’s membership to BRICS to us, it means, in a way, Africa’s membership to BRICS. And therefore that is actually very important.
But also we need to act in the forum of the G20, where we discuss international issues and ideas. I take it that we will take advantage of today’s working visit to discuss some of the challenging issues internationally today. So I’m very happy that we have this opportunity for this discussion. And I’m sure we will have very good discussions.Events
Meeting with ALROSA CEO Fedor Andreyev
Fedor Andreyev briefed Vladimir Putin on the company's activities.
May 16, 2013
14:15
Sochi
With ALROSA CEO Fedor Andreyev.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Andreyev, I have a few regular questions regarding the current state of the company, the situation on the world markets, your social projects (I know that your company does a lot of work in that area) and the relationship with your shareholders, including the representatives of Yakutia.
ALROSA CEO Fedor Andreyev: Mr President, I have prepared some materials that I could use during our meeting. As you may remember from my report on ALROSA’s performance in 2012, the company has reached record levels both in production and revenues: we produced 34 million carats, and our revenue reached $4.5 billion, making us the undisputed leader in the diamond industry, ahead of our main competitors De Beers, Rio Tinto and BHP.
2012 was a crucial year for us, and in 2013 we will consolidate the achievements of that period. We have succeeded, and in 2012 we maintained company’s leadership in terms of production and revenues. You can see the company’s achievements: our revenues have reached 150 billion rubles [about $4.8 billion], and net profit exceeded $1 billion.
As regards profitability, I know that there is a big debate going on right now as to which form of ownership is more effective, private or state. I can only assert that the company’s performance depends on the quality of management, corporate governance and market situation more than on the form of ownership.
For example, the company’s operating margin in 2012 was 18%, and the net income margin rate was 27.
Since ALROSA is a public company and 9% of its shares are traded on the open market, the company’s dividend policy has always been an important issue for the state, which is a majority shareholder, and for investors. In 2011, the company paid 7.4 billion [rubles] in dividends to the Russian Federation and the Republic of Yakutia, and in 2012 the figure was 8 billion.
We believe the Government decision that the company should pay out 25% of its net profits in dividends is of fundamental importance for the ALROSA’s positioning in the international and Russian financial markets.
Thus, the company’s dividend yield for 2012 was 3.7%, which corresponds to the level of return on equity of companies such as BHP Billiton, Rio Tinto and Anglo American.
I would also like to inform you about that debate on privatisation that has been going on for the past two years. We have considered this issue in three dimensions, so to speak, discussing a package of privatised shares and the platform on which to carry out the company’s privatisation, and also considered various privatisation options. The options we considered were to place shares on the London Stock Exchange, to place them on the Russian stock exchange, and we also considered the convertible bonds option – let’s say, a complete list of financial instruments, and the discussion was quite heated at times.
After the meeting on the development of financial markets which you held on January 25, 2013, we have narrowed the discussion down, and on March 30 the Government issued a directive on the privatisation of 7% stake in ALROSA. Goldman Sachs was chosen as the agent bank. A similar decision has already been made by the Legislative Assembly of Yakutia and the head of Yakutia, and currently we have approached the implementation of those decisions.
<…>
Geography
Republic of Sakha (Yakutia)
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 16, 2013, 14:15
Text versionEvents
Press statements following talks with President of South Africa Jacob Zuma
May 16, 2013
19:45
Sochi
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen,
We have just completed talks with President of the Republic of South Africa Mr Zuma. In Durban, we reached agreements that were important for our bilateral relations. At the time, we agreed that we would not put off discussions on how to practically implement them.
In summing up today’s discussion, I will note that we were able to address a whole range of current issues in further strengthening Russian-South African ties. I would also like to note that the regularity of our bilateral political dialogue is effectively complemented by our cooperation in leading organisations and structures, including the UN, BRICS, the G20 and others.
As for economic cooperation, in 2012, our trade turnover increased by 66 percent. We’ve seen more growth since the beginning of this year – over 17 percent. The absolute figures are still modest, but we have every reason to believe we are moving in the right direction.
Another key objective is to step up investment cooperation. This will certainly make our joint work more stable.
The number of joint projects in all areas is growing. As of now, Russian companies have invested over $1 billion in South African economy, including the mining industry, energy and machine engineering.
We see great potential for cooperation in nuclear energy. Russia is ready to provide assistance in creating a comprehensive nuclear energy industry in South Africa.
We were just saying that our nations are also working in other sectors of energy, including alternative sources of energy.
See also
Meeting with President of South Africa Jacob Zuma
May 16, 2013
In aircraft engineering, we are planning joint production of a light multipurpose helicopter. A regional maintenance centre for Russian helicopters has launched operations in Johannesburg and talks are underway on supplying Russian passenger jets to South Africa.
The work of the Mixed Intergovernmental Committee and contacts between business communities are intensifying.
Plans include expanding humanitarian ties. We intend to implement an intergovernmental programme for joint cultural projects for 2013–2016. This programme will include exchanges between national museums and libraries, festivals and exhibitions, including on the basis of the State Hermitage Museum and the Cape Town Museum Association.
We also discussed expanding our cooperation within BRICS. We intend to transform this group into a full-fledged mechanism for cooperating on global economic and political issues.
Mr Zuma and I also touched on several issues on the international agenda. We agreed on further coordinating positions on peaceful settlement of the conflict in Syria. We are determined to continue work to end violence and external interference as quickly as possible and will encourage the maintenance of Syria’s territorial integrity and sovereignty.
In September of this year, a G20 summit will be held in St Petersburg. There, we will discuss complex, pressing problems faced by the global economy. President Zuma suggested that we invite representatives from African nations to St Petersburg. I would like to say that we really appreciate this suggestion, this initiative, and are ready to welcome leaders from the African Union and the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD) to the G20 summit.
In conclusion, I would like to thank the President of South Africa and all our South African colleagues for today’s constructive talks. I am sure that today’s joint work will serve to further promote our bilateral cooperation.
Thank you for your attention.
President of South Africa Jacob Zuma: Thank you very much, Your Excellency, President Putin, firstly, for inviting us to come for the working visit when we could not conclude all the issues in Durban when we were meeting on the sidelines of the BRICS summit.
I’m very happy with the outcome of the discussions today that we’ve had between the two of us and our ministers. As the President has indicated, we discussed bilateral matters, particularly at the level of economic cooperation and how to take advantage of the BRICS cooperation and the area that opens for us, the two countries, how to take advantage of that to deepen our relations at all levels.
The President has given a lot of details in that area. I don’t think I need to repeat, except to say that we feel we are on the right move in terms of deepening our relations. And today’s meeting will go a long way to ensure that they are strengthened, they are broadened, they are different.
We also discussed matters related to the African continent, as well as the AU, which is the continental organisation on the African continent. We talked mainly with regard to the challenges that face Africa, with regard to some pockets of rebellions, of the rebel groupings that at times emerge from one area to the other, that in fact, Africa is faced with this challenge. It will certainly benefit from the support that would come from countries like the Russian Federation.
We also discussed challenges in other parts of the world, as the President mentioned, Syria for example, and expressed our concerns. And also, on behalf of the continent of Africa, that this conflict has been going on for a long time, and we wish that particularly the powers that are in the Security Council should move together to take a common position that could ease the pain of the ordinary people of Syria. We totally agreed that at the centre of these initiatives, the respect of the integrity of other countries, and their rights should be respected. There should be no undermining of other rights and integrity of other countries in the process as we try to find solutions.
We are certainly very happy, Mr President, that this meeting has come as quickly as it has after Durban, and indeed has helped us to move quicker to implement our agreements and to ensure that our relations are deepened. Thank you very much for the hospitality given to my delegation. We were indeed very happy, we feel very happy. We came also at the right time when it is hot. Usually, the time when we come here it is always – even if people are friendly, the weather is always something else. This time, everything – the weather, the people – everybody was happy, so we are very happy. Thank you very much the opportunity.
[In Russian] Thank you very much.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 16, 2013, 19:45
Text version