Events
Visiting the Jewish Museum and Tolerance Centre
Vladimir Putin visited the Jewish Museum and Tolerance Centre where Hebrew books and manuscripts from the Schneerson collection are housed.
June 13, 2013
16:30
Moscow
5 of 9
At the Jewish Museum and Tolerance Centre.
The President got acquainted with the work of the new specialised library department, which operates as a branch of the Russian State Library.
The Schneerson Library is a collection of Hebrew books and manuscripts dating from the 18th century to the beginning of the 20th, and includes about 12,000 books and 50,000 rare documents.
Vladimir Putin first proposed housing the unique collection at the Tolerance Centre in February this year, during a meeting of the Presidential Council for Interethnic Relations.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends, good afternoon.
I will begin by saying that Russia has been a home to the Jewish people for centuries. Since its very inception, Russia has evolved as a multi-ethnic state and Jewish individuals have made enormous intellectual, military and labour contributions to the development of our nation. Throughout all times, they stood shoulder to shoulder with the other peoples of Russia to defend our nation when necessary, and as I already said, contributed greatly to its development.
I am very pleased that the Jewish Museum and Tolerance Centre, which opened a year ago, continues these traditions, showcasing the history of the Jewish people in Russia and in world history overall. It is making and will continue to make a significant input into its purpose of developing the very tolerance I just spoke of.
We feel that interfaith peace and interethnic and interreligious harmony are the foundation for the existence and further development of the Russian state. The Schneerson library is of interest and great value to Jewish people – not just for Russian Jews, but those living in other nations around the world as well. I hope that when it is transferred to the Jewish Museum and Tolerance Centre, this problem will be closed once and for all. Because any individual, regardless of whether he or she lives in Russia or abroad, can freely visit and view these rare books.
People can view, study and hold these books in their hands; they can use them to draw knowledge that is highly necessary in today’s world, because these books set forth eternal moral and ethical values which serve as the basis for any civilised society existing today.
I met with many of the people sitting in this hall several years ago, when rabbis from all around Russia gathered for a meeting at the Kremlin. I know that you, like any “military” organisation, have some job rotation. I hope there are some new faces here today as well. I want to wish you success. Naturally, when I talked about your “military organisation,” that was a joke, but a great deal of responsibility lies on your shoulders in educating people, supporting each individual that adheres to Judaism during difficult moments in their lives.
And such moments occur in the lives of every person of any faith. And here, a kind word and a clergy member’s steady hand are always needed. You have a difficult, highly responsible and exceedingly honourable mission. I want to wish you success.
Thank you very much for your service.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: The rabbi just mentioned the difficult fate of a clergy member who was arrested in 1927. He said that today’s event is truly momentous in the lives of Jewish people.
You know, I thought about something just now. The decision to nationalise this library was made by the first Soviet government, whose composition was 80–85% Jewish.
But they were guided by false ideological considerations and supported the arrest and repression of Jews, Russian Orthodox Christians, Muslims and members of other faiths. They grouped everyone into the same category.
Thankfully, those ideological goggles and faulty ideological perceptions collapsed. And today, we are essentially returning these books to the Jewish community with a happy smile. I congratulate all of you on this event.
Topics
Interethnic relations
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 13, 2013, 16:30
Text versionEvents
A workshop on management technologies for regional leaders
Vladimir Putin spoke at a training workshop on modern management technologies for regional governors.
June 13, 2013
17:45
Moscow
At a workshop on management technologies for regional leaders.
The workshop is being held under the auspices of the Presidential Executive Office in order to improve the management skills of senior regional officials.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon colleagues.
We are meeting today in an unusual format – at a training seminar. This is somewhat of a rare occasion for managers and leaders of your level and experience.
But I imagine that many of you feel the need today to enhance your management skills and knowledge. The words of one famous character: “why should I learn when I can teach others” do not apply to us.
Making state administration and government more effective is one of the key areas of our common work. Change is needed here, and I am sure that you no doubt sense this yourselves. The world around us is changing faster than we are, but we must keep up, cannot fall behind.
We have many tasks before us, difficult tasks. Their main substance is outlined in the executive orders issued in May last year. It has become more important than ever now to address these issues which have direct bearing on developing business activity, creating highly productive jobs, building homes, schools, and kindergartens, and ultimately, on creating the conditions for families to prosper and have more children.
These are very concrete goals. Equally concrete measures were taken for achieving them and instructions have been given. Now we just need to make this all reality. I know that you are experienced people and know very well just what properly carrying out instructions means. But we must really resolve the problems and not simply produce reports to the effect.
I already said this at the meeting with the deputy prime ministers, where we discussed the executive orders’ implementation. I want to make it clear that I will evaluate the results of work by the authorities at every level not on the basis of formal reports, but by the real changes in people’s lives.
Yesterday, as you know, the Russian Popular Front was established as a public movement. I hope very much that it will provide an additional tool and means of communication between the various government bodies and officials at the different levels and the public, between civil society and state organisations.
Colleagues, I ask you in this respect to help the Front’s representatives in their work. I hope they will be active, have an impact on resolving the problems before us, and will take part in and influence elections at the different levels too.
And so I hope to see active work, and hope that these active people, who share the common goal and desire of making our people’s lives better, will help us in this work.
I note that business organisations, even big companies, have very low levels of management skills, and the favourable export situation has weakened many businesses in this respect. The result is that, apart from some raw materials exporters and the defence industry leaders, we have few Russian companies and brands with stable and competitive international management structures.
We do have companies working to international standards in the financial sector now. But unfortunately, many of our economic management personnel still do not have the skills and knowledge standard for the international professional community today.
The direct consequence in many cases is that the competitiveness of some sectors, and the level of management too, remain rather low.
This is true of public sector organisations, which are stuck in an almost archaic management culture. It has become habit to motivate people to be productive through punishment rather than incentives. Getting promotions often depends not on how well employees work, but on their connections to the bosses.
The regional and municipal organisations also have an enormous number of management problems. There is little public feedback and civil society oversight, and the opinions of professional communities and the public get ignored. Decisions are sometimes made completely out of the public eye, unfortunately, without any kind of broad public discussion or expert assessment. Instead of real work, we get ‘measures’, when what we need are results. 
Even neighbouring regions with practically the same economic conditions at the outset achieve different results, and the gap between them is sometimes very big. This means that there is definitely potential to tap into if we improve the quality of management.
Late last year, at the State Council, we discussed how to make the regions more attractive to investors. Examples were given then of the fundamental differences in approach used in particular regions and the results obtained. 
When you look at the reality, you see that it takes 150 days to get a construction permit in Surgut, say, but 448 days in Tver. What do regional and climatic specificities have to do with anything here? It takes 19 days to register property in Kaluga, but 60 days in Yakutsk. It takes 123 days to get connected to the electricity supply system in Saratov, but 360 days in Yekaterinburg. What kind of situation is this?
These figures reflect above all the attitude towards one’s work and the attitude towards people. They reflect the local authorities’ concern about making services accessible, affordable, cutting red tape, and how much they value the time and effort of economic actors and citizens. If a dynamic, responsible and result-oriented style of work dominates in the government bodies and municipal organisations, there will definitely be demand for modern management methods. If this is not the style of work that dominates, if the opposite is true, then management decisions too will be generally of poor quality, primitive and ineffective.
This kind of inert and indifferent approach is simply not up to the tasks before us and the goals we have set today. We need to go about our work competently and efficiently, and get the public and the professional groups broadly involved. If things are not going right, then we need to learn from our colleagues who are using modern management concepts and methods with success, look to the best world standards and learn from best Russian and international practice.
I am sure that the public sector can become a leader in spreading a modern management culture, and, as one of the biggest employers, set an example for the entire economy and social sector. The regional heads must lead this work to develop modern and responsible government. 
This seminar is giving you the chance to learn about the experience of Russian and foreign companies, and this kind of contact is always useful. After all, one and the same successful management method can be used in business and in state administration, with the needed adjustments and limits of course, but the same approaches are possible. And if we see that a practice has proven its effectiveness, we should take it on board. 
Education, learning new skills and knowledge, promoting competent people with initiative, and dialogue with the public should be the backbone of personnel work. A regional head who is himself a competent manager will try to put together a team of similarly effective people and won’t be afraid of modern and effective people. 
This is extremely important. You are all experienced leaders. If someone feels confident, he will want to have just such strong and confident people working alongside him, and overall the team will produce good results.
People who do not feel confident and do not possess these modern management skills will look for others similar to themselves, and this will ultimately affect their results, and not for the better.
Let me say a few words in conclusion.
Colleagues, as you know well, human resources work and training was quite well-organised during the Soviet period and produced some good results. The important thing is that it must not become a mere formality.
I remember when I was working in the organisation that you all know, work in this area was set on very strict lines. You worked 3–4 years in one place, then would be sent back to Moscow for ongoing training for a year. That was a strict rule – 3–4 years in one part of the world, and then a training period in Moscow.
Of course, a certain amount of mere formality will always be the case, unfortunately. But this kind of system is nonetheless useful and needed. In this respect I ask you not to view this work as just a formality. You have several days here, and I ask you to concentrate on the work, don’t run off anywhere, please.
Put this bit of time into it all. I know that each of you has his hands full. Your regions have no shortage of issues to take care of. But please, focus on what you have come here for and get the most out of this learning opportunity because it will come in useful.
Thank you very much. I wish you success.
  Topics
Civil service
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 13, 2013, 17:45
Text versionEvents
2014–2016 Budget Policy Address
Vladimir Putin announced the signing of the 2014–2016 Budget Policy Address at a meeting with members of the Government Cabinet, heads of both houses of the Federal Assembly and the Presidential Executive Office.
June 13, 2013
13:40
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 4
Meeting with members of the Government Cabinet and leadership of the Federal Assembly about the 2014–2016 Budget Policy Address.
The address outlines the basic budget policy objectives over the next three years. The Government will use the President’s budget policy address as the basis for drawing up the draft budget for the period in question.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
Today we are meeting again, as we did last year, about the 2014–2016 Budget Policy Address. I think it is necessary to draw your attention to several points and priorities.
The main rationale behind budget policy is supporting economic growth. This is the main goal of our joint work. By what means should we achieve it? By radically improving the efficiency of our budget policy, unconditionally honouring all our commitments in the social sphere, and realising the strategic objectives defined in the executive orders of May 7, 2012.
We need to switch to a long-term development policy in our public sector, and this means increasing the share of government spending on education, science and infrastructure, significantly improving the quality of social services, and stimulating business development and private investments.
All of these objectives were mentioned in the previous Budget Policy Address, and some work in this direction has been conducted. Nevertheless, we must admit that new planning principles and measures to increase the efficiency of government spending are being introduced very slowly. We cannot wait and delay major decisions any longer. We need to achieve a new and better budgetary policy in the near future.
These conditions determine our internal and external economic conditions and trends. At present, the possibilities of quickly and constantly increasing budgetary spending have been exhausted or close to it. We need more productive, superior solutions.
Colleagues, what goals must we achieve over the coming three-year period?
First, we must ensure a stable and balanced budgetary system as well as the unconditional fulfilment of government obligations, primarily social ones, even in the event of an unfavourable external economic environment. It is for precisely this reason that the budget rule was adopted.
I consider it necessary to finalise our budget strategy through to 2030 over the next three months, and if necessary, we must make changes to long-term forecasts of socioeconomic development.
The budget strategy must evaluate possible risks and clarify how we will act in any scenario, including an unfavourable one. It must also set out clear guidelines for financial support of government programmes: funds should be allocated for plans that really envisage transformations and in order to achieve specific targets.
Unfortunately, this is not the first year (it is more like the fifth) that we have talked about the need to introduce a number of government programmes. We talked and talked, and then finally all the new members of the Government managed to gradually plan these programmes.
Nevertheless many of them – you know this yourselves – need further development. The objectives they contain are not supported by adequate resources and some programs have been adopted in several versions. Moreover, these versions differ significantly both in terms of planned results and funding required.
Friends and colleagues, if there are not enough funds to cover everything, then we need to set priorities. For this reason we have instituted these programmes.
I would emphasise that, in practice, state programmes must dovetail with strategic and budgetary planning; they must establish general policy requirements for both federal departments and regions in their respective fields; and, they must ultimately become a tool for developing and implementing public policies in the long-term.
I would ask that as you prepare the budget, you once again analyse government programmes, identify their priorities, and ensure that the latter correspond with the relevant goals and real possibilities afforded by budgetary funds.
The second goal: we need to significantly optimise the budget’s structure, to find reserves and redistribute them in the light of the strategic objectives outlined in the executive orders of May 7, 2012. We should increase the amount of funds spent on areas that have the greatest impact on economic growth and social development.
Important reserves can be generated by increasing the efficiency of budget spending, focusing on targeted social assistance, and carrying out structural reforms in the social sphere. Finally, they also depend on ensuring a long-term balanced budget for the pension system, which will reduce the Pension Fund’s dependence on government subsidies. This is conditional on the fact that the living standards of Russia’s older generation consistently improve.
This is related to the third goal: making crucial decisions about a pension formula is a high-priority task. We’ve discussed this together many times, and I know that it’s a difficult task. In general we can say that you are almost there; we must see this work through to its end.
A pension formula should allow for a differentiated approach to each citizen: the more years of service and the higher the salary, the higher the pension. And of course the formula must be fair, stable, transparent and, crucially, clearly understood by both employees and employers.
Let me draw your attention to the following: we need to keep the basic rate of insurance premiums for businesses at current levels. We cannot solve the pension system’s problems by increasing the tax burden incumbent on business, and by suppressing entrepreneurial activity and economic growth.
Depending on the final parameters of the pension formula, we should also indicate to what degree National Welfare Fund resources can be used to cover deficits in the pension system.
Another thing I want to draw your attention to. We have given our citizens the right to decide over the course of this year on where to direct their four-percent insurance premiums: either to their insurance, or to the funded part of their pension. Naturally, it would be unfair to deprive those who will use the pension system in the future of this right. I think that they should benefit from this too.
But I would draw everyone’s attention to the following: this will be possible only after adopting laws which fully, and I want to emphasise this, fully ensure the establishment of a functioning system to guarantee pension savings.
We have enough problems with fraud victims to understand that with regards to pension savings, citizens’ pension rights, we must act extremely carefully. These funds should be guaranteed, as should their safety.
We should also pay attention to problems relating to the transparency of the pension system and extra-budgetary funds. Let me remind you that as of January 1, 2014 all extra-budgetary funds will be transferred to the cash services of Federal Treasury agencies. I would ask you to prepare accordingly, and I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this date will not be postponed.
And I would also ask the Government to decide on the feasibility of transferring the administrative aspects of compulsory insurance contributions to the Federal Tax Service. I know that the Government’s social bloc believes that this work should be conducted where it currently is, but representatives of businesses and of the economic bloc believe that the Federal Tax Service can do it more efficiently. I do not want to and will not impose my opinion on anyone, but I would ask you to definitively decide on this and bring these discussions to an end. Let me emphasise that the Government must make decisions this year, 2013, on all matters relating to further developing the pension system.
The fourth goal. The Ministry of Finance was ready to put off funding for the State Arms Procurement Programme until a later date. We have adopted this programme; now we must carry it out, and do so efficiently. We have also talked about this many times.
The resources have been allocated. Indeed, they are substantial, important resources. The military industry must be ready to accept the money, but not only that; it must have the appropriate industrial and technological foundation to fulfil contracts for supplying equipment and weapons.
And if you see that some parts of the industry are not up to the task, the Defence Ministry must come up with its own plan for a more rational allocation of budgetary resources over time. This will give the Government the opportunity to use financial resources to address routine challenges more efficiently.
At the same time, colleagues, I want to draw your attention to the following: of course, the total amount of the state arms programme, the total amount of funds we have allocated for it should remain unchanged.
Fifth, we need to use additional mechanisms to stimulate economic growth, including by developing infrastructure. I am referring to using National Welfare Fund resources and pension money for sustainable infrastructure projects. This must generate a multiplier effect throughout the economy, as well as guarantee the absolute safety and recoverability of the funds.
And of course we have to elaborate a single, clear mechanism for selecting such projects and allocating resources. Each project must undergo an independent technology audit and expert evaluation with the participation of business community representatives. At the same time, you need to create new tools for attracting private investment into infrastructure development, and using public-private partnership mechanisms.
Of course, this is not an easy task. Recovering these funds will take time, this is not so-called fast money; these are serious long-term, long-lasting projects. And there are enough resources in the world, as you are well-aware: there are a large number of major international funds looking for opportunities to invest. Of course, generating profits is very important for them, but the most important thing is the unconditional repayment and reliability of such investments. Russia is able to offer such opportunities.
Sixth. Each ruble spent by the Government should promote changes in the public sector. This is something we’ve already talked about a thousand times. It’s time to move to concrete actions and introduce new financial principles whereby money follows consumers of services, citizens, and does not simply enrich various offices.
To do this, first of all we need to legislate a common reference list of state and municipal services, and to establish a uniform methodology for calculating the costs of such services. Along with this, the content of government tasks must be affiliated with the targets of government programmes. In this way our objectives in healthcare, education, culture and other priority sectors will be clear.
Furthermore, one of our most important goals is to increase the competitiveness of our tax system. We are now adopting a whole set of measures to improve the business climate and make our national jurisdiction more appealing. This includes making tax payment procedures more convenient for businesses. Domestic entrepreneurs and international experts have noted this.
We must continue to create stimuli for both Russian and foreign businesses, investing our resources into the creation of new factories within our nation.
We will soon be implementing suggestions on tax benefits for investment into the Far East and supporting the development and exploitation of new extractable resource deposits, including the continental shelf. We should continue to simplify tax management, bringing it as closely in line as possible with business accounts, and generally improve the quality of our tax administration.
At the same time, we need to limit people’s ability to mitigate taxes on a legal basis and transfer profits to offshore accounts, as well as to increase the financial burden on owners of prestigious, expensive property. In short, we must create tax conditions such as to ensure that investing money into Russia is more advantageous than hiding it on some island or spending it on luxury items.
Seventh, our joint work with the regions to carry out the executive orders of May 7, 2012 has once again demonstrated the need to change the fiscal relations system. Based on the figures from 2012, the state debt in nearly one out of three regions is equal to over half of its revenue. At the same time, the share of investment spending is declining.
In this regard, I feel it is essential for us to conduct constant monitoring of the financial situation in Russian regions, as well as the municipal districts, including such basic indicators as changes in key parameters of their budgets, the structure of their spending, and state and municipal debt. Corresponding measures should be taken based on the results of this monitoring. And it is important for the measures to be taken in a timely manner.
At the same time, Russian regions must have the opportunity to plan their work without worrying about constant changes in the “rules of the game,” on the basis of a clear volume of co-financing provided from the federal budget. This will be particularly true when every region will be required to pass three-year budgets, starting next year.
And finally, eighth. We must assure extensive transparency and openness in the budget process for our citizens. This is one of the key conditions for increasing the efficacy of state investments and the entire budget policy. We have been able to achieve significant results in this area: Russia is now in the top ten nations according to the International Budget Partnership’s budget transparency index. But this work certainly needs to be continued. Beginning this year, in 2013, all levels of government – federal, regional, municipal – must issue the Budgets for Citizens publication.
They must use a format that is accessible and clear to average citizens to show the objectives being funded by state resources, the volume of funding used, the intended results and the actual results, in order for citizens to independently draw conclusions about the efficacy of the spending, targeted use of funds, and the overall efficacy of the work by the government.
As far as the draft federal budget for 2014 and the planning period for 2015–2016 are concerned, the Government was supposed to have organised work with participation by experts to analyse the efficacy of budgetary spending and present suggestions for its optimisation, in accordance with January’s instructions. The results of this analysis should be reflected in the draft budget. I hope, colleagues, that this is precisely what will happen.
We are entering a decisive phase in preparing the budget for the next three-year period. I expect the closest, most constructive possible cooperation between the Cabinet and the parliament, including all political parties. Let me stress again: it is imperative that we have a budget oriented toward development, a budget that will assure the resolution of all priority challenges that our nation faces. Naturally, we repeat this often, and I do it as well, but I will say it again: all these objectives, including the social ones, can be achieved and resolved only by assuring rapid economic growth.
And in conclusion: unfortunately, we often consider priority objectives in the social and economic domains separately from budget policy issues. This is simply wrong. Developing areas should be fully reinforced through sources of funding. In turn, analysing the results achieved will allow us to objectively assess our efficacy in the use of government resources.
In this regard, I feel it would be expedient to make the Budget Address a component of the Address to the Federal Assembly, and I am asking the Cabinet to prepare corresponding amendments to the legislation so that once a year, the President can set corresponding objectives, and the parliament and Cabinet can focus on these priorities from the very start.
<…>
Topics
Budget
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 13, 2013, 13:40
Text version