Events
Press statements following a meeting with Prime Minister of Israel Benjamin Netanyahu
May 14, 2013
16:40
Sochi
Press statements following talks with Prime Minister of Israel Benjamin Netanyahu.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen,
Our talks with Prime Minister of Israel, Mr Netanyahu, just ended. I can say at once that they took place in a very open, trusting atmosphere. We discussed both our bilateral contacts and intergovernmental ones, as well as the situation in the Middle East.
I would like to point out immediately that our relationship with Israel is both friendly and mutually beneficial. You know that just recently, on May 9, we celebrated Victory over Nazism Day. We are grateful to Israel’s leaders for their nation’s attitude to the memory of victims who died fighting Nazism, including those who lived in the Soviet Union.
Our bilateral economic ties are growing stronger. There are problems in this respect, first and foremost relating to insufficient mutual investments; those can certainly increase significantly. In this respect we have good prospects in the wide variety of areas in which we cooperate. Our agencies and ministries – emergencies ministries, health ministries and others – work closely together.
Tourist visits are increasing. After the abolition of visa requirements, the number of Russian tourists increased many times over, and last year it reached 300,000.
Our relations in the humanitarian, educational and cultural spheres are developing. In February 2013 a successful Russian culture festival was held in Tel Aviv and Haifa.
Ties between our various regions are growing stronger. In February 2013, the Russian city of Gelendzhik, close to Sochi (where we are today), was twinned with the Israeli city of Netanya.
Of course today we talked a lot about regional security problems. The situation in Syria is a particular concern. My colleague and I agree that continuing the armed conflict in the country is fraught with disastrous consequences for both Syria and the region. Only by quickly ending the armed struggle and arriving at a political settlement can we prevent a very negative outcome.
In this crucial period it is especially important to avoid actions that could destabilise the situation. Mr Prime Minister and I agreed to stay in contact: both in personal contact and via our organisations and special services.
See also
Meeting with Prime Minister of Israel Benjamin Netanyahu
May 14, 2013
I am grateful to Mr Prime Minister for accepting our invitation and travelling to Russia today. Thank you.
Prime Minister of Israel Benjamin Netanyahu (re-translated): Thank you Mr President for your invitation and the warm welcome.
You described relations between Israel and Russia absolutely correctly. Our various relationships are getting closer and stronger all the time.
We discussed developing and strengthening our ties in science, culture and economics. Jews, immigrants from the CIS countries living in Israel, play an important part in these relations and their future. And the great role the Russian people played in stopping Nazi Germany and facilitating victory over it is our shared history. A great many Jews fought in the Red Army. So when you celebrate Victory Day here on May 9, in our country, in another part of the world, we also celebrate that day and salute your contribution to the victory over Nazi Germany.
The fact that the State of Israel was founded is what enables Jews to defend themselves against those who continue to try to destroy us. We aspire to peace with all our neighbours. We managed to reach peace agreements with two of them, and I hope that this will be the case with others too; naturally, we also want to preserve what we already have. But unfortunately, we have learned from experience, and you also know, that peace can only be concluded with the strong, only with those who are able to defend themselves. Our job is to protect our citizens, and we always do so.
We had very detailed and in-depth conversations about the situation in our region. Together we are trying to find a way to strengthen stability and security there. This is important to us, and it is important to you. And we have a wonderful, historically-founded opportunity to talk directly with one another, to explain our position clearly, and to try and realise common goals.
I very much appreciate the time you devoted to us, the very warm and friendly welcome, and the great opportunity to come here, two hours away from Tel Aviv, to where you will soon host the next Winter Olympics. And I want to take this opportunity to wish you every success.
From what I saw during my short visit, I want to say that you could not have chosen a better place to hold the Olympics.
Thank you very much.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 14, 2013, 16:40
Text versionEvents
Beginning of meeting with Prime Minister of Israel Benjamin Netanyahu
May 14, 2013
14:30
Sochi
With Prime Minister of Israel Benjamin Netanyahu.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister, colleagues and friends, I am very pleased to see you here in Russia. Mr Prime Minister, we are in constant contact, in phone contact with you and your colleagues.
I remember my trip to Israel for the unveiling of the monument to Soviet soldiers killed during World War II. Once again I want to thank you for that event, the wonderful monument, and the hospitality I received throughout my visit.
As I understand, internal political procedures in Israel are just concluding and it will now be possible to focus on both the economy and foreign affairs.
I would like to point out at once that in general I think our bilateral relations are characterised by positive trends. Good work is being done at the expert level.
Of course, I hope to talk to you about the situation in the Middle East, including in Syria.
Thank you for having accepted our invitation. Thank you very much.
Welcome to Russia.
Prime Minister of Israel Benjamin Netanyahu
: (in Russian) Thank you Mr President.
(Re-translated.) I’m working on my Russian.
Vladimir Putin: We can hear your progress.
Benjamin Netanyahu: I’m trying to use every one of our meetings – meetings that I truly appreciate – for this purpose among others. But we understand each other perfectly well in any language. And I very much appreciate your invitation.
You are absolutely right. We approved our [2013–14 state] budget at a Cabinet meeting and a few hours later I landed here in Sochi (I arrived at 5 am). Sochi is a wonderful, thriving city, and this is also a sign that Russia is developing and flourishing.
For this reason, just as we met here I suggested that we hold our next meeting in Eilat. There is silence and tranquillity in both these cities.
Vladimir Putin: I was there, and it is a very nice place.
Benjamin Netanyahu: Of course, we want to preserve the peaceful and tranquil atmosphere in both cities. However, recently rockets have been fired more than once at Eilat from the Sinai Peninsula. This reminds us all that the region in which we live is constantly seething; it remains unstable and in some senses even explosive.
So I’m very happy to have the opportunity to discuss ways to stabilise our region, the paths that will result in additional security and more tranquillity there. Naturally, the region where we live is very important to us, but I know that it is important to you too. Together we can think about how to stabilise it and make it more secure.
Thank you once again for the invitation.
<…>
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 14, 2013, 14:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting on prospects for gas engine fuel
The issues discussed included promoting the use of natural gas as a vehicle fuel in Russia and measures for the development of natural gas cars.
May 14, 2013
18:00
Sochi
1 of 6
Meeting on prospects for gas engine fuel.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
Today our agenda focuses on expanding the use of natural gas as a vehicle fuel, which will lead to increased energy efficiency, lower transportation costs and better environment, especially in big cities.
This is a highly relevant issue today, and we have already discussed it several times, including at the meetings of the previous Cabinet, and the new Government has inherited this task.
The consequences involved are both economic and environmental. Natural gas is cheaper than petroleum or diesel fuel, and in addition, its use reduces emissions. Experts estimate that only in Russia cars emit a huge amount of harmful substances daily, and the annual volume amounts to 14 million tonnes of harmful emissions. 14 million tonnes! Switching to natural gas reduces emissions by two to three times.
Natural gas as a vehicle fuel is used in more than 80 countries worldwide. It should be noted that each year the world's fleet of vehicles that run on natural gas increases steadily. Unfortunately, Russia holds the 20th place in the number of natural gas cars, despite our sizeable reserves, which amount to 20% of the world's reserves of natural gas, and I will come back to this point later. Undoubtedly, we have every opportunity, both in terms of the resources and technology available to us, to take up the leading positions in this sector.
Suffice it to say that as I said, 20% of natural gas is concentrated in Russia, and this in itself is a good stepping stone and gives us a clear competitive advantage in this area. We have established a network of filling stations and are gradually increasing the fleet of natural gas vehicles. The Russian Railways have shown an interest in using natural gas fuel. Many regions are ready to start using natural gas vehicles for public transportation. The Navy can use natural gas fuel. However, in order for natural gas fuel to become widely used and for it to become profitable for the transportation sector, we must address a whole range of issues.
First, we must speed up the adoption of a comprehensive legal framework governing the production, storage, transportation and use of natural gas fuel, including the development of modern technical requirements in this area.
Second, it is essential to raise the interest in natural gas vehicles among consumers, actively promote their technological and economic advantages, and encourage both individuals and government agencies to purchase such vehicles by providing various benefits and incentives.
Incidentally, many countries where natural gas fuel is used have such a system of support measures and incentives. It is important that the domestic auto industry responds to the demands of the time and offers modern and advanced vehicles that run on natural gas. The industry already has projects in this area.
Third, we must create the conditions for expanding natural gas fuel infrastructure and special service stations so that the owners of natural gas cars have no trouble with the refuelling and repairs. Therefore, we must offer support for the companies that operate in this market, remove the existing administrative barriers, which, as I have already mentioned, is normal practice all over the world.
Yesterday, the Government issued an instruction on this issue and approved a set of measures to promote the use of natural gas as a vehicle fuel. There are a few points I would like to make in this regard. I have already mentioned that the previous Cabinet began work in this area, and about six months ago the current Government discussed the need to move forward. Yesterday the colleagues issued an instruction to draft a set of measures.
If we take another six months to draft and agree on a set of measures (I know that this happens sometimes), if we debate all the different options, we can draw out the job unnecessarily. I ask the colleagues to bear this in mind and speed up all these approvals. This is the first point.
Second, I didn’t see anything there. We must work with consumers on this issue – not just with motor fuel suppliers, but also with consumers. We are to look closely at the problems that they encounter in this area.
Finally, the third and very important point is the safety issue. This requires special attention. We must envision ways to monitor the use of natural gas vehicles. As you know, there was an accident in Moscow just recently involving a bus that ran on natural gas. Another incident, though one that did not involve transport, occurred yesterday when a gas cylinder was being unloaded in a café. It is necessary to pay close attention, bearing in mind that if we expand the network of natural gas vehicles and build filling stations, this issue will become very serious. The most modern equipment must be used.
Clearly, we must adopt the most stringent standards to ensure safety. In particular, this applies to the requirements of regular and quality maintenance. I draw your attention to the fact that the number of hybrid and electric vehicles is growing because they are becoming more affordable and easier to use thanks to a gradual reduction in charging time. We must take into account the growing market of such cars; otherwise we may fall behind global technological and business trends.
I hope we will also talk about the possible risks that arise here, that is, purely technological and business risks. We will also deliberate which vehicles it would be most expedient to switch to natural gas. Let's discuss all these matters.
<…>
Topics
Transport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 14, 2013, 18:00
Text version