Events
Meeting on the situation in the regions affected by floods
Vladimir Putin chaired a videoconference on the situation in the regions affected by floods.
August 17, 2013
13:15
Sochi
4 of 4
During a videoconference on the situation in the regions affected by floods.
See also
Meeting on relief efforts following severe flooding in the Volga, Urals and Far Eastern federal districts
August 10, 2013
The President heard reports on the situation in the Amur Region, Khabarovsk Territory and Jewish Autonomous Area during a videoconference.
* * *
Excerpts from videoconference on the situation in the regions affected by floods
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen,
I brought you together to discuss the situation in the Russian regions most affected by flooding. The situation remains critical in many parts of the country, but today we will talk about those places where conditions are particularly acute. These include the Jewish Autonomous Area, Khabarovsk Territory and the Amur Region.
You know the current situation yourselves: large areas are flooded as are dozens of villages, while communication lines, roads, bridges and power lines have been damaged. The damage is very extensive.
The most important thing that we managed to do was to prevent human casualties. I want to thank everyone who took part in getting the evacuation points ready and in the evacuation itself for their effective work.
But we cannot relax yet, there is still a great deal of work to be done. Therefore, I would ask you to report on how the situation is developing. And at the end [of our meeting], the head of the government’s working group, Emergencies Minister [Vladimir Puchkov
], will sum up the interim results of our work.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: With regards to some of the proposals that were made during today’s meeting.
Regarding railroad fares and transportation through or in affected areas: railroads are working normally, but the situation in the regions remains abnormal.
Of course, we must take additional measures to resolve problems currently faced by the regions affected by floods. The Emergencies Ministry, Transport Ministry and Regional Development Ministry, together with the Finance Ministry will have to make proposals on how to address these issues, either by reducing rates or by providing subsidies to relevant companies. This is a technical question, but it must be worked out quickly. I would ask you to do so.
The same goes for the possible extension of lease payments and loans. It would be unreasonable to shift everything exclusively onto financial organisations, but if something needs to be shifted onto them, then we need to understand what condition these organisations – both leasing companies and banks – would find themselves in. Therefore, the Finance Ministry and [financial] organisations themselves must analyse the situation and make suggestions, and do so as quickly as possible.
Now in general, what I wanted to talk about. The first and most important thing – I will say this once again, I have done so repeatedly and now you have too – is minimising the negative effects on citizens.
We must relocate everyone who is in a flood zone or potentially threatened to a safe place, which must be set up in advance. We need to ensure water supply, provide medication, clean up affected areas, and give timely vaccinations.
As for other issues, all of these regions – we all know this well, and the Energy Minister [Alexander Novak
] just mentioned it too – are in quite a difficult climatic zone. So despite current difficulties with floods, you must not forget to prepare for winter; it will be here in the blink of an eye.
Of course, we have to continue to monitor the situation around hydraulic facilities very carefully.
And in conclusion, I would like to say the following: there is no doubt that we will rebuild agriculture facilities, bridges, roads, communication and power lines, in short everything that we might call hardware.
The task is to protect people from harm and – most importantly – prevent irreversible losses. I would ask you to please focus on this.
The situation really is difficult, but it can be controlled and is currently under control. And if we work together as a team, and coordinating our work is the most important thing, then we really can minimise losses and prevent irreparable ones.
I would ask all the leaders of Russian regions currently facing problems with high water and flooding – as the problem is on-going – to personally deal with these issues.
No one should be left behind and no one should be lost; I am referring to the people who live in your regions. I would ask you to provide daily reports, and to report immediately if the situation were to suddenly change.
Thank you very much everyone for your work. Let’s continue, and I would ask that you take the issues we have discussed today extremely seriously. Thank you once again, all the best, and here’s to work.
Geography
Khabarovsk Territory
Amur Region
Jewish Autonomous Region
Topics
Environment
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 17, 2013, 13:15
Text versionEvents
Meeting with members of Dynamo Hockey Club
Vladimir Putin met with staff and players of HC Dynamo, which has won its second straight Gagarin Cup.
August 17, 2013
14:45
Sochi
Vladimir Putin presented an honorary certificate and commendations to Dynamo’s staff and players for their services to developing physical culture and sport.
* * *
Beginning of meeting with staff and players of HC Dynamo
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Dear friends, thank you for the applause, but it is primarily for you yourselves.
I’m very pleased with Dynamo’s team, which has won the Gagarin Cup twice, demonstrating its volition, skills, and desire to play and to win.
I remember the time that [Deputy Secretary of the Security Council and former Interior Minister] Mr Nurgaliyev
told me about how the team was formed, its funding difficulties, and said that the guys were simply going on their enthusiasm and desire.
And when you achieved your first victory I did not believe it was possible, but it was possible a second time too. And naturally, this bears witness to the fact that you have created a spirited, good, competent, effective and talented team.
I think that you managed to achieve what I would call – without any undue exaggeration – an outstanding result thanks to team play in combination with individual skills. Let me warmly congratulate you once again.
<…>
Topics
Sport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 17, 2013, 14:45
Text versionEvents
Visit to a combat sambo tournament
Vladimir Putin attended the International Professional Combat Sambo Tournament.
August 17, 2013
23:55
Sochi
2 of 13
At the International Professional Combat Sambo Tournament.
The tournament was organised by the Sambo-70 centre of sports education and the League S-70. Athletes from Russia, Ukraine, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Bulgaria, Austria, Venezuela, the United States and South Africa competed in this year’s event.
Along with Mr Putin, Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev
and President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev
also watched the competition, as did the members of the Dynamo Hockey Club, with whom the President met earlier in the day.
In the team competition, Russia’s team won with a score of 4:1. Mr Putin took part in the award ceremony.
* * *
Speech at the award ceremony at the International Professional Combat Sambo Tournament
Vladimir Putin: Strength, courage and noble spirit are what distinguish the fighters standing in the ring at this moment, along with the brotherhood of sports and combat. I say combat, because they are the most vivid example of what martial arts are about.
Thank you guys. Good luck!
<…>
Let me thank our guests here today. Here in Russia, we have always valued and respected men who know how to stand firm to the last.
See also
Meeting with members of Dynamo Hockey Club
August 17, 2013
Topics
Sport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 17, 2013, 23:55
Text version