Events
Press statement following meeting with Prime Minister of Israel Benjamin Netanyahu
November 20, 2013
22:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 5
Statements for the press following the meeting with Prime Minister of Israel Benjamin Netanyahu.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ladies and gentlemen,
Prime Minister of Israel Benjamin Netanyahu and I have just completed our talks. As always, they were held in a business-minded, constructive atmosphere.
Relations between our nations are friendly and mutually beneficial, and we maintain an active political dialogue.
Mr Prime Minister and I had a detailed discussion concerning the key issues in our bilateral cooperation and made plans for the future development of our relations.
See also
Meeting with Prime Minister of Israel Benjamin Netanyahu
November 20, 2013
Last year, our trade volume was $3 billion. This may not be an outstanding figure, but it is a positive trend in spite of global economic problems. In the first eight months of this year, we saw an increase of 29%.
The intergovernmental commission is working actively. We are broadening cooperation in energy. Our nations are working successfully in the air and space sector. On September 1, 2013 an Israeli satellite was launched into orbit on a Russian launch vehicle. Our common plans include the development of two more space vehicles for the Israeli side by Russian specialists.
Pharmaceuticals and medicine are an important element in our cooperation. Teva, an Israeli company, is participating in the construction of a pharmaceutical factory in Yaroslavl Region. Naturally, we will support similar projects.
We are very interested in Israeli agricultural technologies. We are strengthening regional ties and actively developing humanitarian contacts. In September 2013, the Russian Film Week was held in Israel, and the Days of Russian Spiritual Culture were held in November. I think it would be interesting if Israeli performers were to come to Russia as well.
Of course, international problems were also at the centre of our attention. We are calling for a rapid end to the bloodshed in Syria and hope to see continuation of talks in Geneva.
We always give serious attention in our meetings to the Middle East settlement. Russia welcomes the renewal of Palestinian-Israeli talks. Mr Prime Minister and I had a detailed discussion on issues related to the Iranian Nuclear Programme. We expect that mutually acceptable resolutions will be reached in the near future. As the sextet consultations with Iran demonstrated, that possibility does exist. And here in Russia, we have an optimistic view of the negotiation process. I am hoping that the Geneva talks, which resumed today, will be successful.
I would like to thank our guest, Mr Prime Minister, for today’s meeting and our joint work. Thank you very much.
<…>
Geography
Israel
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Netanyahu Benjamin
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 20, 2013, 22:00
Text versionEvents
Beginning of meeting with Prime Minister of Israel Benjamin Netanyahu
November 20, 2013
19:40
Meeting with Prime Minister of Israel Benjamin Netanyahu.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister, colleagues, I am very happy to welcome you to Moscow.
I am glad to say that you and I have been in constant contact. We talked on the phone just recently. I am happy for the opportunity to talk with you about the situation in the region, as well as complicated international issues and bilateral relations.
I must say that we are giving significant attention to pressing international issues. But I suppose that Russia and Israel’s bilateral relations have their own value, and I hope that you and I will discuss them today as well. I am referring to our plans to develop economic cooperation and humanitarian ties.
We also have matters to discuss in the energy sector. Gazprom has started to explore raw hydrocarbon deposits on your continental shelf in the Mediterranean Sea. We have already implemented effective, promising projects in space and aviation. RUSNANO is cooperating with a relevant agency in your country and also has good prospects.
I am very happy to see you. Welcome!
Prime Minister of Israel Benjamin Netanyahu
(retranslated): Mr President, I am happy to meet with you again. Every time we meet, we understand each other better, and our relations are constantly growing warmer and improving. I hope this meeting will strengthen the good relations between Russia and Israel even more, as they have been continuously gaining momentum under your leadership.
During your last visit to Israel, you saw a monument to Soviet soldiers and their enormous contribution to the victory over Nazism. For my part, I will be visiting the museum you founded, dedicated to the Jewish community, tomorrow.
Vladimir Putin: You haven’t visited it yet?
Benjamin Netanyahu: This is my first opportunity to do so.
Vladimir Putin: We’ve done even better than you.
Benjamin Netanyahu: Just give us a chance, and we will also show our strong side.
I feel the mutual appreciation and respect between our nations is exceedingly important, with regard to both our two peoples’ tragedies and their aspirations. Naturally, we want to prevent future tragedies. I hope that our meeting will help contribute to security and peace, and improve our bilateral relations, as well as the situation in our regions and throughout the world.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister, I remember that this memorial was your initiative, and you invited me to participate in its opening in Israel.
I just finished a meeting with the leaders of Russia’s non-parliamentary parties – those that are not represented in parliament. And one of the participants in this meeting made a suggestion to foster closer cooperation with Israel to preserve the memory of the tragedy of World War II. I promised that I would certainly bring up this proposal with you, and that we will discuss it at the Foreign Ministry level.
Benjamin Netanyahu: I am happy to accept your proposal.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
<…>
See also
Meeting with Prime Minister of Israel Benjamin Netanyahu
November 20, 2013
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 20, 2013, 19:40
Text versionEvents
Security Council meeting
Vladimir Putin held a meeting of the Security Council on national security in environmental protection and natural resources use.
November 20, 2013
14:45
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 3
Security Council meeting.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon colleagues,
Our meeting today is about the key aspects of guaranteeing Russia’s environmental security. This is a crucial issue that involves many different aspects.
Russia has immense and varied natural potential and resources. Our country is home to unique ecosystems that affect environmental sustainability around the entire planet, and we have a duty to preserve this wealth, keep the environment in balance, and thus raise the quality of life in our country. 
We should admit frankly that environmental security issues were on the sidelines of state attention for a long time. So-called ‘dirty’ technology dominated in many industry sectors, and this is often still the case today. Insufficient funding was made available for re-cultivating land, restoring forests, and building treatment facilities and landfills for waste management. 
Lately, we have gradually started changing this situation around. Let me remind you that 2013 was declared Year of the Environment in Russia. This was done in order to focus attention on environmental issues and make society more aware of them. 
Over the last ten years, the amount of specially protected territory has increased by nearly 3 million hectares, we have launched a project to clean up the Arctic and a programme to build up populations of rare wildlife species has been running since 2008. 
Big infrastructure projects are being implemented in compliance with modern environmental safety standards. They include the Eastern Siberia-Pacific Ocean Oil Pipeline, the Bureiskaya Hydropower Station and the facilities built for the APEC summit in Vladivostok. The Olympic construction in Sochi is also proceeding in line with the strictest norms and standards. Indeed, the environmental programme that is being carried out there will be an important part of Russia’s Olympic heritage.
A programme is underway at the Sochi National Park, for example, to restore the Persian leopard populations in the Caucasus, from where they had disappeared back in the 1950s. I remind you also that at its meeting on April 11, the State Council Presidium examined the main issues and took decisions on improving Russia’s forest management. We discussed on that occasion additional measures to protect and regenerate forests and prevent forest fires, and took decisions on developing a better and more effective system for making use of forest resources. Today, I want to come back to this issue and look at how these instructions are being carried out. 
At the same time, we are very much aware that just taking decisions in particular sectors is far from enough. The industrial impact on the environment continues to grow. Expert assessments suggest that at least 15 percent of Russia’s territory is in unsatisfactory environmental condition.
To be honest, we spend relatively little money as a share of GDP on all of these activities. The Minister will maybe give the exact figure in his speech. I can tell you that it is only 0.8 percent. This is nothing compared with countries with developed economies. 
I remind you that we adopted the Economic Doctrine for the country back in 2002. But since then we have still not put in place the legislative base needed for effective environmental management. We still do not have a full-fledged mechanism of environmental fees from business and other organisations for the use of natural resources. The entire civilised world is taking this road and using these payments as a source of funding for protecting and regenerating the environment.
I think that we should move swiftly to draft and adopt the National Environmental Security Strategy. It should assess the external and internal threats in this area and set the threshold security indicators.
I mentioned the question of fees. The issue is not so simple. It is difficult in that it increases the burden on business, and so we must be very careful in our decisions so as not to overburden the economy with these demands. But at the same time, we all know that if we do nothing, if we do not take this road, we will have nothing left, despite our vast territory.
Coming back to the National Environmental Security Strategy, I want to say that this document should set our work on a systemic foundation. Needless to say, we must consolidate the efforts of the state authorities and society to achieve our environmental protection objectives.
There are several points I want to note in this respect.
First, we must make state environmental control and monitoring more effective, and we also need to restore companies’ internal environmental control systems. The main objective here is to minimise the risk of environmental emergencies arising that would cause environmental pollution and material damage.
Colleagues, I would like to hear your views today on the priority steps we should take in this area. However, let me stress that what we need is real control, the real thing, and not just inspections for their own sake, which only add an extra administrative and bureaucratic burden on business in general. 
Second, state environmental expert reports must be of a higher quality. I stress that such reports must be carried out for all big infrastructure projects. We must be more active in bringing in independent experts to assess these projects’ environmental security, and we should organise broad public discussion in particularly important cases that are in the public eye. No matter how much dread this might rouse, and what the specialists, our colleagues, say about the deadlines and costs, this is something we cannot do without. 
Third, we need to pay serious attention to cleaning up Lake Baikal and the water resources of Lake Ladoga and Lake Onega. They are our biggest freshwater reserves. All the decisions on cleaning up the Baikal area have been taken, but their implementation has been too slow. I want to hear today about what specific circumstances are causing the delay. 
I note that the worsening water quality in Lake Ladoga and Lake Onega could create problems for supplying drinking water in Russia’s entire Northwest region. This issue requires specific attention at both federal and regional level.
Fourth, environmental security in the Russian Arctic zone requires a separate set of measures. We are starting to actively develop this territory. At the same time, we must respect all environmental demands, including our international commitments. This was something we discussed in detail two months ago at the meeting on issues related to the Yamal LNG project and the construction of the Arctic seaport of Sabetta, and also at the International Arctic Forum.
Fifth, we must take fundamental and practical research in ecology and environmental protection to a new level. We need to know how the climate is going to change and what risks are involved. We need scientifically based forecasts of the state of our natural resources and development outlook for our country’s environmental situation and the likely transformations to ecosystems as a result of natural and manmade influences. These forecasts must be made for periods of at least 10 to 15 years. It would be better to have even longer-term forecasts as much as possible, given the state of research today and the resources of Russian scientists and their colleagues abroad. Without this kind of information it is hard to evaluate real threats to environmental security and draw up long-term measures to neutralise them.
The sixth and final point I want to make is the need to develop international cooperation in the environment area. Russia is a party to most of the international environmental protection conventions drafted under the United Nations Environment Programme. But our accession to some major agreements has been delayed, and I think delayed without justification. For example, we have not adopted the Bonn Convention on the Conservation of Migratory Species, the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety and a number of other documents.
I note that in 2011, Russia ratified the Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants. But I draw your attention to the fact that we still do not have a system of state regulation in this area and nor do we have a national action plan for implementing the Convention.
Let me say again that we must make effective use of international cooperation mechanisms in environmental protection, especially in cases when environmental problems are cross-border in nature, such as the situation with the Amur and Irtysh River basins and pollution of the marine environment.
I ask you to draft specific proposals on all these issues in quick time.
<…>
Topics
Environment
National security
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Security Council
Publication date: November 20, 2013, 14:45
Text versionEvents
Meeting with leaders of non-parliamentary parties
Vladimir Putin met with the leaders of non-parliamentary parties.
November 20, 2013
18:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
Taking part in the meeting were representatives of Civic Platform, Communists of Russia, Right Cause, Patriots of Russia, the Republican Party of Russia – Party of People’s Freedom, Motherland, Russian Party of Pensioners for Justice, and Russian United Democratic Party Yabloko.
President Vladimir Putin: Colleagues,
We are meeting in the run-up to the 20th anniversary of the Russian Federation’s Constitution. As you know, I am holding a series of meetings with the leaders of the parliamentary parties. This is also related to the preparations underway for the Annual Address to the Federal Assembly. 
It wasn’t by chance that I started out by mentioning the 20th anniversary of the Constitution. The Constitution is the foundation of our state and legal system. This is a developing system, a living organism. In this respect, I must mention the decision that we took to significantly liberalise political parties’ activity. Different people will have different views on these changes. You are probably familiar with the comments and analysis which suggest that we were perhaps too hasty here.
A huge number of small but unviable parties has been created, but people say that this was nonetheless the right decision. It means that substantial parts of society that wanted to get involved in the country’s political life but did not have the opportunity have now obtained this chance.
I think the experience of the latest regional elections in September this year showed that these decisions have played a positive part in developing our political system. Let me quote some figures. You all know them well, but I will cite them once again nonetheless. We had a total of 50 non-parliamentary parties taking part in the last elections, and that is a sizeable number. Eighteen non-parliamentary parties had candidates elected from party lists to the regional parliaments, and if we count deputies representing single-seat districts, this gives a total of 27 non-parliamentary parties represented in regional parliaments. Six of them made it through on the parliamentary lists in 7 of the 16 regions, and 8 parties cleared the five-percent barrier and formed their own factions in the regional parliaments.
This shows that this system does enable a large number of our citizens to take direct part in the country’s political life. Furthermore, it creates not a bank or credit history, but a political history for these political and public organisations that are winning over voters, developing their support bases, formulating their proposals on the country’s political, economic and social development, and gaining a public and political tribune for expanding their influence. 
I would like to hear your assessments and put to you the same traditional question that I asked your colleagues from the parliamentary parties, namely, what proposals do you have (and if you have them, I’d like to hear about them today) with respect to the work on the Annual Address to the Federal Assembly. This is not a formal act, though the law does provide for it, but an event that shapes our work together for at least the coming year and is the chance to set longer-term political, economic and social goals. I would therefore like to hear your views. That is all I wanted to say for a start.
<…>
Topics
Parties
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 20, 2013, 18:30
Text version