Events
Working meeting with Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Rogozin
The meeting focused on the performance of the Military-Industrial Commission, headed by Dmitry Rogozin, and the preliminary results of the state defence order placement.
March 21, 2013
16:20
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
With Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Rogozin.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, Mr Rogozin,
The Military-Industrial Conference was held yesterday. Could you please tell me about it, its results and the profile boards that were designed to build up cooperation between technology producers and consumers. How do you propose to organise this work?
Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Rogozin
: The Military-Industrial Conference was held to mark the 60th anniversary of the Military-Industrial Commission. It was attended by about 1,000 delegates, including virtually the entire leadership of Russia’s defence industry and research, as well as the senior Defence Ministry officials.
We discussed all the issues that have accumulated in the first years of the state armament programme implementation. First of all this concerns the issues related to how best to implement the laws signed by you at the end of last year: the new version of the law on the state defence order, the law on the Advanced Research Foundation, and the draft law on the federal contracting system which the State Duma is currently debating.
Therefore, issues of quality, personnel and better work organisation – all of that was considered at the Military-Industrial Conference. We agreed to hold the conference every year to make sure that there is continuous dialogue between industry and state customers.
Naturally, such complex work not only requires the reorganisation of the industry itself, but also the administration system of the military-industrial complex. Therefore, the Military-Industrial Commission decided to establish special profiled boards that will focus on establishing the technological basis for various branches of the Armed Forces.
Last year, you supported our idea to set up a Board for Public-Private Partnership in the Military-Industrial Commission. I want to report to you that this has had good results. Already, private capital is taking part in the implementation of this year’s state defence order; it has taken on and shared the risks with the state. The boards for shipbuilding, aerospace, building control systems, reconnaissance and communications, and space are designed to promote an ongoing constructive dialogue between the state customer represented primarily by the Defence Ministry and producers. I hope that this kind of professional dialogue will help us address all the issues.
I would also like to report that the results of the 2013 state order execution to date are approximately 15% better than last year’s indicators. Therefore, the work continues.
Vladimir Putin: Good.
We talked about aviation issues in Novosibirsk, particularly with regard to the defence sector. And don’t forget that I asked you to prepare a series of meetings on various aspects of the military-industrial complex in relation to the state defence order.
I ask you to prepare proposals jointly with the Executive Office.
Dmitry Rogozin: Mr President, we are planning to dedicate one of the first meetings to the new reconfiguration of the space industry. We are preparing for it now.
Vladimir Putin: Please make sure that it is attended by five to seven people, no more. If the number of participants increases, then you need to break the meeting into several stages, because we will go into details.
Dmitry Rogozin: Good. We will.
<…>
Topics
Armed Forces
Budget
Persons
Rogozin Dmitry
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 21, 2013, 16:20
Text versionEvents
Meeting with European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso
Vladimir Putin and Jose Manuel Barroso discussed the prospects for economic cooperation between Russia and the EU, as well as preparations for the upcoming G20 summit in St Petersburg.
March 21, 2013
18:30
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
2 of 4
Meeting with European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso.
Mr Putin and Mr Barroso also held a one-on-one meeting to discuss Cyprus.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, Mr President, colleagues,
I am very glad to see you. 
I know that a representative delegation of our colleagues from the EU and the European Commission has arrived in Russia to hold our traditional intergovernmental meetings.
I remember our recent meeting in Brussels, which was very informative and useful. I am sure that at meetings with the Russian Government we will be able not only to discuss existing issues and problems, but also to further stimulate our cooperation.
The EU remains our largest trading partner. Last year our trade turnover amounted to more than $410 billion. But Russia is quite an important partner for the European Union too: we stand firmly in third place behind the US and China. The difference in scale is not huge: I think that the US has a trade turnover with EU countries of a little more than $600 billion, while for China it is $545 billion. I think that in the coming years we may well trade about $500 billion.
You know that we are preparing to host the G20 summit. And I very much look forward to working with our European friends in preparing for it. In fact, we are already cooperating in this regard. However, I want to emphasise that we are of course willing to work with all participants in this forum to prepare the agenda and the final documents. I hope that the agreements we reach will be consistent and benefit all international economic actors.
European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso
: Thank you very much, Mr President,
Dear friends, it is a pleasure to be here. And in fact my participation in the meeting tomorrow between the European Commission and the Russian Government follows on from your visit at that time, when you were leading the Russian delegation two years ago. Back then I also remember that we had a very fruitful meeting.
In fact I come with what I think is the largest delegation ever of Commission members in terms of executive-to-executive meetings. And tomorrow we will have a chance to review the progress made in implementation of our commitments. And where we find that progress has been too slow I think it’s a good opportunity to give it another push together, many pushes.
Why we do that is self-evident, we are not only neighbours but partners; it’s in our interests. We are big partners in trade and investment. I think that, for instance, our economy in Europe needs energy. I think I can also say that Russian economy needs technology. There are a lot of complementarities where we can have win-win solutions. And apart from that, apart from the economic interests, I think we should align. I’ve done it this morning in a conference in the Russian Council of Foreign Relations together with Prime Minister Medvedev. We have a common civilization and we share so many things in common in terms of our history and culture. When I am here in Moscow I feel like I could be in any other European city. I’m sure that you feel the same when you go to the capitals of the European Union. I think that this common civilization matrix is indeed a very important driver for progressively building a relation that is stronger every day.
And why are these relations so important? I think that we both share the vision of a free space from Lisbon to Vladivostok with free circulation of goods and people. Of course we know that this is a long-term vision, that you cannot do it in one go. But we should, as we have said, build it step by step. We can then transform our partnership, which is a partnership of necessity because we are neighbours, but also a partnership of choice because we really want to be close partners.
<…>
Topics
Foreign policy
G20
Russia–European Union
Persons
Barroso Jose Manuel
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 21, 2013, 18:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with heads of Rosneft and BP
March 21, 2013
16:40
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 4
Meeting with heads of Rosneft and BP.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues, I am very glad to welcome you here and congratulate you on the completion of the deal. It was a major, complex, multifaceted, and a very large deal. As far as I understand, it is the largest direct deal in the global economy today, and amounts to $61 billion dollars.
In my view, it is a very successful transaction. Rosneft acquired TNK-BP, both BP’s stake and that of the Russian party, TNK. In turn, BP became the second largest shareholder of our largest oil company, Rosneft, with a 19.5 percent stake. I believe that this is, first of all, a very important step in the privatisation of Russian public assets, and secondly, a sign that we have become strategic partners of a new kind. Hopefully this will lead to new technologies and new joint projects.
And markets have already responded positively to this deal. Despite the fact that the government sold some of its shares, the price of its remaining shares increased. This implies that the markets have assessed the situation correctly. So I congratulate you and wish you every success.
We have been in contact for a long time now, already with regards to BP’s previous plans. It has not been easy, but I think that the outcome is very positive.
BP Chief Executive Officer Robert Dudley: Thank you Mr President. It’s been an adventurous process, working with Igor Ivanovich [Sechin, President of Rosneft and Chairman of Rosneft’s Management Board] and the team at Rosneft has been very satisfying. It’s a complex deal, like you said.
And I remember when we spoke about it in St Petersburg, at the Geographical Society, and then again at your dacha in Sochi, where we spent time and we had a very fruitful meeting. It was very important to us. And we’re grateful for your support throughout this long process.
I could not be more happy that BP is a shareholder in Rosneft. It’s about to become the largest oil-producing private company in the world. We take the position as the second-largest shareholder of Rosneft very seriously. We are rock-solid supporters of Rosneft, and if you hear any word about our intention to sell these shares that’s not our intention whatsoever.
Vladimir Putin: I think that as a new member on the board of directors, you will bring your managerial experience with you to Rosneft.
Robert Dudley: I’ll try, Mr President, and do my best. And I also look forward to working with Rosneft around the world as well as here in Russia on many things. New technology, different geographies; I think there’s lots of potential.
”It was a major, complex, multifaceted, and a very large deal. It is the largest direct deal in the global economy today. In my view, it is a very successful transaction.“
And I don’t know if Mr Sechin told you about his visit to Houston, USA, last week, to one of the largest energy conferences in the world. But he gave a very powerful speech about Rosneft and its future to industry executives from all over.
Vladimir Putin: You see how you are treated in Russia and how you are treated in other countries, so I think that BP’s activities will gradually shift here.
Robert Dudley: You kind of read my mind, Mr President. We have our difficulties but we’re working through them. But they’re turning out to be quite challenging because it’s like working with – we say this expression – a herd of cats. We’re not quite sure who’s in charge, and we’re not quite sure what they want to do.
But I think we’re through most of the process now, and it’s a complicated legal process, but I’m confident we’ll get through it. We just have to stand firm, actually.
Vladimir Putin: As in all things, if one wants to succeed.
Robert Dudley: Oh, we have to stand firm – absolutely, absolutely. Although this particular place is not quite like everywhere else in the world over there. But we’ll do fine, we’ll do fine.
Vladimir Putin: Every place on earth is different; there are pros and cons everywhere. 
Do you want to add something?
Rosneft CEO and Chairman of The Management Board Igor Sechin
: I would first like to thank you, Mr President, for supporting this complex deal. I would also like to thank our partners, BP, and Mr Dudley personally, as well as our consultants without whom it would not have been possible to complete this difficult journey.
I would like to specially note the personal contribution of several people present here: Mr Russell Pollack and Mr Murat Akuyev, partners at Moscow-based Cleary Gottlieb, Merrill Lynch and Craig Kennedy, and my partner from Citigroup Alberto Verme, who is responsible for the transaction in the eastern hemisphere. Without the help of these people, without their personal contributions, without constant information exchanges, it would have been very difficult to conclude what you rightly called a complex deal.
This deal really is unique in terms of its scale. As you said, it is the biggest transaction ever regarding the acquisition of shares in exchange for cash, and this required us to take special care when drafting all the documents and following all the steps. Dozens, if not hundreds, of people were working simultaneously on these issues.
I would like to add that the result we achieved convincingly demonstrates that our proposals were the very best on offer and took into account the different interests of all parties.
The Russian government received a second shareholder, a high-tech company with significant competence in the oil and gas sector. Rosneft acquired TNK-BP’s shares, and AAR Consortium received a cash payout. I think that this absolutely conforms to market principles, and the deal was effected according to the highest international standards.
What benefits do we expect for Rosneft already this year? According to our data, in 2013 the united company will produce more than 206 million tonnes of oil, gas production will amount to 47 billion cubic metres, and 95 million tonnes will be processed. Revenues will be 4.9 trillion rubles [$158.5 billion].
We will work hard and we have corresponding plans to benefit from synergies resulting from the merger of our assets. First of all with regards to our production facilities. We will try to optimise our expenses when we work in fields such as Suzun, Tagul and Lodochnoye, as well as optimise management costs. We will also increase our processing efficiency. The company will operate 2,500 service stations across the country. We believe that the company and its shareholders may subsequently gain up to $10 billion from synergies. We will try to raise the equity value for the benefit of our shareholders.
Vladimir Putin: Including the Russian government.
Igor Sechin: Including the Russian government.
Vladimir Putin: I would like to wish you every success. Is there anything you would like to ask me? 
Robert Dudley: I’d just like to add, I think this transaction will go down in the history of the oil and gas business as a very historic transaction. And I’d also like to observe the sort of tireless effort by Mr Sechin to drive this, organise the complex financing for it, and raise the profile of Rosneft in a very short period of time.
Vladimir Putin: I think you have all done great work and I am sure it will have a positive outcome.
Thank you very much. I wish you success.
Topics
Energy
Persons
Sechin Igor
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 21, 2013, 16:40
Text version