Events
Meeting with winners of the national Teacher of the Year contest
Vladimir Putin met with the winners of the national Teacher of the Year 2013 contest.
October 3, 2013
19:15
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
5 of 5
With the winners of the national Teacher of the Year contest.
Russia’s Teacher of the Year contest has been held since 1992, and was established by the Ministry of Education and Science, Russia’s Trade Union of Education, and the Educators’ Newspaper. Representatives of educational institutions from all federal districts take part in the contest.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, I really enjoy meeting the winners of the annual national Teacher of the Year contest, and congratulating the winners, all of you. I don’t want to speak in generalities, but it is impossible to avoid them entirely.
I will once again emphasise the importance of what you do, your service, for our society, our country, and in general for any country, especially in today’s world. I would like to underscore that you not only work, you serve [the country]; in Russia teaching has always had a special mission: sharing knowledge and providing education.
Of course, the greatest effect is achieved through the combined efforts of the community of educators, parents, and the entire society that surrounds a child, but teachers always have a special responsibility. This is extremely important in today’s world. You probably know this, but I will repeat it once again.
We often speak about this at many different levels [of governance]; increasingly often we hear at both the national and international levels that education is becoming a factor driving economic growth and development.
Education has always been such a factor, because progress is impossible without educated people, but in today’s world it has become particularly prominent, important and tangible. Those who want a future must first and foremost invest less in machinery – though that is important too – and more in the minds of those who develop machinery and equipment. Naturally, I am speaking figuratively about machines and equipment; in fact I am referring to all material aspects of our existence.
Without up-to-date knowledge it is impossible to ensure the quality of development and leadership that we so desperately need. This does not mean that we must necessarily dominate in absolutely all areas, and in general I am not talking about domination, but rather about occupying a worthy place in the international labour market, ensuring our defence and, most importantly, strengthening our national identity and ensuring our sovereignty.
Having set our meeting and dialogue today at this high level, I’d like to give the floor to Mr Sidenko, the winner of this year’s competition.
Go ahead, please.
WINNER OF THE TEACHER OF THE YEAR 2013 COMPETITION, COMPUTER SCIENCE TEACHER FROM MYTISHCHI, MOSCOW REGION, ANDREI SIDENKO: I am still in the process of consciously understanding my mission and status, but overall, during the competition, the preparation period and the days I spent together with my colleagues, I realise that this has been an invaluable experience for me as a teacher and for my colleagues. This competition provides a resource for identifying unique practices in our country and spreading them so that not only those who represent their regions in the competition can make use of it, but all teachers, our colleagues throughout Russia. I therefore think that this competition should continue in the future.
Vladimir PUTIN: Have you been working long? It’s computer science that you teach, isn’t it?
Andrei SIDENKO: Yes, I’ve been teaching for seven years now.
Vladimir PUTIN: You’ve taught computer science the whole time?
Andrei Sidenko: Yes, that’s right.
Vladimir PUTIN: What kind of feedback do you get from your students in terms of the importance they give your subject? What’s their assessment, and what sense do you get of it in your practical work?
Andrei SIDENKO: In my work, I try not only to teach information technology skills, technical skills, but also to develop an information culture. This is very important in today’s world because we cannot build an information society unless we have an information culture.
Vladimir PUTIN: What is this information culture, as you see it?
Andrei SIDENKO: I think it is the ability to competently identify the information you need at any given moment. People in the modern world are surrounded by a tremendous quantity of information — the media, the Internet, books, this constant flow before our eyes, coming at us with every single step. The ability to identify what is important and what we need in this flow, and take competent and balanced decisions accordingly is what shapes an information culture, I think.
Vladimir PUTIN: Yes, it is extremely important to be able to take from this immense flow what you need and what has real value. This is not at all an easy thing to do. The more free and open these information flows become, the more important this kind of ability will become. You are absolutely right there. 
Let’s talk about how you see the practical side of your work today and what problems you encounter. I know that there is not enough housing and that salaries should be higher. We will discuss this too. Then there are other issues too, organising the teaching process itself, relations with the various official organisations, from the school’s administration to the district and regional officials and so on, the way the education system is organised, the students’ workload, dividing time for studying different subjects, improving the National Final School Exam, and so on.
< … >
Topics
Professional training
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 3, 2013, 19:15
Text versionEvents
Meeting with United Russia party core group
Vladimir Putin met with the secretaries of United Russia’s main branches. Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev was also in attendance.
October 3, 2013
16:45
Moscow Region
1 of 4
Meeting with United Russia party core group.
The discussion with [United Russia’s] core members, who work directly with the party’s mass membership, took place in the run-up to the planned United Russia party congress.
* * *
Opening remarks at meeting with United Russia party core group
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends,
Tomorrow the 14th United Russia party congress will start its work in Moscow. I well remember how we founded this party many years ago now. And over the years United Russia has come a very long way in terms of its own development and made an enormous contribution – and I say this without any undue exaggeration – to that of the country.
Of course, the party that is in power, and has been in power for quite a long time, always carries the responsibility for everything that has been done and has not been done, and the responsibility for any unfulfilled expectations or unsolved problems.
And there is nothing unusual here; this is common practice throughout the world. The issue is simply that we always have to clearly and cogently ascertain why certain things were not done, accurately assess future prospects, and understand how to resolve the problems that worry our citizens.
The party’s very core is gathered here today: you are the people who work directly with our citizens, who see everything that happens in our country, who understand people’s expectations and sympathise with their problems. In essence, you are the citizens who do this for your neighbours, for your colleagues, and in fact you are incorporated into our great country’s daily life.
Elections just took place in practically all regions, and despite the great responsibility I just mentioned, United Russia nevertheless confirmed its leadership. It retained its standing almost everywhere, and in many regions its position was even strengthened.
In this way the party confirmed its status as the most widespread and influential popular party. I want to use this term, popular party [from the Latin populus, people], because [our] emphasis on people has always been constant. And I’m convinced that a long-term historical perspective will confirm that [people are] the basis, the foundation on which the party has relied, and on which its work will continue to be based.
The election campaign took place in an increasingly competitive environment. Suffice to recall that 54 parties took part. By the way, I want to point out that this liberalisation of party life, its expansion, all happened at United Russia’s initiative, something which is extremely important. It was precisely United Russia that was not afraid to increase competition and to strengthen the country’s political system and its multi-party nature by initiating the liberalisation of party life.
This is largely, if not entirely, to United Russia’s credit, because the party holding a parliamentary majority had the power to vote on such a decision. You [oversaw the liberalisation of our political system]. And, as practice shows, you were right to do so. Because this creates better conditions for Russia’s political development, which means, in turn, that more people will benefit. Why? Because when free political competition occurs, first of all, the best candidates rise to the top. Secondly, the best solutions to municipal, regional, and even federal problems are articulated in debates and while searching for the truth.
And finally, the absolute prerequisite for the development of the party itself is increasing intra-party democracy. United Russia has also done quite a lot lately in this respect; I am referring to ‘preparing’ candidates for deputies who are on United Russia party lists.
I am referring to integrating people who are not formally party members, but who share our basic views, into your ranks. And all this will naturally extend the social base the party relies on for support, making it more mobile, viable and efficient.
I very much hope that these tools for intra-party democracy will continue to be refined. Only this way, only by doing this, can United Russia retain its standing as the country’s leading political force.
Finally, to conclude my brief opening remarks, I would like to thank you and the people who work at the regional and federal levels, in Parliament, the State Duma, for the fact that you never slide into populism.
And we always want this to be the case. Everybody does, I assure you. And you want to be attractive to voters and citizens. You want to promise everything, even things that cannot be done in either the short- or the long-term.
We have to make decisions that today at first glance sometimes seem unfair or unreasonable, but in the medium-term they should and will have a positive effect.
In connection with this, here’s what I wanted to say. Never be afraid to go to the people with these proposals. The issue is something quite different: it does not consist in taking away something or giving less of another thing. The issue at stake is offering the most effective solutions to problems and explaining in simple language precisely why this solution, and not another, is on offer.
I am absolutely convinced that when we reach out directly to the people, tell them frankly about the proposed measures, tell them why we are offering this solution in particular, then people will understand everything. Everyone will understand, agree with [the solution] and support it.
Conversely, if something is done behind closed doors, or if you promise unrealistic things and then six months later it turns out that nothing has happened, the outcome will be much worse. Because people will think you are windbags, irresponsible people who are either not able to solve problems, or cannot even articulate them. And at that point a really deep disappointment will set in.
For that reason we must always be honest, straightforward, and easy to understand. And most importantly, one of the most important components of political work, is that everything must happen in a manner that’s normal, friendly and appropriate for Russian citizens. There must not be any arrogance or sense of superiority towards ordinary citizens. This should not occur in any case. But judging by your faces, by your experience, and by what you do and how you do it, I can see that you agree with me.
Thank you very much for your attention.
Topics
Parties
Persons
Medvedev Dmitry
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 3, 2013, 16:45
Text version