Events
Meeting with Chairman of the Investigative Committee Alexander Bastrykin
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Chairman of the Investigative Committee Alexander Bastrykin.
February 21, 2013
16:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 3
With Investigative Committee Chairman Alexander Bastrykin.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Bastrykin, it has been two years since the Investigative Committee was made into an independent agency. This time was used for the development of the system.
Naturally, there has been a lot of controversy about specific cases and the agency’s work in general, but that is as it should be. I would like to note right away that I think the decision to establish the Investigative Committee as an independent agency was absolutely right and justified.
Investigators are working with dedication and great professionalism, and are achieving significant results. However, there are also problems, as in any big undertaking. You are aware of them and I hope that in the future you will do everything in your power to improve the tools and mechanisms, and do everything possible to protect the interests of the state and legitimate rights and interests of Russian citizens.
Chairman of The Investigative Committee Alexander Bastrykin
: Thank you, Mr President, for your commendation.
”The decision to establish the Investigative Committee as an independent agency was absolutely right and justified. Investigators are working with dedication and great professionalism, and are achieving significant results.“
Indeed, the past two years have shown that the decision [on the establishment of the Investigative Committee] was absolutely correct.
Today we held a board meeting on the results of our work last year, where we noted some achievements in the main areas of our work, such as the clear-up rate, the organisation of forensic services and interaction with operational units in the Interior Ministry and the Federal Security Service.
At the same time, as you rightly pointed out, there are some problem areas. We had a fundamental discussion on these issues today and decided on ways to tackle them, so we are confident that the tasks you have set for our agency will be successfully implemented.
Vladimir Putin: I would like to draw your attention to one more point: you must not distance yourself from society; it is vital to listen to public opinion – in fact, that is how you organise the agency’s work, but I want to ask you to pay particular attention to this.
Naturally, the investigating authorities must operate solely within the bounds of the law. However, the Investigative Committee must not work in isolation; it must establish a direct connection with the public, with civil society, stay in constant contact and be able to account for its actions properly and promptly, and listen to the people and the public opinion.
<…>
See also
Expanded meeting of the Investigative Committee's Board
February 21, 2013
Topics
Fight against crime
Persons
Bastrykin Alexander
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 21, 2013, 16:00
Text versionEvents
Gala evening celebrating Gazprom’s 20th anniversary
Vladimir Putin attended a gala evening celebrating Gazprom’s 20th anniversary in the Grand Kremlin Palace.
February 21, 2013
19:45
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 2
Gala evening celebrating Gazprom’s 20th anniversary.
The President congratulated the company’s current staff and veterans on the anniversary.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good evening, friends. I am pleased to congratulate you all on the 20th anniversary of Gazprom founding.
I would like to address my sincere, warm words of gratitude first and foremost to the veterans of the industry, all those who were at the forefront of Gazprom and Russia’s gas extraction industry, those who developed deposits in Orenburg and western Siberia, built new towns and laid the first pipeline systems.
Today we will certainly remember Viktor Chernomyrdin and Rem Vyakhirev – it is no exaggeration to say that these were outstanding individuals of our nation, true professionals who have devoted their entire lives to the gas extraction industry, saving it for our country during difficult times, retaining staff, technologies, infrastructure and – this was fundamentally important – assuring the unity, integrity and operating capability of the entire system.
”Gazprom consistently increases its potential, first and foremost in gas extraction: the Zapolyarnoye deposit has been brought to full capacity, a major “blue fuel” extraction centre has been launched in Yamal peninsula, and gas production was launched at the strategically-important Bovanenkovo field.“
It is precisely this strong, sound foundation that allowed us to build one of the largest companies in the world, which currently serves as a guarantor of energy security not only for Russia, but for many other countries as well, for your partners.
Gazprom consistently increases its potential, first and foremost in gas extraction: the Zapolyarnoye deposit has been brought to full capacity, a major “blue fuel” extraction centre has been launched in Yamal peninsula, and gas production was launched at the strategically-important Bovanenkovo field.
Overall, the new facilities that have been put into operation in the last 20 years are alone capable of producing 447 billion cubic metres of gas per annum which nearly equals to the yearly gas consumption within Russia.
As for gas transmission, the length increase of Gazprom’s pipeline system over the past two decades is equivalent to the span of the earth’s equator: 40 thousand kilometres.
The first and second lines of Nord Stream have been launched. The construction of South Stream is next in line. The gas infrastructure of Belarus is now fully integrated into the company’s system. I am confident that our Belarusian friends do not regret this. On the contrary, Belarus’ gas supply system has improved, becoming more stable, and its employees have begun to receive good salaries.
Gazprom is an active participant in creating resource potential for developing Siberia and the Far East; it has launched the Sakhalin – Khabarovsk – Vladivostok pipeline.
Upcoming plans include building a main gas pipeline from Yakutia (we have named it the Power of Siberia), as well as creating a unified system for supplying gas to the eastern part of our country.
We truly have enormous opportunities and broad powers, and Russia has vested these powers in you, but the responsibility you have thus accepted is colossal as well. Your direct objectives are to maintain the stable function and security of the gas transmission system, to ensure the timely high-quality renewal of capital assets, to grant all market players access to the pipeline.
Of course, it is not enough to ensure uninterrupted export supplies. Let me remind you that our domestic, Russian consumers pay proportionate prices for gas as well, hence they are entitled to uninterrupted gas supplies.
”The length increase of Gazprom’s pipeline system over the past two decades is equivalent to the span of the earth’s equator: 40 thousand kilometres.“
The domestic, national market must always remain your priority, as should the interests of our citizens, industries and businesses.
In recent years, three thousand villages and settlements have gained access to gas pipelines, but we should work even more actively in this regard, accelerating and expanding gas connection in the regions. A major share of the work in this respect certainly falls on the regions themselves, but this work and its results largely determine the quality of life in each part of Russia, throughout all of its vast territory.
Friends, Gazprom has always worked for our country and to the benefit of our country, assuring the stability of our economy and generating resources to finance social programmes. Russia will never forget your efforts and your achievements in the 1990s, our country’s most difficult years. Nearly the entire economy was dependent on Gazprom while Gazprom contributed to strengthening our government’s positions on the international arena.
Today, your work for the good of Russia involves more than merely contributing to the state budget to achieve strategic development objectives. Your mission is much broader. Gazprom has many complicated, ambitious projects ahead that should change the balance of forces on the global energy market. These include developing Yamal peninsula and the Arctic shelf fields and broadening Russia’s presence at foreign trade platforms.
Resolving these challenges will require the organisation of new production facilities, implementation of cutting-edge technologies and innovative equipment. As a result, modern jobs should be created, as well as small and medium-sized businesses, including in the production sector. This means that new opportunities will emerge for people to work and create their own businesses.
”Gazprom has always worked for our country and to the benefit of our country, assuring the stability of our economy and generating resources to finance social programmes. ‘
At the same time, it is important for Gazprom to choose domestic companies as its vendors – vendors that truly supply the best products in the world which meet global standards.““
And another thing. In order to successfully resolve all the tasks before you, you must improve your performance on a daily basis. You must react to changes in the situation quickly and flexibly, detect trends in market development, be able to negotiate with your partners. That is the only way you can maintain your leading position in the global competition, and that competition will only intensify.
It is imperative to consistently eliminate anything that is dragging the company down, impeding its dynamic development, or qualified as cause of ineffectiveness. I am talking, first and foremost, about improving corporate governance, increasing transparency, and minimising expenses.
I am confident that Gazprom will make every effort to increase its global competitiveness, to reach all the objectives before it, to successfully implement all planned projects. Because it is in your nature to be leaders.
You know how to overcome difficulties, to resolve the hardest problems in complicated, and sometimes even harsh conditions, and to do so very well. You will certainly be leaders in all your undertakings. You must do this, and you are capable of resolving such challenges.
I am happy to announce today that a large group of your colleagues, Gazprom team, will be receiving state decorations and honorary titles. High honours will be awarded tomorrow, in a ceremony at the Kremlin.
I congratulate you again on this anniversary and wish you all the best!
Topics
Energy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 21, 2013, 19:45
Text versionEvents
Russia’s Supreme Court is 90
Vladimir Putin took part in the event marking the 90th anniversary of the Russian Federation Supreme Court founding.
February 21, 2013
14:00
Moscow
2 of 3
The event marking the 90th anniversary of the Supreme Court founding.
The President also presented state decorations and certificates conferring honorary titles to representatives of the judiciary.
* * *
Speech at the event marking the 90th anniversary of the Supreme Court founding
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues, friends,
Please, accept my warmest congratulations on the 90th anniversary of the founding of Russia’s Supreme Court.
This influential judicial body heads a truly massive system of general jurisdiction courts. I just walked with and spoke with the President [of the Supreme Court Vyacheslav Lebedev
]. I asked: “Is that not a misprint, are there millions?” He answered: “Civil cases alone total ten million.” And there are criminal cases on top of that. That really is a large number of cases, simply a huge number.
The processes governing the establishment and improvement of Russia’s judicial system are fully reflected in the Court’s activities. And the very founding and development of the Supreme Court is closely linked with our country’s complex and at times dramatic fate.
And it is very important that the date of the Supreme Court’s founding is not considered to be 1991, even though this was a particularly important time for the development of our judicial system (I will talk about this too). The Supreme Court is rightly considered to be founded in 1923, when revolutionary tribunals were abolished and a unified judiciary, with the Supreme Court as its highest authority, was organised. This is all our history. Of course the judicial system emerged much earlier, but right now we are talking about the Supreme Court specifically.
At the time when the Supreme Court was founded, returning to the rule of law and the administration of justice was fundamentally significant. And the Supreme Court played a leading role in creating common legal practices, as well as analysing and clarifying the most difficult issues it faced.
I would like to note the major transformations that our legal system underwent in the 1960s and 1970s. They were associated with the implementation of a number of concepts of a rule-of-law state. Thus, the 1978 Constitution declared the judges’ independence and vested the Supreme Court with the right of legislative initiative for the first time.
Naturally, these innovations were confined to the Soviet system. But although the Supreme Court obviously was a part of that system, it always supported progressive legal reform and actively participated in preparations for codifying new laws.
Colleagues, it is difficult to overemphasize the Supreme Court’s contribution to the development of our modern legal system. The Russian Supreme Court was among the most dedicated and persistent initiators of radical changes in this field and began to develop the Judicial Reform Concept in 1991, the time when our country began to undergo profound democratic transformations.
”It is difficult to overemphasize the Supreme Court’s contribution to the development of our modern legal system. The Russian Supreme Court was among the most dedicated and persistent initiators of radical changes in this field.“
A new Russia required a fundamentally different judicial system: independent and self-sufficient, responsive to the requirements of the time, mindful of the best pre-revolutionary and even Soviet practice, and, most importantly, giving paramount importance to the protection of the rights, freedoms and dignity of our citizens. As the Concept’s text puts it, the reform was intended “not to make life conform to abstract schemas, but rather for the benefit of the individual.”
And the Supreme Court did everything possible to ensure that the reforms our country and society needed were fully implemented, to establish basic principles such as the independence, irremovability and protection of judges, the accessibility and transparency of the administration of justice, and the adversary nature of the judicial process. It also introduced appellate review of judicial decisions.
I should also mention another very important fact: over the entire period of the new legal system and judiciary development, the Supreme Court was engaged in summarising court rulings, advising courts as they resolved the most complex disputes, and providing active, real help. The Court initiated the establishment of judicial community bodies, holding of the first Congress of Judges, and established good, productive international contacts that were very much in demand.
It is primarily thanks to the Supreme Court that the material support level in courts meets the required standards (and I must say that the Supreme Court President has expended efforts on this issue). In turn, this has allowed us to guarantee the constitutional principle of independence of judges, and to create decent living and working conditions for them.
In recent years a number of courts have moved to new buildings perfectly fit for the administration of justice, including jury trials.
Colleagues, friends, the Supreme Court’s contribution to creating an impartial, competent and fair Russian judiciary truly is enormous. And on this big day, I am pleased to present high state decorations and certificates conferring the title Honoured Lawyer of the Russian Federation to representatives of our judiciary.
I would like to sincerely thank you all for your outstanding work and to wish you further success. Once again let me congratulate you on the occasion, the 90th anniversary of the Supreme Court of the Russian Federation.
<…>
Dear friends and colleagues, I would like to address once again those people who were just on the stage, and congratulate them on their titles and state decorations. But first of all I want to congratulate all of you – all Supreme Court judges and indeed all Russian judges – one more time on the Supreme Court’s 90th anniversary.
From our university years we have learnt well that the judiciary in general, and the Supreme Court in particular, are at the top of this huge system of law enforcement and administration of justice. A system that ultimately decides the fate of individuals. Or the outcome of complicated, important economic disputes, disputes that also affect people’s destinies.
This is an extremely honourable and highly important task in any state. But everyone is well aware that the people who work in this system are always at the centre of conflict. Always. Their whole life is connected with it.
This is a source of significant moral and psychological pressure, that often requires a big soul, wisdom, and something more than just professional qualities (but of course without those nothing is possible). And our Supreme Court and its members have all of the above.
I congratulate you on this wonderful occasion, the 90th anniversary of Russia’s Supreme Court founding.
Topics
Court
Persons
Lebedev Vyacheslav
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 21, 2013, 14:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Yoshiro Mori
Vladimir Putin met with Yoshiro Mori, former Prime Minister of Japan and Special Envoy of the Japanese Government.
February 21, 2013
16:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 3
With Yoshiro Mori, former Prime Minister of Japan and Special Envoy of the Japanese Government.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: First of all, I'm very happy to see you. We have known each other for a long time. I remember our meeting in the early 2000s in Irkutsk. We enjoy a very good personal and working relationship.
The Russian-Japanese relations have seen significant progress in this period. Perhaps they have not been developing perfectly smoothly but that is only natural ­– life is always very complex and diverse.
On the whole, our economic relations have been expanding very successfully, including in the automotive industry, pharmaceuticals, energy and timber processing. I think Japan gets around 10% of liquefied natural gas produced in Russia. We could also consider developing agriculture cooperation.
”Our economic relations have been expanding very successfully, including in the automotive industry, pharmaceuticals, energy and timber processing.“
We are looking forward to the visit of the Prime Minister of Japan [Shinzo Abe]. I hope that the visit will take place. We are currently working on its programme. Please convey our warmest wishes to the Prime Minister and tell him that we are looking forward to his visit.
Special Envoy of the Japanese Government and Former Prime Minister of Japan Yoshiro Mori (retranslated): Thank you very much.
This is our first meeting since 2010, when we met at the opening ceremony of the Komatsu plant in Yaroslavl. Last week I met with Komatsu president, and he told me that business in Russia is very good and he is very pleased about that.
<…>
Geography
Japan
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 21, 2013, 16:30
Text version