Events
Meeting with medal winners at the 2nd World Combat Games
Vladimir Putin met with athletes and medal winners at the 2nd World Combat Games.
October 31, 2013
17:15
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
6 of 6
With Russian athletes and medal winners at the 2nd World Combat Games.
The competition took place from October 18 to 26 in 135 categories in 15 sports (aikido, boxing, jiu-jitsu, judo, karate, kendo, kickboxing, savate, sambo, wrestling, sumo, Thai boxing, taekwondo, wushu and fencing). Around 1,400 athletes from 97 countries took part in the games.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends,
I am very pleased to meet you, see you and shake hands. Later on they will bring us some champagne, and we can raise a glass to your performance at the World Combat Games. Not just any performance, but a brilliant one: 93 medals, 47 of them gold.
I think that you won medals in almost all types of martial arts. There is one exception, a very exotic sport, that has only been registered quite recently in Russia (just this year, a few months ago): kendo. But there are examples of brilliant victories in everything else. And you rose to the occasion even when competing with the founders of certain sports. In some cases, judging by the number of awards won, you even surpassed them. And in our traditional sports – wrestling and sambo – the results are simply brilliant.
I want to warmly congratulate you on these results, express my hope that we shall continue to develop combat sports together, and, as we used to say, make them really popular. And not simply because it’s very healthy, but because combat sports shape character, prepare people for the trials of life, and for service to the fatherland.
They build character because – and you know this better than anyone else – combat sports are those that are always associated with respect for one’s partner. And this is always helpful in life, not just on the carpet, on the mat, or in the ring. It helps in dealing with people, when building relationships, and seeking the best and greatest professional successes, no matter where you work today or might work tomorrow.
Once again I would like to wish you good luck and thank you for your achievements. Thank you very much.
< … >
Topics
Sport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Commissions and Councils, Council for the Development of Physical Culture and Sport
Publication date: October 31, 2013, 17:15
Text version