Events
Working meeting with Head of the Chechen Republic Ramzan Kadyrov
Mr Kadyrov briefed Vladimir Putin on the socioeconomic situation in the region.
August 7, 2013
13:30
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 4
With Head of Chechnya Ramzan Kadyrov.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Kadyrov, keeping to tradition, let’s look above all at the socioeconomic situation in the region. I’ve looked at the latest figures of course. Overall, they look quite good, but as usual, there are still a lot of problems too. Let’s discuss the work done so far and look at your upcoming priorities.
Head OF THE REPUBLIC OF CHECHNYA RAMZAN KADYROV
: Mr President, thank you for finding the time to meet.
As far as the political and social situation in the republic goes, it is stable and there are no signs of impending complications of any sort. As for the socioeconomic situation, the dynamic has been positive so far this year.
Over the first half of the year, local production comes to a total value of more than 20 billion rubles [more than $600 million]. This represents a 105-percent increase on last year’s figure. We produced industrial goods worth more than 1 billion rubles, which represents an increase of 172 percent. The republic’s budget has received 5.5 billion rubles in local revenues since the start of the year. This is an increase of more than 102 percent.
We are carrying out your May [2012] executive orders in accordance with the roadmaps. We are also in the process of updating the tax base, which has increased local tax revenue five-fold. The tax base is also increasing through loan resources and extra-budgetary private investment.
We are carrying out electricity sector projects worth 5 billion rubles this year. These projects include producing electricity meters, construction of facilities to produce composite supports, and construction of a plant to manufacture self-standing insulation wires.
We also have results in the agriculture and food processing sectors. We invested 3 billion rubles this year in a meat-processing plant, a dairy plant, and a plant to produce babies’ food.
We have good results in the construction sector too – 6.5 billion rubles. Projects here include a technology park, a brick-making plant, a cement plant and others. In short, investment attractiveness has improved considerably.
The social sector is one of our constant priorities. This ensures stability in society. Unemployment levels are dropping steadily.
Mr President, as you said, we do have problems, and we cannot solve them on our own. We always turn to the country’s President as someone who pays great attention to Chechnya.
Vladimir Putin: What is the unemployment level at the moment?
Ramzan Kadyrov: To be honest, it’s 23 percent. When you first appointed me, unemployment was at 70 percent, and the total consolidated budget came to only 9 billion rubles. Now we have brought unemployment down to 23 percent.
Vladimir Putin: It’s a positive trend.
Ramzan Kadyrov: Yes, we have a positive trend, and if we keep to our plans, we will reach our goal of eliminating unemployment within the next five years.
Vladimir Putin: What’s the situation in the education sector like now?
Ramzan Kadyrov: Overall, in the education sector, we show things as they are and are not trying to add to the numbers or make our results look better than they really are, pass results in the national final school exam, for example. We are lagging behind everyone else in the general picture, and we do not try to hide this. We are working with parents and students, explaining the tasks and the need to work to these plans and get an education.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Kadyrov, under the education system modernisation programme, we sent federal funds to the regions for repairing and equipping schools and so on. Has this work been carried out, and what are the results? 
Ramzan Kadyrov: In general, regarding the education sector modernisation work, we are at a decent level and do not have any problems here. The only problem area is with preschool education. We are in the process of building 14 schools, and if we complete this work then we will not have any serious problems in this sector.
Vladimir Putin: Are there many schools where children have to study in three shifts?
Ramzan Kadyrov: There are 13–14 such schools if I remember correctly.
Vladimir Putin: Take a closer look at the situation.
Ramzan Kadyrov: I do not remember the exact figures. I spoke with the minister and he said that there are problems, but we are trying to sort out this issue on our own. I think that with the help from the Southern Russia programme and the programme for developing the North Caucasus Federal District we will resolve these problems and will not have any problems in the social sector.
Vladimir Putin: You mentioned agriculture. What results do you forecast for this year?
Ramzan Kadyrov: Mr President, everyone always looks back to the Soviet period, when 70 percent of the republic’s population was employed in agriculture. We have signed agreements with everyone we can in this area, including with Turkey and Israel. I met with representatives of an Israeli company that has a lot of new and interesting technology to offer. We are starting to develop its use in Chechnya. I think we will be able to get the agriculture sector up to a good level over the coming five years. We want to set an example in this sector. Agriculture is vital for running the republic. We talk about industry and other sectors, but if we fail to give agriculture our full attention we will not be able to keep the republic running. This is the main area for our job creation efforts.
<…>
Geography
Chechen Republic
Topics
Regions
Persons
Kadyrov Ramzan
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 7, 2013, 13:30
Text versionEvents
Working meeting with Russian Railways CEO Vladimir Yakunin
Mr Yakunin briefed the President on the company’s current activities, investment programmes, and the situation in the rail transport sector.
August 7, 2013
12:30
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Yakunin, we know that traffic volumes are a primary indicator of the state of the economy in general. In this connection, I’d like to hear from you about the rail traffic situation and traffic volumes over the first half of this year, and then we can also discuss the company’s investment programmes and financial situation. Please, go ahead. 
Russian Railways CEO Vladimir Yakunin
: Mr President, the situation is not the simplest at the moment. You spoke yourself about the economic difficulties Europe is facing, and the effect this has had on Russia’s export sectors. As a transport company, we began to feel these effects back in November. 
What we see today is that the negative trend is still in place. So far this year, we are down by 3.6 percent compared to last year. But there are some positive developments too. We expect higher volumes for the July-August period, even though we are carrying out infrastructure repair work at the same time, and by the end of the year we hope to make up for the losses we suffered over the first half of 2013, and should end up with a result for the year only slightly less than that for 2012.
Overall, the company is within its planned targets as far as revenue goes, but the results are lower for actual traffic volumes. At the same time however, rail traffic to the Far East ports continues to increase. You gave absolutely correct figures at the last meeting, when you noted that freight volumes heading for the Far East ports are now 8–10 times higher than they were in 1988, the most effective year during the Soviet period. This confirms the need to develop the Baikal-Amur and Trans-Siberian railways.
The company was forced to take stringent measures to cut its costs. We have cut our costs by 81 billion rubles [around $2.5 billion]. Part of this is postponed expenses, because there are things that we need to do, but we realise that at the moment we simply do not have the resources.
Of course, 81 billion is a huge sum, but this has not affected our investment programme. The programme is still being implemented in full accordance with the decisions that you and the Government took. We are set to buy a record number of engines this year, new ones, and we will carry out this programme in full. 
We do have difficulties in the social sector of course, but, as always, we are carrying out all of our obligations under the collective labour agreement, and the sector workers feel the results. We are being particularly attentive to the situation in the Far East and Siberia now. Despite the transformations underway, all decisions on job cuts here are the sole prerogative of the company management. Every person working in this region is extremely valuable to us. That sums up the results for the first half of the year. 
As for what we are doing by way of innovation in the broader sense, as we promised, we are putting the first double-decker carriages into operation this year. The advantage of these carriages is that we can maintain and even increase comfort levels and speed, while straight away cutting ticket costs by 30 percent. We need to develop new passenger service methods, because the state policy for encouraging population mobility and the support going to the air transport sector obliges us in the railways sector to develop new ways of working too. This includes high-speed rail links, express routes, and these double-decker carriages, for example. 
This year, we will also complete in full our obligations regarding Olympic facility construction. The railway station in Adler, where you placed a capsule in the foundations, will open for traffic in October. I’d like to invite you to attend the station’s opening.
This is an ultra-modern railway station. It will get 30 percent of its energy needs from solar power. The same thing goes for water supply: rain water will be collected and used for technical needs and for watering the lawns.
Overall, the sector is operating in stable fashion, but work is going ahead very intensively at the same time. Everyone is working very hard now.
<…>
Topics
Transport
Persons
Yakunin Vladimir
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 7, 2013, 12:30
Text version