Events
Meeting with students from Moscow law schools
Vladimir Putin met with students from Moscow law schools at the Law Faculty of Lomonosov Moscow State University.
December 3, 2013
17:00
Moscow
The meeting is timed to coincide with the Lawyer's Day marked in Russia on December 3.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon friends,
We are here today at the university for a meeting of the Board of Trustees. We will look together at what more we can do for our country’s main university. But I asked for the possibility to meet separately with law students. There are two good reasons for this. The first is that today is Jurist’s Day, and I congratulate you from all my heart on this occasion. The second concerns students at Moscow University’s Law Faculty. I want to congratulate you on moving into your new home. You have an excellent new building with great facilities and possibilities, where you will be able to take pleasure from the contacts with your teachers and the academic literature at your disposal, and feel at home in every sense of the word. I congratulate you on this new move.
With regard to Jurist’s Day, I want to note an important event that is coming up. We are about to celebrate the 20th anniversary of the Russian Federation Constitution. This is our basic law, the law at the foundation of any country, including our own. And as such it has no less value, indeed, perhaps even more, as I will try to explain now, than is the case for other countries.
It probably has even greater value because, as we all know and discussed many times, our country is going through a very complicated transformation process. This makes it even more important to have the basic values enshrined by our country’s Constitution. It is very important that our entire society and each citizen knows that our country rests on stable and just legal principles. It is this — along with history and what we learn from our parents — that gives birth to the healthy spirit of patriotism that we have spoken about so often over recent times. 
This patriotic spirit will be all the more solid and enduring the more a person realises and understands that he loves and feels pride in his homeland. That is what patriotism is about after all – love for one’s homeland. And this sense of love and pride comes too from knowing that your country looks after your basic interests, rights and freedoms. Our Constitution enshrines these principles above all. They are at the Constitution’s foundation and give it not just legal but also immense and very important moral and ethical significance. Therefore, as I congratulate you on Jurist’s Day, I also want to congratulate you on the upcoming 20th anniversary of the Constitution.
I do not want to make a long speech here at this meeting with you. I doubt that this meeting will be a long one, and so I would rather answer your questions if you have any, and I am sure that you do have questions. We do not get the chance to have such meetings often. There was a meeting earlier with some of the students, who are involved in practical political life and give some of their time, knowledge and skills to monitoring elections. I want to thank you for this work. I know that you were actively involved last year in monitoring the presidential election campaign. This year, you have already taken part in monitoring elections in the Russian Federation’s regions. Many of you are probably preparing to continue this work next autumn.
I think this is indeed very important and useful work. It is useful and needed because public confidence in the state authorities increases only when people can be sure that government is formed in accordance with the law and that no kind of tricks and unlawful means can get into power anyone who does not deserve to be there and has not earned voters’ trust. As for whether a person can live up to the expectations of voters who want to see concrete work and results – this is something their work will show with time. In any case, your work on monitoring elections at the various levels is very important and very useful, and that is no exaggeration.
Of course, I also must say a few words about the importance of the future profession you have chosen. It would be rare for someone never to come into contact with doctors say, and also very rare indeed for someone never to have dealings with members of the legal profession. Various circumstances in life can bring people into contact with lawyers, investigators, prosecutors, and judges, and when this happens, they essentially entrust their fate to these professionals. This is a very important area of the state’s work, and it is also of great importance for every citizen when they come into contact with the legal profession and its members.
I therefore call on you to always be careful and balanced in your work, and professional of course. It is also very important for a jurist, as for a doctor, to show utmost attentiveness to the people who entrust them with their fate and perhaps sometimes even their lives. I want you to remember this, and to remember too that a jurist’s work is very diverse and very complex, no matter what the area, whether it’s regulating economic activity, civil court proceedings, civil law, or criminal law.
There are no secondary areas in the legal profession. All areas of work in this profession require knowledge and also warmth in relations with people, and they also involve a heavy burden of course. In all of the areas I just named, and in others too, including administrative violations and their regulation, jurists confront a conflict situation and must resolve relations between people, between an individual and the state, or an individual and a particular state agency. There is always a dispute involved, and jurists have to get involved in it and in one way or another it colours their emotions with feelings that as a rule can hardly be called positive. This is not an easy profession.
One of my friends who spent his entire career working as a defence lawyer – not an investigator or prosecutor, but the very peaceful-seeming profession of defence lawyer – calculated the time he had spent together with his clients, studying their cases, talking with them and so on. He said to me recently, “You know, if you tally up all the time I’ve spent with my clients, I’ve spent about 15 years in prison”.
This is really a serious matter. He did this voluntarily, certainly, but all the same, you turn up in the morning and spend 5–6 hours, even 7 hours, studying the case, and don’t come home until evening, only you’ve spent your day not in a concert hall somewhere, but in a pre-trial detention centre, in prison, essentially. 
Other areas of the legal profession also come with big physical and even psychological burdens, including arbitration disputes, say. This is particularly so today, when our country has big companies with multi-million turnover at work here, and when what is at stake is not just the fate of the individuals and companies engaged in disputes, but entire workforces. These are extremely important matters. 
I congratulate you on Jurist’s Day and wish you good luck!
Topics
Professional training
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 3, 2013, 17:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting of Lomonosov Moscow State University's Board of Trustees
Vladimir Putin chaired a meeting of the Board of Trustees of Lomonosov Moscow State University.
December 3, 2013
18:00
Moscow
1 of 3
Meeting of Lomonosov Moscow State University's Board of Trustees.
The meeting discussed the university's development plans through to 2020 as well as the creation on its basis of the Vorobyovy Gory science and technology cluster.
* * *
Speech at a meeting of Moscow State University Board of Trustees
President Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon friends and colleagues.
We are holding the first meeting of the Moscow State University Board of Trustees today. It is a pleasure to see here well-known people, people who are not just well-known, but who can genuinely do something to help our country’s leading university — Moscow State University. They can give it intellectual and financial support and provide the university’s initiatives with the necessary administrative support they need.
Quite a lot has already been accomplished. If we look at the interim results of the Moscow State University Development Programme through to 2020, we see that a lot of work has already been done. I remind you that the Government approved this programme in 2010. It allocated 5 billion roubles [more than $150 million], I think, from federal budget funds back then, and another 23 billion roubles was raised from extra-budgetary sources.
This money was spent primarily on developing the university’s infrastructure and on stimulating priority research areas. The results are there for all to see.
The National Collective Use Centre has been opened. Its computer base can carry out the most complex calculations and enable unique research projects and programmes to go ahead. This is also a big step in developing mathematics and engineering education in Russia.
Moscow State University’s Medical Science and Education Centre has also begun work. It uses the very latest treatment and diagnostic equipment and this base will help to produce new results in applied and fundamental research, as well as contributing to training. 
Moscow State University’s space programme has also got a boost. Construction of the Caucasus Mountain Observatory has been completed. This observatory has the second most powerful telescope in Russia. Several satellites equipped with the university’s equipment have been put in orbit, and one satellite, Lomonosov, is ready for launching. 
Overall, the university’s scientific and research base has been substantially reinforced. It is important now to see this reflected in the university’s results. Over 2010–2012, the amount that publications by people working at the university were quoted increased 3.5-fold, and publications by researchers at Moscow State University increased as a share of overall research publications in Russia.
It is especially important that scientific ideas and developments not stay on paper but become reality. The university’s innovative enterprises had earnings of more than 5.5 billion roubles last year. This shows the obvious potential of its human resources, and also shows that its new infrastructure possibilities are enabling the university to set ambitious new goals and objectives.
I know that there are plans to establish a science and technology cluster at the university — Vorobyoviye Gory, I think the planned name was to be. It would offer students, young researchers and scholars the chance to carry out breakthrough projects in priority science and innovation fields. We are talking here about areas such as bio- and nanotechnology, simulation and robotics, and studying outer space and our country’s land resources.
This is a unique project that is one of its kind in Russian universities. We will hear a detailed report on this subject today and will discuss in general the university’s future tasks and objectives.
In conclusion, I just want to highlight one point, namely, that Moscow State University should work more actively with its alumni. The university’s alumni include many well-known and influential people in all senses, people who can help to develop the endowment here and develop the university in general in the broadest sense.
Thank you very much for your attention.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: This was only our first meeting. I am sure that we will have more, and they will be deep-reaching and focused on developing Russia’s top university.
I met just before with students from Moscow law faculties, including because today is Jurist’s Day. If any of you here are in the legal profession, I congratulate you on this holiday too.
The students asked a lot of questions. One of them was, “What do you think of the quality of education today?” I bring this up because things such as the cluster project and many other development projects are extremely important, as is developing the university’s material base. This goes too for computer equipment, since you cannot have a modern academic and research facility without this, and for things such as the medical centre, which we also examined today.
The only thing is, we must make sure that the university’s growth is not just about development projects alone. Educational content is also important, and so are issues such as housing, for students and for teachers and young researchers. The quality of education is very important; giving students modern knowledge that will equip them for the future.
The students asked me this question and we did not even discuss it at all today. Of course, the rector and his colleagues think about it in their practical work. Mr Sadovnichy [Rector of Moscow State University] spoke today about the university’s place on the ratings and the place that it really ought to have. We should always keep this in mind too and think about it.
If our support is needed in any area, I think we would do everything we can to support Mr Sadovnichy and everyone involved in helping to develop Moscow State University.
I want to thank you all and say that we will remain in regular contact. As chairman of the board of trustees I ask Mr Sadovnichy to keep ongoing, regular contact with you, including on my behalf, as the board’s chairman.
Thank you very much for your participation.
See also
Meeting with students from Moscow law schools
December 3, 2013
Topics
Professional training
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 3, 2013, 18:00
Text version