Events
Meeting of Commission for Monitoring Targeted Socioeconomic Development Achievement Indicators
Vladimir Putin held the first meeting of the Commission for Monitoring Targeted Socioeconomic Development Achievement Indicators.
January 23, 2013
20:45
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
2 of 3
Meeting of the Commission for Monitoring Targeted Socioeconomic Development Achievement Indicators in the Russian Federation.
Key socioeconomic development indicators were defined by presidential executive orders of May 7, 2012. These documents outline objectives for economic, demographic and social policy, as well as healthcare, education, science, and the provision of accessible housing for citizens.
The Commission was created by a Presidential Executive Order in July 2012.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good evening, colleagues,
Eight months ago we agreed that we would meet regularly within the framework of the Commission for Monitoring Targeted Socioeconomic Development Achievement Indicators in Russia, to examine our progress in implementing plans for developing our nation, what still remains to be done and how work is progressing in general.
As I already said, eight months have passed since the executive orders were signed in May, setting forth and indicating key priorities and concrete instructions. Today, I suggest that we talk about how our work is going, analyse problematic areas, and see where adjustments are necessary.
”The Government has already approved the key strategies, mechanisms, schedules or “roadmaps”, for achieving long-term goals and designated targets. At the same time, much of the work, namely the direct implementation of our goals, is still ahead.“
Overall, we are making good progress. The Government has already approved the key strategies, mechanisms, schedules or “roadmaps”, for achieving long-term goals and designated targets. We have a significant part of the regulatory and legal framework already in place. The State Duma has examined approximately 30 laws directly related to fulfilling the executive orders. At the same time, much of the work, namely the direct implementation of our goals, is still ahead. And in this respect, I would like to draw attention to the following key matters.
First of all, last year, we began a programme for reforming the public sector. The salaries of experts working in this sector must be increased significantly, but these increases should, of course, reflect the actual results of their work. We must be fair in assessing the conscientious work to fundamentally improve the quality of education, healthcare, and the social sector overall.
Today, I suggest discussing specifically the salaries of culture workers, or at least start with that topic. Salaries in this sector have been among the lowest in any sector. We must change this situation. Indeed, for many years we have been talking about the need to change it. And we must do so regardless of the level of power that oversees any given cultural institution. In 2012, salaries in federal cultural institutions grew by an average of 36 percent and reached 26,500 rubles per month. However, pay raises at many regional institutions were very small – often below the level of inflation. Let me remind you that in 2011, the average salary at federal institutions was 19,800 rubles, and 11,700 rubles at regional institutions. In 2012, salaries at regional institutions grew to 12,300 rubles (you can see for yourselves that this increase is very small, and the sums are very modest), showing a very modest 5.1 percent growth. This is lower than the rate of inflation.
The federal budget allocates funding to maintain the salary increase rates for federal cultural institutions’ workers in 2013. But we need to have a clear understanding of how the situation will unfold in the regions. We already began discussing this topic at the September 25, 2012 meeting of the Council for Culture and Art, and today I want us to get back to this topic and give it special attention.
Second, we must discuss healthcare and demographics. In the 11 months of last year, Russia recorded a natural increase, as you already know. It is still small, and the balance is still unstable, but just recently, the mortality rate was significantly higher than the birth rate. Thus, it is particularly important that we are able to maintain positive trends, in spite of objective factors like the smaller generation of the 1990s entering the age where they start families and have children. We are well aware of this demographic dip that we had in the 1990s. And so, this domain requires that we continue an active, comprehensive demographic policy, with measures aimed at supporting large families.
”We began a programme for reforming the public sector. We must be fair in assessing the conscientious work to fundamentally improve the quality of education, healthcare, and the social sector overall.“
This year, we have launched a programme contemplating special monthly payments to families that have a third or subsequent child, until that child reaches the age of three. Such programmes have already been adopted in 64 of Russia’s regions. Moreover, in 50 regions where the demographic situation has been unfavourable for quite a few years, these payments are being co-financed through federal funds.
By taking measures to support birth rates, we must develop the entire infrastructure for supporting children. This includes preschools, schools, after-school clubs and hobby groups for children, special paediatric support, etc. It is imperative to do everything so that families with three or more children become a norm in Russia.
I will once again repeat what I said in my Address: I know what the experts and demographers think. They say that this is a difficult or even unmanageable challenge for Russia. But everything is possible. We just need to roll up our sleeves and move toward this goal. We must set these objectives and move forward. We simply need to help people, and then it will be possible.
Furthermore, on the topic of education, we have already adopted a new law On Education. I want to once again point out in this context the necessity for developing a clear, and at the same time, flexible methodology for assessing the efficacy of educational institutions. And here, I will once again stress the importance of open, trust-based dialogue with the professional community.
The fundamental issue is access to education. This includes an important factor: student stipends.
We set a minimum stipend level for well-performing first and second-year students in need. Just recently, the minimum stipend for this category of students was 2,750 rubles, but now it has been set at 6,307 rubles. In other words, it increased almost 2.5-fold, or to be more precise, 2.3-fold.
”By taking measures to support birth rates, we must develop the entire infrastructure for supporting children. It is imperative to do everything so that families with three or more children become a norm in Russia.“
Fourth, in developing education, the labour market, infrastructure and the social sector, we must fully adapt everything to the needs of people with disabilities. This is also an indicator of our society’s maturity and its level of justice. We plan to create over 14,000 jobs a year for people with disabilities. This is an exceedingly important issue, it is critical for disabled people – the creation of specialised jobs. We are allocating more than 873 million rubles for this purpose in 2013, nearly 917 million in 2014, and 962.8 million in 2015 from the federal budget. We need these funds to be directed toward the specified objectives in a timely manner and used effectively.
Fifth, among our absolute priorities is providing affordable, comfortable housing to our citizens. I have already said this and want to repeat: I believe that in the next few years, we can certainly achieve significant results in this direction, indeed, a breakthrough.
For example, we are seeing some good growth in mortgage loans. According to preliminary assessments, the volume of loans extended last year was nearly one trillion rubles. The same dynamic is necessary in all other areas related to providing citizens with affordable, comfortable housing.
Naturally, we must not forget about modernising housing services and utilities. I propose that we have a separate discussion on this topic as well.
And another important issue. In accordance with the executive orders, measures were to be developed on improving living conditions for families with three or more children. One such measure is to provide a free land plot with all engineering infrastructure and utilities in place.
Currently, we have about one million families with three or more children. Among them, approximately 110,000 need better housing – in other words, they are on waiting lists. In reality, I think, there are even more. Work is underway in many federal constituent entities to improve the situation. But you know, the heads of many regions are asking us to give them the opportunity to independently determine more effective forms of assistance and support for large families. Many of the governors say that providing land plots is not always effective. Perhaps that is true. In that case, we need to offer something else that is no less effective. Let’s discuss this matter today as well.
And another thing. Fundamental steps were taken last year to defend the rights of entrepreneurs. Together with the business community, we are implementing a national entrepreneurial initiative and creating an institution of the Commissioner for Entrepreneurs’ Rights. Indeed, it has already been formed from a legal standpoint, but the infrastructure needed for this work is still being created.
”Fundamental steps were taken to defend the rights of entrepreneurs. This is an area that requires monitoring and active work with the business community and with public organisations to identify and remove barriers hindering the development of entrepreneurship.“
We are improving our legislative framework. For example, people can now initiate a fraud case provided that the affected party files a corresponding application. The overwhelming majority of people present here understand what I am talking about. I am referring to abuses in this area by law enforcement agencies. I hope that the measures taken will eliminate this problem.
Clearly, this is an area that requires monitoring and active work with the business community and with public organisations to identify and remove barriers hindering the development of entrepreneurial initiative and entrepreneurship in general.
Colleagues,
We will certainly look into other issues related to implementing executive orders, including the ones that require more time to resolve than we initially thought. I repeat, right now we are entering the key stage – the stage of actually implementing the provisions of these executive orders. A great deal will need to be done both in the federal centre and in the Russian regions.
I am asking the Government to approach this work with full responsibility, monitoring the implementation of our objectives and ensuring the collection of statistical data – data that should be objective in nature – keeping track to ensure that the people implementing them have sufficient methodological support, especially in the regions.
Please remember that the key result of our work does not lie in the number of laws passed, executive orders or regulations issued. Rather, what’s most important is for the life of every citizen to change for the better as a result of our efforts.
Let’s begin our work.
<…>
Topics
Culture
Economy and finance
Housing
Social services
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Commissions and Councils
Publication date: January 23, 2013, 20:45
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Catholicos Patriarch Ilia II of All Georgia
Vladimir Putin met with Catholicos Patriarch Ilia II of All Georgia, who was awarded the prize for outstanding services in strengthening the fraternal bonds between Orthodox peoples and Churches by the International Foundation for the Unity of Orthodox Peoples. 
January 23, 2013
18:30
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
With Catholicos Patriarch Ilia II of All Georgia (left) and Patriarch Kirill of Moscow and All Russia.
Patriarch Kirill of Moscow and All Russia was also present at the meeting.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Your Holiness, I am very happy to see and to have this chance to congratulate you in person on your recent birthday, on the 35th anniversary of your service, and now on receiving this award from the Foundation for the Unity of Orthodox Peoples. But I especially want to thank you for doing everything you can to maintain the humanitarian, spiritual and cultural ties between our fraternal peoples in these difficult circumstances. By difficult circumstances, I am referring to the complicated interstate relations between Russia and Georgia. I say these words without any exaggeration. Thank you very much. 
It is a great pleasure to see you in Moscow. Welcome!
Catholicos Patriarch Ilia II of All Georgia: Your Excellency Mr President, on behalf of the Georgian Orthodox Church I offer my warmest greetings.
I pass on our Prime Minister’s warm greetings too. He is doing everything possible and necessary to improve relations with everyone. I think that we will be able to settle the problems between us and will be brothers once again.
Thank you for your congratulations.
<…>
Geography
Georgia
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 23, 2013, 18:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of Lebanon Michel Sleiman
Vladimir Putin and President of Lebanon Michel Sleiman discussed opportunities for developing bilateral cooperation and exchanged views on issues currently on the international agenda.
January 23, 2013
17:40
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
2 of 4
With President of Lebanon Michel Sleiman.
In particular, the two presidents discussed the situation in Syria. Mr Putin expressed support for Mr Sleiman
’s proposal to hold an international conference in Moscow on Syrian refugee problem.
The two leaders also discussed steps to strengthen bilateral cooperation in trade and the economy, and in the military technical and humanitarian sectors.
Mr Sleiman is in Russia on a private visit after the International Foundation for the Unity of Orthodox Peoples awarded him the prize for the services in the promotion and strengthening of Christian values in the modern world. 
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, colleagues, it is a great pleasure to see you and to welcome you to Moscow.
Mr President, I know you have come to our country on a private visit. I want to congratulate you on being awarded this prize by the Foundation for the Unity of Orthodox Peoples. I know that you intend to donate the money part of the prize to children. This is a very noble gesture and I would like to say thank you. 
We have always considered Lebanon our friend and we have longstanding and very close business ties with your country. The situation in Lebanon is complicated, but this does not stop us from maintaining close and regular working contacts at almost every level.
Our foreign ministers meet regularly, and so do the heads of our various agencies. We worked actively together when Lebanon was one of the UN Security Council’s non-permanent members.
Our economic relations have been developing quite well, especially in 2011. There was a drop in this area last year, unfortunately, and so I am very pleased that we will have the chance to discuss this subject today.
More than 10,000 Lebanese students have studied in the Soviet Union and Russia. We are continuing these programmes today and around 100 students from Lebanon enter our universities every year.
Of course, military technical cooperation is also of interest to both countries. This is also an area in which we have things to discuss, and I am pleased to have this opportunity.
Welcome, Mr President.
President of Lebanon Michel Sleiman (retranslated): Mr President, thank you very much for this opportunity to meet with you even though I am in Russia on a private visit.
I want to thank you for the hospitality you have shown me and my delegation during this visit, and I also want to say what a great honour it is for me to receive this prize from the Foundation for the Unity of Orthodox Peoples.
As you know, I made a working visit to Russia in 2010, during which we reached some agreements on activating our bilateral relations and began taking steps in this direction. But sadly, as you noted, the general situation in the region has not made it possible for us to fully carry out our plans. I hope that this visit will give new impetus to the agreements reached earlier. 
Lebanon and Russia have common interests in the Middle East, especially in light of the events taking place in the region at the moment, in Syria in particular. I think that Russia, as a great power, and you personally, Mr President, could play a part in finding solutions to the situation that has emerged, especially as concerns the dangerous consequences for neighbouring countries, above all Lebanon.
In our discussions of these issues with Russia we have the support of the solid historic ties that bind our two countries. We particularly value the fact that Russia has always stood by Lebanon on the question of our country’s independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity. I am referring here also to the role Russia played during the war in 2006. At that time, Russia was instrumental in the drafting and approval of UN Security Council resolution 1701, which enabled us to achieve peace and calm the situation in our country.
It is our desire to see Russia play an important part at state level in relations with the Arab countries in order to find a peaceful solution to the crisis in Syria and also avoid any potentially negative consequences for Lebanon.
Lebanon’s government has taken a principled decision of non-intervention in Syria’s domestic affairs in order to protect our country from possible negative consequences. The National Dialogue Committee stated this decision in the Baabda Declaration, but unfortunately, the continuing crisis and the worsening situation with Syrian refugees, who are fleeing the country in their tens of thousands, create a heavy burden for Lebanon. 
There are now more than 200,000 Syrian refugees in Lebanon alone. We do not know how many more Syrian refugees will end up on our territory. Lebanon has neither the material nor geographical possibilities for taking in such a large number of refugees. We therefore would like to ask Russia to help to organise an international conference to discuss the Syrian refugee problem and look at what can be done to aid the countries taking in the refugees. 
Once more, let me thank you for this chance to meet. I know that you have a very busy schedule.
Vladimir Putin: Mr President, you said that Lebanon has taken a decision of non-intervention in Syrian affairs. It would be good if other countries also followed your example.
As for the humanitarian issues, of course this is a great tragedy for those who have lost their homes and country and been forced to search for protection abroad. 200,000 refugees is a big burden for Lebanon, a big burden on your economy. What is the approximate cost to your budget of supporting the refugees in Lebanon?
Michel Sleiman: I cannot give an exact figure, but I know that the 2013 budget will have a deficit of $250–300 million due to supporting the refugees alone. And we do not know yet how many more will come. We have to provide them with medical services, housing, clothing, and even schooling too. 
Vladimir Putin: So, you cannot say right now approximately how much money you are spending on supporting the refugees?
I have a proposal. Russia is ready to aid Lebanon in resolving these humanitarian problems. Let’s get our specialists to work out the amount of aid needed. It could be provided through several different channels. This would include direct financial aid, the amount of which we will decide together. Of course, we would be talking about targeted aid provided for the specific purpose of supporting the refugees from Syria. We are ready to provide the required amount of temporary housing, tents, medicines, and everything needed to ensure decent conditions for these people and give them humanitarian assistance and support. 
I propose that we get our specialists to work out exactly what is needed and how much. Mr President, of course we will do everything we can to carry out your proposal and help to organise an international conference on the refugee issue. I propose that we do this together. If the countries concerned all agree – and only in such a case – we would be ready of course to offer Moscow as a venue for holding this conference.
<…>
Geography
Lebanon
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Sleiman Michel
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 23, 2013, 17:40
Text version