Events
Meeting with Secretary General of the Council of Europe Thorbjorn Jagland
Vladimir Putin met with Secretary General of the Council of Europe Thorbjorn Jagland, who is in Russia on a working visit.
May 20, 2013
19:00
Sochi
2 of 4
Meeting with Secretary General of the Council of Europe Thorbjorn Jagland.
The meeting discussed current issues concerning Russia’s relations with the Council of Europe.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Secretary General, friends, good afternoon. It is a great pleasure to see you.
Since Russia joined the Council of Europe in 1996, we have adopted into our law 56 Council of Europe legal acts, and we are currently working on another 20.
Russia is one the five biggest contributors to the Council of Europe’s budget. We are fulfilling all of our obligations and will continue to do so. 
We know that your proposals aim to make the Council of Europe more active in its work. Proposals have been made to give greater attention to youth exchanges and anti-corruption work, relying and basing ourselves on Europe’s traditional humanitarian values, and we give all of these initiatives our support.
I hope that you had constructive and fruitful talks with our Foreign Ministry.
Secretary General of the Council of Europe Thorbjorn Jagland: Mr President, it’s a great honour for me to meet with you. It’s a great pleasure to be here in Sochi. I’ve been around yesterday in all the Olympic arenas and I must say, they are very, very impressive and spectacular. I am convinced that it will be great success for Russia and for the Olympic family. I remember when my own country had the Olympics in 1994. It was, of course, an important event for us, in particular when the President of the Olympic Committee said that it was the best Olympics ever. I think this will be said about the Olympics here also.
Vladimir Putin: In 1994, I was in Lillehammer too.
Thorbjorn Jagland: Being a sportsman myself, when I looked at the ski jump – I was a ski jumper when I was young – I wished I was 40 years younger.
Actually, my grandfather was a judge when we had the Olympics in 1952 in Oslo, during the ski jump competition, so I’m coming from a sports family. So I’m very much looking forward to the Sochi Olympics.
I’m very grateful for this opportunity to meet with you and Foreign Minister Lavrov. The Russian Federation is a very important member of the Council of Europe, contributing a lot, not only in terms of funding but also in terms of political input. And we have shared the same goal: greater unity for Europe and to establish one single legal space for the whole of Europe, including the European Union, which we have made some progress on also, to get the EU as a legal subject under the same standards and the same courts as all the other 47 countries. And I do hope, it is my clear opinion, that we also should include Belarus in all the panels as soon as possible.
We have discussed a number of issues earlier today. So all in all, I’m very glad to be here, I’m very satisfied with our contacts and your excellent hospitality.
<…>
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 20, 2013, 19:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting on cross-subsidisation in the electric power industry
Vladimir Putin held a meeting on cross-subsidisation in the electric power industry.
May 20, 2013
16:30
Sochi
1 of 5
Meeting on cross-subsidisation in the electric power industry.
Energy supply in Kaliningrad Region was also discussed at the meeting.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
We discussed the electric power complex development in March this year, and we agreed then to take a separate look at the changes we should make to the tariff regulation system and also discuss cross-subsidisation in the sector, including the situation with the ‘last mile’.
This issue is of great importance for the energy sector’s development and for our economy’s competitiveness in general. It also has a big social dimension too, of course.
The current cross-subsidisation mechanism means that household consumers pay less for electricity, while companies pay more. Ordinary consumers are able to pay less because the prices are raised for other consumers. This kind of cross-subsidisation increased substantially over recent years and in 2012 came to a figure of 220 billion rubles. 
But this process has a reverse side too. It means added expenses and costs for businesses. This has an impact on industrial output growth, and companies factor the higher electricity costs into the price of their goods, which makes locally-produced goods less competitive and also more expensive for all consumers, and ultimately, for ordinary people too.
We end up in a situation where businesses sometimes find it more profitable to commission their own electricity generating facilities rather than buy electricity on the market. The big companies have more room to manoeuvre of course. They can relocate production to regions with cheaper electricity costs, or they bypass the regional electricity sellers altogether and connect directly to the mainline network, as some businesses are doing.
This ends up shifting the burden onto small and medium-sized businesses, which have enough problems to deal with as it is. These businesses have to pay a lot of money just to get connected to the electricity supply networks, and then they have to pay high costs for the electricity itself.
These are all structural issues and therefore require balanced and carefully planned decisions and the setting of fair and transparent costs for all groups of consumers. I repeat what I said at our last meeting, namely, that we must avoid unjustified price rises for the general public and for small businesses. We also need to put in place real incentives to encourage people to save electricity, be economical, and make wider use of energy-saving technology.
I think it is important that we also take a close look at the sales companies’ and grid companies’ cost structures. Our people and businesses should not have to pay for others’ ineffectiveness. I ask the Government Cabinet to work fast on making the needed decisions on the ‘last mile’ and put forward concrete proposals on reducing the amount of cross-subsidisation.
Let me stress that this is a complicated issue. We need to make a thorough analysis of the social consequences any decisions will have for each region of the country, make sure we take people’s interests into account, and draft a balanced system of targeted support measures for people. This targeted support must be designed in such a way as to be clearly effective.
The second matter that we need to discuss today is electricity supply in Kaliningrad Region. For obvious reasons this region is isolated from the rest of the country’s electricity system, and so we need decisions here that take into account the region’s particular situation and its exclave status.
Let’s start work.
<…>
Geography
Kaliningrad Region
Topics
Energy
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 20, 2013, 16:30
Text version