Events
Speech at the CSTO Collective Security Council meeting in expanded format
September 23, 2013
16:40
Sochi
At the CSTO Collective Security Council meeting in expanded format.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
We have just held our meeting in narrow format. We decided that during this expanded format meeting I would brief you on the CSTO’s work priorities during Russia’s chairmanship of the organisation, which has been handed to Russia by our Kyrgyzstani friends. Mr Bordyuzha [Secretary General of the Collective Security Treaty Organisation (CSTO)] will then brief us on the final documents that we will sign.
Since 2010, it has been the practice for the country that is taking over the organisation’s chairmanship to set out its vision of the CSTO’s main priorities.
Let me mention the following main areas.
First, we think it important to reinforce the external borders in the CSTO’s region of responsibility. We need to improve our practical action mechanisms for minimising risks for each of the CSTO member countries. As we discussed in detail during the meeting in narrow format, the biggest risk is the problems linked to Afghanistan. 
In this area, as I said and we discussed just before, we will take a pre-emptive approach and work together to help Tajikistan to equip its border with Afghanistan. 
Our second priority is to continue developing military cooperation. The objectives for our work in this area were fixed in the documents we approved at the December session, concerning the main areas for developing our countries’ military cooperation through to 2020.
We must continue improving our collective forces’ command. In this respect, the recently established military committee, made up of our chiefs of general staff, has a big part to play. We need to pay particular attention to the rapid reaction collective force. 
See also
CSTO summit
September 23, 2013
We hope that the Interaction-2013 joint exercises underway in Belarus will help to make the Collective Rapid Reaction Force more effective and improve its coordination.
Building up our peacekeeping forces’ capability is also of vital importance. We are sure that the Unbreakable Brotherhood-2013 exercises that will take place at the Chebarkul test ground in Chelyabinsk Region in October will mark an important stage in terms of preparing the CSTO contingent for taking part in peacekeeping operations. 
We will pay great attention to cooperation in countering modern threats and challenges. We have planned an active series of measures to combat drug trafficking. They include above all the regional anti-drug trafficking operation Channel and getting observer countries involved in its work too. The CSTO also has a big part to play in preventing propaganda of terrorism and religious extremism.
In foreign policy, we will work to improve coordination between the member countries on international and regional security issues. We have already made a good start in this area by approving in 2011 the collective instructions for CSTO member countries’ representatives in international organisations, which were updated last year. We think it an important principle that in setting our policy lines on this or that issue, the CSTO countries should be guided by their commitments as allies and take into account their partners’ views.
The CSTO must actively work together with other organisations involved in regional security issues, above all the CIS and the SCO. It is also in our common interest to expand constructive cooperation between the CSTO and the UN on peacekeeping and security matters. We have a legal basis for this cooperation in the Memorandum of Understanding signed in September 2012 between the CSTO secretariat and UN’s peacekeeping operations department.
Friends and colleagues, these are the priorities and main areas of work for Russia’s period chairing the CSTO. We hope that with your active support we will be successful in carrying them out.
Thank you very much for your attention.
Topics
CSTO
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: September 23, 2013, 16:40
Text versionEvents
Speech at a CSTO Collective Security Council summit meeting in narrow format
September 23, 2013
14:45
Sochi
Meeting of the CSTO Collective Security Council in narrow format.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues,
As representative of the host country, allow me to welcome you all to Sochi. I hope you have already had a chance to take a look at Russia’s Olympic preparations.
Some of you have been here before and some of you are here for the first time. We are meeting today to discuss issues concerning our organisation’s development and its activities in the parts of the world that are of interest to us.
It is my pleasure now to give the floor to the current chairman of the CSTO, the President of Kyrgyzstan. Mr Atambayev, you have the floor. 
<…>
Vladimir Putin: I also want to thank your colleagues, and you, Mr Atambayev, for your work as chairman of the CSTO Collective Security Council. You personally and all of our Kyrgyzstani friends have made a lot of effort to ensure that our work has progressed steadily and has not tailed off, but on the contrary, has continued to receive the attention of our governments and public.
See also
CSTO summit
September 23, 2013
This is the case because the CSTO plays a big part in maintaining regional security and stability. It is for the sake of these goals that we are continuing to improve operational and combat preparation of the military and special units that make up our collective security system.
We are holding a very intensive programme of joint exercises in this area. In September-October this year, we will hold three big exercises: Grom-2013 in Kyrgyzstan on September 20, Interaction-2013 in Belarus on September 19–25, and Unbreakable Brotherhood-2013 in Russia on October 7–11.
By raising our countries’ defence capabilities and our collective forces’ combat readiness and effectiveness, we can create a reliable barrier to terrorist and extremist threats. This is especially important with the foreign military contingent in Afghanistan preparing to withdraw in 2014. No matter what turn developments take in Afghanistan, we must not let ourselves be caught unprepared. I hope that today we will discuss in this context reinforcing and protecting the Tajikistani-Afghan border. 
The CSTO cannot ignore as serious an issue as the Syrian conflict. The armed groups operating in Syria did not come out of nowhere and will not disappear into nowhere. The issue of terrorism ‘spilling over’ from one country into another is very real and can affect the interests of any of our countries.
As far as this ‘spill over’ effect goes, we have just witnessed the terrible tragedy that is unfolding in Kenya. The gunmen seem to have come from another country by all accounts, and are carrying out terrible, bloody crimes there. On behalf of all of us, let me express our solidarity with Kenya, its people and government, and express our condolences to the victims’ families and to everyone affected by this bloody massacre. I hope the criminals will be punished.
It is in our common interests to settle crises through diplomatic means that open the way for political settlement and stabilisation of the situation in a country, including in Syria, which I mentioned just now. We will need to work on finding common approaches to this problem, which will be reflected in a statement of the CSTO member countries on Syria.
We have a broad-ranging agenda today. During the meetings in narrow and expanded format we will adopt or approve more than a dozen documents on various aspects of the CSTO’s activities. I am sure that this work together will be very productive and useful.
I just mentioned Syria and the terrible, bloody events in Kenya, but we somehow overlook other no less terrible events. Just yesterday, I think, there was a terrible terrorist attack in Iraq. Dozens, even hundreds of people, are dying there every day, and the situation in other parts of the world raises great concern as well.
In short, we have plenty to talk about today, and a lot of thinking to do on how to prevent and counter all of these threats that are unfolding in the world and that concern us directly too.
Let’s begin our work.
<…>
Topics
CSTO
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: September 23, 2013, 14:45
Text version