At a meeting of Russia-Belarus Union State Supreme State Council.
See also
Meeting of Russia-Belarus Union State Supreme State Council
December 25, 2013
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Lukashenko, colleagues,
Cooperation between Russia and Belarus within the Union State is the most advanced form of integration within the CIS. I fully support what Mr Lukashenko had to say in this respect.
Our joint activities within this framework have become more intensive. The active work of all the Union State bodies – the Council of Ministers, the Union Parliament and the Permanent Committee – has led to a substantive agenda for us. Among our top priorities are issues pertaining to the expansion of mutual investments, industrial cooperation and mutual trade.
“Cooperation between Russia and Belarus within the Union State is the most advanced form of integration within the CIS. The active work of all the Union State bodies – the Council of Ministers, the Union Parliament and the Permanent Committee – has led to a substantive agenda. Among our top priorities are issues pertaining to the expansion of mutual investments, industrial cooperation and mutual trade.”
In 2012, our trade turnover has reached a record $44 billion. This year the figures are somewhat lower, about $30 billion, but the growth rate is gradually catching up: in the third quarter of this year, trade grew by 3%. We expect it to reach about $39.5 billion by the end of the year.
According to the Eurasian Economic Commission, Belarus ranks first (leaving behind Ukraine) in Russia’s trade with the CIS states, and fifth in our trade with all of our major partners the world over, surpassed only by China, the Netherlands, Germany and Italy.
Russia, in turn, firmly retains its position as Belarus’ leading trade and economic partner (49% of its trade turnover) and principal investor in the republic’s economy.
The accumulated Russian capital investments amount to almost $6 billion — $5.8 billion, to be exact. These are primarily the most valuable investments – direct investments in the strategic sectors of Belarus economy: gas transportation, the processing industry, transport and communication.
There are over 2 thousand companies with Russian equity operating in Belarus, as was mentioned during our narrow format meeting by the Prime Minister of Belarus Mr Myasnikovich as we discussed current business.
Among the major high technology investment projects is the construction of a nuclear power plant in Belarus (total funding amounts to some $10 billion), the creation of the Rosbelavto holding on the basis of KAMAZ and MAZ auto plants, and the joint operation of EuroKhim and Grodno Azot.
“Parameters of the Union budget have been retained at a high level for 2014. The funds will be used to finance 37 joint programs and events.”
Cooperation with individual regions is becoming an ever more significant factor of growing economic ties. Leading in trade with Belarus among the various regions of Russia are Smolensk, Tyumen and Moscow regions. The Russian capital alone accounts for over $5 billion worth of trade with Belarus. We believe that our legislators have come up with a very timely initiative to establish a Russia-Belarus interregional forum. I believe my colleagues will touch upon this issue today as well.
The Union budget is a separate section on our agenda. Its parameters have been retained at a high level for 2014. The funds will be used to finance 37 joint programs and events, among them the advanced development of high tech integrated circuit chips and semi-conductor devices, the production of composite materials, projects related to long-distance Earth sounding. As you may see, these are all groundbreaking projects, extremely important for the economies of our nations, for the development of high technology production, and important for strengthening our joint defence capability.Events
Meeting with President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko
Before the meeting of the Russia-Belarus Union State Supreme State Council, Vladimir Putin met with President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko, who is in Russia on a working visit.
December 25, 2013
13:30
Москва, Кремль
3 of 3
With President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Lukashenko, colleagues,
As agreed, we are holding today a State Council meeting.
We meet on a regular basis, and I remember very well our last meeting in Minsk when we had a rather thorough and detailed discussion of our economic problems in the first place. We analysed them, gave relevant instructions to our colleagues to carry out some work at expert and government level. And today, we have the opportunity to follow up on that discussion, to continue this joint work both in narrow and later in expanded format, to discuss our joint efforts.
Indeed, everything we do within the Union State framework – and you spoke about it yesterday, too, Mr Lukashenko – is extremely important for all the integration processes taking place in the post-Soviet area. And in many areas, we are ahead of other integration structures and associations, sort of leading the way and contributing to development of other processes. All this is very important.
We are very happy to see you. Welcome once again!
Geography
Belarus
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Lukashenko Alexander
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 25, 2013, 13:30
Text versionEvents
Press statement following the Russia-Belarus Union State Supreme State Council meeting
December 25, 2013
17:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
Press statements following the Supreme State Council meeting.
See also
Meeting of Russia-Belarus Union State Supreme State Council
December 25, 2013
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Lukashenko, colleagues,
The meeting of the Russia-Belarus Union State Supreme State Council was business-like and substantial, covering in detail a broad scale of issues pertaining to Russian-Belarusian cooperation.
We gave priority attention to economic cooperation. Russia accounts for almost half of Belarus’ trade turnover. In its turn, Belarus ranks first (34%) in Russia’s trade with the CIS states and fifth (5%) in trade with other world nations. These are very good figures.
“Priorities of the development of the Union State remain unchanged: to increase the efficiency of trade and economic cooperation, to cooperate in production, to create a joint system of transportation and a common labour market.”
Unfortunately, in January-September of this year mutual trade turnover has fallen by 11%. However, the situation is gradually improving. In the third quarter, trade has grown by 3%, and we hope that by the end of the year we will reach a high overall figure.
We intend to be more active and persistent in our work to improve the structure of our mutual trade and enhance the share of goods with high added value.
We already see some positive trends here. Thus in the first six months of the year deliveries of Russian engineering products have gone up by 4%, chemical industry products – by 3%. Import from Belarus to Russia is developing similarly. Trade in services has increased by 15%. We absolutely need to consolidate all these trends.
We have agreed to encourage mutual investment more actively. Russia’s overall capital investment in Belarus economy has exceeded $5.5 billion, a large part of this amount representing direct investment, as I mentioned earlier.
A good example of our joint high-tech projects is the Belarus nuclear power plant, which entered its main construction stage in November. I would like to remind you that Russia’s total financial participation in the project amounts to $10 billion. We plant to commission the plant’s first unit in the summer of 2018, the second – in 2020.
“We will jointly celebrate the 70th anniversary of Belarus’ liberation from Nazi invaders and the 70th anniversary of Victory in the Great Patriotic War. A relevant Plan of anniversary events within the Union State for 2014–2015 has been approved.”
Cooperation between individual regions of our nations is a key factor of our strong economic ties. Thus, trade turnover between the border regions of Belarus and Smolensk region has tripled in the first six months of the year to reach almost $3 billion.
The establishment of the Russia-Belarus interregional forum will give an extra impetus to such contacts. The forum’s first session is scheduled for February 2014.
Economic cooperation between our nations cannot be viewed separately from the Eurasian integration process in general. We analysed our main targets on this path yesterday at the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council meeting.
In the course of our negotiations, we discussed the main directions for the development of the Union State. Our priorities here remain unchanged: to increase the efficiency of trade and economic cooperation, to cooperate in production, to create a joint system of transportation and a common labour market.
The budget we approved for 2014 is based on these very targets. Its overall amount remains high: almost $5 billion and around 40% of this total amount will be spent to support promising economic projects.
“The Government of the Russian Federation made the decision to assist our colleagues, given the situation in the global markets, and offer the Republic of Belarus a loan of up to $2 billion in 2014.”
I would also like to inform you that in the course of today’s meeting the Government of the Russian Federation made the decision to assist our colleagues, given the situation in the global markets, and offer the Republic of Belarus a loan of up to $2 billion in 2014.
Traditionally we attach great importance to cooperation in the humanitarian sphere. We will jointly celebrate the 70th anniversary of Belarus’ liberation from Nazi invaders and the 70th anniversary of Victory in the Great Patriotic War. A relevant Plan of anniversary events within the Union State for 2014–2015 has been approved.
In conclusion, I would like to thank Mr Lukashenko and all our Belarusian friends for today’s constructive meeting. I am certain that we will successfully meet all the targets we have set ourselves.
Geography
Belarus
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Lukashenko Alexander
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 25, 2013, 17:30
Text version