Events
The 2013 World Ice Hockey U18 Championship is underway in Sochi
Vladimir Putin attended the opening ceremony of the World Ice Hockey U18 Championship.
April 18, 2013
20:30
Sochi
1 of 11
Opening ceremony of the World Ice Hockey U18 Championship.
President Putin expressed his confidence that the championship will be an outstanding event for both hockey fans and athletes.
Mr Putin declared a minute of silence before the Russia-US game in memory of the victims of the terrorist attack in Boston.
The World Ice Hockey U18 Championships have been held since 1999. Russia is now hosting the competition for the third time after Yaroslavl in 2003 and Kazan in 2008. The Russian team has won the tournament three times: in 2001, 2004 and 2007. Earlier today, games were played between Germany and Sweden, Latvia and Finland, and Slovakia and Canada. The championship will end on April 28, 2013.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Dear friends,
We are here today for the opening of the World Junior Hockey Championship. The Russian and US teams are opening the competition. We know that in the home country of our opponents today, these last few days have seen terrible tragedies that have taken human lives. First there was the terrorist attack in Boston and then the explosion at the factory in Texas. People were killed and injured in both cases.
The terrorist attack in Boston happened during an international sports event, which makes it an even more repulsive crime. On behalf of the Russian people I express my condolences and sympathy for the people of the United States and for the injured and the victims’ families. I ask you to now observe a minute of silence in memory of the victims.
(Minute of silence.)
Thank you.
Friends,
Life goes on, and today we have a big event with the opening of this world junior championship and today’s match between two strong rivals. The young sportspeople will be battling it out in the same arena that in a year’s time will be hosting the 2014 Olympics events. I am sure this will be a memorable competition for hockey fans and for the players themselves.
Russian fans will be rooting for their own team of course, but we welcome all of our guests. Russians love hockey, know hockey, and will be able to appreciate the skill and courage of all of our guests.
I wish you all success!
Topics
Sport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Commissions and Councils, Council for the Development of Physical Culture and Sport
Publication date: April 18, 2013, 20:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with directors and shareholders of Russian hockey clubs
Following the world junior hockey championship’s opening match between Russia and the USA, Vladimir Putin met with the directors, shareholders and sponsors of Russian hockey clubs.
April 18, 2013
23:00
Sochi
1 of 5
Meeting with directors and shareholders of Russian hockey clubs.
Developing children’s, youth and mass sport was the main subject of discussion at the meeting.
Soviet hockey legends Boris Mikhailov, Vladimir Petrov, Vladislav Tretyak, and Alexander Yakushev took part in the meeting.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends,
I congratulate you all on this junior championship’s good start. This was the first official match played on this ice and it was a success, a victory. The guys made us all happy. This means that we have a new generation on the way in sports, in hockey, and a good future ahead.
First, I want to thank you for coming. We have here the directors, sponsors, and main shareholders in Russia’s biggest hockey clubs. But since we are here today at the junior championship, and I hope many of you will stay on, I propose that we discuss developing mass children’s sport today and look at what the teams that you sponsor and run are doing to develop children’s and youth sport.
I invited famous hockey players from past years to come today. They are people we are all proud of and love, and I wanted them to take part in today’s meeting. We would be happy to hear any ideas they might have to share.
Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Kozak and Sports Minister Vitaly Mutko are responsible for sports in the Government, and in the Presidential Executive Office this area is the responsibility of my neighbour on the left, [Presidential Aide] Yury Trutnev, who you all know.
I propose that we dispense with long speeches today. Let’s hear what you have to say and hear about how you see your role in developing mass sport through the infrastructure that your clubs have at their disposal.
Let’s start by congratulating [Chairman of the Board of Directors and President of Dynamo Hockey Club] Arkady Rotenberg on Dynamo’s victory in the Gagarin Cup. Thank you to the whole team for this. Please pass on my congratulations to the team.
Let’s start with you. I know that you are involved in this work in Moscow and you also have some children’s and youth sports work going on in St Petersburg. Please, you have the floor. Then we will hear from Vitaly Mutko at the end. Of course, children’s and youth sport and mass sport in general is the regions’ job, but I know that you are involved in this work too and are aware of the issues. Our colleagues will speak, and then you.
<…>
See also
The 2013 World Ice Hockey U18 Championship is underway in Sochi
April 18, 2013
Topics
Sport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Commissions and Councils, Council for the Development of Physical Culture and Sport
Publication date: April 18, 2013, 23:00
Text version