Events
Meeting with Russian and French business representatives
Vladimir Putin and Francois Hollande met with Russian and French business representatives.
February 28, 2013
19:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 4
Meeting with Russian and French business community representatives.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, friends, colleagues,
I am happy to welcome leading Russian and French entrepreneurs to the Kremlin.
We attach much significance to the dialogue with business community, so it makes perfect sense that such a meeting is on the French President’s agenda for this visit. Speaking with business representatives gives us the opportunity to get first hand information about our nations’ trade and economic cooperation and its prospects.
Just now at the press conference, we were asked whether business representatives complain about the business environment in Russia and in France. I said that members of the business community always complain in every nation. But we have this good opportunity now to address all these issues.
In 2011, our bilateral trade reached a record level of $28.1 billion. Unfortunately, its volume decreased in 2012. Experts agree that the main reason for this decline has to do with crisis developments in the eurozone. I am confident that we have every opportunity not only to return to 2011 levels, but to surpass them in the near future. Of course, this will require joint active work on the part of the business community and administrative structures at all levels.
Let me remind you that there are over 470 businesses with French capital operating in Russia. And the total volume of French investments in the Russian economy exceeds $9 billion.
Russian investments in the French economy are much more modest – no more than $190 million. Our common challenge is to make the investment flows more balanced.
The coordination mechanisms of the Russian-French Economic, Financial, Industrial and Trade Council (CEFIC) will serve to help change the situation.
See also
Meeting with President of France Francois Hollande
February 28, 2013
We also expect help in resolving this problem from the Russian-French Business Council, established in November 2012, as well as the Russian Direct Investment Fund and France’s Deposits and Consignments Fund, which signed a Memorandum on promoting mutual investments today.
Production cooperation is an important direction in our partnership. Large-scale bilateral projects are being successfully implemented in energy, car manufacturing, transport engineering and many other areas.
The Rosatom state corporation, together with its French partners, works on developing a fourth-generation fast neutron reactor. I feel that such joint efforts will give Russian and French nuclear experts a tangible competitive advantage on the global market, where the competition is very tough and is constantly increasing.
We are also working closely to implement major infrastructure projects in energy, particularly in the gas sector – I am referring to Nord Stream and South Stream. The French GDF Suez holds a 9 percent stake in Nord Stream AG, the company carrying out the construction and operation of the Nord Stream pipeline. Another French company, EDF, holds a 15 percent stake in the South Stream project, a pipeline system that runs along the bottom of the Black Sea.
Avtoframos (annual production capacity in Russia of up to 160 thousand Renault cars) and Peugeot Citroen are working stably on the Russian market. In December 2012, a joint venture was created between AvtoVAZ and Renault-Nissan Group (with investments totalling $350 million).
A programme to build the Sukhoi Superjet 100 short-range passenger aircraft is underway with participation by French companies. And the total French share in the project is more than 30 percent. The project’s overall cost is $1.5 billion.
Together with Alstom, Russia’s Transmashholding created a company in Novocherkassk to manufacture next generation locomotives. In 2013–2020, Russian Railways will get 200 new electric locomotives worth a total of 1 billion euro. And these companies have experience in cooperating successfully within the Customs Union. Just recently, in December 2012, they jointly opened an electric locomotive plant in Kazakhstan (with investments worth 50 million euro).
Our cooperation is also reaching new levels in one of the most science-intensive sectors, the space industry. Our joint landmark in this field has become the Soyuz project at the Guiana Space Centre. We have already had four successful launches of Russian carrier rockets from the launch complex in Kourou. In 2013, we plan to launch six more space vehicles.
”Among the problems standing in the way of business are delays in introducing a visa-free travel between Russia and the EU. The current situation, of course, is not conducive to increasing individual visits and business contacts. And here, we count on support from our French friends. We know the position of France’s leaders on this issue and we hope that it will move toward being resolved.“
We welcome the participation of French companies in implementing major infrastructure projects in Russia. In this respect, I would like to point to the establishment in June 2012 of a large-scale project to produce liquefied natural gas and the construction of a new Arctic port near the Sabetta village on the Yamal peninsula, through which energy resource will be transported along the Northern Sea Route. The project’s cost is estimated at around $18–20 billion.
I will note that in recent years, there has been a significant increase in business activity of our regions. Today, a declaration of intent was signed to create a partnership between the Association of Innovative Regions of Russia and the Provence-Alpes-Cote d’Azur region in France.
Among the problems standing in the way of business are delays in introducing a visa-free travel between Russia and the EU. The current situation, of course, is not conducive to increasing individual visits and business contacts. And here, we count on support from our French friends. We know the position of France’s leaders on this issue and we hope that it will move toward being resolved.
Friends,
We will certainly continue to promote deepening and diversifying business cooperation between France and Russia. However, we cannot do it without the support of the business community, without your support, without your action and initiative.
French firms have been working in Russia for a long time. They are quite familiar with this setting, they know both the positive aspects of working in Russia and the difficulties and problems they have to face. But practically none of them leave the Russian market. And this is a good signal, a good sign. All of you continue to carry out your activities here, which means that these activities yield the necessary dividends and profits.
This fact gives us confidence that bilateral business cooperation has excellent prospects. I am certain that by working together, we can create truly favourable conditions for the stable development of our national economies and improving our citizens’ living standards. This is particularly important during the current difficult period for the global economy.
I would like to note that the problems faced by the eurozone are not unique. The same thing is happening in North America and in many other regions of the world. But even though you could generally say that we are progressing according to plan, demonstrating good performance indicators, we nevertheless feel a certain level of trepidation. We are all very closely interlinked and understand that if one of us has a problem, it will somehow affect all of us. And conversely, if one of us achieves success, everyone can count on it, it will be good for all of us.
In this respect, we welcome Mr Hollande’s visit to Russia and I am certain that it will give a good impulse to further development of our business relations.
Thank you for your attention.
Geography
France
Topics
Economy and finance
Persons
Hollande Francois
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 28, 2013, 19:30
Text versionEvents
Joint news conference with President of France Francois Hollande
February 28, 2013
18:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
Press conference following Russian-French talks.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President,
Once again, please let me welcome you, Mr President, and your entire team, which came to Moscow at our invitation and participated so actively in discussions of bilateral and international issues. I must say at the outset that we discussed the most interesting and important of these issues in some detail.
Our talks confirmed the unchanged, traditional nature of Russian-French relations. Friendly, multifaceted and mutually beneficial relations do good to both countries.
From Russia’s perspective, France has always been and remains an important strategic partner. Today we can say with confidence that the task Mr Hollande and I set in June last year of ensuring continuity in our bilateral relations has been achieved.
We are constantly supporting fruitful political dialogue and strengthening our humanitarian ties. Joint production and cooperation with a focus on innovation and high-tech has increased our overall economic cooperation.
We are implementing a number of large-scale projects in high-tech sectors such as space, the aviation industry and energy, including nuclear energy.
Our joint programme, Soyuz, at the Guiana Space Centre is of significant interest for consumers of space services and satellite operators. Already in the second half of 2013 we will put another six satellites into orbit.
We also have significant opportunities in aviation. France is actively involved in the creation of modern Russian aircrafts MS-21 and Sukhoi Superjet 100, as well as in promoting them in international markets.
See also
Meeting with President of France Francois Hollande
February 28, 2013
I would make particular mention of French businesses’ involvement in major infrastructure projects. I’m referring to Nord and South Streams (gas transmission systems), preparations for the 2014 Olympic Games in Sochi and the 2018 World Cup, transport infrastructure and so on.
In 2012 Russia’s automotive market became the second largest in Europe and French carmakers have fully appreciated the possibilities it offers. The Renault-Nissan and AvtoVAZ alliance is already producing tangible results. Another successful example of cooperation was the start of full-scale production at the Peugeot Citroen automotive plant in Kaluga Region in 2012.
French capital is present in almost all Russian industries. We expressed our desire to see Russian investors contribute more to France’s economy.
We will use the opportunities offered by Russia’s Direct Investment Fund and France’s Deposits and Consignments Fund [Caisse des Dépots et Consignations] to this effect, and just signed a memorandum of understanding in this very room.
”Multifaceted and mutually beneficial relations do good to both countries. From Russia’s perspective, France has always been and remains an important strategic partner. We are constantly supporting fruitful political dialogue and strengthening our humanitarian ties. Joint production and cooperation with a focus on innovation and high-tech has increased our overall economic cooperation.“
We hope that the Russian-French Council for Economic, Financial, Industrial and Trade Issues [Conseil Economique, Financier, Industriel et Commercial Franco-Russe (CEFIC)] will continue to effectively promote the full range of our bilateral commercial ties and their further diversification, as well as launch new and interesting projects. The Russian-French Business Council, established in November 2012, must carve out its own niche in our economic cooperation.
We have traditionally paid a great deal of attention to developing our contacts in the cultural and educational spheres. The interpenetration of Russian and French cultures truly is full-enhancing. Respective cultural years and seasons marking Russian language and literature in France and French language and literature in Russia represent major events that have marked our countries’ cultural lives.
In this respect both Russians and our French friends have put forward a number of new initiatives and fresh ideas. For example, an interesting new project, involving respective seasons for theatre and cinema in 2013–2014, is being discussed.
Naturally, relations between Russia and the EU were the focus of our attention. We noted that the abolition of the visa regime with the EU would significantly facilitate tourism and youth exchanges, and help businesses on both sides, since obstacles and tit-for-tat measures only hinder business cooperation.
Russia is involved in providing international support to suffering European economies and in collective efforts under IMF auspices to address global economic problems. We are committed to working closely with France during Russia’s G20 presidency.
We did not fail to pay attention to a number of serious regional and international issues. I am thus referring to both the Middle East and North Africa. Despite the nuances differentiating Russian and French positions, we both favour maintaining an integral, democratic Syrian state. And our approaches to and assessments of the situation have a lot in common.
We should not allow the Syrian tragedy to be exploited by radical groups and international terrorists. Just last week a barbaric terrorist act was committed in Damascus near the Russian embassy. No Russian citizens were injured, but many people, including children, were killed and injured. It is obvious that the entire international community must strongly condemn such actions.
We touched on the situation in Mali. We support French efforts to direct the country back towards constitutional democracy.
And in conclusion I would stress that we attach great importance to further increasing our cooperation with France.
I would like to thank Mr President for the very dynamic and honest discussion of virtually all the issues we touched on today, and to thank all our colleagues for their teamwork.
Thank you for your attention.
<…>
Question: President Putin, President Hollande, judging by your statements, you have many common views on the situation in the Middle East and Africa, and I mean Mali and Syria in particular.
But how would the President of France explain the fact that France opposes the militants in Mali, in support of the legitimate government, while at the same time in Syria it supports the rebels against the legitimate government? Russia, on the other hand, supports the legitimate governments of both countries.
”The interpenetration of Russian and French cultures truly is full-enhancing. Respective cultural years and seasons marking Russian language and literature in France and French language and literature in Russia represent major events that have marked our countries’ cultural lives.“
Could you please tell us whether you have succeeded in bringing your positions closer? It is one thing to talk about a shared view on the nondissolution of the state, and quite another to fight on different sides.
Francois Hollande (retranslated): You said that we have been working in parallel but we must combine our efforts. That is not so simple. Nevertheless, we can state there was a significant progress.
As I said earlier, we share a common goal: to fight terrorism and prevent the disintegration of the country. Of course, we have different views on how to achieve political dialogue; each of us has his own vision. We believe that this is not possible to achieve it by cooperating with Bashar al-Assad. There are others who believe that he is a representative of the Syrian people who can begin dialogue. If we remain in these positions, it is unlikely that we will come to some kind of rapprochement.
Accordingly, let's try to imagine a political dialogue that can involve all the parties to the conflict. That is the stage where we are now. We are involved in a political dialogue, we try to keep to our positions but we shouldn’t waste time. Every day that we waste causes tens and maybe even hundreds of civilian casualties. I am talking about terrorist attacks, as well as the radicalisation of the public, which at some point can lead to tragic consequences. My responsibility is to find a political solution to this crisis. That is what President Putin and I tried to achieve together, and we will try to make this a reality in the near future.
Vladimir Putin: We have a principled position and we are consistently realising it in practice. We indeed support legitimate governments and fight against radicals and terrorists. In this we are certainly on the same side as France, where it clearly implements this policy. Therefore, we supported France's operation in Mali.
As for Syria and other countries, I must say that we had a very active discussion and even argued on some points. I think that Mr President has come to agree with our opinion on some matters. I think that we should listen to our partners’ opinions on certain aspects of this complex issue too. I got a feeling that it would be hard to resolve without a bottle of good wine, or even a bottle of vodka. We have to sit down together and think some more. But in the course of our discussion, Mr President formulated some new proposals that I think we could discuss with all our partners and try to implement them.
Francois Hollande: A bottle of port would probably be best.
Question: Good evening. I have a question for Mr Hollande, but it would be very nice if Mr Putin could also comment on it.
The question concerns human rights. 2012 was the hardest year for Russia since 1991 in terms of human rights. How do you, as President of the French Republic, qualify the situation with regard to human rights in Russia?
”Russia is involved in providing international support to suffering European economies and in collective efforts under IMF auspices to address global economic problems.“
Francois Hollande: The commitment to human rights is always present in our foreign policy. I raise this issue at all international venues, and I do it with all sincerity and at the same time with full accountability.
It is not for me to judge or assess; all I can do is state the facts. When violations take place, I speak about it openly and I do it so that the situation can improve and not just for the sake of sabre-rattling that can be quickly forgotten about. That is France's role. We must work to ensure that progress is made everywhere with regard to human rights.
Vladimir Putin: You could say that we have no banned subjects in discussions with our French friends and colleagues, including President Hollande. We discuss everything openly and objectively.
I do not believe that we had any special problems with human rights in 2012. It was the year of the presidential campaign, and at the end of 2011 we actually had two election campaigns: the campaign for the State Duma, the parliament, which was immediately followed by the presidential campaign. And I am sure you will agree with me when I say that every country experiences a culmination in political competition during election campaigns; each party has grievances against the others, and this is always accompanied by the calls for support to the other parties. There is always talk about violations, that is common practice everywhere in the world.
I do not think that anything changed in Russia in 2012. We made a principled choice for the development of democratic institutions in the early 1990s, and Russia is determined to stay on this course.
Question: A question for both presidents about money and investments. French investments in Russia total more than $9 billion, while Russian investments in France amount to a little more than $180 million. A question for Mr Putin: what are the reasons for this? Are Russian businesspeople too lazy to invest in France, or are there perhaps certain difficulties there?
And a question for Mr Hollande: everyone talks about the fact that the investment climate in Russia is not very good, but statistics suggest otherwise. Maybe French entrepreneurs still have some criticisms, and did they communicate them to you? And how much detail did you go into when discussing investments during your talks? Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Regarding complaints, as the question was first and foremost directed at me, then they always exist. I do not know whether French businesspeople related anything to the President of France, but they complained to me. Not only French but other foreign entrepreneurs too, and Russians as well for that matter. The business community always has complaints against the authorities. I am sure that this is also the case with the French business community and the French authorities.
”We are committed to working closely with France during Russia’s G20 presidency.“
We are working hard to improve various mechanisms and our legislation, to eliminate excessive administrative barriers, and to create the best possible conditions for investing in the Russian economy. In my opinion, the whole process is proceeding very well. As regards the insufficient level of Russian investments in France, I think that the problem is not so much in the French politics, but in the general status of these issues in the EU. There is a great deal of technological and legal obstacles to overcome.
I am not going to talk about this in detail now, but there is another component that we discussed today, namely the fact that interacting is quite difficult. Visa problems and visa regime interfere with normal interaction. This is a complex issue that concerns other countries, not just France. If we look at other EU countries, there is a similar imbalance. In general, European investments in Russia are significantly higher than the reverse. And the potential of Russian investors is very high and constantly increasing.
I very much hope that today’s decision to sign a memorandum of understanding between our investment fund, the Direct Investment Fund, and our French partners will help solve these problems. I want to thank our French friends for supporting this process.
Francois Hollande: Yes, as President Putin just said, there are always certain procedures that must be followed. There are always reasons to block the process and create obstacles. I’m not saying that no one should complain to the authorities. It is their job. And accordingly, for our part we must do everything possible to simplify procedures and facilitate their simplification. There are customs procedures, banking procedures, and a wide variety of other issues. And for my part I would like to see a review of existing investments and for the imbalance to be rectified.
And I want to say that I think the situation in which a French company comes to Russia to increase exports, which, in turn, helps create jobs in France, represents progress. Russian investments in France are measured both in capital, in opportunities to create new jobs, as we have witnessed with GEFCO, and in a partnership that allow us to enter new markets. All of these procedures exist and it is our role to simplify them.
”We are working hard to improve various mechanisms and our legislation, to eliminate excessive administrative barriers, and to create the best possible conditions for investing in the Russian economy.“
With regards to banking procedures, investors that enter foreign markets should not be treated with suspicion. On the contrary, they should be trusted. For our part, we have signed a memorandum of cooperation between France’s Deposits and Consignments Fund and Russia’s Direct Investment Fund. We hope that this will bring our cooperation to another level and speaks to our common desire to simplify various procedures.
Finally, with regards to visas. I hope that one day they will be absolutely easy and that this procedure will be as simple as possible. As for the Customs Union, we shall see what we can do about it. But it is very difficult and incorrect that if an artist, painter or investor wants to come to France, bringing with them the best of what he or she has, various obstacles to stop such people from going to a foreign country are created. I hope that things will improve quickly after my visit.
Question: A quick question about your personal relations. During your first meeting in June we saw you engage in a sincere dialogue, but not a very warm one. Today, you’re sitting side by side in front of us once again, speaking to us sincerely, but I do not see more warmth. Can we say that relations between Russia and France have become closer, and has your meeting enabled them to become even warmer?
Vladimir Putin: Come closer, you will feel the heat. (Laughter.)
Francois Hollande: President Putin always answers questions so sincerely. For my part, I’m also acting with all the warmth I’m capable of.
Today we are meeting for the second time, but we’ve spoken on the phone several times between our meetings, the first of which was held in June last year. This is my first visit to Russia since then and I can say that it is very easy to communicate with President Putin as he simply says what he thinks. Accordingly, it is very simple to find common ground and shared opinions, if they do exist. And in the future we will have to move into the realm of action, adopt a practical approach to resolving existing problems, and quickly implement the measures we are talking about in economic and other sectors.
As for its warmth, I leave it to you to take the temperature of our relationship.
Additional
Working visit to France
June 1, 2012
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: February 28, 2013, 18:00
Text versionEvents
Beginning of talks with President of France Francois Hollande
February 28, 2013
14:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
Talks with President of France Francois Hollande.
See also
Meeting with President of France Francois Hollande
February 28, 2013
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, dear friends,
I am very pleased to see you and to welcome you to Moscow.
France is unquestionably Russia’s long-standing preferred partner. Our political relations have been developing successfully and we often consult on international issues. Our economic relations are developing too.
It’s true that the year before last our trade figures were good: turnover was around $28 billion, almost $30 billion. Last year it was somewhat reduced due to general problems in the global economy.
I think that your visit is very timely. We can discuss all the issues related to these problems and outline the joint efforts we will take to remedy the situation.
We have every possibility to do so. We are actively cooperating in the fields of road transport, rail transport, energy, pharmaceuticals, and a number of other areas. And the volume of accumulated French investments in Russia is significant: they amount to more than nine billion euros. In general, we have much to talk about.
We are very happy to see you.
President of France Francois Hollande
(retranslated): Mr President, I am grateful to you for the invitation.
You invited me to Russia back in June and it took me several months to come here. But I am here today, and I think that this bears witness to the quality of our relationship.
Our relations are well-established and we are linked by common historical roots. We are both major powers and members of the UN Security Council. We hold a great responsibility, particularly for the settlement of certain international conflicts. We must work together to combat terrorist threats throughout the world.
”France is unquestionably Russia’s long-standing preferred partner. Our political relations have been developing successfully and we often consult on international issues. Our economic relations are developing too.“
Even though our relations are very good and profound, I think that they can be broadened and strengthened further. We have a great deal of potential and I believe that our cooperation is very promising.
You noted that there are fields in which it would be possible to extend our cooperation and I completely agree with you on this point. This will further help our exports which started to grow again.
I came here accompanied by the CEOs of French companies, and I met with representatives of French companies who have been active in Russia for several years now, because I would like these relationships to expand further. At our very first meeting and later you told me that we should further expand our cooperation.
We’ll talk more about this over the next few hours and, with the active involvement of our ministers and our special envoy to Russia, Mr Chevenement, we will do everything required to further strengthen our relations.
You mentioned a few areas for prospect cooperation and those in which we currently cooperate, namely energy, transport, healthcare and the cities of the future, environmentally sustainable cities. I think that we can certainly extend and strengthen our cooperation on all of these issues.
You mentioned French investments in Russia and their volume really is quite impressive. There are also Russian investments in France. But we would like to see the amounts invested grow even more. We must use all possible methods and ways to increase the quantity of French investments in Russia and Russian investments in France.
But before we talk about this in more detail, I would like to offer my personal thanks. First of all, for helping us withdraw our troops from Afghanistan, since this was a responsibility I undertook. I undertook the responsibility to withdraw our troops by the end of 2012 and of course this was carried out thanks to your help and assistance, as well as with the help of other friendly countries.
From their very inception you supported our military operations in Mali. And naturally you understood the issue at hand, the global component of the fight against terrorism. I know that Russia will contribute to transforming this mission into a peacekeeping mission in the coming weeks.
Today I would like to emphasise once again that despite certain current differences of opinion, we share general principles, the most important general dispositions about the world. Indeed, we both value the principles of independence, sovereignty, security and stability throughout the world.
We are both big, strong countries. We have strong historical ties, and I think we share responsibilities for the future.
<…>
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: February 28, 2013, 14:00
Text version