Events
Meeting with Governor of the Central Bank of the Russian Federation (Bank of Russia) Elvira Nabiullina
Ms Nabiullina briefed the President on the Central Bank’s main work priorities over the coming period, in particular, measures to bring down inflation, making it easier for small and medium-sized businesses to get loans, and work on banking supervision.
July 24, 2013
17:30
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 2
With Governor of the Bank of Russia Elvira Nabiullina.
* * *
Vladimir Putin: Ms Nabiullina, you have only just taken up your new post. The Central Bank is a very important institution, of course, and plays a key part in the country’s financial life. Now it is gaining new functions and important powers and is in the process of becoming a mega-regulator that will work on the financial markets and other areas. 
Elvira Nabiullina
: Mr President, the Central Bank is indeed a complex organisation with extensive functions, and it does have quite complicated tasks before it now.
Without lessening the importance of other areas, I see three main priority areas of work. The first is monetary and credit policy, of course. It has to fit with the situation and developments in our economy. The key task here is to continue the policy of reducing inflation.
The inflation rate is still slightly higher than the target corridor that we set, but we hope to have it within a corridor of 5–6% by the end of the year. A lot will depend on the harvest and on food prices, but on the whole we expect to be able to reach our inflation targets.
We plan to continue bringing down inflation next year and hope that the decision to keep prices in check for natural monopolies’ services, which has already been approved, will have a positive effect here.
Beefing up banking supervision is the second priority area. We need a stable and healthy banking system and fair competition between banks. This will help to fill our market with services for our people and businesses.
The third priority area is that of the mega-regulator, with the extensive powers and responsibilities this entails. Formally speaking, we take on these new functions as from September 1, but we are already working now to ensure that the transition period goes smoothly and we are ready to begin our new duties immediately. 
I also have to mention another key issue, namely, making bank loans for the economy more accessible and affordable.
This brings me back to the inflation question, since bringing down inflation is a basic precondition for lowering the interest rates. But this is not enough. We see that profitability of many of the investment projects the country needs is lower than the interest rates that these companies can obtain on the market, if we can compare in this way. We therefore need systemic efforts to bring down interest rates on bank loans.
I think there are several areas of work here. The first is to work on the refinancing system. We need to adjust the refinancing instruments so that many banks can get liquidity from the Central Bank. The liquidity situation is more or less stable at the moment, but we need to keep it predictable for the banks.
This will require some fine-tuning of the instruments, as we see it. The share of money the Central Bank can give the economy is not so high, 4–5%, but the important thing is for this money to be channelled in such a way as neither to fuel inflation nor lead to capital flight. We therefore need a carefully planned refinancing policy.
But the most important thing is still market funding of the banks – attracting deposits from individuals and legal entities. In this respect we have some imbalances in the loan structure. They are linked to the fact that we had very active development, especially in 2012, of consumer loans. Collateral-free consumer loans increased very rapidly. It was a decision of the Bank of Russia.
This consumer credit growth has slowed slightly now, but the distortion is still there. We cannot continue to build up these household debt risks, especially collateral-free loans, because people do not perhaps always realise what high interest payments they will have to make and so on. As the regulator, we therefore need to make an additional decision. We are drafting proposals for legislative amendments so as to prevent this sector from overheating.
”The Central Bank is gaining new functions and important powers and is in the process of becoming a mega-regulator.“
Vladimir Putin: Yes, we would not want a repeat of what happened in the United States with mortgages, when people took out loans and couldn’t pay them back. But artificially restraining things is also not the answer. We need to proceed very carefully here.
Elvira Nabiullina: Artificially restraining things is not the answer, but the banks and their customers all need to be aware of the risks they take on. We need balanced development here.
Coming to another of our priorities, we analysed what components actually make up the interest rates and compared the situation here to what happens in other countries. So-called risks account for a large share in the interest rates in Russia. Banks assess the risks when they issue loans to companies, including the likelihood of the bank actually getting the money returned.
This again brings us to the question of our laws and how they are applied: how do our laws on collateral and on bankruptcy work in practice? I think that this is an area in which we will soon need to take measures that will make it possible for the banking system in general to lower interest rates. The same goes for administrative costs.
Another priority area for our cooperation with the Government is putting in place the mechanisms that will make it easier for small and medium-sized businesses to get credit financing. This sector probably suffers the most from high interest rates. We can improve the situation by using guarantee mechanisms, guarantee funds and securitisation mechanisms.
We are ready to work through the refinancing system with public-private partnership projects backed by state guarantees, so that banks will also be able to finance these investment projects and will know that they can obtain money from the Central Bank. These are our initial plans as regards the loans situation.
Vladimir Putin: You probably know the figures for revenue growth in banking systems around the world. As far as I know, our banking system, far from lagging behind, is actually one of the leaders. Russian banks’ capitalisation is growing at a much faster pace than in other countries.
Elvira Nabiullina: Yes, but this is because we are developing lending quite fast too. I would like to give some figures on how lending is developing.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, but it is linked to the high interest rates too. Banks’ capital is growing a lot a faster here than in many other countries. I think we are in second place.
Elvira Nabiullina: Capital is growing fast, and it is showing good profitability too, but banks’ lending is also developing quite fast. In the Eurozone, lending is starting to fall. It is good that capital is growing here, and now we must work on putting in place the conditions for lowering interest rates. There are issues to sort out in this area, of course.
I want to add, not so much in defence of the banks as simply to say that we need to look at the situation from all points of view, that banks did indeed make big profits last year – growth has been slightly lower this year – but after they paid all their taxes, they put 75% of this money into their capital, in order to develop lending, in other words. This is far more than in the past.
Vladimir Putin: That’s a good development scenario.
<…>
Topics
Banks
Persons
Nabiullina Elvira
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 24, 2013, 17:30
Text versionEvents
Working meeting with Alexander Khloponin
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Deputy Prime Minister and Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoy to the North Caucasus Federal District Alexander Khloponin to discuss the region’s social and economic situation.
July 24, 2013
12:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 3
Working meeting with Deputy Prime Minister and Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoy to the North Caucasus Federal District Alexander Khloponin.
* * *
Vladimir Putin: Let’s talk about the district and the economic situation there.
Unemployment has always been the biggest problem in the southern regions, especially youth unemployment. What is the situation today?
Alexander Khloponin
: Mr President, acting on your instructions, we have been carrying out the federal targeted programmes Russia’s South and Socioeconomic Development of the Republic of Ingushetia in the region over these last years, and we have completed the Socioeconomic Development of the Republic of Chechnya programme. Added to this, we have development institutions such as North Caucasus Resorts and the North Caucasus Development Corporation at work now. They already have around a dozen big investment projects underway in the region.
I can report that we have positive results. Unemployment has dropped by 197,000 people in the federal district. This is a significant decrease.
Vladimir Putin: What’s that as a percentage?
Alexander Khloponin: It’s a 40% drop. When we started, there were 486,000 registered unemployed, and today the number has decreased by 197,000 people. This was achieved above all by having employment centres work actively in each part of the federal district. We have created from 11,000 to 45,000 new jobs in the different republics in the small- and medium-sized business sector. The programme has proved very effective.
Furthermore, as you instructed, we are carrying out investment projects in different sectors such as agribusiness and the construction industry.
In accordance with your executive orders of May 7, 2012, we are now working hard on construction of social infrastructure facilities. We do have a big problem in the region in that birth rates are quite high and there are long waiting lists to get places in kindergartens. We have three regions where, unfortunately, children are forced to attend school in three shifts: there are 14 schools in this situation in Dagestan and 11 in Chechnya and Ingushetia. In accordance with your instructions, we have drafted a state programme for developing the North Caucasus Federal District.
This new federal targeted programme will be approved in November. The main funds – federal funds – will be spent precisely on addressing these serious social problems. The instructions you set out in your executive orders will be carried out. The situation is not easy, but we will resolve it step by step.
Vladimir Putin: We can see that things are getting done, but there are still a great many problems to address. I ask you to keep the regional heads focused on not letting up in their work in these areas. You say a lot of new jobs have been created and small and medium businesses are opening, but this is still not enough. The situation remains very serious and we need to work even harder on resolving it.
<…>
Topics
Regions
Persons
Khloponin Alexander
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 24, 2013, 12:30
Text version