Meeting with President of Ukraine Viktor Yanukovych.
President of Ukraine Viktor Yanukovych: Mr Putin, colleagues,
First of all, I would like to congratulate everyone on a wonderful date: the 1025th anniversary of the Baptism of Kievan Rus. And I am grateful to you personally, Mr Putin, for coming to Ukraine today with such an eminent delegation to celebrate with us this splendid holiday of the unity of our peoples.
The significance of this event is enormous, and in the spirit of Ukrainian hospitality, we are making every effort to ensure that this occasion is celebrated in a proper way. It is being marked today in many Ukrainian cities, with festive events honouring this significant date.
And naturally, participation by our colleagues – the presidents of friendly Orthodox nations – is also very significant. Today, we attended the prayer service with participation by Primates of Orthodox churches from all Orthodox nations.
”The anniversary of the Baptism of Rus is truly our shared major holiday, which reminds us of our spiritual unity and our common roots.“
With this in mind, I would like to very briefly discuss the current agenda of our talks. I am confident that we have many mutual interests, issues that are relevant to Ukraine and Russia, which can create conditions for the development of our economies and mutual cooperation in many sectors.
Colleagues, I welcome you.
Mr Putin, you have the floor. Please go ahead.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Yanukovych, friends,
First of all, I am grateful to the President of Ukraine for his invitation to participate in celebrations of the 1025th anniversary of the Baptism of Rus and I thank you for today’s opportunity to meet with you.
This is truly our shared major holiday, which reminds us of our spiritual unity and our common roots. It reminds us that we have done a great deal together during previous centuries and that together, we achieved genuinely outstanding results in building what was then our common Fatherland, developing our territories, our nations, our peoples.
”We are full of resolve to work together, drawing on everything that has been achieved by our forefathers and our predecessors.“
Today, the situation is different, but we are full of resolve to work together, drawing on everything that has been achieved by our forefathers and our predecessors. The challenges before us are large and difficult. I am pleased to note that you and I maintain a constant personal contact: you come to our nation on working visits and I come to Ukraine – today’s meeting is yet another confirmation of this. There are on-going meetings between our colleagues at the government and representative body level. We have many joint issues and problems that we must resolve.
Tomorrow, we will be observing Navy Day, another celebration that, thanks to you, has also become a shared one. I hope it will be another good cause to talk about cooperation in the security sector: it is an area where our nations face many threats and challenges.Events
Orthodox-Slavic Values: The Foundation of Ukraine’s Civilisational Choice conference
Vladimir Putin took part in the conference called Orthodox-Slavic Values: The Foundation of Ukraine’s Civilisational Choice.
July 27, 2013
17:30
2 of 3
At the conference “Orthodox-Slavic Values: The Foundation of Ukraine’s Civilisational Choice”.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends,
I just said goodbye before to President of Ukraine Mr Yanukovych. You also sent him your best wishes. Unfortunately, he has a strict schedule with a lot of events to attend: meetings with colleagues, with state leaders here for the celebrations of the 1025th anniversary of the Baptism of Rus. As I understand, these circumstances are in large part behind your meeting today.
It is a great pleasure to greet you. As your agenda and your main programme outlines state, you are here to discuss the significance of Ukraine’s civilisational choice. This is not just Ukraine’s civilisational choice. Here at this site, at the baptismal site on the Dnieper River, a choice was made for the whole of Holy Rus, for all of us. Our ancestors who lived in these lands made this choice for our entire people. When I say “for our entire people”, we know today’s reality of course, know that there are the Ukrainian people and the Belarusian people, and other peoples too, and we respect all the parts of this heritage, but at the same time, at the foundations of this heritage are the common spiritual values that make us a single people. The Ukrainian Orthodox Church leaders spoke about this today. It would be hard to deny this. We can only agree with it.
See also
Celebrations of the Baptism of Rus 1025th Anniversary
July 27, 2013
The Baptism of Rus was a great event that defined Russia’s and Ukraine’s spiritual and cultural development for the centuries to come. We must remember this brotherhood and preserve our ancestors’ traditions. Together, they built a unique system of Orthodox values and strengthened themselves in their faith.
Ukraine, like Russia, has not had an easy history. In mediaeval times, Ukraine was part of first one and then another European power centre, came under the rule of one country, then another. But the vision of uniting both the western and eastern parts of Rus, the state that had its beginnings here in Kiev, at this baptismal site on the Dnieper, always lived on in the east and in the west, wherever our people lived. The unity of east and west changed the lives of Ukraine’s population and its elite for the better, as everyone knows. Starting from the 18th century, natives of Kiev and Lviv were prominent in Russia’s science, literary, and church circles.
Before the Russian empress issued a special decree, the decree in effect, as I mentioned earlier at the Kiev Pechersk Lavra, was the Spiritual Regulation issued by Peter the Great in 1721. Bishops’ houses opened theological schools that made an enormous contribution to the Russian people’s education. In accordance with Peter the Great’s decree, the heads of these schools were all from Ukraine. This recognised the common spiritual source that began here. Many Ukrainians were also active in diplomatic and senior civil service in Russia, abroad and in the central government bodies.
After its reunification with Russia, Ukraine developed very rapidly in the 17–18th centuries. It became Russia’s breadbasket. By the end of the 19th century, the Donetsk Basin had become one of Russia’s main mining and metals industry regions, and Odessa was one of the Russian Empire’s biggest seaports.
”The Baptism of Rus was a great event that defined Russia’s and Ukraine’s spiritual and cultural development for the centuries to come. We must remember this brotherhood and preserve our ancestors’ traditions.“
By the late 19th century, Ukraine had a dense railway network. It became one of the big industrial development centres after the reforms of 1861. In just two decades, coal production increased 13-fold, and iron ore production increased by a mighty 158-fold. This was Ukraine’s economic boom. Ukraine produced double the amount of cast iron as the Urals at the end of the 19th century. It was also one of the main centres for transport and agricultural machine-building, producing 30–40 percent of the total national volume of goods in these sectors.
Ukraine’s people played an active part in the Russian Empire’s economic and cultural life. Kiev essentially became the second cultural and scientific capital after St Petersburg. People from Ukraine were very active in developing Siberia. Of the 2.5 million people who resettled in Siberia over 1906–1912, around 1 million came from Ukraine. Today, there are many Ukrainians living in every town and village throughout Siberia.
During the Soviet period, Ukraine had the highest technological and industrial development level of the Soviet republics. It received more than 20 percent of total investment during the first five-year plan. Four hundred of the 1,500 new industrial enterprises created were in Ukraine, including such giants as Zaporozhstal, Kommunar, Krivorozhstal, Azovstal, DneproGES, aluminium smelters, the Kharkov Tractor Factory, and the Lugansk Locomotive Factory. The industrialisation programme put Ukraine ahead of many Western European countries in the heavy industry sector. It was second in Europe after Germany for cast iron production, was in fourth place for coal production, and was ahead of France and Italy and caught up to Britain in the metals and automotive industries. And this was counting only Ukraine on its own!
No effort was spared to rebuild Ukraine after the Great Patriotic War. By 1950, Ukraine was producing more ferrous metals, iron ore, electricity, mineral fertilisers and other important industrial goods than before the war. Gross industrial production was 15 percent higher than the pre-war 1940 figure. It was a whole 44 percent higher in machine-building and metals processing, and 2.3 times higher in production of industrial construction materials. Ukraine’s average annual industrial growth rate was nearly 1.5 times higher than the national average. 
Ukraine produced around 48 percent of total Soviet steel output, 33 percent of rolled steel, 53 percent of iron ore, 30 percent of coal, 38 percent of metal-cutting tools, and 71 percent of sugar. It really was an economic and industrial giant. By 1960, industrial output in Ukraine had increased more than 3.6-fold compared to 1940. Labour productivity – an important indicator in any economy, including a market economy – grew by more than 2.5-fold over this period. In 1965, Ukraine’s industrial production was 5.6 times higher than the 1940 level.
Ukraine became a leader in developing advanced technology in the 1970s. You know this better than I. Aircraft-manufacturing, the rocket and space sector, nuclear machine-building, instrument-making industry, shipbuilding, electrical technology – all of it was here. The development levels of sea, rail, and pipeline transport systems were among the highest in the Soviet Union.
”Competition on the global markets is very fierce today. Only by joining forces we can be competitive and stand a chance of winning in this tough environment. We have every reason too, to be confident that we should and can achieve this.“
People’s incomes and living standards increased dramatically over this period. Western estimates show that Ukraine’s per capita income in 1970 was higher than in a developed European country such as Italy.
We all know what happened after the Soviet Union’s collapse. I will not pass any political judgements on those events. We live in different countries today, but this fact in no way crosses out the common historic past that we share, and that is our asset and the foundation upon which we can build new integration ties. We are fortunate to still have a common transport and energy system, a common electricity system, and we have deep-reaching cooperation in many important economic sectors. This cooperation is vital for the effective development of the enterprises involved and indeed of entire economic sectors
Competition on the global markets is very fierce today. I am sure that most of you realise that only by joining forces can we be competitive and stand a chance of winning in this tough environment. We have every reason too, to be confident that we should and can achieve this.
As you know, there are various integration processes underway now in the post-Soviet area. Much has already been said about the depth and benefits of this integration, and I won’t repeat this now. We will respect whatever choice the Ukrainian government and people make on the depth of Ukraine’s engagement in these processes in the post-Soviet area. But there are facts that speak for themselves. Our bilateral trade with Ukraine fell by slightly over 18 percent in the first quarter of this year. Our trade with the Customs Union countries increased by 34 percent in 2011, by 11 percent, I think, in 2012, and was up by 2 or 3 percent in the first quarter of this year, despite the downturn in the global economy. We have steady growth.
Let me say again that we will respect whatever choice our Ukrainian partners, friends and brothers make. The question is only one of how we go about agreeing on working together under absolutely equal, transparent and clear conditions. 
I know how hard you are working on searching for the best possible forms of cooperation between Russia and Ukraine. I thank you sincerely for these efforts and wish you success.
Thank you very much.
Additional
All news about visit to Ukraine
July 27 − 28, 2013
Geography
Ukraine
Topics
Economy and finance
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 27, 2013, 17:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with members of Holy Synod of Ukrainian Orthodox Church of Moscow Patriarchate
July 27, 2013
14:40
Kiev, Ukraine
Meeting with members of the Holy Synod of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Your Holiness, Your Beatitude, Your Eminence, friends,
I am very happy to meet with the hierarchs of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church. I have warm recollections of our last meeting; it occurred ten years ago here, at Kiev Pechersk Lavra. But today’s meeting has special significance. It is being held during the days when Russia, Ukraine and Belarus are jointly celebrating an important date: the 1025th anniversary of the Baptism of Rus. This is a shared celebration for our brotherly peoples and an important event for Orthodox Christians around the world.
Two days ago, I met with the primates and heads of delegations from all localOrthodox churches at the Moscow Kremlin, and we discussed this matter at length.
Strong humanitarian and spiritual ties are a firm foundation for Russian-Ukrainian friendship. It has been built over the course of many centuries, and together, we have lived through the most difficult trials, tribulations and tragedies. But we were also together as we built and protected our common Fatherland, Great Rus, maintaining our faith, our unique historical experience and our destiny. This is due largely to the entire Russian Orthodox Church. On this festive day, I am particularly pleased to fulfil the honourable mission of the Russian government and present you with state decorations – you, the hierarchs of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Moscow Patriarchate.
”Strong humanitarian and spiritual ties are a firm foundation for Russian-Ukrainian friendship. It has been built over the course of many centuries, and together, we have lived through the most difficult trials, tribulations and tragedies. But we were also together as we built and protected our common Fatherland, Great Rus.“
During the most difficult times, you have unfailingly demonstrated bravery and spiritual strength. You did much to maintain canonical unity, uniting people from different ethnic groups. These state decorations are a symbol of genuine gratitude for your input into strengthening peace, harmony and spiritual renewal in our nations.
I sincerely wish you health and success in this noble service, and I want to thank you once again for your wisdom and selflessness, which are so greatly needed not just by the citizens of Russia and Ukraine, but by all Orthodox peoples. Thank you very much.
Patriarch Kirill of Moscow and All Russia: Mr President, the permanent members of the Holy Synod of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church and I appreciate this wonderful opportunity to meet with you here in Kiev.
As you mentioned, you met with the primates of local Orthodox churches at the Kremlin. This was a historic event because its participants could clearly present concerns that are currently troubling all the heads of the Orthodox Churches and all individual Orthodox churches.
Today, we are in Ukraine, our sister nation, at the site of the Baptism. The words you just said about the role of the bishops of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church were very just. Ukraine did not escape the most trying instances of post-Soviet turbulence, which affected all of historical Rus, and many things came to pass here. And our church, the unified Russian Orthodox Church represented by the Ukrainian diocese, made a decisive contribution to the preservation of the spiritual unity of our peoples, who have a shared foundation, while fully understanding that each country is self-sufficient, independent, sovereign and defines its own national priorities, but there is a common spiritual basis that unites our people. And the people present in this hall with you also played an important role in preserving this spiritual foundation, which is important not just to Russia, Ukraine and Belarus, but also clearly has enormous civilisational significance.
See also
Celebrations of the Baptism of Rus 1025th Anniversary
July 27, 2013
Thus, I would like to thank you for your words and introduce you to my brothers, who truly perform their service with great dignity, serving their fatherland, Ukraine, the Ukrainian people, and preserving our shared spiritual values. Thank you very much for this opportunity.
Vladimir Putin: I will say a few more words informally about today’s visit.
I must state from the outset that we have very friendly, close, business-oriented relations with Ukraine’s leadership. But today’s visit was linked first and foremost with our common celebration, the 1025th anniversary of the Baptism of Rus. Indeed, this is the main goal of our visit to Ukraine, to Kiev, today. For any person who feels a spiritual connection to the Dnieper, Kiev baptistery, it is a special kind of pleasure and a special honour to touch these relics, worship them.
I would like to once again thank you all for serving as true guardians of this common spiritual heritage, which is so important to us – and not just to us, but to all people who honour these values.
In today’s world, when we come across various points of view on how the world should develop and the values it should draw upon, your service and your role in maintaining these moral foundations is invaluable. We are aware that this service is difficult, that this fate is difficult, and for that, we want to truly thank you.
Patriarch Kirill: Thank you, Mr President.
<…>
”In today’s world, when we come across various points of view on how the world should develop and the values it should draw upon, your service and your role in maintaining these moral foundations is invaluable.“
Vladimir Putin: Your Holiness, your Beatitude, hierarchs of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church,
Please let me sincerely congratulate you on receiving Russian state decorations and allow me to recall, as was said earlier, our common history, which began so long ago. Our spiritual unity began with the Baptism of Holy Rus 1025 years ago. Since then, much has happened in the lives of our peoples, but our spiritual unity is so strong that it is not subject to any action by any authority: neither government authorities nor, I would even go so far as to say, church authorities. Because regardless of any existing authority over the people, there can be none that is stronger than the authority of the Lord – nothing can be stronger than that. And this is the most solid foundation for our unity in the souls of our people.
There were different attitudes from the part of our government towards Orthodox Christians in our nation, but during these festive, celebratory days, let me speak of the good times only. One such good periodwas Peter the Great’s decree of 1721, when theological schools were established at every episcopacy across Russia and the teachers at these schools all came from Ukraine – all of them – this was the general rule introduced by Peter the Great’s decree. And I suppose this was no accident; I imagine it was precisely because, as I already said, the Dnieper, Kiev baptistery is our common spiritual basis.
I want to once again congratulate everyone on this great event, the Baptism of Rus, and wish you all success. Thank you very much.
Additional
Meeting with representatives of different Orthodox Patriarchates and Churches
July 25, 2013
All news about visit to Ukraine
July 27 − 28, 2013
Geography
Ukraine
Topics
Religion
Persons
Kirill Patriarch of Moscow and All Russia
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 27, 2013, 14:40
Text version