Events
Working meeting with Deputy Prime Minister Olga Golodets
February 20, 2013
17:00
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
With Deputy Prime Minister Olga Golodets.
See also
Executive order on measures to protect orphaned children
December 28, 2012
Ms Golodets
, who oversees social issues in the Government Cabinet, briefed the President on measures to simplify procedures for adoption of orphaned children by Russian citizens and to improve the standard of healthcare for children with disabilities.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ms Golodets, the foreign adoption issue is the subject of much debate at the moment. While important, this isn’t the biggest issue. Much more important is what is happening with orphaned children and children without parental support, what is happening with their care and education. What I mean here is that foreign adoptions concern a few hundred children, but to our huge regret, the number of orphaned children and children without parental care comes to thousands in Russia.
I want to discuss with you today what the Government is doing to implement the Presidential Executive Order of December 2012. Go ahead, please.
Deputy Prime Minister Olga Golodets: Mr President, this is indeed one of the biggest problems facing our society today. There are 128,000 children in this situation in Russia today, children who need foster families. Last year, 69,000 children were placed with new families. This year, acting on the Executive Order you signed on December 28, we drafted a package of documents – the Government has already examined them – that propose a number of new measures and essentially set a new policy with regard to adoptions.
Our goal is to lower the number of orphans in state care. We have set the target of bringing the number down by 30,000 over the coming year. We will do this through the following measures. 
Vladimir Putin: You want to reduce the number by 30,000?
Olga Golodets: Reduce the figure by 30,000 from what it is now. We are putting in place the conditions that will make it possible for some categories of people previously prevented by particularities in the law from taking orphaned children into their families to now do so. This concerns above all older brothers and sisters of orphaned children. This was an old problem that has been discussed for a long time now. Our draft law does not set a required age gap between the adopter and adoptee. This will be something for the courts to decide. 
Secondly, the draft law also addresses the issue of a whole number of illnesses that previously prevented potential adoptions, and in particular was often a big obstacle for adoptions by grandparents. But today, first- and second-stage cancers, say, after treatment, are not the obstacles they would have been in the past for adopting a child. 
The bureaucratic procedures have changed substantially. The formalities have been simplified a lot. There are now fewer formalities to complete, and the time it takes to complete the adoption process will be a lot shorter too.
Material support for families that decide to take in a foster or adopted child is also an important aspect. Benefits for children with disabilities have been increased by 20 percent and will now come to 8,700 rubles a month. The one-off payment for parents who adopt children with disabilities, children with several brothers and sisters, or children aged seven and over has also been increased because these are the groups for whom it is hardest to find new families today. 
It is an important thing that all the debate over orphaned children really has drawn guardians’ and the public’s attention to the issue, and we hope that this will help us to speed up the work to carry out repeat medical examinations for all orphaned children, above all those in children’s homes.
We have drawn up a programme for these medical examinations. All orphans currently in state care will be examined by July 1. Their diagnoses will be clarified and we will guarantee that they all receive advanced treatment and all necessary medical aid, as well as the psychological support they need. 
But you are absolutely right to note that there are problems in our society in general, not just with orphans. We have 576,000 children with disabilities in Russia today. In drawing up the programme we decided that we should revise the whole range of healthcare measures currently in place. The healthcare provision standards do indeed currently exclude absolutely self-evident things that we need to do. 
Vladimir Putin: There are no grounds for these exclusions.
Olga Golodets: That is indeed the case. We are talking about exclusions such as cochlear implants and the speech devices needed to maintain them in proper working order, particular chemotherapy procedures, and endoprosthesis replacements. The relevant provisions have been drafted now and these things will be included in compulsory medical insurance programmes.
We believe that Russia can provide its children with the full range of high-tech medical treatment, and we will do this as a matter of course.
Vladimir Putin: We know that children with particular illnesses in institutions are in an especially difficult situation. Do you have plans for these children? 
Olga Golodets: Yes, we do have plans in this area. There are 14,164 children in this case, children with disabilities. A programme has been developed for each of these children now and each of them will receive help. But as I said, many guardians say that the diagnoses are not entirely correct. For example, children are often diagnosed as mentally retarded when this is not in fact the case. We therefore will get civil society to help us here in order to make progress on this matter.
Vladimir Putin: I see. So, if I’ve understood you correctly, the children will first undergo a more thorough medical examination and then you will decide on the measures needed for their support and treatment. 
Olga Golodets: Yes, that is the plan for the children that we know already are in need of help. We will provide the needed help and carry out a more thorough medical examination.
Vladimir Putin: Good.
<…>
Topics
Children
Healthcare
Social services
Persons
Golodets Olga
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 20, 2013, 17:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with LUKOIL president Vagit Alekperov
Mr Alekperov briefed the President on his company’s current activities, including its geological exploration work.
February 20, 2013
18:30
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
With LUKOIL president Vagit Alekperov.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Alekperov, during the last meeting of the Commission on the Fuel and Energy Complex and at other similar events, we often return to the same key issue: geological exploration. As an oil industry expert whose experience spans back to Soviet times, you understand how important it is to increase resources and volume of production. I know that your company has given this matter a lot of attention.
How do you assess the overall situation in this area in your sector?
President of Lukoil Vagit Alekperov
: Overall, our nation has enormous resource potential. In other words, as of today, almost two thirds of our territories have not been geologically explored. Of course, this is a problem that currently lays the foundation for future output volumes.
This issue is particularly acute in the oil industry, because the gas industry currently has reserves that will last a fairly long time, and the prospective regions currently existing in the Arctic shelf allow us to be quite optimistic about the future. But the oil industry is facing a serious challenge. There is your instruction, as well as the Commission’s decision. So we want to launch new geological exploration projects.
You know, the company has accumulated some unique experience. We were successful in the Caspian Sea: we discovered deposits in places where nobody had ever expected to find them, because that region is considered very unpromising. We compensate every year with new discoveries.
Vladimir Putin: And what about your production volumes and resource growth?
Vagit Alekperov: Today, we have a 105–110 percent increase in hydrocarbons.
Vladimir Putin: I suppose that Surgutneftegas is the most effective in this area?
Vagit Alekperov: Yes, they are. Today, we all go for hydrocarbons, but of course, as far as oil is concerned, today we are unable to compensate for all our production volumes. Just now, after the Commission meeting, after your instruction, we turned our attention to the territories where all the oil companies are working today: these include Irkutsk Region, Krasnoyarsk Territory, southern Yakutia, the Vankor Field – I am not even talking about western Siberia, which is sufficiently explored. We also wanted to look at a region that would have a sort of a blind spot. We looked everywhere. Having experience in developing the Nenets Autonomous Area (with the construction of an Arctic terminal), we started looking into going to some backwater district 900 kilometres away from all service and supply lines and all cities. With your approval, we could start a detailed study together with the Natural Resources Ministry, to begin at least creating the infrastructure there.
Vladimir Putin: Did you get the Trebs and Titov deposits?
Vagit Alekperov: Trebs and Titov will be returned in 2013, they are already coming on-stream. But the license issue is not resolved; I will report on this in more detail later.
Vladimir Putin: Naturally, everything must function within the law. Are you working together with Bashneft?
Vagit Alekperov: Yes. We only have 25 percent there.
Vladimir Putin: Doesn’t matter. Still, if you are starting your work, then overall, I suppose, it’s not our biggest deposit, but it is quite tested, well-studied.
Vagit Alekperov: The budget will get 143 billion rubles as a result of our moving up the date for putting this deposit into operation. We have put so much effort into it that already in 2013, we will start pumping oil, and the money will go to the budget.
Vladimir Putin: And what about here?
Vagit Alekperov: There is nothing here, no deposits, nothing.
Vladimir Putin: How much will we need to invest in East Taimyr?
Vagit Alekperov: It is hard to make any calculations today. According to our estimates, we will need to spend at least $200 million to begin drilling the first well because we need to buy equipment, create infrastructure, and mobilise drilling machines.
Vladimir Putin: And what about product transportation?
Vagit Alekperov: We will engage in construction, get a regular license, if we discover anything (we are currently talking about geological exploration); later, we will build a terminal here, as we did in Varandey: 30 kilometres into the sea, and it is doing very well. The terminal works all year; it is the world’s northernmost terminal that currently offloads oil year-round. So we have good technology. And we built it at a plant in Kaliningrad. All the technology used on the terminal is Russian. The Krylov Shipbuilding Research Institute in St Petersburg did a project and they conducted all their tests at the institute. The terminal has been steadily working for five years now.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, I know. I am grateful to you for placing most of the Caspian orders through Russian companies. You are doing exactly what you promised earlier.
Vagit Alekperov: Mr President, if you visit Astrakhan, I would like to show you the initial work that will already be done this year to develop the new deposit.
Currently, about 10,000 people in Astrakhan are carrying out our work orders. People are being brought in from Rostov and other regions of Russia. The United Shipbuilding Corporation is especially active; it is bringing over some of its people from Severodvinsk in order to fulfil the order on time.
Vladimir Putin: I know that you have even begun carrying out social projects there.
Vagit Alekperov: Yes. I wanted to tell you about the programme that we are implementing: it is a preschool facility programme in three Russian cities. We are building preschools for 1,500 children, which will already be completed by the end of this year – early next year. These are the best preschools in existence today. We are building them in Perm and Astrakhan.
Vladimir Putin: Are you handing them over to the municipalities?
Vagit Alekperov: Yes, we are building them and giving them to the municipalities for free. Of course, there are some problems there, as there are not enough budget resources for them, but I hope that we will initially support these facilities so that they can start working. They will all be given over to the municipalities for free.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
<…>
Topics
Energy
Persons
Alekperov Vagit
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 20, 2013, 18:30
Text version