Events
Speech at a meeting on comprehensive social and economic development of Sakhalin Region
July 16, 2013
10:45
Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk
2 of 4
At the meeting on the development of the Sakhalin Region.
Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
Today, we will discuss Sakhalin Region’s social and economic development. A lot depends on the people here today in resolving these tasks. We will discuss the issues of concern to the region’s people, to our citizens living here.
Let me start by saying that confident growth in the Far East regions and putting their competitive advantages to effective use are among our overall national development priorities and are a condition for balanced growth in Russia’s economy and social sphere as a whole. This is why we are launching comprehensive programmes to develop the Far East, laying the infrastructure base for the region’s future growth, and encouraging promising business initiatives of great importance for the entire region. 
“Confident growth in the Far East regions and putting their competitive advantages to effective use are among our overall national development priorities and are a condition for balanced growth in Russia’s economy and social sphere as a whole.”
Over recent years, Sakhalin Region has become a recognised platform for carrying out big, significant projects, primarily in the energy sector. What even by global standards is a solid oil and gas production centre has taken shape here, and it now sets the tone for the region’s entire economy.
Regional gross domestic product has more than doubled over the last 10 years and in per capita figures is now three times higher than the average in the Far East region and is in fourth place in Russia overall.
A good pace has been set. I note too, that the region has good potential in the processing sectors, in agribusiness, and in fisheries above all, and is demonstrating decent overall growth. Figures have dropped a little in all areas of late, it is true. Agriculture is still showing growth, but slightly less than what we seeing overall around the country.
Our task is to realise the region’s potential, support projects that will diversify the regional economy, create new jobs, bolster the social infrastructure, and do everything needed to give people steadily rising living standards.
Of course, the oil and gas sector plays a very big part in our plans. Sakhalin’s geographical location and its established ties with the Asia-Pacific countries and good experience of cooperation with big companies create a solid foundation for building what we could without exaggeration call a global energy hub here. 
I am sure that this hub’s development over the coming years, and increased oil and gas production need to go hand in hand with work to build new refinery capacity and develop, including on Sakhalin itself, modern oil, gas, and gas-chemicals industries and companies that will work not just for the export markets, but above all for Russia’s own market.
“Our task is to realise the region’s potential, support projects that will diversify the regional economy, create new jobs, bolster the social infrastructure, and do everything needed to give people steadily rising living standards.”
The region’s resource base must serve in full the region’s own needs and ensure stable and effective work of local business and municipal and utilities companies and institutions. In this respect, we need to pay particular attention to extending the gas network so as to connect towns and villages throughout the region. Sakhalin is an oil and gas producing region, but only 10.1 percent of the region is connected to the gas supply network. True, production on today’s scale began not so long ago, but we still need to take steps in this direction and extend the gas supply throughout the region itself. On average around the country, connection to the gas supply network comes to more than 60 percent, but on Sakhalin it is only just over 10 percent.
The tasks we need to resolve and the difficulties projects encounter in this area are things we will discuss today.
Colleagues, the infrastructure limitations that have built up over the years are hampering Sakhalin’s development today. There are not enough good-quality roads here. The energy supply and utilities systems have problems, and there are problems too with air and sea transport, with ageing fleets and difficulties in organising regular traffic between the region and the mainland.
I propose that we discuss this matter separately today and look at how to organise safe and uninterrupted travel between Sakhalin, the Kuril Islands, and Kamchatka.
Reliable transport links are vitally important for the Kuril Islands. The federal targeted programme for the islands’ development provides for funding to modernise transport infrastructure, along with housing and utilities sector facilities and build kindergartens, schools and hospitals. All of this together should lay the foundations for further developing these islands, considerably improving residents’ quality of life and improving the demographic situation, which remains quite problematic to this day.
Let me note on this matter that the programme will run through to 2015. The Governor will probably tell us about it. I ask you to ensure that all of the work keeps to plan. A lot has already been done. This includes construction of a runway, dock facilities, and social infrastructure. There is still time but also still a lot to do. The work must keep strictly to the deadlines. We will discuss in more detail today the results so far from the programme for developing the Kuril Islands.
But we know that the tasks facing the Kurils and the whole of Sakhalin Region are not limited to the measures set out in the programme I just mentioned. There is also a lot of work to be done to build up the regional health and education systems and develop the housing and utilities sector. There are proposals regarding extension of this programme. Let’s discuss them today. I propose that we discuss the possibilities of a decision here and look at all the pros and cons. The minus of course is that it all costs money, of which there is never enough. Everything else is a plus.
“Sakhalin’s geographical location and its established ties with the Asia-Pacific countries and good experience of cooperation with big companies create a solid foundation for building what we could without exaggeration call a global energy hub here.”
<…>
Vladimir Putin: Colleagues, let me make a few concluding remarks.
You know the World Bank has concluded that in terms of purchasing power parity Russia is now the world’s fifth biggest economy. On this count we are now ahead of Germany. That is good news.
But we have quite a few regions that need particular attention. Despite their external attractiveness, these regions are still showing weak growth and their results in other areas, not just growth rates, cannot make us happy. This is not good news.
We have said that the demographic situation is improving, and this really is the case. We have positive results in this area. But in Sakhalin, natural population growth for the first quarter of 2013 was minus 1.6 percent. People are continuing to leave the region, and this trend continues throughout the whole of the Far East. This is despite the fact that Sakhalin, compared to other Far East regions, has made big strides in its development.
We talked just now about Sakhalin’s obvious successes, but there are still too many problems. They have built up over decades, if not the entire last century. No matter how they got there, and no matter who was to blame, we today are responsible for radically changing and improving the situation.
I see that First Deputy Prime Minister Igor Shuvalov
is reading the instructions that were drafted at the State Council Presidium meeting, back on December 26, 2012. I have here an analysis of what has been done. We have huge problems in the transport sector here, as we just discussed, and in the energy sector too. Production is growing higher and higher, and there are good plans, but there are still big problems with energy supply within the region itself.
We have problems in terms of an attractive business environment, including for the fishing industry, which is the region’s main industry, and for other sectors. I mentioned that there are good prospects in the processing industry, but we are not making proper use of this potential.
Why did I specifically note that list of instructions from December 27 last year? We are in the process of drafting a new list of instructions, but around 80 percent of the instructions on last year’s list, which we all gave our prior approval to, have not been carried out.
“The federal targeted programme for the Kuril Islands’ development provides for funding to modernise transport infrastructure, along with housing and utilities sector facilities and build kindergartens, schools and hospitals. All of this together should lay the foundations for further developing these islands, considerably improving residents’ quality of life.”
Colleagues, I want to ask you, are you going to get to work or not? What is going on? We have met in several different regions now and discussed what style and method of work we will follow. The overwhelming majority of these instructions have been postponed until autumn. Good, let’s see then what will be done in autumn, and which of the instructions we drew up will actually have been carried out.
I ask you to give this work your utmost attention and take a proper look at things. If there are any disagreements, make them known, make your proposals, and we can adjust where needed. But once we have already settled everything and come to a common agreement that this work can indeed be carried out, then it needs to actually get done.
This is one of our country’s most important regions. I will not go into how important it is for us in the historic term. I realise that this is all not so simple. But if we decide something, we need to get it done.
We talked about establishing a corporation. Finally, after a whole year of talk, it was actually set up. Now it turns out that it is hard to work there and in some areas even practically unrealistic. One of the tasks on the list of instructions was to improve government in the Far East and make it more effective. I was talking with Mr Sechin just before the meeting and I think he was right when he said that things don’t work so effectively. Let me draw this to your attention. 
In conclusion, we need to mobilise our efforts in all areas. I ask you to revise and complete the list of instructions we talked about, based on the problems we face today in the Far East region and here on Sakhalin. Once the list is approved, focus on getting it implemented, even with the summer holiday period coming up. If we want to have the revised list of instructions carried out by October – most of the deadlines were shifted to October – then we need to get to work right now.
See also
All news about Trip to Sakhalin Region
July 16, 2013
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 16, 2013, 10:45
Text versionVladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
Today, we will discuss the social and economic situation in Trans-Baikal Territory and exchange views on how to improve the business climate and create new opportunities for business activity.
“We need to focus our attention on our economic priority tasks. One of these is to develop the agribusiness sector. Production in this sector has increased over the last five years. We need to consolidate these positive trends, including by bolstering businesses’ financial and equipment bases, raising labour productivity, and developing the livestock sector.”
Trans-Baikal Territory has obvious economic advantages. It is rich in natural resources, and the main transport links between Asia and Europe cross it. And yet, as we all know, it is one of our country’s most problematic regions.
A poorly developed energy infrastructure is one of the biggest obstacles to growth in the region. This is clearly putting a brake on developing business activity. Unemployment is particularly worrying. We can be proud that Russia has brought overall unemployment down to a record low of 5.5 percent, but unemployment in Trans-Baikal Territory was more than 10 percent – 10.7 percent – for the March-May period of this year.
The demographic situation is improving slowly. The family support and healthcare improvement programmes we have been carrying out have helped to bring about a more than two-fold decrease in infant mortality over the last five years, and this is definitely a good result. There has been natural population growth in the region since 2007, but at the same time, the number of people permanently resident in the region continues to drop with every passing year, and the population outflow continues. 
Clearly, the only way to resolve these many problems is to boost the economy. We need to make our economic decisions more effective, use targeted programmes’ resources more rationally, and better coordinate work between the federal and regional authorities.
At the same time, we need to focus our attention on our economic priority tasks. One of these is to develop the agribusiness sector. Production in this sector has increased over the last five years. We need to consolidate these positive trends, including by bolstering businesses’ financial and equipment bases, raising labour productivity, and developing the livestock sector.
I know that the region’s government is working directly on all of these issues. I would like to hear about your work priorities today.
Making maximum use of the region’s geographical location is another key task. The biggest advantage here is the direct link to markets in China, Mongolia and other countries and the chance to supply them with the goods they need. We need to develop the transport, border, and logistics infrastructure and make it modern and convenient to use. This will stimulate business activity in the region and will also help to develop domestic and foreign tourism, which is also a good avenue to develop. 
Colleagues, I want to say a few words about another very important matter – improving the business climate. I have said before that this is one of the keys to developing the regional economy and an essential condition for raising people’s living standards and developing the region overall.
You know that we drew up a number of ‘roadmaps’ as part of our national initiative to improve the investment climate. The objective was to help create comfortable conditions for everyone wanting to get into business. 
“Making maximum use of the region’s geographical location is another key task. The biggest advantage here is the direct link to markets in China, Mongolia and other countries and the chance to supply them with the goods they need. We need to develop the transport, border, and logistics infrastructure and make it modern and convenient to use.”
More and more businesspeople are getting involved in monitoring the roadmaps’ implementation now. I see that businesspeople I know who work in this region are here today. I would like to hear objective information from you today, colleagues, on what has been accomplished, what still needs to be done, and which issues require our particular attention.
Implementing regional investment standards is another important matter. The aim here is to ensure a comfortable business environment not just in the country as a whole but in each individual region too. Many regions have already put in place these regional investment standards, including Tatarstan, Kaluga, Ulyanovsk, Lipetsk, Tula Regions, and others.
Your region must get more actively involved in these processes. I ask the regional governor to ensure that all the preparations are made to implement these regional standards as soon as possible, working together with the business community and the Strategic Initiatives Agency.
The small and medium-sized business sector employs around 18 percent of the region’s workforce today. This is nearly 1.5-fold lower than the national average.
According to the state statistics agency, around 96,000 people, including self-employed people, were employed in the region’s SME sector as at January 1, 2013. This is around 18 percent of the region’s working age population. As I said, this is 1.5-fold lower than the national average. The national average is not high as it is – 25 percent – but in your region it is only 18 percent.Events
Videoconference with Orlan oil drilling platform
July 16, 2013
06:30
Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk
1 of 2
During video linkup with the Orlan drilling platform.
Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon colleagues.
Can you hear me?
Igor Sechin
: Hello, Mr President, we can see and hear you.
Vladimir Putin: I send my greetings to you all. Work at sites such the one you are at now is the start of a new stage in the Russian energy sector’s development and development of offshore production.
We are yet going to discuss Sakhalin Region’s development, and the most important part of its economy – the energy sector. First of all though, I want to thank everyone who worked at Orlan, everyone who got this project to where it is today, and I hope that your colleagues from other companies will follow your example. I wish you success. 
Go ahead, Mr Sechin.
Igor Sechin: Thank you very much.
Good afternoon, once again, Mr President. It is a pleasure to greet you from the Orlan drilling platform here in the Sea of Okhotsk. This is an enormous construction built for Arctic conditions and equipped with unique technology. It began operation in 2005, when work began to develop the Chaivo oilfield on the Sakhalin shelf. The platform is 100 by 90 metres in area and weighs around 70,000 tons. It can withstand extremely low temperatures, earthquakes of up to 8 degrees, and waves up to 13 metres high. Its 14-megawatt energy supply and heavy drilling installation with capacity of up to 750 tons and 2,300 horsepower drive make it possible to achieve maximum production on the platform of 23,000 tons a day, keeping 20 wells working, each of which can deviate by up to 13 kilometres on the horizontal axis.
You can’t see anything behind me now because of the fog, but around 10 kilometres away from here are the foundations for a second drilling platform that will start operation as part of the Sakhalin-1 project next year. The platform’s foundations already have a mass weight of 150,000 tons and the platform is designed to drill and operate 46 wells. Mr President, this platform is only one of its kind in the world.
“I want to thank everyone who worked at Orlan, everyone who got this project to where it is today, and I hope that your colleagues from other companies will follow your example.”
Our partners in the project are working together with us on the platform today – the heads of ExxonMobil, headed by President of Exxon Development Neil Duffin. 
Sakhalin-1 is the first and biggest offshore project in Russia already in operation today. The project’s three fields hold total useful reserves of 218 million tons of oil and 465 billion cubic metres of gas. Total production to date comes to 58 million tons of oil and 12 billion cubic metres of gas. The project has already brought in around $8 billion in budget revenue.
Rosneft has licenses for 20 offshore Arctic fields overall in Eastern Siberia and the Far East, and is currently carrying out large-scale exploration work at these sites. Two seismological research vessels from Dalmorneftegeofizika are currently carrying out geological prospecting for the Magadan-1, Magadan-2, and Magadan-3 projects on the Magadan shelf. Similar offshore work is underway at the Sakhalin shale, in the Astrakhanovsky sea – Nekrasovsky area for which we hold the licence. We hope that these studies will confirm estimates of geological reserves of up to 14 billion tons in oil equivalent.
Mr President, the experience we gained in building and operating the Orlan platform and the tremendous demand for this kind of technology in developing our offshore capacity show too just how essential it is to carry out your instruction to develop specialised large-tonnage shipbuilding in the Far East. South Korean shipbuilders still hold the monopoly in this area. I hope that at the meeting you will hold today, you will have the chance to come back to this matter too. 
Furthermore, developing Rosneft’s resources base in Eastern Siberia and the Far East creates opportunities for developing new strategic projects such as building the LNG plant on Sakhalin. We are working on these matters today with our partners and with the support of the Sakhalin Region government. We are currently discussing the choice of site for the plant and assessing the logistics situation, the ice and storm factors, the sales markets, and the project’s effectiveness.
By building the Vostochny petrochemical plant with capacity of up to 30 million tons and fully operating on its own raw materials resource supplies, we can reduce the risk of shortages of oil products as demand grows in the Far East region. At the same time, we can develop the regions’ infrastructure: build ports, electricity supply facilities, roads and railways, and develop related industries and create thousands of new jobs.
In conclusion, Mr President, I want to say that Rosneft this year will invest around 52 billion roubles in development programmes in its main areas of activity in the Far East’s regions. This includes 27 billion roubles on exploration and production, 23 billion on modernising the Komsomolsk oil refinery, and around 2 billion on supplies of oil products. With your support and with stable tariff and tax policies, we estimate, Mr President, that under a conservative scenario we could invest more than 1 trillion roubles in our strategic projects in Eastern Siberia and the Far East over the next five years.
“I am pleased that ExxonMobil has become a strategic partner of our big oil and gas company Rosneft. I hope that Rosneft will also work together with ExxonMobil in other parts of the world, including in the Gulf of Mexico and the United States.”
Thank you for your attention. I now give the floor to Neil Duffin, president of Exxon Development.
Vladimir Putin: Go ahead.
Igor Sechin: Thank you.
Neil Duffin (retranslated): Good afternoon Mr President, hello from the Orlan platform.
As you know, we are doing all we can to increase Russia’s participation in the Sakhalin-1 project. Here, on the Orlan platform, we can see an example of how Russia is participating in the project. The platform’s base was built and designed in Russia.
The reinforced concrete base of another platform, 10 kilometres away from here, was built in Russia too, in Nakhodka, and was put into place here last year. Our joint plans with Rosneft include making use of similar installations to carry out our projects together.
We are working on projects together in the Black Sea and Karskoye Sea. I want to thank you for your personal part in establishing a favourable tax environment for carrying out our projects, including projects on hard-to-access oil reserves.
Vladimir Putin: As far work elsewhere around Russia goes, in the Black Sea or offshore projects, there is a lot of work to do. I am pleased that ExxonMobil has become a strategic partner of our big oil and gas company Rosneft. I hope that Rosneft will also work together with ExxonMobil in other parts of the world, including in the Gulf of Mexico and the United States. This is all ambitious, large-scale work, and I wish you success with it.
As for tax, which Mr Sechin and you have mentioned, this is something we will discuss too at the meeting on developing Sakhalin Region today. I am sure that we will find solutions that are acceptable for producers, for the regional budgets, and for the federal budget overall. I wish you success. 
Mr Sechin is used to travelling around to these various places, but it would be interesting to know how Mr Duffin got out there. We have a song about adventurous people that says, “as if you are not able to buy yourself any peace and quiet”. But whatever the case, the site is very promising in terms of joint work and success in our undertakings together. 
I wish you success and all the best.
See also
All news about Trip to Sakhalin Region
July 16, 2013
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 16, 2013, 06:30
Text version