Events
Beginning of meeting with Prime Minister of Bangladesh Sheikh Hasina
January 15, 2013
15:10
The Kremlin, Moscow
With Prime Minister of Bangladesh Sheikh Hasina.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, Madam Prime Minister, esteemed guests and friends,
It gives me great pleasure to welcome you to Moscow and to host this meeting at the Kremlin.
Our two countries enjoy an excellent long-term relationship, and your father played a key role in building the Bangladeshi-Russian relations.
I would like to note that recently the foundation of our relations, namely the economy and economic ties, has been developing rapidly, with 60% growth in 2011 and over 20% in 2012. These are very good indicators.
Ties between our countries have been developing vigorously in other areas as well, including in humanitarian sphere, science and technology.
Our colleagues have prepared a package of various agreements and contracts for your visit, which will become a solid step forward in relations between our two countries.
We are very happy to see you. Welcome!
Prime Minister of Bangladesh Sheikh Hasina
: Honourable President, first of all, I thank you very much for receiving me and my delegation in Russia. After forty years, this is the second Head of Government visit to Russia. So, thank you for inviting me and my delegation. We are really very happy to be here.
The friendship and cooperation between our two countries is historical. We always remember the historical events during our liberation war. Your country, the then Soviet Russia, supported the people of Bangladesh not only in Bangladesh but even in the international arena, everywhere, we received your support, and that really helped our people to achieve their independence. We also received your support in rebuilding our war-devastated country.
See also
Russia-Bangladeshi talks
January 15, 2013
Your people sacrificed their lives during the development of our country, when we started rebuilding our country after the war. Everything was shattered. Especially our Chittagong port, when we started the mining near Chittagong port, your people sacrificed their lives. We will always remember those days. So, we always consider your country as our great friend, a friendly country.
On my last visit you invited me to join this Tiger Summit in St Petersburg, so we visited. I think the documents we are going to sign will enhance our cooperation and friendship between our two countries and two peoples. It will help Bangladesh to progress economically.
<…>
Geography
Bangladesh
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Hasina Sheikh
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: January 15, 2013, 15:10
Text versionEvents
Opening of Russian Geographical Society headquarters in Moscow
Vladimir Putin participated in the opening ceremony of the Russian Geographical Society headquarters in Moscow.
January 15, 2013
20:30
Moscow
2 of 4
At the opening ceremony of the Russian Geographical Society headquarters in Moscow.
The President toured the library and lecture-hall, and visited the multi-purpose media studio, which connects the headquarters via videoconference with all of the Society’s offices throughout the nation.
The ceremony was also attended by the Russian Geographical Society president and Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu
, Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin
, and members of the Society’s Board of Trustees, which is chaired by Vladimir Putin.
The Russian Geographical Society was founded by the Russian Emperor Nicholas I in 1845. Since its creation, its goal has been to collect and disseminate geographical data on Russia. With historic headquarters in St Petersburg, the Society has offices operating in 81 Russian regions.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends, I congratulate you all on the opening of the Russian Geographical Society headquarters in Moscow. This is a pleasing and important event for everyone who loves our country, who is interested in its history and its culture, who cares about and values the traditions of our peoples.
I would like to particularly thank the Mayor of Moscow as it was Moscow city hall who provided this building, allocated funding for its renovation and organised the repairs. I also want to thank members of the Board of Trustees for helping to bring together everything that we have on these premises today.
I must also note that we have Russian Geographical Society offices open in 81 of the Russian Federation’s regions. But unfortunately, not all of these offices have their own buildings, even though that is very important and would not be difficult to achieve. Russian Geographical Society offices would certainly fill a very significant niche for those people who, as I said earlier, are truly and actively interested in the history, ethnography and traditions of our peoples.
These offices could serve as gathering places for scientists, public figures and, first and foremost, young people who want to devote part of their lives – or their entire lives – to their nation. Without the knowledge that is provided by the Russian Geographical Society, it would be actually impossible to do this properly and enjoyably.
The Russian Geographical Society has always had a tradition which was maintained even when the Society nearly ceased its existence, but its premises still remained in St Petersburg, the tradition of accumulating and effectively using various items. These are not just materials pertaining to scientific research, although that, too, is very important; they also include libraries, which have already been mentioned and which are starting to be replenished or created anew.
I am asking all the members of the Board of Trustees to aid in replenishing these pools, and some of our colleagues are already actively participating in their replenishment. I promise that for my part, I will do the same, and I hope that the stocks will be much in demand.
We certainly should apply a modern approach; we should transfer all the holdings to a digital format and establish effective partnerships with archiving institutions, regional museums and other regional centres in order to set up a modern, highly accessible method for allowing these materials to be used by everyone who would like to use them.
I sincerely congratulate all of us on this event; I wish the new home of the Russian Geographical Society success and very much count on both the people present today and everyone who loves our country to get involved in the Society’s work. Of course, this will largely depend on the media. In this respect, I would like to thank Mr Dobrodeyev [CEO of the National State Television and Radio Company (VGTRK)]. You have come up with a brilliant TV programme, and the team consists of very interesting people who are enthusiastic about their work. The TV programme really is designed for millions of our people and, in my view, has a very good approach to presenting interesting facts and information that are of significance for our society.
Once again, I congratulate all of you. Thank you very much.
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 15, 2013, 20:30
Text versionEvents
Press statements following talks with Prime Minister of Bangladesh Sheikh Hasina
January 15, 2013
17:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
With Prime Minister of Bangladesh Sheikh Hasina.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Madam Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues,
We have just completed substantial and constructive talks, during which we discussed key aspects of Russian-Bangladeshi cooperation and urgent international issues.
During our previous meeting in November 2010 in St Petersburg, Madam Prime Minister and I agreed to take additional steps to bring our bilateral relations to a new level.
Ministries and state agencies of our two countries worked closely during this time and developed a solid set of documents, which cover all the main areas of bilateral cooperation, ranging from energy, financial services and agriculture to healthcare, culture, science and education.
Thus, the Russian and Bangladeshi sides stressed their commitment to develop mutually beneficial and comprehensive cooperation, focusing on the long term, diversification of bilateral trade, increasing investment and establishing joint high-tech companies.
Our economic relations are developing at a satisfactory pace. Last year, trade grew significantly, by over 20%, and amounted to more than $700 million. This is far from our full potential, as we noted today. We have set ourselves an achievable target: to increase trade to $1 billion in the short term.
See also
Russia-Bangladeshi talks
January 15, 2013
Our countries are implementing various major joint projects, including in the energy sector. Rosatom is getting ready to build the Ruppur nuclear power station, the first NPP in Bangladesh. In fact, Russia will not only supply the latest technology, which is natural, just as we do in our own country and in other countries, but we will also provide financial support at the initial stage of construction. It will be a loan for $500 million, and you have just witnessed the signing of the relevant agreement.
We will establish an information centre for nuclear energy in Dhaka. Russian universities are training Bangladeshi nuclear energy professionals for the future.
Russia and Bangladesh are successfully cooperating in other energy sectors. In this regard, I would like to note that 20% of all electricity generation capacity in Bangladesh was built with the assistance of Russian experts. At present, Russian companies are involved in the modernisation of the Ghorashal thermal power station. A number of Russian companies, including INTER RAO UES and RusHydro, have shown interest in participating in Bangladeshi power generation projects.
We are expanding ties in the oil and gas sector. Gazprom has signed a contract with the Petrobangla Corporation for drilling ten gas wells. This project will increase gas production in Bangladesh to 56 million cubic metres of gas per day.
Space is another promising area of cooperation. During the talks, we discussed the possibility of providing assistance to our Bangladeshi partners in launching telecommunications satellites.
Our countries intend to expand defence cooperation. Russia (and you have seen the signing of this agreement) will extend a $1 billion loan to Bangladesh to buy Russian weapons and military equipment.
Our contacts in the humanitarian sphere are also expanding. Russia is helping to train qualified personnel for our partners. In the current academic year, 47 students from Bangladesh received scholarships from the Education and Science Ministry and enrolled at the best Russian universities. In total (the Education Minister has just confirmed this) about 100 Bangladeshi students are being trained at Russian universities.
We have agreed to hold the Days of Culture of Russia and Bangladesh in 2014–2015.
Our countries are united in their efforts on tiger conservation (Russia has 450 tigers and Bangladesh has 300–500). Let me remind you that Madam Prime Minister took an active part in the preparation and holding of the St Petersburg International Forum on Tiger Conservation in 2010.
We exchanged views on international and regional issues, noting that the positions of our countries coincide or are very close on many important current issues. Both Russia and Bangladesh support strengthening the central and coordinating role of the United Nations and the rule of the norms and principles of international law.
We are interested in close cooperation at the regional level in the fight against terrorism, organised crime and drug trafficking.
In conclusion, I want to thank Madam Prime Minister and all our Bangladeshi colleagues for the constructive dialogue. I am confident that the bilateral relations and mutually beneficial cooperation between our two countries will continue to grow.
Thank you for your attention.
Prime Minister of Bangladesh Sheikh Hasina
: Thank you, Mr President,
On behalf of my delegation and myself, I thank you, President Putin, for your kind invitation to visit your great country. I want to express our deep appreciation to you and to the friendly people of the Russian Federation for receiving us so warmly in Moscow.
My visit is the second one by a Bangladesh Prime Minister to the Russian Federation. My father, Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, was the first one to come here in the month of March 1972 at the invitation of the then President Leonid Brezhnev. He was here to express his deep gratitude for the historic role of the former Soviet Union in the freedom struggle of our people and in the independence of Bangladesh in 1971.
During the first four years of independent Bangladesh, the relations between our two countries and peoples progressed significantly. The Soviet Union supported our reconstruction and rehabilitation efforts and the development of the economy. Some even died while clearing mines in Chittagong port. We have not forgotten those precious supporters’ sacrifices.
In recognition last year in Dhaka we bestowed Bangladesh Liberation War honour and Friends of Liberation War honour to many of those who were involved.
In those years the interaction of our peoples also grew with larger number of our students coming here for higher studies.
The Russian culture centre in Dhaka also intensified the people-to-people contact. Our present government, all assuming office in January 2009, was determined to deepen our engagement for mutual benefits and gains. For the last four years we made good progress in certain key areas, including cooperation in nuclear and conventional energy.
Our discussions this morning had now paved the way for deeper collaboration in the areas of culture, agriculture, arrogation, energy, counter-terrorism, law and justice. The 2,000 MW nuclear power plant in Bangladesh with Russian technical and financial assistance is a shiny example of our deeper engagement. In this regard I thank President Putin for his support in offering Bangladesh a friendly arrangement for collaboration.
We have also decided to collaborate in the complex area of tourism.
Cooperation in defence was another area for collaboration.
Following our official talks, we have signed ten MoUs and agreements for cooperation in various areas. I believe they would place our relationship on a firm footing and help in taking practical initiatives in the future.
The financial agreement for preparatory works for nuclear power plant would now allow us to make the critical preparations for the establishment of the plant.
I talked to President Putin in an atmosphere of great warmth. Our discussion was between two friends. I assured him of Bangladesh’ friendship and cooperation in mutually beneficial areas. We realise that the result-oriented economy cooperation should be on the basis of our engagement with Russia in the WTO. We requested for duty-free quota-free access for Bangladeshi exports to the Russian Federation and in the Customs Union. It would open up doors for our private sector to explore new potentials for collaboration. We also highlighted the need for our sharing common views on various contemporary issues. The joint declaration will provide you with the details.
I have also invited President Putin to visit Bangladesh at an early convenient opportunity and possibly during this year. Because this year is almost our last year – 2014 there will be election, so I requested President Putin to visit Bangladesh during our tenure.
So I thank you very much. And about the tiger you mentioned. When you, Mr President, invited me, I joined the Tiger Summit because in Bangladesh we have a very big mangrove area with the famous Royal Bengal tiger. So we always give importance because without this Royal Bengal tiger we cannot keep this our forest. So I thank you very much for taking this initiative and we will work together to save the tigers.
And also, the friendship between our two countries, it is historical, and your visit, Mr President, will give us more cooperation between the two countries. It will enhance our cooperation. So it is very, very important. So, again I mention that if you please come this year, it will be very, very good and helpful. Thank you very much for your cooperation. It is a good visit. Thank you.
<…>
Geography
Bangladesh
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Hasina Sheikh
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: January 15, 2013, 17:00
Text version