Events
Meeting with head of the Federal Taxation Service Mikhail Mishustin
Mr Mishustin briefed Vladimir Putin on the results of the Taxation Service’s work in 2013.
November 25, 2013
11:20
With head of the Federal Taxation Service Mikhail Mishustin.
Head of The Federal Taxation Service Mikhail Mishustin
: Mr President,
Although we have faced a difficult situation in the economy and a slowdown in GDP growth, we have continued our efforts to break the trend in tax collection that we saw during the summer. Over the first 10 months of 2013, Russia’s consolidated budget received 9.4 trillion rubles [over $287 billion] in revenue, which is up 2.4 percent on the result for the same period last year. The federal budget received 4.4 trillion rubles, which is up 2.6 percent on last year’s result.
Regarding the difficulties in collecting value-added tax and profit tax, they are above all related to substantial material deductions that big companies in which the state holds a stake can make when they carry out major investment projects. There are issues related to temporary differences when submitting updated profit tax declarations and issues concerning accelerated depreciation.
I have already reported on the instruction you gave to find a way to establish a system for the Taxation Service to keep the Government updated on material deductions and on the investment plans of companies with state participation. We drafted the relevant document, the Finance Ministry and the Economic Development Ministry have approved it, and it is now with the Prime Minister. It contains directives to state representatives in big investment companies to present information on all material deductions in accordance with particular guidelines. This would include the figures for updates, for investment projects and for accelerated procedures for reimbursing value-added tax. This would help us to manage value-added tax collection more efficiently. We are doing everything necessary to ensure that the budget parameters are met by the end of the year. 
Mr President, I also wanted to tell you about a new service that we will be presenting next month: a personal account for legal entities. I briefed you last year on how we offered taxpayers who are Russian citizens their own personal account with the tax services. Over the last year, more than 5 million individuals have registered and set up their personal accounts. More than 2.5 million people paid taxes totalling slightly more than 2 billion rubles over the internet, without direct contact with the tax services, using these new services. These are all small taxes such as property tax and land tax, and this system means people do not have to actually come to the tax offices themselves but can deal with matter with the help of this easy-to-use service.
What does the legal entity’s personal account involve? It gives companies, legal entities, the possibility of not having to deal directly with the tax services. In other words, there is no direct contact. I can tell you that the official side of putting in place all the procedures related to the tax offices’ services is now complete and everything can be done through the new services we have established by means of electronic digital signature. Users can get account statements, records of deductions, check the status of their accounts and much more.
We had 500 companies using the personal account service in test mode over the last year. Starting from January 1, we will extend the service to the entire country. As I said, the aim is to eliminate direct contact and simplify dealings with the tax service for both individuals and companies.
As far as international work goes, you have been following it closely and attended the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) Forum on Tax Administration, when we had more than 50 heads of tax services from around the world meeting here in Russia. We are working actively and we have made progress. This year, Russia moved up another 8 places in the “tax payment” section of the Doing Business rating (last year we were in the 41st place), and we also moved up 13 places in the “company registration” section. The innovative procedures we have introduced, the possibility for dealing with the taxation services without personal contact, and simplification of many tax payment procedures made possible what amounts to a decent boost on the Doing Business rating.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good. I would also like to ask you to come back to the discussion about articles 198 and 199 of the Criminal Code regarding tax violations. Let’s talk about this in more detail. In any event, I would like you to get an expert evaluation done on this matter and organise the relevant joint work with the law enforcement agencies, including the Investigative Committee. 
Mikhail Mishustin: Mr President, first of all, there is no doubt that there is a clear need to forward information on the relevant cases to the law enforcement authorities. Passing on this information, including to the Investigative Committee, is essentially part of the procedures that make for effective management of issues that include the taxation service’s actions too. 
It is very important that the tax service should take part in this process. Here we are talking about the situation with the taxation service’s procedures and actions. We send our teams out to make inspections on site. The Tax Code gives taxpayers a certain time to make good on their obligations. Once the relevant decision and demands have been presented, there is a two-month deadline given, after which all of the materials related to the case, no matter what their origin, are handed over to the Investigative Committee. That was the procedure that used to be in place.
Together with the Investigative Committee, we have set up a working group, following your instruction, to examine possibilities for adjusting the legislation and making more effective use of tax service information together with the information in the law enforcement agencies’ possession. 
I want to ask you to ensure that as far as inter-agency cooperation goes with the Interior Ministry and the Investigative Committee, everything is transparent and carried out according to clearly defined procedures that comply with the Tax Code and with the Criminal Code’s provisions. You spoke about the need to harmonise all of this. We are working on this right now and will report on it.
Vladimir Putin: The main thing here is not to create any potential for added pressure on business, while at the same time making sure that all participants in the process fulfil their obligations to the state and do not shift their share of responsibility to people who are not in business and pay their taxes as required. I am talking above all about factory workers, agriculture sector workers and the intelligentsia. They make up the majority after all.
Business has a special responsibility for the economy and job creation, and we must provide it with the right conditions. You said in your initial remarks that the situation is improving, and we must make sure that we do nothing to worsen the picture. On the contrary, we must continue our efforts to improve the situation, but the general rules and the overall situation must be completely fair for all members of our society and for every individual, whether or not he or she is in business.
Mikhail Mishustin: Mr President, you asked us to examine possibilities for cooperating with the Investigative Committee on these sorts of cases. The essence of articles 198 and 199 (tax evasion) is about not submitting a tax declaration or declaring false information. There must therefore be a motivated judgement regarding the tax declaration in deciding to press charges in such cases. 
I think that this is precisely the approach we will follow: the combination of the Federal Tax Service’s clear opinion and the information from the law enforcement agencies will make it possible to make a judgment based completely on the law and the enforcement of the Tax Code’s provisions.
Vladimir Putin: The law could set the obligation for the law enforcement agencies, including the Investigative Committee, to request the relevant information from the tax authorities so that tax service information will always be on hand too. You can discuss the details with your colleagues and present your coordinated proposals to me.
<…>
Topics
Taxes
Persons
Mishustin Mikhail
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 25, 2013, 11:20
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Romano Prodi
Vladimir Putin met with former Prime Minister of Italy and Special Envoy of UN Secretary-General for the Sahel Region Romano Prodi. Mr Putin and Mr Prodi exchanged views concerning the situation on the African continent, as well as migration-related issues.
November 25, 2013
23:20
Rome
1 of 2
With former Prime Minister of Italy and Special Envoy of UN Secretary-General for the Sahel Region Romano Prodi.
Special Envoy of the Un Secretary-General Romano Prodi (retranslated): Welcome!
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good evening, Romano! I am very happy to see you. Thank you for finding the time to meet.
Romano Prodi: It is always a pleasure for me. Following Valdai, it is very important and enjoyable for me to be meeting with you in Rome.
Vladimir Putin: I also wanted to start with that topic. I wanted to thank you for participating in that conference and make a request. As you know, we are preparing for the G8 summit next year, and one of our main themes for the G8 is a very important one: migration, migration processes and the problems associated with them. I think this issue is particularly pertinent for Russia, Europe and Italy.
I would like to make a request: would you, as a member of the Valdai Club or simply as an expert, work with our experts, including our sherpas, to prepare this topic?
Romano Prodi: It would be my great pleasure, although, of course, I am not a serious expert on migration. But naturally, I am ready to help with all the economic aspects pertaining to these issues.
We can discuss which topics we want to give more attention to, which topics to address. Naturally, I would like to talk more about the Mediterranean Region, the region that I am familiar with, where I live. But that is a technical aspect, and of course, my answer is yes.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
We will talk with our colleagues, those who worked within the framework of the Valdai Club, to get that part of the expert community involved in preparing issues for the G8 as well.
Romano Prodi: Will this be an exclusive topic on the G8 agenda?
Vladimir Putin: It will be one of the main topics.
I would like to give you, as an expert in our Valdai Club, a pin which we will present to all its foreign participants, as a memento.
Romano Prodi: It is beautiful. Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: The second topic is the one you brought up yourself – I am referring to your efforts in the United Nations, the African issues you are working on.
Romano Prodi: To give a brief summary of what I have done in my work, I would like to say that, as you probably know, I am preparing a special report to discuss within the framework of the Security Council. We will also hold a special meeting on this issue; there will be a Security Council session on December 12 devoted specifically to my topic.
An Italian university and our experts have prepared a special programme. The topics we will be touching on are known to everyone: food, water, healthcare, schools and energy.
The biggest innovation in this process lies in the fact that donor-nations, and I hope that Russia will be among them, can choose how they provide assistance: either transferring funds directly, or selecting a particular project and carrying it out under their flags. For example, building a hospital, which would be constructed under the flag of a particular nation.
This will help us implement our projects much more quickly, to avoid all the bureaucratic procedures and immediately carry out the work necessary to reach our objectives. This way we will be changing the concepts of versatility and multilateralism, but all the participants have agreed with this idea.
I very much hope that Russia will become an active participant in this process, as far as our policy in Africa is concerned. This way, Russia can make a sizable, real input into our common work.
Initially, my mandate was supposed to expire in October, but it was extended until January 31, 2014 and I expect that in the next few days my plans and projects in this area will be approved. The African Bank has committed to monitoring the implementation of these ideas.
I very much hope that we will be able to carry out everything on our agenda, although I won’t deny my concern that the global community’s attention has recently been diverted toward other issues. Many other international crises have arisen, including in Syria, and people are simply forgetting that Africa also has some very pressing problems.
It’s not even about the economic situation in these countries being particularly difficult, but rather the fact that, among other things, there is a risk of terrorism in these states, where borders barely exist.
I would like to tell you about my particular concern regarding the situation in Libya. We underrate the processes taking place in that nation, the tension and clashes that are occurring there. I think the situation there may become similar to the conditions in Syria before the war. We need to do something now, before all these problems spiral out of control.
Vladimir Putin: I fully agree with you on this matter. As for your suggestions concerning Africa: at this time, I cannot say how and how much, but we will certainly participate in this programme and certainly look into your proposals in more detail.
<…>
See also
Visit to the Vatican
November 25, 2013
Additional
Working visit to the Vatican and Italy
November 25 − 26, 2013
Geography
Italy
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 25, 2013, 23:20
Text version