Events
Speech at a concert marking the 70th anniversary of victory in the Battle of Stalingrad
February 2, 2013
19:00
Volgograd
1 of 2
Speech at a gala concert dedicated to the 70th anniversary of the victory in the Battle of Stalingrad.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon.
Dear friends, dear veterans,
Over these days our entire country, our entire nation is celebrating a glorious date, the 70th anniversary of our army’s victory at Stalingrad. This is one of the best examples of courage and heroism in international military history.
It is no accident that our allies in the war rightly noted the Battle of Stalingrad
’s crucial importance, not only for our country but for the entire world. There was no doubt at the time – and you and I have no doubt today – that the Battle represents a turning point not only in the Great Patriotic War, but in the World War II as a whole. After Stalingrad our enemy was unable to implement any of its strategic intentions and plans.
The courage and heroism of the city’s defenders were unprecedented and unparalleled, but both sides suffered enormous numbers of victims. Perhaps this is the only instance in the entire World War II when, despite the fact that our side incurred terrible losses, those of the enemy were even greater.
”Our army’s victory at Stalingrad is one of the best examples of courage and heroism in international military history. Stalingrad will remain a symbol of the Russian people’s invincibility and unity.“
It is no coincidence that we in Russia are not alone in recalling this heroism; the whole world remembers it too. And I am sure it will continue to be remembered not only by current generations, but also by future ones. It is no accident that there are streets, squares and alleys in more than 10 European countries, and even a metro station in Paris, called after Stalingrad. The world remembers the heroes of Stalingrad and we are proud, Russia is proud, of the city’s defenders. We will always be proud of them.
The city’s resident lived, fought and worked in this hell together with the Red Army. When looking at photographs of the time, one cannot help but ask: where did inhabitants of Stalingrad save themselves, where did they live? Was it possible to live in those ruins? It turns out that they did not only live, they were also able to work and fight.
The residents of Stalingrad fought, repaired military equipment, rescued the wounded, and ensured the crossing of the Volga. They made an enormous and invaluable contribution to the battle for Stalingrad.
In Stalingrad we won not only the greatest military victory, but also a great moral one. It was a victory of patriotism and love for our country, for our Fatherland; a victory over evil, hatred and aggression.
Stalingrad will undoubtedly remain a symbol of the Russian people’s invincibility and unity. And as long as we continue to respect ourselves, our history, and to respect and love our country, language, culture, and historical memory, then Russia will always remain invincible.
Glory to Stalingrad’s defenders! Eternal memory to the fallen and those who are no longer with us!
Congratulations, dear friends. I congratulate you on a great victory!
See also
Trip to Volgograd
February 2, 2013
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: February 2, 2013, 19:00
Text versionEvents
Opening remarks at a meeting with Great Patriotic War veterans and scouting team members
February 2, 2013
19:30
Volgograd
4 of 5
At a meeting with Great Patriotic War veterans and members of the scouting teams.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, veterans, friends,
First of all, I want to congratulate all of you on the 70th anniversary of the victory in the Battle of Stalingrad
. This is a momentous event in the life of our nation, our country, and not only ours. The battle of Stalingrad, as I said earlier in my address at the ceremony, was the turning point in World War II. We know that for a fact and nobody has any doubt about it. This means that the battle played a decisive part in the fate of not only our nation, but also the peoples of many other European countries, as well as a significant role in world history.
A great deal has been said and written about the feats of the Red Army and the city’s residents. Our shared goal is to make sure that interest in topics like this is not lost, because the understanding of our history, the understanding of these events, some of whose participants are present here today, is crucial for our country. It is crucial in terms of the preservation of our statehood, strengthening our nation and instilling patriotism, which, as we all know, is nothing but love for one’s motherland. No country can survive without it; it just dissolves, like a sugar cube in a cup of tea.
I am therefore very pleased that our meeting today is attended not only by those who fought for Stalingrad, but also by people of different generations. Among them are school students who wrote the best essays on Stalingrad and the Battle of Stalingrad, young people and people of all ages who collect information about the heroes of the Battle of Stalingrad in their spare time and who are engaged in a very noble, very important initiative: to restore historical justice, to return the names of our fallen heroes to the country and to their families. According to preliminary data, about 450,000 names have already been recovered and became part of our national history. 450,000 names, can you imagine that?
Thousands of people are volunteering for the scouting teams, of which there are six hundred in total. Friends, I want to thank you for taking part in this initiative and for choosing such a hobby, if you can call it that – it is a passion that is engrossing and important not only for you but also for the whole country – and I wish you continued success.
That is all I wanted to say at the start and now I would like to give the opportunity to the veterans and our scouting teams to express their views on what and how we should do together, including at all levels of government – municipal, state and federal – to make sure that events like the Battle of Stalingrad and other landmarks in the Russian history are never forgotten and always remain a topic for discussion and a good example for teaching patriotic values and love for the Fatherland.
<…>
See also
Trip to Volgograd
February 2, 2013
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: February 2, 2013, 19:30
Text version