Events
Meeting with Internet Start-ups project participants
Vladimir Putin met with participants in start-ups, selected by the Internet Initiatives Development Fund for support and initial investment.
November 5, 2013
17:00
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
5 of 5
Meeting with Internet Start-ups project participants.
The Internet Initiatives Development Fund has been established to help young information technology graduates and entrepreneurs. Its establishment was announced in March 2013 at a meeting of the Agency for Strategic Initiatives (ASI) Supervisory Board.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends,
See also
Meeting of the Agency for Strategic Initiatives Supervisory Board
March 5, 2013
Meeting of the Agency for Strategic Initiatives Supervisory Board
November 22, 2012
We met at a meeting of the ASI in March this year – already more than half a year ago, seven months ago. We talked about the possibility and need to support those who are getting ready to work actively, including by doing business on the Internet. I must point out – and you know this better than anyone else – that we have the largest number of Internet users in Europe, and the fastest rates of network development in the world. We number among the top five countries for commerce conducted online.
Precisely these constantly expanding opportunities encouraged me and my colleagues to think about how to support those who want and intend to work in this field.
I know that a lot of work has been done to establish the start-up support Fund. It is already in solid shape, and has accumulated six billion rubles [more than $185 million] from different sources. In general this is not a bad start, but if we look at all the proposals we will probably see that even 60 billion rubles are not enough. This is precisely the essence of our problem today: how to ensure that the projects are selected according to objective, transparent criteria, and that the administrative and financial support for the projects you present is just as transparent, efficient and democratic. For that matter, just like the work on the net itself. So let’s not delay things any longer, and move directly to the reason for which we’ve gathered today.
< … >
Vladimir Putin: What I want to say in conclusion is as follows.
Naturally, I wish you all – those who are going to participate in this joint work – success. I am very pleased to be able to say that the projects this Fund was designed to support are being executed. This is true with regards to both form and content.
I would like to thank Mr Varlamov [Director of Internet Initiatives Development Fund] for the way he organised this work. He works successfully in this field himself, so it was probably easier for him to do so rather than some bureaucrat. It seems to me that in any case, his first steps have worked out well, and everything happened exactly as intended.
I already said this at the beginning of our meeting and want to repeat it. If necessary, if you see that volumes are increasing and we need to increase financial support, then we will find the necessary resources. This is a case and a sphere of activities on which nothing is too much to spend. Anyway, not the amount of funds being allocated now, because you can find interesting solutions as well as arrive at the most in-demand results in economics and the social sphere.
If we succeed together with you and with those who will yet get involved here, in this system, in introducing these technologies both at the regional and municipal levels, then I expect we will be much more efficient at solving problems. And we have many of those.
Thank you very much and good luck.
Topics
Information society
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 5, 2013, 17:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Director General of Bolshoi Theatre Vladimir Urin
Vladimir Urin briefed President Putin on his work as Bolshoi Theatre Director.
November 5, 2013
18:30
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Urin, you’ve been working now for four months already. What unexpected things have floated up?
DirectOR GENERAL OF BOLSHOI THEATRE VLADIMIR URIN: Nothing.
Vladimir Putin: So, nothing unexpected?
Vladimir Urin: I recently gave an interview to mark the first hundred days of my tenure in which I said: “A hundred days: everything is going according to plan.” Operational issues are being resolved peacefully and normally.
Of course, naturally there are problems.
Vladimir Putin: I remember our talk, and your doubts.
Vladimir Urin: Yes, I really did doubt. In fact, if it had not been a top-down decision, I would have answered in the negative. Because I worked in another theatre for years. I think (and of course it’s hard to evaluate oneself) that we built a very nice theatre there.
Vladimir Putin: If it were otherwise, you would not have been put forward.
Vladimir Urin: You are probably right.
Now I feel thrills and spills to try and solve existing problems. 
Vladimir Putin: Things cannot be problem-free. This is a landmark institution.
Vladimir Urin: In fact, if we are to talk about organisational matters, then in general Mr Iksanov [former Bolshoi Theatre Director] left the house in order; I cannot complain. With regards to personnel, people and finances: everything related to government subsidies and all of the Bolshoi’s commercial activities.
Vladimir Putin: This gives us the opportunity to offer him another job in the international arena, which we will soon do.
Vladimir Urin: I am very happy because we are actually very close friends, and this was also one of the reasons that I had doubts. He is a professional of the highest calibre; I remember how he managed [Tovstonogov] Bolshoi Drama Theatre in Leningrad, one of the best. So there were also doubts on this account, and we discussed the issue. At the time I really asked those with whom I discussed this issue to make sure that it would be resolved. I am very glad that it will be resolved as you just said; this is very important.
Vladimir Putin: There are always a lot of art connoisseurs turning around iconic institutions like the Bolshoi Theatre – and it’s hard to simply refer to it as an institution. They are not bothering you overmuch, are they?
Vladimir Urin: I would answer: of course. I always say that in our country we undoubtedly know how to do two things: how to run a state and a theatre.
Vladimir Putin: They also know everything about football; hockey too.
Vladimir Urin: This is still at the spectator’s level. And here we see quite a few willing to advise. But in fact, the ability to listen and hear what is happening and what people say is also extremely important. Sometimes these thoughts can be quite useful. If there are no selfish motives behind them, then in principle they can be useful. Sometimes I extract some interesting reflections from the press about what is going on and how, and closely follow this. I try to get rid of some things if I understand that people are interested in something else altogether. But where there are no selfish motives, and I understand that people are talking about this in a professional manner, then I try to listen.
In fact, the question of how to lead the Bolshoi Theatre in the future is a very serious matter. And this is a question that my colleagues and I have to decide: how this should be. If you ask me about problems, then first and foremost those are creative issues that need to be addressed.
If we talk about ballet, touring in London proved this once again… I was simply a witness to how there was very low-key British, benign criticism at the beginning of the tour. Then it gradually picked up pace and by the end reviews were really glowing. And at the end of the tour people said that perhaps as for the level of the Bolshoi performers, our troupe is unique in the world; to hear this from the British is worth a whole lot. And there they really do understand this. But as for opera, unfortunately the Bolshoi Theatre cannot boast about that today. I would say that today our opera is not rated high in Russia or internationally, and that there is such a thing as a grand opera of the Bolshoi Theatre. And today, probably, one of my main goals primarily concerns the team that is working to involve other people and raise the level of opera.
Vladimir Putin: Let’s talk more in detail about all these issues.
<…>
Topics
Culture
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 5, 2013, 18:30
Text version