Events
Press statements following meeting of the Russia-Belarus Union State Supreme State Council
March 15, 2013
18:30
St Petersburg
Press statements following the meeting of the Russia-Belarus Union State Supreme State Council.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Lukashenko, colleagues,
As always, the Supreme State Council meeting was held in a business-minded atmosphere. We looked into many current issues in our bilateral cooperation.
During our separate meeting with President of Belarus, we paid particular attention to integration processes within the CIS. We are all well aware that the Customs Union and Common Economic Space are developing; however, our joint work in the Union State format allows us to evaluate the most promising areas for our cooperation. At the same time, our main goal is to speed up our nations’ socioeconomic development and improve the lives of our citizens. We had a detailed discussion about opportunities for increasing trade, economic and investment cooperation.
In 2012, turnover between Russia and Belarus grew by 10 percent and came very close to the record high of $45 billion. We plan to keep on increasing mutual trade and believe that soon, we will be able to hit the $50 billion mark.
Russian businesses are actively investing in the Belarusian economy, with cumulative capital investments of over $5 billion. These are basically direct investments into the real sector of Belarusian economy, into new productions and new jobs.
We agreed to continue to put a priority on working to strengthen our economic partnership as one of the foundations of the Union State.
See also
Meeting of Russia-Belarus Union State Supreme State Council
March 15, 2013
We approved the Union State budget for 2013, which is nearly five billion rubles (4.8 billion). It is a development budget. This development allows us to increase the competitiveness of the Russian and Belarusian economies. The money will go toward financing promising programmes in science and technology cooperation, and the humanitarian and information sectors.
Our nations are implementing large-scale projects in a wide range of areas: energy, aerospace, and high-tech. Our most important joint investment project is the construction of a nuclear power plant in Belarus. Works on the site are proceeding according to schedule. We plan to put the first plant unit into operation in 2018, and the second in 2020. This is a major Russian investment, totalling as much as $10 billion.
The process of creating technological alliances between our nations’ companies gains momentum, which I feel is particularly important. We have begun forming the Rosbelavto holding company, which will include the leading enterprises in the Russian and Belarusian automotive industry, KAMAZ and MAZ.
The creation of a joint earth remote sensing system based on Russia’s GLONASS, with ground control centre in Minsk, is in full swing.
Russia and Belarus will work together to explore and develop Antarctica. We just signed a corresponding agreement. This is a brand new area in our cooperation that has environmental, scientific and economic significance.
We continue to implement the programme to harmonise our foreign policy action for 2012–2013. Russia and Belarus are closely coordinating their approaches to problems in regional and European security for countering new challenges and threats. We are broadening our humanitarian cooperation. In 2013, we plan to hold the Days of Russian Culture in Belarus. Reciprocal Days of Belarusian Culture will be held in Russia in 2014.
In the next few months, we will be jointly celebrating the 1025th anniversary of the Baptism of Rus. We will be holding events emphasising the spiritual and historical roots that bind our peoples.
I want to thank Mr Lukashenko and all our Belarusian colleagues for our highly constructive work during today’s meeting and, most importantly, for their focused work in preparing today’s events. I want to express my hope that in the future, we will continue to work just as successfully.
Thank you for your attention.
President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko
: Thank you, Mr Putin.
Friends, I just mentioned that these events we hold within the framework of formal Union organisations are also good because they allow us to constantly bring the topics and problems of building the Union State into focus. We shake ourselves a little, shake our colleagues and partners in order to more actively work in this direction.
I am very pleased that Mr Putin particularly stressed in his speech that the projects we are implementing here within the framework of the Union State are pilot projects in the post-Soviet space. This is truly the case. And in the Customs Union, when we formed the Customs Union and then the Common Economic Space, we turned to the groundwork and expertise that we already had as part of our work to implement the Treaty on the Creation of a Union State.
Members of our governments, colleagues and experts hold meetings to prepare these high-level sessions and carry out this work face-to-face. This communication allows them to gain experience, particularly for the Belarusians who are learning from their Russian colleagues. And I want to once again publicly thank the members of the Russian Government for their efficiency and reliability in working to prepare Union events, as well as interstate relations at the highest level.
Today, as you know, we had 11 items on the agenda, with an extra one added later, and we made decisions on each one of them. There was a set of budget decisions that the Supreme State Council always needs to make. We have approved the 2013 budget, which was previously approved by our parliaments and our governments; we also tried to identify certain areas of action within the framework of the Union project, the actions by our two states, in response to the expectations of our peoples. But this issue on the agenda is always open, and any official, or perhaps even citizens of our nations, can submit their suggestions before the next meeting of the Supreme State Council.
Friends, it will be interested for you to know that we examined and approved about 38 programmes that will be financed out of the Union budget. This is also a very important direction, and I must say that these are not the programmes to sell, change or replace anything. We agreed that these will primarily be innovation programmes, and 38 programmes seems like a good number. If we implement them, this will also be a good move in the right direction.
Mr Putin just stated that we are holding talks regarding our joint efforts to develop existing major manufacturing companies. I think that this year, we will have something to say in all these areas.
Mr Putin, I am very grateful to you for the programmes we are implementing in Belarus. You mentioned a major programme, which is probably one of the biggest Russian projects you are implementing with us in Belarus – building a nuclear power plant. I must say that the construction of our plant and the one in Kaliningrad is progressing on time, and even ahead of schedule. What else? Competition is competition; we are conquering the electricity market. Along with the Russians, we will be the first in this area, and this will give us certain advantages in bridging the energy deficit in this region.
This is a very good experience for our builders. We have been progressing ahead of schedule since the beginning of our work. The Russian experts are pleased with the builders’ work, including Belarusian builders. In short, this is a good experience and we will ask you to engage Belarusians in the construction of similar facilities in the future.
I am very pleased, and our delegation shares this view, that you invited us to your home city, to this wonderful complex for working and living. It would be nice if this could become a tradition.
Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: March 15, 2013, 18:30
Text versionEvents
Speech at the meeting of the Russia-Belarus Union State Supreme State Council
March 15, 2013
16:00
St Petersburg
Meeting of the Russia-Belarus Union State Supreme State Council.
President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko: Mr Putin, members of the Supreme State Council,
It is highly symbolic that we are meeting today in St Petersburg, which regularly plays host to big international forums. St Petersburg is also in a way the capital for inter-parliamentary cooperation between the CIS countries. The CIS, EurAsEC [Eurasian Economic Community], and CSTO [Collective Security Treaty Organisation] inter-parliamentary bodies all work here. 
Belarus sees St Petersburg not only as a dependable partner with good future prospects, but also as a city close to every Belarusian’s heart. Many of our well-known compatriots lived and worked here.
More than a year has passed now since the Supreme State Council last met. Much work has been accomplished at the head of state level and at the parliamentary level over this time. Our parliaments have been working closely together, held regular meetings of the Union State Council of Ministers, and considerably intensified the regional dimension in our relations.
The dynamic pace at which we are building our Union State is evidence that we remain committed to deeper integration. This is a conscious choice and indeed is the only possible choice in the globalised economy. The trade and economic cooperation results of these last two years, which we will review today, make this eminently clear. I will leave the figures to today’s speakers, but let me just note that our trade turnover increased by almost $16 billion over the last two years and now comes to $45 billion in total. Of course, this is only what we can actually calculate, given that our countries have no border between them and our people can move freely from one country to another. I think there is probably at least another billion we could count. I doubt that results like these would be possible without the cooperation opportunities that the integration has given us.
At the same time, the situation in the world today puts increasing pressure on us to set clear priorities for where we want our union project to go. We must not disperse our means and efforts, but must concentrate and focus them on the areas of greatest importance for our peoples. This will make our Union State work more effectively in the new conditions, and optimise the Union State budget spending by channelling it into programmes that will produce the most useful and needed results. This is something we will look at during today’s meeting.
See also
Meeting of Russia-Belarus Union State Supreme State Council
March 15, 2013
All in all, there are ten items on the agenda our colleagues have drafted. A number of them, budget issues, are matters we always examine at our meetings.
I am sure that constructive discussion of today’s agenda will help us to come up with decisions we all agree on. This will strengthen the partnership between our countries, and it is this partnership that is the engine driving integration throughout the entire post-Soviet area.
Friends, you have received all the documents. In opening our meeting today, let me now give the floor to Mr Putin.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much.
Mr Lukashenko, colleagues, members of the Supreme State Council,
Russia and Belarus have built up a unique experience of equal cooperation and partnership over the years of building the Union State. Cooperation within the Union State plays an important and piloting role in our work to pursue integration throughout the CIS. 
Mr Lukashenko and I reiterated today the importance of working consistently towards our goal of establishing the Eurasian Economic Union by January 1, 2015. We discussed this matter in detail today at our meeting in narrow format with the two countries’ prime ministers taking part. As for the tasks before the Union State now, we need to continue putting its integration potential to use in order to raise our peoples’ well-being and ensure our countries’ stable socioeconomic development. This is the focus of our agenda today.
We will look particularly closely at opportunities for expanding our trade and investment ties. As Mr Lukashenko just mentioned, we reached the record bilateral trade figure of almost $45 billion last year. Our bilateral trade continues to grow despite the global economic difficulties, and it is growing even in today’s rather complicated conditions. 
Russia is Belarus’ biggest foreign trade partner, and Belarus is in second place for Russia’s trade with CIS partners and in sixth place among all of Russia’s trading partners. If we keep up the good pace we have today, we can certainly hope to reach the next milestone of $50 billion in bilateral trade. 
Developing investment ties are among our priority joint projects of course. Russia is the main investor in the Belarusian economy today. Our total investment there comes to more than $5 billion: $5.7 billion. More than 2,000 companies with Russian capital are working in Belarus. Belarusian businesspeople are also investing in the Russian economy.
The Russian-Belarusian Business Council will help to encourage reciprocal investment. The council could be more active of course in organising dialogue between interested companies and businesses on both sides, and we hope it will take an active position.
I note the Union State budget for 2013, which we are set to approve today, maintains solid parameters with nearly 5 billion Russian rubles. This money will be spent on financing 38 joint programmes in high-tech sectors, telecommunications, aerospace, and pharmaceuticals. This will account for 40 percent of budget spending.
Nearly 20 percent will go on funding work in education, culture, healthcare, and sports. We will be financing important social programmes such as health resort and sanatorium treatment for Great Patriotic War veterans and invalids and children from Belarusian and Russian regions affected by the Chernobyl nuclear disaster. 
We will also examine the Union State Council of Ministers’ report on executing the 2010 budget and decide on how to redistribute the remaining funds from the 2011–2012 budgets.
Our agenda today also includes further coordination of our foreign policy approaches. I note that we are successfully implementing our 2012–2013 programme of coordinated foreign policy action. We will draft an analytical report for the last two-year period.
Security cooperation remains one of our priorities. We have established a regional force grouping, have a unified air defence system in place, and our law enforcement agencies are working closely together. Today, we will examine the question of appointing a new head of the Union State’s Border Committee.
These are the main areas we will be looking at today. I am sure the meeting will be constructive and business-like, as has been the case over these last years. As I said before, we have a piloting role in many areas of integration in the post-Soviet area, and this is producing results. We are not just preserving jobs in our countries but are really creating new jobs, and this helps us to get through the turbulent times in the global economy and maintain the pace of our economic development.
I am sure that today’s work will be a success.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: March 15, 2013, 16:00
Text versionEvents
Beginning of talks with President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko
March 15, 2013
14:00
With President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko.
President OF RUSSIA VLADIMIR PUTIN: Mr Lukashenko, I welcome you to St Petersburg.
It is a good thing that we have regular meetings at all the different levels, but today is a special day in that we are holding interstate consultations and our respective prime ministers and colleagues from the various ministries and agencies will be taking part in the joint work.
We will have the chance today to analyse the work we have done on building the Union State over the recent period, and will examine our next steps. I am sure the discussion will be interesting and substantive.
It is a great pleasure to see you. Welcome!
President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko: Thank you, Mr Putin.
See also
Meeting of Russia-Belarus Union State Supreme State Council
March 15, 2013
You quite rightly noted that there is nothing else in terms of our cooperation ties and contacts like this format in which the presidential bodies at the highest level, as well as the prime ministers, ministers and other officials of various levels all take part together. This is certainly very useful. There are a dozen very important issues that we cannot solve without going through the Supreme State Council, and this is why we are here today in this beautiful city.
We Belarusians love this city very much and it is very close to our hearts. After the war, the main specialists came to Minsk from here, and it was here that Belarusian science had its beginnings. We therefore feel very close ties with St Petersburg’s people and it is a pleasure to be here. I think that we will be able to make progress in our relations.
Vladimir Putin: The atmosphere will help us, and the weather is good today. We had the chance just now to see around the Gulf of Finland. I think this good atmosphere will help us to produce some positive results at today’s meeting.
<…>
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: March 15, 2013, 14:00
Text version