Events
Meeting of Council for Interethnic Relations
Vladimir Putin chaired a meeting of the Presidential Council for Interethnic Relations in Ufa. The meeting’s main theme was implementing state ethnic policy in Russia’s regions.
October 22, 2013
19:10
The meeting’s agenda also included improving regional legislative frameworks, staffing systems, ethnological monitoring, socio-cultural adaptation and migrant integration.
Speech at a meeting of the Council for Interethnic Relations
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
Our meeting is devoted to implementing state ethnic policy in Russian regions. The majority of them are characterised by ethno-cultural and religious diversity; this fact is well-known. And we shall discuss what is being done at the local level to ensure interethnic peace and accord.
We have already established the good tradition of holding our Council’s meeting in a given Russian region. Today we are in Ufa, where we are celebrating the 225th anniversary of Catherine the Great’s decree establishing the Muslim Spiritual Assembly. This decision contributed to the self-organisation of Russia’s Muslim community and, of course, its fruitful development in order to serve society and our country.
This event played an important, very important role in strengthening Russian statehood, contributed to creating a common spiritual and cultural space, and to establishing the values and traditions that unite us. It is our duty to preserve this unique heritage, support interethnic harmony, and respond adequately and competently to new, contemporary challenges and problems.
Colleagues, we identified specific areas for joint work at the Council’s first meeting. They were integrated into the National Ethnic Policy Strategy through to 2025, approved in December 2012. The Government has adopted the relevant implementation plan for 2013–2015, and the programme Strengthening the Unity of the Russian Nation and the Ethnic and Cultural Development of the Peoples of Russia, which provides funding for regional programmes. For the first time we are using a so-called targeted programme approach to addressing ethnic issues. This was an initiative of our Council members; they suggested it at our meeting in Saransk. It is laid out in the documents I just mentioned.
Today, special importance is given to active, meaningful efforts taken at the local level, and regional and municipal authorities’ strive to enforce the new National Ethnic Policy Strategy, taking into account, of course, each territory’s specific nature and unique qualities.
See also
All news about trip to Ufa
October 22, 2013
However, we must admit that this work has been progressing too slowly so far; plans for implementing the federal Strategy have included only one third of the Russian Federation’s regions. Let me repeat, we are talking only about plans, about the first imperative measures, and if we analyse the actual work that has been done, things appear even more discouraging.
In addition, 21 of Russia’s regions have adopted their own strategic documents. But here, too, the situation is suboptimal: most of the documents are clearly outdated.
Russia is a federal state. We generally recommend that regions create their own plans or documents to supplement the federal ones. However, as you know, the Russian Constitution specifies that the federal structure is based on a consolidated system of state power, and this requires consistency and coordination of actions between all levels of authorities when resolving nationwide challenges.
”Today, special importance is given to active, meaningful efforts taken at the local level, and regional and municipal authorities’ strive to enforce the new National Ethnic Policy Strategy, taking into account each territory’s specific nature and unique qualities.“
Interethnic relations certainly fit into this category. They are one of the most important, complex and sensitive issues requiring our close joint attention.
We must remember that ethnic discord usually originates at a local level, in places where it needs to be blocked pre-emptively. Unfortunately, the heads of those regions often prefer office work, which is of little or no use, particularly if it is impossible for people to meet with the relevant administrators.
For example, as you know, in Biryulevo, residents’ discontent had been building up for years. People complained to the police, to the local authorities and to district leaders. What are the authorities for if they do not want to know about the local situation, if they do not take any measures and are not hearing the people? All this leads to terrible conflicts, including on an ethnic and religious basis, as well as attempts to resolve those conflicts using unlawful means.
It is also unacceptable to turn a blind eye to unlawful actions by foreign nationals who violate migration legislation and commit crimes. This, too, is clear; I have already spoken about it many times. Let me stress again that each area, market and home is the responsibility of an individual person, a specific leader, business proprietor or official. And it is unacceptable for anyone to eschew this responsibility.
A few days ago, the Federation Council passed a law on identifying the powers of regional and municipal authorities and their responsibility in the occurrence of interethnic conflicts, with consequences that include the dismissal of administrators who are unable to prevent conflicts. The law has been signed.
I have already stated at our Council meeting in Saransk that such conflicts often arise from day-to-day occurrences. And if people of different ethnicities are involved, these clashes can instantly be used by extremists, radical groups and individuals for fuelling ethnic tensions and achieving their selfish political aims. The media and online communities often pick up and propagate the hyped-up “ethnic” version and interpretation of the conflict. Thus, consciously or due to stupidity and professional incompetence, they make the situation even worse.
I am certain that most of these conflicts could have been avoided if the local authorities had listened to the people’s requests and opinions and resolved the problems that occur fairly and promptly.
”One-time emergency measures to prevent interethnic conflicts are ineffective. We need modern, system-wide measures and approaches that are reflected in the new National Ethnic Policy Strategy.“
Let me repeat: one-time emergency measures to prevent interethnic conflicts are ineffective. We need modern, system-wide measures and approaches that are reflected in the new National Ethnic Policy Strategy. It will come into full force only when it is sought after by the regions, when it becomes a real guide to action, to painstaking, systematic efforts to strengthen interethnic harmony.
Let me stress that regional plans for implementing the National Ethnic Policy Strategy must be substantive, reflecting the needs and particularities of each specific area. Nobody is ever in need of empty paperwork, and it is particularly true in this case.
It is also imperative to create a system for monitoring interethnic relations and assessing risks and measures for preventing possible conflicts on a common, methodical basis. Here, the role of the academic and expert community is quite important.
A research centre has already been created following my instructions to monitor interethnic relations in Southern Russia and the Volga Federal District. I believe every region should use the rich potential of our academic community and engage in dialogue with civil society institutions and ethnic and cultural associations.
I want to once again ask the Plenipotentiary Envoys to the federal districts to do more than just track and monitor the situation. We need to help regional and municipal authorities analyse the state of affairs in interethnic matters and work with them to resolve difficult problems, if they occur.
Particular attention should be given to employment issues. The people appointed as deputy governors and those responsible for interethnic relations should have a modern understanding of this area and should be capable of putting together a team of competent administrators, establishing direct dialogue with individuals and public associations. All this requires outstanding personal skills and extensive professional expertise.
Colleagues, let’s discuss the concrete measures needed in order to train and retrain government and municipal officials working in the field of interethnic relations and migration policy.
”It is also imperative to create a system for monitoring interethnic relations and assessing risks and measures for preventing possible conflicts on a common, methodical basis. Here, the role of the academic and expert community is quite important.“
In recent years, we have seen a trend of increasing tension in the relations between local residents and migrants. This is true for both immigrants from other countries and people relocating from various regions within Russia.
Today, the Federal Migration Service and the Regional Development Ministry are responsible for helping migrants adapt and integrate. But we must admit that we are seeing few positive changes in this area. Meanwhile, we must work more actively on a local level. Perhaps we should consider drawing up labour maps that outline the needs of Russian regions for additional labour. However, the greatest attention should be given to migrants’ social adaptation and creating the necessary conditions to achieve this. Such adaptation centres have been established in Tambov and Orenburg, and according to initial expert assessments, they can provide good results.
In conclusion, I want to talk about the suggestion to create an annual nationwide public award For Contributions to Strengthening National Unity in Russia. I think this can be a good incentive for people whose work relates to the crucial and highly sensitive field that is interethnic relations.
Let’s begin our work.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: Let’s round things up now. I want to thank you for our work together and for this discussion.
Let me say a few words in conclusion. I will not get into a debate with some of the participants in today’s meeting, though the urge to argue was certainly there. However, we are here not to argue but to listen to what each of us has to say and carry out the proposals that you come up with in our practical work through the presidential bodies and the Russian Federation Government.
The subject we are dealing with is a very big issue not just for Russia but for practically all developed countries. You know how serious these problems are in Europe, North America and other parts of the world. Some of our colleagues in Europe have spoken of their ethnic policy’s failure over the last decade. We cannot allow ourselves to even contemplate such an outcome because Russia is a multi-ethnic country.
”We therefore must make use of all the positive experience and good things that were built up over these decades, make use of our advantages as a multi-ethnic and multi-faith country, which should give us a solid foundation for development.“
I met today with Muslim spiritual leaders and said what I have repeated on many occasions, namely, that our Muslims are Russians, our citizens, and this is their only home. We can say the same of every people living in the Russian Federation. Russia is the biggest part, but nonetheless only a part of the former homeland that we all shared, the Soviet Union. That we developed as a multi-ethnic and multi-faith country does create some problems, but it also gives us unquestionable huge advantages. We therefore must make use of all the positive experience and good things that were built up over these decades, make use of our advantages as a multi-ethnic and multi-faith country, which should give us a solid foundation for development. 
Certainly there are problems, quite serious ones too. Unfortunately, we see that there is a lack of ability and sometimes even a reluctance to put things in order and find competent solutions. This lack of ability comes from the fact that we never knew such problems in the past because we lived in a single big country without any borders between us. Now we have borders and we have become separate countries. We have visa-free travel at present. We can consider the introduction of visas, but the question is, would this make things any better? Another problem is that the corruption that we rightly discussed here today could move from the markets to the borders instead. The issue is one of resolving the problems we have been talking about today in professional, competent and firm fashion.
I cannot but agree with the colleagues who say that we must improve our labour laws. This is indeed the case. What we are seeing, after all, is more like wild capitalism letting out another belch – forgive the crude metaphor – something not much different to the auctions for shares that were carried out with assets at one time. Using cheap migrant labour is above all an economic problem. But there is certainly a need for firm, consistent and civilised measures to put the situation in order. We can and must achieve results here.
I do not think that we have any problems we cannot overcome. They are all issues that can be resolved. But to do this, we first need to think and to set out our proposals. This is why we are meeting today.
I thank you very much for taking part not only in today’s meeting but also for your involvement in general in reflecting on these problems and looking for solutions. It probably won’t be possible to implement every proposal, but we will analyse them, sort through them and will give practical implementation to feasible ideas. 
Thank you very much.
Geography
Republic of Bashkortostan
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Commissions and Councils, Council for Interethnic Relations
Publication date: October 22, 2013, 19:10
Text versionEvents
Speech at a meeting with muftis from Russia’s Muslim spiritual administrations
October 22, 2013
17:30
Meeting with muftis from Russia’s Muslim spiritual administrations.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon,
I think it’s important that we meet regularly and discuss issues that interest Russian Muslims, holders of other faiths, and all the citizens of our country in general.
Today in Ufa we are celebrating the 225th anniversary of the foundation of the Muslim Spiritual Assembly established by imperial decree. At that time, at the end of the 18th century, Islam was officially recognised as a traditional Russian religion. Naturally, this helped Muslims become true Russian patriots.
Islam has become a significant factor in our social and political life, and made an invaluable contribution to our society’s spiritual and cultural development. Once again I congratulate you on this historic date.
I would like to thank you for your work and talk to you about current global trends, including in religious life. Today an active, and not always positive, process of politicising religion is underway at the global level. This occurs in different directions and in different religions, including Islam. In these circumstances, government authorities and the Russian Muslim community are faced with new problems and challenges. Of course, we can only resolve them together; we’ve talked about this together many times now.
Some political parties are using Islam, or rather its radical tendencies (which, incidentally, are historically foreign to Russian Muslims), in order to weaken our state, to create zones of so-called externally driven conflicts in Russian territory, to encourage dissent between different ethnic groups and within the Muslim community, and to fan separatist sympathies in the regions.
I am convinced that we must counter such attempts to create divisions using Russian Muslims’ faith in their historical traditions and partnerships with other religions, particularly the Russian Orthodox Church.
Of course, hierarchical command structures are alien to Islam (as – to be frank – they are to many other world religions), which is characterised by a variety of different schools and movements. However, Russian Muslims have always been united in their service to society and the state, and against external enemies and all forms of extremism. I am sure that this unity can be maintained and strengthened, even today.
Islam’s new “socialisation” should be seen as developing traditional Muslim lifestyles, thinking and views in accordance with current social realities, as opposed to the ideology of radicals, bringing believers back to the Middle Ages. New forms of work – through Muslim cultural centres, Islamic science and education centres, and youth and women’s clubs – are important here.
I believe that you can make an important contribution to the social adaptation of people who come to live and work in Russia. Many of them share your religion. They need to hear your voice and feel your presence, otherwise they become the victims of the propaganda of various fundamentalist organisations.
I also believe that the voice of Russian Muslim leaders should resonate louder in the international arena, among the global Islamic community. Today tensions between the West and the Islamic world are on the rise. Some people try to play with this issue and throw fuel on the fire. I want to tell you straight away: we are not interested in this.
But at the same time, today Russia’s presence is in increased demand in the Middle East and the Islamic world as a whole. And we need to be more proactive, debunking harmful for humanity attempts to manipulate and peoples, information and public consciousness.
Russia is not interested in splitting up or redrawing the Islamic world; on the contrary, it maintains a consistent, steady position in favour of strengthening its unity.
In order to successfully meet the challenges of our time it is necessary, first of all, to ensure the high credibility of Russia’s Muslim clergy and its Islamic theological school.
Dear friends, I would like to talk about these issues separately.
Today in Russia there are 82 centralised, registered Islamic religious organisations. Muslims are well aware of the first sura [chapter] of the Quran, according to which there is no other prophet except Muhammad. But at the same time we all understand that we must not forget the spiritual leaders themselves: they are first and foremost people with moral authority that must be used for beneficial purposes. The clergy should be composed of educated and enlightened people who can give a clear and impeccable canonical assessment of the most painful challenges and threats we face today.
This initiative should be yours; we cannot pass it on to informal leaders who are actively involved with the faithful. These individuals, who tend to be representatives of theological schools and supporters of extremist ideas alien to our country, seek to undermine traditional Islam’s position here, the unity of Russian society, and ultimately desire our country’s collapse.
Based on centuries of national experience in religious education and its rich theological heritage, Russian Islam has everything necessary to have its say in development. Therefore, one of our most important tasks is to reconstruct our own Islamic theological school, which will ensure the sovereignty of Russia’s spiritual space. And most importantly, it will be recognised by the majority of international Muslim scholars. Such a school must respond to the most recent developments in Russia and the world, and evaluate them in ways that are both understandable and credible for believers. I am sure that if we can achieve this, it will help you to provide a clear moral assessment of both good and criminal acts.
All this will allow us to resolve problems with translating theological and popular publications by foreign authors into Russian, ensuring the academic translation of key Muslim religious texts into Russian.
It is also imperative to create religious law institutions capable of providing a qualified assessment of a particular text. These institutions should be open to Islamic spiritual leaders as well as experts in law and linguistics. I feel we certainly can and should get international experts in that domain involved in this work. That way, the Russian Islamic community will be able to independently prevent the spread of publications of destructive, extremist nature.
Today, as you also know, it is mainly the government, which is forced to take prohibitive measures with regard to such literature; but as you know, this is not always successful, and indeed, often has the opposite effect. Prohibitions do not work well, or have the opposite effect from the one desired. We need to convince people and explain to them what is right and good, and what constitutes lies and hatred.
I also feel that the Muslim organisations themselves should not prioritise internal discussions and debates about supremacy, which sometimes happens, but instead, what’s really important – developing a positive image of traditional Islam as an important spiritual component of Russia’s identity.
This has enormous significance in educating young people, which is critical for both Muslims and the entire nation, and it is extremely important for Muslim youth which, unfortunately, has long been the target audience for those who wish us ill.
Russian Muslim religious organisations have every opportunity to position themselves broadly through modern media. And friends, I am asking you to take advantage of these opportunities to work on resolving many of the challenges I just listed, of which you are well aware and which we have raised many times and discussed at meetings like this one and even broader gatherings.
See also
Meeting with muftis from Russia’s Muslim spiritual administrations
October 22, 2013
Topics
Religion
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 22, 2013, 17:30
Text version