Events
Meeting with G20 Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors
Vladimir Putin met at the Kremlin with the Group of Twenty Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors. Russia is currently chairing the G20.
February 15, 2013
17:45
The Kremlin, Moscow
The situation in global finances and the G20 countries’ actions to stimulate global economic growth and restore confidence in financial markets were the main subjects of discussion.
The G20 summit will take place in St Petersburg on September 5–6.
For more information on Russia’s presidency of the G20 visit www.g20russia.ru.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, friends, colleagues,
It is with pleasure that I welcome to Moscow the Group of 20 Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors. 
We see today’s event as a major stage in the preparations for the upcoming G20 forum that Russia will chair. The global economic situation clearly calls for our responsible and consolidated efforts. The time when crises were local and isolated in nature is in the past now.
Financial problems in a number of the world’s big economies are affecting the global economic situation. It is not possible to shut oneself off and stay outside the global economic processes. No country can face today’s challenges alone.
This places tougher demands on our global governance institutions and calls for closer coordination of economic policy. Adjusting the institutions and creating effective new instruments for eliminating the imbalances that have built up and stimulating growth in all parts of the world – these are the main tasks for the G20 and for Russia’s presidency. 
When the crisis was at its peak the G20 countries agreed on coordinated economic support measures, both at the individual country and international organisation level. It was the G20 that brought in tough restrictions on trade protectionism and gave a new impulse to trade talks, drafted new financial regulation rules, and began talks on reforming the international financial organisations, in particular the IMF. 
The G20 has concentrated a lot of attention on facilitating sustainable development over these last years, promoting green growth, which focuses above all on high environmental standards and people’s quality of life.
See also
Address by Vladimir Putin on Russia assuming the G20 presidency
December 1, 2012
The main challenge today is whether the G20 will be just as effective in resolving long-term development tasks, and whether we can continue a policy that will pull the global economy out of stagnation and uncertainty and set it on a steady growth track.
Russia proposes focusing the G20’s agenda on the forum’s main tasks: achieving balanced growth and creating jobs. Our priorities are to encourage investment, increase transparency, and make regulation more effective. These priorities make it possible to unite all areas of the G20’s work in order to reach the set objectives.
In the context of these priorities, we propose discussing development of capital markets and the financial investment instruments used in global trade, and also examining regulation of the financial sector and its infrastructure at the global and national levels.
Employment and job creation, including for vulnerable groups of population, are also important items on the agenda.
I hope that your meeting with the labour ministers in July this year will be of help in resolving this issue. This meeting is one of the Russian presidency’s innovations, and I want to tell you that it was in response to trade union leaders’ requests. They came to me with such a proposal. We discussed the matter together at Los Cabos with the other G20 leaders, and in principle no one had any objections to starting work along this track.
Overall, as we see it, all of the issues on the agenda we have proposed are closely interlinked and complement each other. For example, creating a good environment for investment growth automatically includes adjusting financial instruments, carrying out structural reform, and fighting corruption.
The investment issue is also closely linked to another of our financial priorities – managing state debt. The situation in this area is complicated today. The debt burden already exceeds GDP on average in the developed economies. It is not fully clear how countries will service their debt. This makes investors cautious of course, and countries end up in a vicious circle of debt and economic crises.
It is our firm belief that only by following a clear and transparent policy to manage fiscal deficits and state debt can countries win the necessary confidence from investors. Investment, transparency, and effective regulation are thus issues that concern all items on our agenda. 
Colleagues, I note too, that the agenda Russia proposes aims to continue the work that was already begun. We will continue to implement the agreements on creating a fairer and more risk-resistant financial system. In this respect I think that the Seoul G20 summit’s decisions on reforming IMF voting quota distribution should be carried out. 
We hope that the G20 will agree at the upcoming Russian summit on a new formula for calculating quotas that will fully reflect the balance of power in the global economy today. 
Other important steps include introducing new banking standards and tightening supervision of financial institutions of global systemic significance and the shadow banking sector, and also developing the Financial Stability Board’s potential as a full-fledged international body.
I stress the point that the issues Russia has proposed reflect Russia’s own domestic social and economic priorities. This is something I discussed yesterday with our colleagues from the OECD.
We have intensified our efforts over these last years to make investment growth the main driving force in our economy. Our structural reforms are making good progress. Together with the business community we are pursuing a national business initiative to follow ‘roadmaps’ for improving the business climate, reduce administrative barriers, and simplify access to financial resources. At the same time, we are continuing to develop our stock market infrastructure and are putting in place good conditions for institutions that can put ‘long money’ into the economy.
One of our promising initiatives is the project to create a mega-regulator that will merge the Russian Central Bank and the Federal Service for Financial Markets. The new regulator will be tasked with raising financial regulation standards and strengthening market actors’ confidence. We also continue to pay full attention to budget stability issues, of course. Russia has one of the lowest state debt levels in the world. 
We continue to target inflation. Inflation in Russia is relatively high compared to many countries, including your own, but last year and the year before we nonetheless managed to bring inflation down to its lowest ever level in the last 20 years. 
We hope to continue this policy this year and in the medium- and long-term perspective. We will keep to a very balanced, responsible and conservative policy in state finance issues.
In this context I note that the so-called ‘budget rule’ went into effect in Russia this year. It is designed to make our budget less dependent on oil prices. We are aware of our problems, and we know that one of the big problems in this area is the high oil and gas deficit. We will work consistently on bringing it down and making the budget process more predictable.
Colleagues, over the next two days you will discuss the main areas in budget and financial policy in the world’s biggest economies. The G20 is above all your forum, your organisation. It was established so as to give specialists of your level and class the opportunity to get together, discuss the issues, and propose solutions to your countries’ leaders.
I wish you fruitful work. I hope that your discussions will produce the effective solutions and recommendations that we need and that will form the foundations for work at the G20 summit in St Petersburg in September.
Thank you for your attention.
<…>
Ladies and gentlemen, I want to ask you a question.
If anyone present here would like to add something or voice any ideas, present suggestions on how to organise our joint work for the upcoming period until the heads of state and government meet in St Petersburg, or make a comment on the topic at hand, please, go ahead. Nobody?
Ok. Then I will summarise some of the points of this brief discussion. Indeed, this was not so much a discussion as a series of short presentations, and I am very grateful to you for preparing them. I think the World Bank Chairman expressed some very good ideas that should help us find the right direction in our work, and in general, his words sent a very good signal. He said, “The worst part of the crisis is behind us.” Like we in Russia say, may your words come true, Mr Chairman! Let’s hope that the worst part of the crisis is truly behind us, as you just said.
In this respect, in concluding today’s brief meeting, I would like to say the following. Naturally, the main political decisions at international forums, and in each of our nations, are taken specifically at the political level by presidents and prime ministers. But when it comes to the economy, a leader – any president or head of government or prime minister – cannot make decisions without relying on your professional opinion regarding a whole range of very sensitive professional, special issues.
It is unlikely that any of my colleagues – heads of state or government – will allow themselves to argue with you on purely professional issues, and those are precisely the issues that usually underlie the political decisions. I want to stress that we are all placing high hopes on your joint work.
I will express my own position on a key matter. I agree with our German colleague, who stated that what is happening now is a problem of trust. But this problem stems from the systemic failures in the previous regulatory system. And investors will never be satisfied with any additional money injections or more printing presses, if they do not see that the conditions that would prevent any new crisis developments from happening have been created.
And naturally, first and foremost, we need to think about how to do this. At the same time, in making decisions, national leaders – prime ministers, presidents – always have to take into account two aspects: the necessity and the ability; the necessity to make particular decisions and their ability to implement these decisions based on political, social, and other factors.
Thus, I call on you to not just think about what absolutely needs to be done from a professional point of view, but also consider what can be implemented given the conditions of our life today: in each of our nations and in the global economy overall. This should be based on the principles of transparency and justice – justice in international relations in the economic sphere, and justice in the social sphere between certain groups of population in our nations. I would like to wish you success in doing so.
Thank you very much for coming to Moscow and thank you for your efforts to address urgent and very difficult issues. 
Goodbye and good luck!
Topics
Economy and finance
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 15, 2013, 17:45
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Security Council members
Vladimir Putin presented Russia’s new foreign policy concept at a meeting with Security Council members.
February 15, 2013
16:15
The Kremlin, Moscow
The updated foreign policy document takes into account recent developments around the world. Mr Putin noted, in particular, the global financial crisis, the changing global balance of power, and growing tension in the Middle East and North Africa.
The policy document also stresses the need to maintain the UN’s central role and the supremacy of international law, and also addresses protection of the rights and interests of Russian citizens and Russians living abroad.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
In accordance with the Presidential Executive Order of May 7, 2012, an updated version of Russia’s Foreign Policy Concept has been drafted. All of you head agencies or bodies in one way or another concerned with foreign policy issues, and there is no need for me to go into the document’s details, since you were involved in its preparation.
Our basic foreign policy principles all remain unchanged. Above all, these are the principles of openness, predictability, pragmatism, a focus on results, and protection of our national interests – without confrontation of any kind, of course.
It is in Russia’s interests to ensure we have a favourable environment for implementing our national development objectives and resolving the social and economic tasks before us. Without question, we need to maintain the United Nations’ central role and supremacy of international law. 
We are expanding our multifaceted cooperation with all partners on the basis of equality and mutual respect. This too is reflected in the updated foreign policy concept. The document takes into account recent changes in the world, and this is important. 
In particular, it reflects major developments such as the global financial and economic crisis, which continues to worry us all, the changing balance of power in the world and in world affairs, the growing turbulence in the Middle East and North Africa, and the increasing significance of the cultural and civilisational dimensions in global competition today. 
The document puts the emphasis on modern forms and methods of foreign policy work, including economic diplomacy, use of ‘soft power’ methods and competent integration into the global information flows. It also pays due attention to protecting the rights and interests of our citizens and Russians living abroad. 
It is important that the various state bodies work closely together to implement the document under the Foreign Ministry’s overall coordination. Russia will continue carrying out an active and constructive policy in international affairs and its weight and influence in the world will grow.
<…>
Topics
Foreign policy
National security
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Security Council
Publication date: February 15, 2013, 16:15
Text versionEvents
Working meeting with Emergency Situations Minister Vladimir Puchkov
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Minister of Civil Defence, Emergencies and Natural Disasters Relief Vladimir Puchkov.
February 15, 2013
14:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 3
With Emergency Situations Minister Vladimir Puchkov.
The situation in Chelyabinsk Region following the meteorite hit was the subject of discussion. Mr Puchkov said that more than 290 homes and a number of industrial sites and social facilities were damaged by the impact wave. More than 500 people have sought medical assistance. 
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Puchkov, this morning we already discussed what happened in the Urals, the meteorite that fell in Chelyabinsk Region.
The astronomy side of this event is of interest to the specialists of course, but of greatest priority to us, and to your ministry, is the question of warning the public about such events insofar as is possible of course. As I understand it, there is no effective monitoring system in place in the world as yet.
I want to discuss with you the consequences of this event now. Regrettably, it has disrupted the normal functioning of a number of industrial sites, people have been injured and social infrastructure such as schools and kindergartens have suffered damage too. 
We need to do everything we can now to first of all make an objective assessment of the damage. I spoke half an hour ago with the Chelyabinsk Region authorities. People are working there, working in the regions. Thankfully, we have managed to avoid actual collapse of any large buildings in any of the areas affected, but people have been injured. Helping people has to be our top priority now, and we need to decide not just how to help, but need to act immediately. 
I know that the regional authorities are in touch with you and your people and are busy at work. I’d like to hear how the damage situation looks now and what is being done to get facilities and industry working normally again and help people. I am talking about help for our citizens, for specific individuals, of course, and also what is being done about the social facilities. You will also need to look at the housing stock and the situation there. 
Minister of Civil Defence, Emergencies and Natural Disasters Relief Vladimir Puchkov
: Mr President, the breakup of a meteorite at 7.20 this morning created an emergency situation in the Urals Federal District. The Volga Federal District was also partially affected. 
Chelyabinsk Region suffered the greatest damage. The impact wave and blast damaged around 297 homes, 12 schools, a number of other social facilities, and some industrial sites.
A crisis management system was rapidly put in place, the Chelyabinsk emergency situations commission met, and so did the working group of the government commission for disaster prevention and relief.
An operations group numbering more than 20,000 people is at work now, with 3,000 pieces of equipment and 8 aircraft at their disposal. Our priority task is to get practical help to the people in the disaster zone and ensure they have all the essentials for life.
We recommended that a number of enterprises stop work so that people can go home, assess the damage, and take the needed heat insulation measures. A lot of buildings have had windows shattered. The daytime temperature there is minus five and this is expected to drop at night, and so keeping people warm is one of our most urgent priorities.
Mobile medical brigades have been sent out to help the injured. More than 500 people have come seeking medical help so far, and 112 people, including 80 children, have been hospitalised. We have organised all necessary assistance and support.
The energy, transport, communications, and air traffic systems are all working without disruption. No increase in radiation levels or levels of hazardous chemicals has been registered, but we have nevertheless sent out mobile groups across the whole emergency zone to monitor the situation.
I ask for your approval for the government commission’s working group to fly to the emergency zone to take further measures and provide the needed federal assistance. 
Vladimir Putin: The local and regional authorities say they have the situation under control, but it would still be a good thing for your specialists to fly out there. You need to asses all possible damage not only to the communications and social infrastructure, but also to the energy systems, which are especially crucial during the winter period. Go ahead then and send the group out as soon as possible.
Talk too with your colleagues in the other ministries and agencies, including the Healthcare Ministry. Have them provide the region with any assistance as necessary too.
Vladimir Puchkov: Yes. Everything will be done.
<…>
Geography
Chelyabinsk Region
Topics
Regions
Persons
Puchkov Vladimir
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 15, 2013, 14:30
Text version