Events
Meeting on developing the aerospace defence system
Meeting participants discussed equipping Aerospace Defence Forces with up-to-date weapons.
November 28, 2013
19:00
Sochi
1 of 2
Meeting on developing the aerospace defence system.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
Today we already began our conversation with the issue of supplying the Russian Air Force with new technology, and now let’s talk in a bit more detail about the aerospace defence system. We are all well aware that it to a large extent underpins strategic parity and the balance of power. In general, it is one of the most important components of a country’s defence.
We are moving forward in this direction, and there is progress. By way of example, let me highlight the Voronezh missile attack early warning radar station. It is already operational in Armavir, Kaliningrad and Lekhtusi. And I must say that in September this year, during combat-like exercises, it detected launches from the Mediterranean region, and effectively proved its efficiency and reliability.
In accordance with plans for the next five years, we will need to commission seven more such stations.
I would note that the process of re-equipping air defence missile formations and military units with modern S-400 systems is proceeding according to plan. This year two regimental sets of this system were delivered to troops, and another three are due in 2014. And these are good indicators, a good pace, and I hope that it can be sustained.
Of course, we should talk not only about modern technologies, but also cutting-edge ones. Incidentally, we talked about this during a meeting at Obukhovo Plant this summer. And in this regard, let me remind you that at the time we spoke about the Vityaz middle-range guided missile system, as well as the development of the advanced S-500 anti-aircraft missile system. This last system does more than simply perform air defence-related tasks; essentially it will be a component of our missile defence.
Let’s talk about all this in more detail.
<…>
See also
Meeting on developing strategic missile forces
November 27, 2013
Meeting on developing the Navy
November 27, 2013
Meeting on developing the Air Force
November 28, 2013
Additional
All news about working trip to Sochi
November 27 − 29, 2013
Geography
Krasnodar Territory
Topics
Armed Forces
National security
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 28, 2013, 19:00
Text version