Events
Visiting Maria Savina Theatre Veterans’ Home in St Petersburg
Vladimir Putin visited the Maria Savina Theatre Veterans’ Home where renovations will finish in May, and met with theatre community representatives.
May 2, 2013
17:30
Saint Petersburg
5 of 15
In the sitting room dedicated to outstanding Alexandrinsky Theatre’s prima Maria Savina during a visit to Theatre Veterans’ Home.
The President toured the St Nicholas the Wonderworker chapel, living rooms, and a recital room. Mr Putin also viewed the sitting room dedicated to outstanding Alexandrinsky Theatre’s prima Maria Savina, who is associated with the founding of the Theatre Veterans’ Home. There is a monument to the actress in the building’s inner courtyard. The Theatre Veterans’ Home was established in 1902 and today can house 94 people.
Beginning of discussion with theatre veterans and community figures
Vladimir Putin: Hello,
See also
All news about trip to Leningrad Region
April 30 − May 2, 2013
Before announcing that work to restore and renovate the Theatre Veterans’ Home is complete, I wanted to see myself what has been done here over an almost two-year period. By the way, in its time it was also built over the course of two years: from 1900 to 1902. Now renovations also took about two years. Those who were here before then can probably compare the state it was in two years ago and its current one.
Important work really has been carried out, but I nevertheless wanted to see it for myself, even though I know how our builders work today, with new technologies and new quality. And I would also like to show it to you, so that you can see it with your own eyes. And if there are any comments then they should be made now, before the furniture is delivered and everything is in its place. Because after that it will become more difficult to make changes.
Remark: Yes, and unnecessary.
Vladimir Putin: They say that it will be unnecessary. I simply wanted to make sure that this really is the final stage and, as was just said, no additional changes will be required.
I would like to listen to what you have to say. I hope that you have had time to take a look, if only a quick one, and see what has been done here. Please go ahead: what are your impressions, your thoughts?
Let’s hear Alexander Alexandrovich [Kalyagin] first, because he is one of the initiators of the reconstruction process. As you know, after all the changes in Russia associated with property and the status of non-governmental organisations, naturally it was very difficult or almost impossible for the Union of Theatre Workers to keep this building in decent condition. Therefore, we agreed together with Mr Kalyagin to take certain measures relating to property; thanks to funds from the federal budget we were able to undertake these renovations, and over two years they have resulted in what you now see.
<…>
Topics
Culture
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 2, 2013, 17:30
Text versionEvents
Speech at opening ceremony for Mariinsky Theatre’s new building
May 2, 2013
20:30
Saint Petersburg
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ladies and gentlemen, friends,
Today, we celebrate a major event in the cultural life of our country: we are opening the second building of the famous Mariinsky Theatre, loved by millions of our people. Congratulations.
We are opening the Theatre’s second facility. Just recently, the same event occurred in Moscow, where the Bolshoi Theatre was reopened. But we are not just concerned with developing theatres and the theatrical arts in major cities. Theatres are opening in the Russian Federation’s regions, in Saransk, Yoshkar-Ola and other regional centres. But I also want to point out right now that this is absolutely insufficient for the development of the Russian theatrical arts in our country. We agreed earlier that since the Government of the Russian Federation and the Culture Ministry have completed the major construction work in Moscow and St Petersburg, they must give more attention to developing the theatre in Russia’s regions and not reduce corresponding funding.
But today, we are at the Mariinsky Theatre, attending the event that has brought us here. I must tell you that this project has a long history. Back in 1997, Mr Gergiev appealed to the leadership of the country with a suggestion to build a second facility for the Mariinsky Theatre. All of you recall what 1997 was like for the country, and it was followed by a descent into a crisis in 1998, so frankly, the theatre was no longer a priority. That is why the first project essentially fizzled out. But Mr Gergiev did not stop there. In 2003, he once again brought this issue up and a new project was born; it underwent an international competitive tender and was seemingly launched. Then in 2007, the main contractor was in fact replaced, and in 2009, another competitive tender was held. All this was possible due to the absolutely unstoppable energy of the artistic director. Only thanks to his efforts was all of this done, and thanks to him, we are opening the second Mariinsky Theatre facility today.
”The Mariinsky Theatre has not only maintained all its splendour over these years, it has also risen to a new level in its development. The theatre maintained all the best traditions of Russian musical theatre and is certainly developing them.“
But what is this second facility? It is not just another stage; it is a new theatre, and we can see that. I am confident that today, we will experience this for ourselves. As I already said, all of this has been made a reality thanks to Mr Gergiev. And so, you must believe me when I tell you it is a complete coincidence that today is his 60th birthday. Let’s congratulate him.
The Mariinsky Theatre has not only maintained all its splendour over these years, it has also risen to a new level in its development. The theatre maintained all the best traditions of Russian musical theatre and is certainly developing them. It holds 760 shows per year and each of them is of world-class, standard-setting quality. I don’t think any other creative team in the world does what the Mariinsky does. Naturally, people know that this work is extremely exhausting, but it does a great deal for the development of creativity and the musical arts in our country, and we are endlessly grateful for this to both Mr Gergiev and the Mariinsky Theatre’s entire team. Thank you all very much.
I described how difficult it was to implement the project. Up until now, we are still having arguments about its appearance and how it fits in with old St Petersburg’s architecture. But it’s obvious that the interior has been carried out at the highest level, using the most advanced international engineering techniques for this type of facility. Indeed, the interior was created in the classical style, but what’s most important and what is key for a musical theatre are the newest technologies that allow for the highest level of sound quality. I hope that tonight, we will hear this for ourselves.
I would like to thank everyone who participated in the implementation of this enormous project: the builders, engineers and architects. I certainly want to once again thank Mr Gergiev and the Board of Trustees, whose members I just met with and who have been supporting the development of the Mariinsky Theatre over the course of many years. I congratulate all of you on your new artistic home and wish you luck.
See also
Opening of Mariinsky Theatre’s new building
May 2, 2013
Topics
Culture
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 2, 2013, 20:30
Text version