Events
Meeting of High-Level Russian-Turkish Cooperation Council
Vladimir Putin took part in the fourth meeting of the High-Level Russian-Turkish Cooperation Council.
November 22, 2013
15:50
St Petersburg
1 of 5
Meeting of High-Level Russian-Turkish Cooperation Council.
See also
Meeting with Prime Minister of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan
November 22, 2013
News conference following a meeting of the High-Level Russian-Turkish Cooperation Council
November 22, 2013
The main subjects on the agenda included trade and economic cooperation and humanitarian ties between the two countries, and the implementation of strategic joint projects in the energy sector.
Following the meeting, Mr Putin and Mr Erdogan
witnessed the signing of a package of cooperation agreements, including on electricity, power plant engineering, customs, and cooperation between the two countries’ information agencies.
Speech at a meeting of the High-Level Russian-Turkish Cooperation Council
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister, friends, let me wish you all welcome once more, in expanded format this time.
Today, we are holding the fourth meeting of the High-Level Cooperation Council. The Council’s work has produced results that fully measure up to the advanced level of partnership that exists between our countries.
At the meeting with Mr Erdogan in narrow format, we made a detailed examination of the main issues on the bilateral agenda. We noted that Russian-Turkish ties are developing intensively in all areas and that we have a regular political dialogue underway. We cooperate on resolving key regional and international issues, including through the UN and the G20.
We might have our differences on particular issues, but this does not lead to any cooling in our relations. On the contrary, we intensify our contacts and search for common ground. The Joint Strategic Planning Group headed by the Russian and Turkish foreign ministers makes a big contribution to this work. The Mixed Intergovernmental Russian-Turkish Commission plays a coordinating role in building up our trade and economic ties.
Turkey is one of Russia’s major trading partners and is in 7th place in Russia’s foreign trade turnover. Russia is Turkey’s second biggest export market after Germany.
Our bilateral trade has kept up steady growth over recent years and in 2012 reached a figure of $34 billion. But as I discussed with the Prime Minister just before, this year has seen a slight correction that resulted in a small drop. We think that this is something we can fix and is related to the difficult situation on the global markets. We see this as a temporary problem. I am sure that if we take systemic measures to improve our bilateral trade conditions, this will help us to re-establish the positive dynamic in our trade and economic ties.
We are broadening our investment cooperation. The accumulated Russian capital investments in Turkish economy exceed $1.57 billion, and Turkish capital investments in Russia are about $740 billion.
Major investment projects are being implemented in the energy sector. Our cooperation in this area has reached a truly strategic level. The Blue Stream pipeline, which passes across the bottom of the Black Sea, is functioning reliably. We exported 27 billion cubic metres of natural gas in 2012. In 2014, we plan to start building the maritime section of the South Stream pipeline in Turkey’s exclusive economic zone.
Rosatom is building Turkey’s first nuclear power plant, Akkuyu, with capital investment standing at $20 billion. And colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that about 25% of this amount will be used by Turkish companies in this work. This means additional jobs; these are very sound investments into the future of Turkey’s energy sector. We expect that the Turkish government will provide tax incentives and guarantees of long-term power purchase. In addition to the implementation of similar projects in Western Europe, we feel this project is a priority for us in Eastern Europe.
We are developing industrial cooperation in the metals and automotive industries, and we are strengthening ties in the financial and innovation sectors.
Military technology cooperation is an important area in Russian-Turkish partnership. We are broadening contacts between law enforcement agencies and special services, including in the fight against terrorism.
We are also interested in cooperating closely to ensure security during the Sochi Olympics. And in this regard, I would like to thank our Turkish partners and Turkish companies for their active and effective work in building Olympic facilities.
Turkey is one of the most popular destinations for Russian tourists; according to data from this year, we expect to hit a new record, with four million visitors. Turkish citizens are growing increasingly interested in visiting Russia as well, so we would like to suggest considering the idea of holding reciprocal years of tourism.
We have great opportunities for further broadening humanitarian ties. The work of the Russian-Turkish Public Forum should help their implementation.
I assume that the heads of key ministries and departments who are present here today will give substantive reports on developing bilateral cooperation in various areas, making concrete suggestions on their further enhancement.
When Mr Prime Minister and I were talking about many of the problems I just mentioned, we agreed that during the expanded-format discussion, our colleagues – heads of ministries and departments – will be able to give the necessary clarifications and talk in more detail about cooperation prospects.
Thank you for your attention.
Additional
All news about trip to St Petersburg
November 22, 2013
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Erdogan Recep Tayyip
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 22, 2013, 15:50
Text versionEvents
News conference following a meeting of the High-Level Russian-Turkish Cooperation Council
Vladimir Putin and Prime Minister of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan held a news conference following a meeting of the High-Level Russian-Turkish Cooperation Council.
November 22, 2013
16:00
St Petersburg
1 of 3
News conference following a meeting of the High-Level Russian-Turkish Cooperation Council.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen,
The High-Level Cooperation Council’s fourth meeting was business-like and constructive in spirit. This mechanism has proved its worth for the Russian-Turkish partnership.
I also had a very detailed and substantive personal meeting with the Prime Minister. We talked of course about the current state of our relations and the future prospects.
I note in particular that our cooperation is built on a mutually advantageous basis. Our trade turnover came to $34 billion last year. It has dropped slightly this year, but we think this is a correction that we will certainly overcome, and we will not only return to the level we achieved last year, but will aim even higher, at up to $100 billion. The flow of mutual investment is also growing.
The energy sector is an important area in our bilateral partnership. Russia is without question a strategic exporter of energy resources for the Turkish market.
We are continuing to develop our cooperation infrastructure. The Blue Stream pipeline system that links Russia and Turkey via the Black Sea bed is operating with success. We are working on the South Stream pipeline and will soon start building the underwater section. Russian companies are playing a very big part in supplying Turkey’s economy with not just gas but also oil and oil products.
Rosatom is building Turkey’s first nuclear power plant at Akkuyu. Investment in the plant’s construction comes to $20 billion. Russia is taking care of the financing. We are also training personnel for Turkey’s future nuclear energy industry. Of course, these projects all meet the most advanced environmental and technical safety standards. 
We are continuing to develop our cooperation in industry and the high-tech sector. This can be seen in our work together in the metals sector. In particular, the Magnitogorsk Iron and Steel Works has invested money and technology in modernising a steel plant at Iskenderun. Russia’s companies, Power Machines and Tekhpromexport, are helping to modernise Turkish hydroelectricity facilities. The assembly in Turkey of Russian GAZ brand vehicles is another example of our successful cooperation. 
See also
Meeting of High-Level Russian-Turkish Cooperation Council
November 22, 2013
Turkish companies, for their part, are active on Russia’s construction market. They are actively involved in building the sports infrastructure in Sochi. I want to thank the Turkish builders for this. Their work is of a high standard and they meet their obligations and deadlines. I can quote an interesting figure: overall, Turkish companies are carrying out subcontracting contracts around Russia for a total of $50 billion.
We discussed today the idea of increasing settlements in our national currencies. We will facilitate inter-bank cooperation. As you know, Russia’s leading bank, Sberbank, has actively entered the Turkish market and has invested $3.6 billion in this sector of the Turkish economy.
We discussed the opportunities for intensifying our cultural and humanitarian ties. The Russian-Turkish Public Forum held its first full-format meeting in Kazan a few days ago. We will continue to support work in this area. 
In 2012, 3.6 million Russian tourists visited Turkey. This year, it looks like we could hit a new record and the number of Russian tourists visiting Turkey will pass the 4-million mark. The number of Turkish citizens coming to Russia is also growing. We discussed today the possibility of holding reciprocal tourism years in our countries.
Of course we discussed international issues too, the situation in the Middle East in general and the situation in Syria in particular. We might have our differences on some points, but this does not prevent us from working together to find acceptable approaches to resolving serious international crises.
In conclusion, I want to thank Mr Erdogan and all of our Turkish friends for today’s work. In accordance with our established tradition, the Council’s next meeting will take place next year in Turkey.
Thank you very much for your attention.
<…>
Question (translated from Russian): The situation in Syria is worsening every day and innocent people are dying there every day. In this situation, what are your views on the need to establish humanitarian corridors in order to help civilians?
Russian-Turkish relations are developing dynamically overall, but there is an element of competition in them too. In particular, two cities – Izmir in Turkey and Yekaterinburg in Russia – are bidding to host World Expo 2020. What are your views on this competition?
Vladimir Putin: Yekaterinburg is the best choice of course. But if it’s not Yekaterinburg, then Izmir is the best choice. I imagine the Prime Minister has completely the opposite point of view.
Prime Minister of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan (translated from Russian): Yes, I think the same way. But what if both cities win, what will happen then? That’s what worries me.
Vladimir Putin: In reality, given our intensive trade and economic ties, I think it would be equally of interest for us to take part in the Expo whether in Izmir or in Yekaterinburg. But of course we will compete.
Recep Tayyip Erdogan: We will be in solidarity with each other on this.
Vladimir Putin: As for the humanitarian issue, you know, I have not had any contact with the Syrian president, Mr Assad, since 2007. I spoke to him again for the first time on the telephone just a few days ago. I must say that he himself is worried by the humanitarian situation and is giving it his attention. The question is who is responsible for this tragedy. People might hold different views, but no one disputes that fundamentalist groups are actively fighting in Syria and are behaving in very ruthless fashion. Nonetheless, abstracting ourselves from this, we must not forget about the suffering the civilian population is going through. Mr Erdogan and I had a very detailed discussion of this issue and I share the Prime Minister’s concerns about this urgent problem. Ultimately, we both share the aim of bringing peace to Syria and preserving its territorial integrity. We agreed that we will work together to look for acceptable solutions. This concerns humanitarian problems too. 
Question: Continuing with Syria, I have a question for Mr Erdogan. You said previously that you do not see a possibility of reaching a political settlement in Syria. Today you discussed this matter with Mr Putin. Could you tell us if Turkey’s position has changed in response to the positive cooperation between Damascus and the OPCW [Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons]?
What is your view on holding the Geneva-II conference on Syria?
I have a question for Mr Putin too. Could you tell us, are there hopes of holding Geneva-II soon, before the end of the year? Thank you.
Recep Tayyip Erdogan: Regarding the situation in Syria, I want to take this opportunity to appeal to the entire world again here from St Petersburg. As I said in my remarks earlier, 1,500 people were killed by chemical weapons in Syria. Other types of conventional weapons have claimed the lives of 150,000 people. I think that any crime that involves taking or attempting to take human lives is a violation of the law, a crime. Civilians are being killed in air attacks, by tanks, artillery fire and other types of weapons. The Syrian regime is responsible for this.
Yes, extremist groups are also responsible for what is happening. But the extremist groups probably have at the most medium-range weapons, maybe some other types of arms. The regime’s forces are destroying literally every site in the country however, including houses of worship, mosques that have been razed to the ground. This is being done with the help of conventional weapons, non-chemical weapons. I think that these actions will eventually be condemned in the International Court of Justice in the Hague, and the UN Security Council should conduct a thorough investigation into the situation.
But regrettably, the UN Security Council is not unanimous in its view on events there. No matter what has happened there, 150,000 people have been killed and Syria has been burned and destroyed. We now have 600,000 Syrians living in our country. There are another million in Lebanon and around 500,000 in Jordan. All of these people have probably not fled to our countries without cause. They are fleeing death, physical destruction, leaving behind their homes and the places where they had made their lives. Now, all of the countries bordering Syria (Turkey has a border of 910 kilometres with Syria, and Lebanon, Jordan and Iraq also have common borders with Syria) are all suffering from these problems.
As for the Geneva-II conference, we supported it from the start, but we are forced to admit that the first conference failed to produce results. We nonetheless support holding the conference however, and hope that this time it will bring results. We must not lose time. The time that we are losing now is time that the Syrian regime is gaining.
Let me finish by saying that we should let the Syrian people make their own choice and decide their own future.
Vladimir Putin: I completely agree with the Prime Minister when he says that we should lose no time and that we should let the Syrian people decide their own future.
In this respect, we hope very much that conference goes ahead and does so as soon as possible. Russia took the responsibility of convincing the Syrian leadership, and we have carried out this part of the work. It is now for our partners to convince the opposition of the same. But we are not sitting idly. We have proposed to the Syrian opposition leaders that they gather in Moscow to hold additional consultations. This was something I discussed today with the Prime Minister, and I spoke about it recently on the telephone with the King of Saudi Arabia too and with the President of Iran and President Bashar Assad. In short, we are making progress. I hope very much, as the Prime Minister said just now, that this conference does take place and as soon as possible.
Question (translated from Russian): I have a question for Mr Erdogan. First of all, did you discuss the situation with Gizem Akhan, a Turkish citizen and Greenpeace activist who was detained? We know that she has been released on bail, but we have heard that she is not allowed to leave the Russian Federation. Did you manage to settle this matter and will you be taking Gizem Akhan with you back to Turkey?
Vladimir Putin: How can he do that? He came here with his wife! What sort of questions are these? (Laughter) I know that the Prime Minister was planning to visit the Hermitage [Museum] with his wife.
Recep Tayyip Erdogan: I did indeed discuss this matter with the President. I think the very fact that she was released on bail is important. Of course the court proceedings are continuing, but for those who know the taste of freedom it is important that they are not behind bars. 
Vladimir Putin: Mr Erdogan put that question to me. I can assure you that Russia’s political leadership has no desire to specially intervene in these proceedings. There are legal procedures here, and we are not in a position to intervene in the legal side of things. We have no desire to exacerbate the situation or specially keep anyone in custody.
Question: An adviser to the Lithuanian president said today that in a telephone conversation with [Dalia] Grybauskaite, President of Ukraine Viktor Yanukovych allegedly said that Kiev cannot sign an association agreement with the EU because of Russian pressure and blackmail. In particular, there was talk of Russia possibly limiting imports of Ukrainian goods, especially from eastern Ukraine. At the same time, [Arseny] Yatsenyuk, the Batkyvshina (Fatherland) Party faction leader, said that Yanukovych got Russia to guarantee his re-election in 2015, 20 billion euros, and lower gas prices. Could you comment on these statements? What do you think are the real causes of Ukraine’s decision? 
I have a question for Prime Minister Erdogan too. How much truth is there to the news that Turkey is interested in joining the Eurasian Economic Union? Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: I don’t know what the Ukrainian and Lithuanian presidents discussed. You could maybe ask our American friends, they will tell you, but we’ve heard nothing from them yet (Laughter). It’s very hard for me to comment on others’ comments.
On the actual substance, Russia and Ukraine have an agreement on a free trade zone. This means that many goods that are sensitive for our countries are exempted from export and import duties. We have a completely different level of customs protection in our relations with our partners from the European Union. We achieved this situation through the negotiating process for WTO membership, which took us 17 years. Now, if Ukraine signs a free trade agreement with the European Union and reduces customs duties to zero, if we keep the free trade zone that we have with Ukraine, this customs regime will automatically extend to our customs territory too.
We think that this could be ruinous for an entire sector of our economy. If Ukraine has zero-rate duties with the EU on all agricultural produce for example, including meat and livestock, this would all come flowing into our customs territory too. But our economy would not be able to bear this, not yet at any rate. Our agriculture sector is not yet competitive enough to match the level of goods produced in the EU market. One day we will be ready and will agree to equal competition, but this is not yet possible right now. The same is true of aircraft manufacturing, the automotive industry and other sectors. The question is not about discriminating against Ukrainian goods therefore, but rather that we would offer Ukrainian goods most favoured nation status for trade purposes, as we do with all other countries around the world. We would be forced however, to end the preferential conditions offered by our free trade agreement with Ukraine. This is not a political issue. It is a pragmatic matter, an economic issue. 
As for exerting pressure, when we heard the news (I only learned it yesterday) that Ukraine is suspending – not stopping but suspending – signing of an agreement with the EU and wants to make a full assessment of the situation first, this was followed by what essentially amounts to threats from our European partners, even as far as helping to organise mass protests. Now this is pressure, this is blackmail. We will see over the coming days whether Ukraine and its government give into this blackmail, or whether they will take a pragmatic position for the sake of their country’s national interests.
Incidentally, President Yanukovych proposed holding trilateral talks on these issues. We are ready to take part in such talks. This would be something of a litmus test of how serious our European partners are about their plans. I would say it would be a test of how ready they are or not to hold talks on an equal footing. The only thing is, we should not politicise anything.
Turkey has a lot of experience of negotiating with the European Union. We will ask the Prime Minister’s advice on what line to take in this situation.
Recep Tayyip Erdogan: Yes indeed, we have 50 years’ experience. That counts for something (laughter).
In response to Mr Putin’s statements, let me make another proposal: accept Turkey into the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation.
Vladimir Putin: I think or rather I know for a fact that Turkey’s international influence and the independent and sovereign policy that Turkey follows under your leadership give every reason to have Turkey play a more active part in regional international organisations. Russia welcomes this.
Recep Tayyip Erdogan: And we also support the idea of concluding a free trade agreement with the Eurasian countries. As for the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation, I have raised this question before at talks with Mr Putin, and I say again now that this is something we want.
Thank you.
Geography
Türkiye
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Erdogan Recep Tayyip
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 22, 2013, 16:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting on developing aviation engine building
During a visit to the Klimov engine-building plant, Vladimir Putin held a meeting on the state and development prospects of the Russian aviation engine building sector.
November 22, 2013
20:30
St Petersburg
7 of 10
Meeting on developing aviation engine building
See also
All news about trip to St Petersburg
November 22, 2013
The President toured the plant’s training centre and production facility, and learned about the work of the company’s new production lines.
Klimov JSC develops, manufactures, and services turboshaft engines for helicopters and turbojet engines for fighter jets.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good evening, colleagues,
Today, we will examine plans for developing Russia’s aviation engine building sector. And to do this, we have come together at the site of one of our leading gas turbine engine designers and manufacturers at the Klimov plant.
We just saw some promising designs and the company’s executives demonstrated and discussed how the large-scale project to renew the company’s infrastructure is advancing. We will still be talking about government support measures for such projects. Indeed, the Minister and I have already begun the discussion; he has a few suggestions and will talk about them in more detail today.
Our goal is to strengthen the research, production and workforce potential of Russian companies in aviation engine building. I must say, I have wanted to see you and to talk about these matters for a long time, because the outlook in your sector directly affects our aviation industry’s future. And if we are being honest, you are well aware that although there are natural problems in combat aviation that are being resolved and, I’m certain, will be settled, when it comes to civil aviation, engine-building is one of the most significant elements that is, frankly, preventing us from breaking into the global market. And you know how our own freight companies buy our equipment: based first and foremost on such parameters as noise and fuel consumption, and then other features. I repeat: I have long wanted to see you and talk with you about these issues.
It is precisely with the goal of resolving these serious challenges that deep, structural changes were made in the sector and the United Engine Corporation was established, consolidating technological, intellectual and financial resources.
As a result, we are ultimately seeing progress as compared to 2009; that is clear. The company is producing twice as many engines, its product range has increased, and projects have been launched to develop next-generation engines for combat and civil aviation. I will note that the United Engine Corporation is in steady demand abroad, particularly for helicopter equipment. Just last year alone, the company’s exports came to more than 43 billion rubles. This is nearly half of the corporation’s total proceeds. As for helicopter equipment, you know better than me, the progress here is truly obvious. We are not just continuing to maintain a good niche in our own nation, but are expanding abroad. But what’s particularly pleasing is that new sites are appearing – very technological, productive ones – and we are getting away from dependence on our international partners, which is very important, particularly as far as combat equipment is concerned; this is obvious.
At the same time, in order to successfully remain competitive in this high-tech market, we need to offer truly innovative, high-quality products. And naturally, we must increase the share of engines certified in accordance with international requirements and standards. This is certainly a difficult and lengthy procedure, but that is precisely what will open new international markets for us.
The United Engine Corporation is also facing other pressing challenges, including with regard to combat aviation, which I already mentioned. In recent years, we have seriously increased the volume of orders for combat planes and helicopters within the framework of the State Armament Programme. And I am talking about equipment with fundamentally new, better technological features.
Today, I would like you to report the extent to which such production expansion is guaranteed by the upcoming line of engines – including the progress in testing the engine for a fifth-generation jet fighter, as well as the creation of an engine for a projected high-speed helicopter. Today, Klimov CEO [Alexander] Vatagin talked about this. I hope things stand exactly as he described. Let’s talk about it in more detail. As for the fifth-generation fighter, we know what engine it currently uses. Essentially, test pilots are satisfied, but we are also quite aware of the challenges in this respect. Today, I would like to hear about how this work is progressing.
As for civil aviation, one of our key priorities is the MS-21 mid-range jet airliner. I know that the demo engine for the aircraft is ready and is undergoing testing. It is important for the certification process to be completed rapidly, so that it can go into mass production in accordance within the deadlines set.
Moreover, as I already said, the main efforts should be focused on ensuring the independence of Russian aircraft engineering from foreign engine manufacturers, as well as imported components. For now, the share of imports is sometimes quite high. For example, for individual helicopter engines, the share of imported components can be as high as 80%. We need to develop our own component base, and increase the depth of localisation. I have already talked about this. As for helicopter engines, there is progress in this area, at the new St Petersburg sites. I would like to hear about this in more detail from you.
And finally, it is imperative for the United Engine Corporation to resolve all its financial problems to assure further development. In part, this directly affects lowering the current debt load. Minister [of Industry and Trade] Denis Manturov and I were just talking about this. In spite of the fact that the corporation’s proceeds have been growing actively in recent years, it remains in the red because of the debts inherited from the enterprises that are now part of it. Here, of course, we need some fresh approaches, reorganisation and rehabilitation measures that would include lowering debt load and production costs, as well as optimising the United Engine Corporation’s product portfolio.
Let’s discuss all these topics in more detail.
<…>
Geography
Saint Petersburg
Topics
Industry
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 22, 2013, 20:30
Text version