Events
Kirinskoye gas and condensate field has started production
Vladimir Putin took part via video linkup in the launch ceremony at the Kirinskoye gas and condensate field. 
October 23, 2013
19:00
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
2 of 2
Vladimir Putin took part via video linkup in the launch ceremony at the Kirinskoye gas and condensate field.
The Kirinskoye field, under priority development by Gazprom, is part of the Eastern Gas Programme and the Sakhalin-3 project. The Eastern Gas Programme’s main objective is to connect Eastern Siberia and the Far East to the gas supply network.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues. I am very pleased to greet you all.
We are witnessing today a big event in our country’s energy sector: production is beginning at the Kirinskoye gas and condensate field, one of the biggest and most promising fields in the Sea of Okhotsk.
This is definitely a big step in strengthening the entire Far East’s energy resource base and building the foundation for economic development in our country’s far eastern regions. The gas from the Kirinskoye field will also provide the resource base for the future liquefied natural gas plant. This will be another big step forward for Russia in strengthening its position on the global energy market. 
It is good to see that you have used the very latest technology here, including subsea production methods, which is done for the first time in Russia. This is the most advanced technology, including in terms of minimising environmental risks. I note too that the coastal facilities were designed not just to receive gas from the Kirinskoye field, but also to handle future production as part of the Sakhalin-3 project.
All of this shows that timely decisions are being taken, including technological and investment solutions that create the base for faster development in the Far Eastern regions.
I want to thank all of you and also all of those who are not here at the studio or the company at the moment but who worked actively on this project. I congratulate all of you on this event and thank you for the work you have done.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: I congratulate you once again. I wish you success in developing new fields, on the Sakhalin-3 project and in the Far East, given that you have projects in Eastern Siberia too, in linking together Russia’s eastern and western gas-producing regions and developing Russia’s unified gas transport system. These are all issues that we have discussed on many past occasions.
All of this work together is comparable only to projects of earlier decades, when big investment was put into developing particular regions or production sectors.
Gazprom has taken another big step today on this road, and it is a successful step. I congratulate you on this.
I wish you all the best.
Geography
Sakhalin Region
Topics
Energy
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 23, 2013, 19:00
Text versionEvents
Presentation of foreign ambassadors’ letters of credence
Vladimir Putin received the letters of credence of 20 foreign ambassadors in a ceremony in the Grand Kremlin Palace’s Alexander Hall.
October 23, 2013
14:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a warm welcome and congratulate you on the start of your honourable and responsible missions in Moscow.
You have ahead of you important work to develop relations between the countries you represent and Russia. We all want this work to be fruitful, to further the political dialogue and raise the level of trade, economic and investment ties and humanitarian contacts. 
We all know that the situation in the world is far from stable, but Russia is a consistent supporter of diplomatic efforts and determined negotiations aimed at finding mutually acceptable solutions.
It is very important that this approach has the understanding and support of most countries with regard to the very complex situation in Syria, and that the international community is now concentrating its efforts on preparing for the Geneva 2 peace conference. This is our joint achievement. 
I stress the fact that Russia places priority on international law and the United Nations’ central role. We must base ourselves only on the UN Charter’s provisions in our efforts to settle crisis situations.
Global politics are closely tied to the state of the world economy. During its presidency of the G20, Russia focused its efforts on financial and economic recovery and speeding up development. At the St Petersburg summit, we agreed on the principles for stimulating growth, increasing investment in the economy’s real sector, and carrying out job creation and employment policies that take into account the interests of the developed and developing economies.
We will continue consistent implementation of the summit’s decisions, including in our preparations for the next G8 summit that will take place in Russia in 2014. 
Ladies and gentlemen, the heads of 20 diplomatic missions are here today. I would like to say a few words about Russia’s relations with each of your countries.
Russia has traditionally friendly relations with the Republic of Lebanon. Our talks with President Sleiman in January this year reaffirmed our desire to expand our economic and humanitarian ties.
Our ties with the Republic of Chad are growing stronger. We see good opportunities for cooperation in developing oil and gas fields and in the mining sector.
We want to develop our political dialogue, trade and economic cooperation with the Islamic Republic of Pakistan. We have joint plans for big projects in the energy and metals sectors. We also need to build up our anti-terrorism and anti-drugs cooperation.
”The situation in the world is far from stable, but Russia is a consistent supporter of diplomatic efforts and determined negotiations aimed at finding mutually acceptable solutions.“
There is steady development in our cooperation with the Republic of Mozambique. Russian companies are becoming actively involved in developing minerals and raw materials resources in Mozambique.
We have new opportunities for expanding our ties with the Republic of Paraguay thanks to the recently signed agreement on visa-free travel. We will continue to strengthen our mutually advantageous economic contacts and military-technical cooperation.
We value our traditionally close partnership with the Hellenic Republic. Our ties have deep historical and spiritual roots. In September, we celebrated the 185th anniversary of our diplomatic relations. Our bilateral political dialogue and business cooperation have good prospects ahead, including in connection with Greece’s upcoming presidency in the European Union.
We want to put more substance into our relations with the Portuguese Republic and we think that we should intensify our trade and economic cooperation and tourism exchanges.
The Republic of Iraq is one of our most important partners in the Middle East. We support the Iraqi authorities’ efforts to stabilise the situation in their country and ensure national harmony. We are ready to help Iraq strengthen its security and law enforcement agencies, and develop energy and defence cooperation in line with the agreements signed during Prime Minister al-Maliki’s visit to Moscow.
In our relations with the Republic of Mauritius we want to more actively develop cooperation in sectors such as fishing, transport and tourism.
We are building a constructive dialogue with the Republic of Panama. We now need to strengthen our bilateral legal framework and develop our cooperation in energy, construction and the banking sector.
The Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela is our reliable strategic partner in Latin America. During President Maduro’s visit to Moscow, we agreed to intensify our trade and energy sector ties, industrial cooperation, housing construction and military-technical cooperation. We will continue to work closely with Caracas on the international stage. 
Our relations with the Republic of Cyprus have traditionally developed in a friendly spirit. We will continue to deepen our bilateral relations in the economic and humanitarian sectors and take part in the search for a fair and viable settlement to the Cyprus issue.
We have longstanding relations as good neighbours with Mongolia. We hope to continue steady work to carry out our planned projects in the energy sector, infrastructure, transport and the mining industry.
The history of our official ties with the Kingdom of Denmark goes back 520 years now, back to when the Treaty of Love and Brotherhood, as it was called, was signed in Copenhagen in 1493. Today, our relations are characterised by growing trade and economic cooperation and multifaceted contacts between our regions.
”Russia places priority on international law and the United Nations’ central role. We must base ourselves only on the UN Charter’s provisions in our efforts to settle crisis situations.“
We are ready to build a constructive partnership with the Republic of Latvia based on the principles of good-neighbourliness and respect for each other’s interests.
The Kingdom of the Netherlands is one of our biggest trade and investment partners. The business and cultural events held as part of the reciprocal Year of Russia in the Netherlands and Year of the Netherlands in Russia have been a success. We are looking forward to the visit by King Willem-Alexander.
As for the well-known situation with Russia’s diplomatic mission in The Hague, I discussed this matter in detail a few days ago in a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Rutte.
Our political dialogue and economic cooperation with the Republic of Slovenia are growing. In particular, we are carrying out projects in the pharmaceutical industry, the information sector and energy.
In September, we celebrated the 40th anniversary of diplomatic relations with the Republic of Ireland. We are ready to continue our bilateral cooperation in trade, the economy and investment.
We have good-neighbourly and mutually advantageous relations with Norway. The agreement on demarcating our sea borders in the Barents Sea and the Arctic Ocean opens up new opportunities for deepening our cooperation.
The European Union is one of our priority partners, as it accounts for almost half of all of Russia’s foreign trade. In 2012, trade with the EU reached the solid figure of $410 billion. We also have substantial investment with Russian investment in the EU coming to $64 billion and EU investment in Russia coming to $86 billion.
We seek to develop our multifaceted relations with the EU, including mutually advantageous energy cooperation, the drafting of a new basic agreement between Russia and the EU, and eventually the formation of a common economic and humanitarian space from the Atlantic to the Pacific.
Ladies and gentlemen,
Here today in the Kremlin are people from practically every continent: from Asia, Europe, America and Africa. We value our good relations with each of your countries. In carrying out your missions here, you can count on support and understanding from the Russian authorities and from our ministries and agencies.
Once again, I wish you successful work and many good impressions of your time in our country.
Thank you.
Geography
Chad
Cyprus
Denmark
Greece
15 more
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 23, 2013, 14:00
Text versionEvents
Mayors’ conference and seminar
Vladimir Putin spoke at a training seminar for mayors of Russian cities. The event, which took place under the Presidential Executive Office’s aegis, focused on domestic policy issues and modern effective management principles. 
October 23, 2013
15:30
Moscow
1 of 3
At a mayors’ conference and seminar.
Excerpts from the speech at the Mayors’ Conference and Seminar
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
Today, we are meeting at this training seminar. As you know, a few months ago, I met with your colleagues, the regional governors, here at this very same venue.
Today’s seminar, like the earlier one, is not a one-off event. We are developing a regular system of events to raise the qualifications of state managers. People at every level of government, from federal to municipal, will receive training. If we want to be a country with an advanced economy and high living standards, we obviously need to have modern and effective management methods.
You represent local government in our country’s biggest cities. Between them, these cities are home to more than 45 million people, nearly a third of Russia’s population. Most of you are mayors or the heads of administrations in regional capitals.
You have big responsibilities, a lot of pressure and a huge amount of work. This is all your direct responsibility. I know what this is like from back when I was working in St Petersburg. There is nothing more important, responsible and complicated than direct contact with the public and direct responsibility for tackling the challenges that big cities and even municipalities face.
City residents have higher demands when it comes to living standards and urban development in general. City residents are the most active part of the population. They are quick to acquire new knowledge and master new technology, and even if they do not have the opportunity to use it themselves, they are quick to learn about it, know what it is and where and how it is used, and they expect their local authorities to make use of best practice. 
People want progress, and the quality of city management and the principles on which we base our cities’ development must correspond in full measure to what the times demand and what our people want.
”We are developing a regular system of events to raise the qualifications of state managers.“
Our cities should aim for the future, and so their development strategies and urban development plans must take into account political, social, economic and environmental factors and the latest city planning trends. It is important at the same time to preserve the historical and architectural heritage, cultural code and unique identity of our towns. As I was discussing with your colleagues just before, this is not a problem or not much of a problem for Moscow, St Petersburg and a few other cities, where people always have something to be proud of. This is not the case everywhere, but it should be, and this is what we must aim for. People need to feel a sense of belonging to the place they live in and should feel proud of it. It depends a lot on us to develop the centres that will create people’s sense of identification with the place in which they live. 
City people need to feel that life is getting better here and now. They need to be able to see this in concrete examples, in streets, parks and the other places where they spend time nearly every day and see what is going on there. They need to see that their cities are changing and becoming a more convenient and comfortable place for life, and so developing and shaping the city environment is a task of paramount importance.
Our big cities are filled with offices, shopping centres and industrial zones today. These are all necessary things of course and we all know that it cannot be otherwise. This means jobs and tax revenue for the budget. But this is not enough for normal everyday life. These might be necessary things, but normal life today requires more than this.
We also need what urban development experts call modern public spaces. Put simply, these are well-kept and designed embankments and squares, playgrounds and sportsgrounds, and places for families to relax. Teenagers and young people need to have spaces for their leisure. They need places where they can get together, play sport, and simply spend time together. These should be modern places, not squeezed out to the edges somewhere or pushed underground, but open, transparent and attractive, so that young people can come there and meet, talk, play sport, move, roller-skate or whatever else. This is very important.
It is equally important for senior citizens to feel at ease in our cities. Cities should be convenient for people of all ages, and for people with disabilities too. Every detail needs attention here. Everything is important, cleaning apartment building entrances, lighting for streets, cleaning yards, including clearing snow, and landscaping public places. It is not right when some mayors say, “What’s the point of clearing the snow when it will soon melt anyway?” Maybe it will indeed soon melt, but before it does, how many people will slip, fall and injure themselves, break a leg? What’s more, if a town always looks like no one bothers cleaning up there, it will inevitably affect people’s attitudes and will immediately have an impact on their opinion of the city authorities’ performance. 
”People want progress, and the quality of city management and the principles on which we base our cities’ development must correspond in full measure to what the times demand and what our people want.“
These details also play a part in shaping the way people look at the world and creating an atmosphere of trust and calm, or as we used to say, a feeling of confidence in tomorrow. People sense when their city is alive and developing, becoming a more comfortable and attractive place for life, and that the local authorities’ work is based not on abstract plans but people’s concerns and concrete interests.
If people strive to live, work and start a family in the cities where they were born and raised, it means the quality of the municipal authorities and municipal governance meets their expectations. And your objective, colleagues, is to acquire the skills you need to ensure your work corresponds to these expectations.
Friends, creating the conditions for people to find personal fulfilment has fundamental significance. I have already mentioned offices and industrial zones; we cannot do without them. We must also create conditions for work, for people to create their own businesses. We must learn to build a comfortable business climate – I want to stress that this is a key challenge for authorities at any level, including the municipal level.
As you know, efforts are being made in this direction on a federal level, jointly with the business community. We are adopting amendments to our legislation and eliminating legal and administrative barriers. This is truly large-scale, high-priority work.
But entrepreneurs do not run their businesses in some sort of abstract environment; they run them in concrete locations and each municipality can find its own approaches to managing the truly broad powers they hold. These include issuing building permits, agreements on land transactions or space rentals, and licenses to engage in certain types of activities, including social entrepreneurship.
<…>
When people feel the authorities are communicating with them and creating favourable conditions, there will be returns – very significant ones.
I would like to note the following: we often hear complaints that there will not be enough funding for all of this. That is true: there is never enough money for everything. There are many problems. However, this is not just a question of having funding, but its rational use as well.
<…>
I think the time has come to summarise and organise the most effective municipal practices for creating favourable conditions for business and social initiatives. There are many such practices. And the people present here are developing those practices and creating them. There are also other municipal leaders who may not be present here today but who are also doing this. I am familiar with these practices; they are being used effectively across Russia. Let’s brainstorm together how we can summarise all this positive experience and make use of the best examples.
Let me stress that the development of entrepreneurship and influx of investors means new jobs, a growing services sector, more private funding for transport and utility infrastructure, municipal development and social projects. Naturally, it also means increased revenues for local budgets.
I realise that municipalities still do not have enough economic incentives to work actively on developing entrepreneurship. There are certain issues in the system of inter-budgetary relations that need to be resolved.
Let’s return to this topic again at the upcoming municipal conference in November and discuss the problem holistically, looking at both income sources and municipalities’ powers. There should certainly be a balance between the amount of authority and a city’s own resources.
Colleagues, we have a unique resource: human capital – socially active, engaged, creative individuals. It is the people themselves that can provide great momentum for developing cities.
”Today, interaction with ethnic communities and members of traditional religions is particularly important; they should become your allies in preventing ethnic conflicts.“
City residents must become your associates, working toward the same goal; they should feel involved and interested in the events taking place in the city. And here, our major metropolises should set a good example for all municipalities. It is imperative to use modern communications, allowing people to share their opinions and suggestions on improving their cities or towns.
I will say that at a federal level, we have been implementing the Russian Public Initiative for six months. And as you know, beginning on November 1 this year, both federal and municipal initiatives will be posted on a special Internet portal. If such an initiative originates from your city, it must be examined. That is required by law.
I urge you to make draft legislative acts and other municipal government documents available online and in other media, and to make use of such a collaborative selection approach to arrive at optimal solutions.
<…>
Naturally, access to the authorities must not be limited to electronic communications alone. You should actively use direct forms of communication: public hearings, gatherings and local referenda on the most pressing issues, from school construction to installing traffic signs, from creating public parks to organising weekend fairs.
Direct communication with people should become a standard part of your work. Naturally, I completely understand that as the mayor of a large city, particularly with over a million inhabitants, it is impossible for you to meet and talk with each individual, but in this case, you don’t need to. There are many other forms of communication; I don’t need to tell you about them, you already know them. You simply must not forget that they exist and use them.
At the same time, you should be in constant contact with community organisations, business associations and volunteer organisations. I am asking you to give them the most efficient support possible, to engage these organisations in implementing social, educational and charity projects.
Today, interaction with ethnic communities and members of traditional religions is particularly important; they should become your allies in preventing ethnic conflicts.
Overall, you must encourage all proactive members of the public to become engaged in working together and support various forms of civic participation.
I will stress once again that we want to ensure the formation of strong, reputable administrative teams on a local level. The municipal service should become a channel for social mobility for young, energetic, talented people who can then become involved in work at a regional and federal level. For our part, we will help municipal officials improve their skills; the Government has developed corresponding mechanisms.
Please note that our political system is becoming increasingly open, which means that there is more competition. And it is imperative to prove your right to represent your voters’ interests and your right to govern the city – you must prove it through positive, practical results.
<…>
Topics
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 23, 2013, 15:30
Text version