At a meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) Council of Heads of State.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Heads of state of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation member countries, heads of state of observer countries, high representatives and summit guests,
The Shanghai Cooperation Organisation has been working for more than a decade now and has achieved some big results. It has established its place as an influential international organisation and plays an important part in global and regional politics.
In outlining our plans for the upcoming future, we need to take particular account of the processes underway in the global economy and international politics.
As you know, the G20 summit took place in St Petersburg just last week. We had substantial discussions of important issues such as speeding up global economic growth, creating new jobs, spreading the use of advanced technology, social sector financing, and developing high value-added production.
The measures and policy outlines the G20 has produced, and which it is my duty to inform you about, have practical interest for the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation. Implementing them would help to make our economies stronger and more competitive.
”The Shanghai Cooperation Organisation has achieved some big results. It has established its place as an influential international organisation and plays an important part in global and regional politics.“
Of course, we cannot separate economic issues from the situation in international politics. As you have already noted, Syria is at the centre of attention right now. We consider unacceptable any external military intervention in Syria’s affairs without the United Nations Security Council’s sanction.
The latest diplomatic efforts have helped to lower the immediate threat of a military operation. The initiative to place Syria’s chemical weapons under international control is very important in this respect. Reports are coming in that Syria’s representative in the United Nations has announced that Syria wishes to become as from today a full-fledged party to the Chemical Weapons Convention. 
I think we should welcome this decision by the Syrian government. I hope that this will be a real step towards resolving the Syrian crisis. It confirms our Syrian partners’ serious intent to take this road.
In this context, close cooperation within the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation and a firm commitment to the rule of the norms and principles of international law and the UN’s leading role in global affairs are more important than ever today.
Restoring stability in Afghanistan is one of the biggest issues on the SCO’s agenda. We welcome the Afghan government’s efforts to promote national reconciliation and make preparations for the 2014 presidential election.
We are following attentively the process of transferring responsibility for the country’s security to Afghanistan’s law enforcement and security agencies. We see how much the Afghan government is doing to ensure that these agencies will be ready to take on this responsibility and meet the security challenges that the country faces today. 
We are pleased to see Iran’s willingness to give its nuclear programme greater transparency. We believe that Iran, like any other country, has the right to use nuclear energy for peaceful purposes, including enrichment.
”Restoring stability in Afghanistan is one of the biggest issues on the SCO’s agenda. We welcome the Afghan government’s efforts to promote national reconciliation.“
Colleagues, it is important to continue building up our economic cooperation within the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation. We need to increase our reciprocal trade, technology exchanges, and investment. We need to develop joint projects in agriculture and environmental protection.
In this respect we are working actively with the People’s Republic of China, given all of the trans-border issues we need to deal with. All of these areas of cooperation are open to the SCO observer countries and dialogue partners too.
The Shanghai Cooperation Organisation’s Business Council has the mission of helping to expand direct contacts between our companies and business communities. The Shanghai Cooperation Organisation’s Interbank Consortium is a good example of multilateral cooperation in this area. It makes a big contribution to supporting joint infrastructure projects, spreading the use of resource-saving technology, and expanding use of our national currencies in mutual settlements. Events
Meeting with President of Kyrgyzstan Almazbek Atambayev
Vladimir Putin met with President of the Republic of Kyrgyzstan Almazbek Atambayev.
September 13, 2013
17:15
Bishkek
1 of 2
With President of Kyrgyzstan Almazbek Atambayev.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Atambayev, once again, thank you for giving us this chance to work here. This always involves a lot of effort. 
At the same time, the very fact that such a big international event with so many countries and leaders attending is taking place here, under your leadership, is evidence that Kyrgyzstan’s and your personal influence are increasing.
The summit was a success, was well organised and produced results. We signed some important documents today. I am sure that this will benefit Kyrgyzstan too, given that it is the countries in this region, this region in which we live, and with which we have the closest trade, economic and political relations, that are taking part.
Thank you very much for organising this work.
President of Kyrgyzstan Almazbek Atambayev
: I am happy to see you here, Mr Putin.
You came here last September, came again in May and now this September too. We would like of course, and I think all of our people would agree, that you come twice a year, in September and May at the least, more often if you wish, in summer or winter too. We are always happy to see you, happy whenever our friends from Russia come to visit.
Russia is our strategic partner. Our country has gone in one direction and another, but now is set on a firm course that is in our genes you could say. I always say that Kyrgyzstan is our homeland, but our ancestral home is the Yenisei, the Altai Mountains. Everything there is close to us too.
I am pleased to see you, and all of our people are happy at this visit. You remember that last time you came we went to the Ala Archa Gorge. That immediately set off a real boom and brought more money into the area. In other words, it would be good to visit a few tourism spots. If you visited these places it would be a boost for Kyrgyzstan’s tourism industry. 
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much for the invitation.
<…>
See also
Shanghai Cooperation Organisation summit
September 13, 2013
Geography
Kyrgyzstan
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Atambayev Almazbek
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 13, 2013, 17:15
Text version