Events
Military parade celebrating the 68th anniversary of Victory in the Great Patriotic War
Vladimir Putin attended the military parade on Red Square to celebrate the 68th anniversary of Victory in the Great Patriotic War.
May 9, 2013
11:00
Moscow
12 of 42
Military parade celebrating the 68th anniversary of Victory in the Great Patriotic War.
See also
Speech at reception marking the 68th anniversary of Victory in the Great Patriotic War
May 9, 2013
Over 11,000 military personnel, teachers and students of military schools marched across Red Square. Aksai Cossack Cadet Corps took part in the parade for the first time; students of the Moscow Suvorov Military School and Nakhimov Naval School have re-joined the marchers’ after a three-year absence.
The columns of marchers on Red Square were followed by military vehicles: Tigr armoured vehicles, BTR-82A armoured personnel carriers, T-90A tanks, Msta-S self-propelled howitzers, Buk-M2 air defence missile systems, S-400 Triumph air defence missile systems, Pantsir-S1 air defence missile gun systems, and Iskander-M and Topol-M missile systems.
The parade ended with the flight of 68 Russian Air Force helicopters and aircraft, including a group of army and tactical aircraft, and heavy transport aircraft. The Strizhi [Swifts] and Russkiye Vityazi [Russian Knights] aerobatic teams flew in a group of nine Su-27 and MiG-29 planes.
The music at the parade was performed by the Moscow Garrison Military Orchestra.
* * *
Speech at a military parade celebrating the 68th anniversary of Victory in the Great Patriotic War
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Citizens of Russia, war veterans, soldiers and sailors, sergeants and master sergeants, warrant officers! Officers, generals and admirals,
Congratulations on Victory Day! This is the day of our nation’s glory, the nation that routed Nazism!
Sixty-eight years have passed since end of the Great Patriotic War, but the memory of the war does not fade, it passes on from generation to generation, from parents to children, from heart to heart.
”We remember what the tragedy of war means and will do everything – absolutely everything – to make sure that no one will ever dare to unleash it again, to threaten our children, our home, our land. We will do everything to strengthen security in the world.“
The might behind this righteous unity is love for Russia, our home, our relatives and our family. These values bring us together today. Our entire nation fought valiantly to defend them.
We will always remember that it was Russia and the Soviet Union that disrupted the inhuman, bloody, arrogant plans of the Nazis and did not allow them to take over the world.
Our soldiers fought for freedom and independence, and in defending their homeland without sparing themselves, they liberated Europe and triumphed in a victory that will remain in history forever.
Esteemed veterans, you have always considered the welfare and security of the Motherland as your highest goal. Patriotism sealed your military brotherhood, towered over the enemy, was your mainstay in the fierce battles of Moscow, Stalingrad, Kursk, and the Dnieper, gave you strength through the torment of the siege of Leningrad, tempered your spirit in innumerable nameless battles, supported you through the gruelling labour in the rear. Your sacrifices and losses are immeasurable. We will always honour your feat, mourn the dead and tortured, and uphold the truth about the war.
Throughout history our ancestors achieved the greatest peaks of valour and courage in the name of the Fatherland, amazed the world with their courage and unity, and knew how to win. These traditions are an example for younger generations, and they have proven it time and again defending the sovereignty and interests of the Motherland.
We remember what the tragedy of war means and will do everything – absolutely everything – to make sure that no one will ever dare to unleash it again, to threaten our children, our home, our land. We will do everything to strengthen security in the world.
The victory in May 1945 is the sound of a great bell that celebrates life without war, a sacred symbol of loyalty to our Motherland which lives in each of us, a symbol of unity of the multinational people of Russia and their boundless devotion to their roots and history.
It is our duty to live up to the hopes of our honoured grandfathers and fathers, to overcome all the difficulties and obstacles, and give our children a prosperous, free and strong Russia.
Glory to the victorious nation!
Happy holiday! Happy Victory Day!
Glory to Russia! Hooray!
Topics
Armed Forces
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 9, 2013, 11:00
Text versionEvents
Speech at reception marking the 68th anniversary of Victory in the Great Patriotic War
May 9, 2013
13:00
Moscow
1 of 2
At reception marking the 68th anniversary of Victory in the Great Patriotic War.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Dear friends, dear veterans,
I congratulate you on Victory Day, the dearest, the most sacred and acutely felt of our holidays.
Today all of Russia stands guard with respect, pride and gratitude in honour of the generation of victors, in honour of our fathers and grandfathers who liberated the world from Nazism, in honour of great humanism – the humanism of victory that confirmed the enduring value of human life.
This holiday is celebrated in the CIS countries, many European ones, and others throughout the world. Millions of people are currently experiencing similar feelings: joy and sorrow, excitement, admiration for the feats of those who won the war and vanquished evil, falsehood and injustice.
Our most important and warmest congratulations are for you, our dear veterans. You had one destiny, one calamity, one hope and one Fatherland. For the sake of its independence, for the future of your children, you underwent back-breaking, unbearable suffering, demonstrated indomitable spirit, will and unity, crushed the evil enemy, and brought freedom to the nations of the entire world.
You not only defended our country, you also raised it from the ruins and ashes, and performed enormous feats of labour. You were able to make friends, support one another, to be together in joy and in sorrow. And we will always cherish this legacy, admire your generosity, courage and your destiny, of which you say simply and clearly: “No other way was possible.”
Such a profound, selfless attitude to life, devoid of any pathos, touches the soul. You considered paramount the values of patriotism, belief in your country, and love for the Fatherland. Today these very values unite the peoples of Russia, and I am sure will always be our spiritual and moral underpinning.
Let me propose a toast to the glorious generation of victors, to Russia’s peace and prosperity, to the Great Victory!
See also
Military parade celebrating the 68th anniversary of Victory in the Great Patriotic War
May 9, 2013
Topics
Armed Forces
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 9, 2013, 13:00
Text version