Events
Presenting Russian Federation state decorations
Vladimir Putin presented state decorations and honorary titles to Russian citizens and citizens of a number of foreign countries for their outstanding achievements.
July 3, 2013
15:45
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 13
At a ceremony presenting Russian Federation state decorations.
The decorations’ recipients include scientists, cultural figures, military servicemen and law enforcement personnel, workers, sportspeople, and businesspeople.
As a tradition, the decorations were presented at the Kremlin’s St Catherine Hall.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, dear friends,
There are special moments and days in every person’s life. I am convinced that all those who will now receive state decorations will remember this ceremony and the ceremonial presentation in the Kremlin. They will also remember the pleasures of interacting with the worthy, brilliant people gathered here today. Each of you has made a significant contribution to Russia’s development and rightly deserves the greatest respect and recognition.
Your achievements and successes are the outcomes of profound knowledge, inspiration, hard labour, and purposeful efforts. These qualities guarantee leadership in any activity. No doubt, you belong to a class of leaders, that is enterprising dynamic people, ready to tackle the most complex tasks.
Each of you has their own destiny, victories and exploits – of labour or in the battlefield – but you are united by one most important thing. You serve, work, and create for Russia’s prosperity. You love your country, and this love gives your deeds and accomplishments special purpose of generating benefits for our people and our Motherland.
The lives of our war veterans are distinguished by the extent to which they are permeated with the love of the Fatherland. Their country’s interests and the protection of their native land gave them their fundamental, invincible force. It gives me great pleasure today to present an award to a front-line soldier, retired Lieutenant General Dmitry Mikhailik, whose biography is truly legendary.
At the front since 1942, and thrice wounded, he personally raised a battalion to attacks, and went alone on missions to destroy enemy firing points. Lieutenant General Mikhailik is now awarded the Order of Alexander Nevsky for his courage and heroism during the [Second World] War years.
”Each of you has their own destiny, victories and exploits – of labour or in the battlefield – but you are united by one most important thing. You serve, work, and create for Russia’s prosperity. You love your country, and this love gives your deeds and accomplishments special purpose of generating benefits for our people and our Motherland.“
The younger generation of defenders of our Motherland preserves and enriches the glorious traditions of their fathers and grandfathers. They include commander of a special rapid reaction unit of the Department of the Interior for Perm Territory, Police Colonel Sergei Yashkin. Mr Yashkin has been awarded the title of Hero of Russia for his bravery and exemplary performance of important tasks.
Police Major Yury Sedykh has been awarded the Order of Courage. Risking his own life, he detained an armed, ruthless criminal who murdered peaceful, innocent people. We remember the tragedy that took place in Belgorod, and we are thankful to everyone who participated in the operation to neutralise the criminal. Police Major Sedykh played a crucial role in this regard. It is precisely such officers that honourably perform their duty, and thereby increase people’s trust in the police and raise its public profile.
The eminent paediatric surgeon Leonid Roshal has devoted himself to serving others, and caring for children’s health. His name is well-known in our country and abroad. The so-called World’s Doctor is a man with a well-developed conscience and moral sense. He has been in medicine more than sixty years now, and has saved thousands of lives, often in difficult and emergency situations.
There are stars of Russian science among those decorated today: academicians Yury Osipov, Ivan Dedov, Gennady Sakovich and Taliya Khabriyeva.
I am also glad to see well-known cultural figures here: Ilya Reznik, Sergei Goryayev, Tatyana Vasilyeva, Alexei Guskov.
I congratulate the representatives of leading Russian companies who have received state decorations. The results of your energetic work directly influence labour productivity, the use of high-tech in manufacturing, and generally improve the competitiveness of Russia’s economy. I am sure that the teams with whom you work share your joy and success.
Once again, let me congratulate all those who received state decorations today, and therefore a high degree of societal recognition – the recognition of your talent, your work and your success. I wish you further great achievements.
Thank you for your attention.
<…>
Topics
State decorations
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 3, 2013, 15:45
Text versionEvents
Meeting on developing the Moscow aviation hub
Vladimir Putin held a meeting in the Kremlin on developing the Moscow aviation hub.
July 3, 2013
15:15
The Kremlin, Moscow
4 of 4
At the meeting on developing the Moscow aviation hub.
The meeting looked at forming a common strategy for developing Moscow’s aviation hub, improving its management structure and developing public-private partnership mechanisms.
The meeting’s participants included senior officials from the Presidential Executive Office and Government, and the heads of a number of ministries, agencies, regions, and companies.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, dear colleagues,
Today we will discuss the prospects for developing the Moscow aviation hub. Our task is to transform it into a modern, international air traffic centre, a state-of-the-art one, and to make sure that it meets the highest standards for global air transport infrastructure. This is a key factor in realising our investment, transit and tourism potential. It is also an incentive to create additional jobs and represents yet another step strengthening the position of Moscow as a major global scientific, cultural and business centre.
In recent years much has been done to improve the quality of Moscow’s main airports: Sheremetyevo, Domodedovo and Vnukovo. They now have modern passenger terminals and airfield infrastructure has been upgraded. In turn, the airports’ capacity has markedly increased. In terms of passenger traffic, the Moscow aviation hub is among the ten largest in the world, and it continues to grow rapidly.
In these conditions, our main task is to ensure that Moscow’s airports operate efficiently and smoothly, provide reliable transport connectivity across the entire country, and act as a strong link in international transport routes.
Experience demonstrates that global competitiveness depends on increasing the number of flights, convenient connections and fast customs procedures. All this can be effectively organised within a major aviation complex.
”Our task is to transform it into a modern, international air traffic centre. This is a key factor in realising our investment, transit and tourism potential. It is another step strengthening the position of Moscow as a major global scientific, cultural and business centre.“
We have already discussed creating such a complex on the basis of the Moscow aviation hub, and have agreed to implement new approaches to organising operation of Moscow airports in order to ensure the synchronous development of their infrastructure, improve the transparency and effectiveness of investing public funds, and ultimately generate assets that are attractive for private investors.
I know that there are several opinions on the prospect strategy of developing the Moscow aviation hub. Today I suggest that all of you, dear colleagues, express your views on this issue, keeping in mind the following considerations.
First, we must carefully consider all organisational and financial aspects of developing the Moscow aviation hub. Currently, operation conditions for different airports vary, same as relationships with each particular operator, therefore the transparency of airport ownership and the prospect planning are particularly important.
It is essential that all participants of the [airports development] project fall under Russian jurisdiction and that the beneficial owners are clear. It is important to clearly understand who will fund the development of airport infrastructure, at whose expense, to what extent, and to know who is responsible for what in the end.
Second, it is inadmissible to shift costs incurred onto passengers, so I would suggest that this meeting’s participants speak to this issue too. We need clear sources of funding so that costs do not end up, as I just said, falling to passengers themselves.
Third, activities to develop the airfield infrastructure of the Moscow aviation hub are set out in the federal target programme on transport development. Necessary budgetary funds have been allocated, appropriate time frames have been determined, and work on other airport facilities depends on them. I would ask you to assume that the schedule will be followed to the minute.
And the fourth point, plans to develop airports must be fully coordinated with Moscow and the Moscow Region’s plans to improve infrastructure around airports. We must develop the Moscow aviation hub in close coordination and along with building and improving roads and railways leading to airports.
In this respect it is crucially important to develop a common language between airports, infrastructure companies and government agencies, and to coordinate joint actions. Today I would like to hear how you propose to do so.
Let’s get to work.
<…>
Topics
Regions
Transport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 3, 2013, 15:15
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of the Russian Academy of Sciences Vladimir Fortov
Vladimir Putin discussed with President of the Russian Academy of Sciences Vladimir Fortov draft law on reforming the Academy.
July 3, 2013
13:45
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 4
With President of the Russian Academy of Sciences Vladimir Fortov.
Intended reform of the RAS has been in the focus of the public attention.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Fortov, I want to congratulate you once again on your election as President of the Russian Academy of Sciences. Your work dovetailed with discussions of the new draft law on reorganising the Academy and the entire academic sector. Together with you and the [Academy’s] former President [Yury Osipov], we have talked a lot about this. Strictly speaking, no one in our society or scientific community believes we can simply preserve the current situation, but everyone – and this is the most important thing – says that we are to move forward, and that reforms and changes are called for. True, the challenge consists in making these changes appropriate for the spirit of the time and the requirements of scientific development.
You know that over the past few years the state has increasingly invested in research activities. Of course, in some areas this is perhaps not at the same levels as in certain other countries, though in some fields the funds are already comparable. Naturally, society and even people who are in no way involved in any scientific activity but invest money there as taxpayers, our entire nation has the right to expect major, quality, socially useful results of scientific research.
I have carefully studied the views of both the ardent supporters of the proposed changes and their critics. I must say that both parties have arguments that should be taken into account and undoubtedly accepted. There are some things that are questionable, and it would be right to think about what we could do in addition to avoid errors and to prevent them from occurring.
In this connection, I would like to draw your attention to one of the key provisions of this draft bill, one that I would like to discuss with you today. Namely, the establishment of an agency which would manage [the Academies’] assets and, in fact, assume a key function. It would appoint directors of academic institutions, and through those appointments, assess and evaluate the institutions’ activities. I’ve seen references to Peter the Great’s time, but we know that at that time all heads were appointed. Now it seems that this is not advisable. It is because of this that those who believe that bureaucrats should not have these powers are probably right.
I have a counter proposal. I know that many prominent scientists have formulated this idea and I’ll reproduce it here. The idea is to establish a separate structure within the Presidential Council for Education and Science, a structure within the Council itself. This would comprise a number of our most prominent, famous, successful scientists, both nationally and internationally recognised ones, and it would have the following functions: to appoint directors of academic institutions, evaluate the results of scientific research together with the Academy of Sciences, its experts, and independent experts (we talked about this at one of the last Council meetings), and thus, to a large extent influence the allocation of financial resources for scientific research.
Of course, it is absolutely necessary that we work harmoniously to update interdepartmental institutions and the Academy as a whole. We all know the average age of academics is quite high. It’s certainly not the kind of activity that involves physical labour, which requires strong hands and quick feet, but nevertheless we all know what has happened in global science for many, many decades, even centuries, and around which age the most significant discoveries are made.
But all the same reforms should proceed gently, smoothly and gradually, so that we do not make another mistake. So that experts who speak boldly and move quickly, but are not yet mature enough to lead the entire sector, do not entirely displace people of a certain age, but who are experienced and active. Therefore we have to think together about how to create an effective mechanism for rejuvenating our science.
And finally, about the agency that will manage assets. Of course first of all we are to conduct an audit. We talked about this with Yury Osipov, and he agreed. An audit of how the property has been managed, what problems exist, what we need to do away with from previous years, and how to configure this huge property complex so that it can best foster Russian science.
In this regard, I have another suggestion. If you agree, during a transitional period – and this would be inserted in the law – the President-elect of the Academy of Sciences, that is you yourself, would also head the property agency, and therefore take on much of its work.
Finally, there is one more thing to which I would like to draw your attention. In recent years, along with world-famous scientists who really have done a lot for applied and fundamental sciences, the Academy is increasingly populated by my colleagues from various government agencies and high-level officials. These people are very active, respected, and have a certain amount of leverage in all spheres of activity, including in scientific research.
Of course, we must first of all analyse whether they have made a real contribution to science, and how they will continue their activities either in administrative structures or in a scientific field. This seems like a small thing, but it affects the functioning of the Academy itself, so I don’t think this is an idle question. In any case, we have to pay attention to this issue in order to prevent any extravagant solutions here; nevertheless, all colleagues have to understand where they work and what their priorities must be.
<…>
Topics
Science and innovation
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 3, 2013, 13:45
Text version