Events
Vladimir Putin visited the Jewish Autonomous Region
The President made a helicopter flight over flood-affected areas in the region before meeting in Birobidzhan with local authorities from the affected urban districts and municipalities.
August 30, 2013
11:30
Birobidzhan
1 of 13
Making a helicopter flight over flood-affected areas of the Jewish Autonomous Region.
Restoring the region’s transport infrastructure and providing assistance to affected residents were the main topics discussed.
Mr Putin said that he will soon sign an executive order on financial aid for people affected by the flooding.
* * *
Concluding remarks at meeting with heads of urban districts and municipalities in Jewish Autonomous Region
Vladimir Putin: The situation is clear overall. I saw how people are working. They are working hard and effectively, and they have enough equipment. This is the truth. All that’s needed from all of you is a professional attitude to the situation and attentiveness to people’s needs. This is extremely important.
There are many questions regarding aid and compensation and so on. I say again that this matter will be settled in the presidential executive order the Government and Presidential Executive Office are drafting right now. It will be signed within the next few days. We will follow the same overall parameters that were set after the flooding in Krymsk in Krasnodar Territory, where people were paid compensation of 100,000 roubles per individual for damage to movable property – this is not per family, but per individual.
The one thing I want you and all of us to remember is that this money is not for immediate needs but for replacing movable property, and this sort of property can be bought only when people have a home in which to put it. This therefore calls for synchronised action: either there is a house in which to put these objects (furniture, fridge, television), or an apartment that can be purchased, either rapidly on the market if such housing is available, or in housing construction projects that are already more than two-thirds close to completion.
But in your case, you need to concentrate above all on preserving villages as viable settlements. Building should be only on land that is safe from flooding. You will need to find this land and use it, but this is the only kind of land that should be used.
We also need to think about future drainage and irrigation installations, flood protection installations, and river dredging. But we need to think too about making sure that we do not settle people in flood-risk areas in future. We should not allow such settlement, because ultimately it ends in tragedy for the people, and creates problems for the authorities too. 
There are complicated situations, extraordinary cases. People wrote to me saying, for example, “The officials in Nikolayevka village refused our compensation application because they say we are not registered at this address and do not have documents to prove our ownership of the house.” This kind of thing can happen, and we need to base ourselves not on formal procedures but on the actual circumstances of each situation. If this was these people’s one and only constant home and their neighbours and the village authorities can confirm that they really did live there, they should be included in the list of people needing help and should receive assistance. We cannot just abandon them in the street. How can we imagine such a thing? What kind of country is it that would abandon people in such a situation? This is completely unacceptable. I draw this to your attention. These are other cases too, involving unregistered marriages and so on. Each specific case needs to be sorted out. I ask you to go about this work very carefully and attentively.
As for evacuation of livestock, this has taken place in some areas. We flew over the village of Leninskoye before and I saw from the helicopter that animals were wandering about in the middle of the water and no effort was being made to get them out. If efforts were made, they were not enough, or were not completed. At least the people have been evacuated fortunately — we see that this is working. 
I saw how the rescuers are working and I want to say a big thank you to them again. The work is going ahead briskly and you can see that everyone has the needed energy and the equipment is working. This is good to see.
Regarding transport, you need to pay utmost attention to the transport systems. Do you have specialists out here who can assess the situation?
Reply: We have 22 subcontractor organisers with 500 vehicles working in the Far East Federal District as a whole. They have all been mobilised and are at the governors’ disposal for their operations’ needs. 
Vladimir Putin: I’m talking not about this but about specialists who can assess for you first, and then for me, the priorities for rebuilding infrastructure without which the region simply cannot function normally.
Reply: Mr President, starting on August 15, we have been sending specialists here to make these evaluations together with local specialists.
Vladimir Putin: How many of them are there?
Reply: We have the deputy head of the roads agency working here constantly, and the head of the roads agency, who was just in Yakutia and Magadan Region.
Vladimir Putin: This is a huge region and he will have a hard time spreading himself between all these different places. Let me ask the municipal heads, have you actually seen these specialists?
We need to get people out here who will assess the situation with their own eyes and send the information to you. But this has to happen fast. They should be here by tomorrow.
Mr Vinnikov [Governor of Jewish Autonomous Region], how many temporary shelters have you opened?
Governor of Jewish Autonomous Region Alexander Vinnikov
: We have ten open at the moment.
Vladimir Putin: Ten. As I understand it, some of these centres will be working until next spring, because there is no time to build a house or apartment building in six weeks, and the amount of readily available housing space in the Jewish Autonomous Region that can be moved into within the coming six weeks is not so great. So will all of these centres be operating until next spring? 
Alexander Vinnikov: The centres in Leninskoye and Babstovo will stay open.
Vladimir Putin: What are the conditions there like?
Alexander Vinnikov: In Babstovo it is a former student dormitory that is being used.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Vinnikov, I won’t put you in an awkward position. The situation there is not the best. It’s one thing to see it from a helicopter, and another thing to actually go there and look inside. People are writing to say that it is not easy there.
Alexander Vinnikov: Yes, it’s not a holiday camp, that’s true.
Vladimir Putin: I understand that it’s not a holiday camp, but the conditions have to be decent all the same.
I won’t read everything they are writing, but the people in these ‘barracks’ you showed me from above are writing to say that are being fed a prison-gruel type thing that their kids won’t eat. What kind of situation is this? Do I need to put somebody behind bars to make sure that people get fed decently? Sort out this issue immediately. 
Mr Topilin [Minister of Labour and Social Protection], do you hear me? I want you to go there today or tomorrow and check it all out with your own eyes. You are the minister responsible for social issues, social protection. Go out there and see how they are addressing the social issues. Go to these two temporary shelters that have taken people evacuated from Leninskoye county. The Regional Development Minister will visit all the others. Go there personally and report to me on the situation. 
If there are problems with food supplies, organisational problems, let the Emergency Situations Ministry deal with it at the first stage, and then the regional authorities need to take over and organise supplies in modern and civilised fashion, so that people are not in need and can live in normal civilised conditions. 
The same goes for schools. We already spoke about it, but I draw to your attention that school-age children must go to school. This has to be organised in the places where they live if possible, or else they will have to move to places where they can go to school, even to other regions if necessary. Some of the children could be sent for the new school term to the Orlyonok camp in Krasnodar Territory, or to the Okean camp here in Primorye Territory, perhaps even changing the shifts a little. I will speak about this with the relevant regional heads and the Education Ministry today. There are children’s centres in other parts of the Russian Federation that also have a full school programme going on. This all needs to be examined. Look into it together with the Education Ministry and settle the matter. 
Vaccination of the local population has to be carried out. Ms Skvortsova [Health Minister] is hard at work here. Remind her of the places in need of attention, especially places where water is now approaching livestock burial sites. This is very important. It is something that needs constant monitoring and you need to have the specialists here to keep constant watch on the situation.
That’s it. I wish you all good luck. Thank you for your work. I hope the situation will show some positive change. A lot depends on you and I am counting on you. You must do everything possible to help people and keep the settlements here alive. This is a very important part of the country.
Thank you very much.
Geography
Jewish Autonomous Region
Topics
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 30, 2013, 11:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Amur Region municipal heads
Vladimir Putin met with municipal heads from Amur Region.
August 30, 2013
14:30
Khabarovsk
The President said that money allocated for emergency disaster relief measures following the flooding in the Far East must be used strictly for these purposes only and not for any other needs.
The possibility of loan extensions for agricultural producers was also discussed at the meeting.
* * *
Closing remarks at meeting with heads of Amur Region municipalities
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: We have many problems, but let’s not try to resolve all of them at once, at the expense of quick action and measures that will be taken based on studies regarding the effects of the floods. Let’s say there is a population centre or there are production facilities that, for one reason or another are shutting down, ending their operations; we should not try to resolve those problems at the expense of this situation. It needs to be done in the normal, regular way in the future, jointly with the governor, the regional authorities, and maybe with the help of the federal government and budget. The same is true for large-scale irrigation works; they are usually very expensive, they are certainly necessary, and without a doubt, they need to be carried out, but not at the cost of funding that will now be directed toward resolving urgent problems related to overcoming the consequences of the flood.
As for the areas that will receive financing from the federal budget and when it comes to helping people, we will have four forms of financing.
The first is immediate monetary assistance worth 10,000 roubles provided to individuals. The second is providing help replacing the personal property they lost, and rather than fifty thousand, we will provide them with one hundred thousand roubles.
The third is aid for conducting major housing repairs, at a rate of five thousand roubles per square metre. And finally, homes that were completely destroyed will be completely replaced, with new construction or a market purchase.
I want to point something out to you, as well as contractors and construction companies: yes, construction costs a little bit more here than, say, in the European part of the country, but the fact that this will involve large-scale purchases and large-scale construction should lead to a reduction in the cost of this construction work. I am not going to name any final figures right now, but this is obvious; and if they do not understand this, they will find themselves in the possession of completed housing that nobody will want to buy for many years, because we will be providing people who need housing with homes that we will build ourselves.
I am not going to name any final figures now, but in the European part of the nation – you recall the tragedy that occurred in the city of Krymsk – on average, for a family of three, we built or bought (mainly bought) apartments at a cost of about 2 million roubles.
Now, concerning another issue. Friends, our most important and difficult problem is agriculture and supporting farming. This is clear to me; we are in an agricultural region. I cannot tell you right now that loans will be written off. I also cannot say that it is impossible, but I am not prepared to talk about it now. Still, we will certainly resolve the issue of prolonging loans and interest payments, as well as the loan principal where necessary.
We will try to help with seeds and motor fuels via various channels. And all this needs to be done so as to ensure that all these prolongations and support measures also accommodate future sowing, the harvest and its sales, because without selling the future harvest, we cannot talk about any steps with regard to financing for agricultural producers. (The Agriculture Ministry will work with regional authorities on this). I hope this is clear to everyone.
Now, regarding communication. We will see what can be done in addition to what has occurred already, taking into account the difficulties you just spoke about. But I want to repeat again that communication and transport infrastructure must be restored – first and foremost, taking into account that which has been destroyed, regardless of how much we might want to do something else for the future, create some sort of forthcoming improvements, broaden connections, improve them, and make them more stable. Ultimately, this is a separate issue. Let me repeat again: we need to restore what we had before but, of course, at a new level of quality. Let’s consider this as well.
Healthcare and education depend largely on you and the governor. We will also consider how to help you with this.
Now, regarding coal delivery. We will need to subsidise delivery, or the railroads will need to take on some of these expenses. We will decide on this matter and help you.
We will also think about electricity, what can be done, at the very least, to stabilise the rates and at least partially subsidise them.
Now, concerning temporary housing in areas where it is necessary, and in places where it will be necessary for some time to come, perhaps even a lengthy period, because the winter is coming soon, and it doesn’t seem possible to build that much housing. People will need to be housed somewhere, and children must attend school. We need to think this through. The assistance provided and the competent execution of this work is dependent on you, the governor and the federal Government.
The schools in some residential areas have remained intact, but surrounding houses were flooded and it is impossible to return there. So we will need to calculate this very carefully and make use of the reserves we have within the region. In some places, it is impossible to run the school process normally by September 1, but in some areas, we have reserves where we could already resettle people. We need to think this through with municipal leaders and we absolutely must carry it out. If you need support in this respect, please list out the details and tell me about it.
Now, regarding roads and bridges – a very important matter. Have you had any federal officials or members of federal road services come here?
Reply: Yes, the deputy transport minister visited.
Vladimir Putin: And what did he do? He came, he talked and he left. Today, I told the Minister: a team should come here, to travel onsite and truly assess the local needs and see what must be repaired, and where.
I want to repeat again, and I want to draw your attention to this: as far as the infrastructure is concerned, especially the roads, the region’s territory is colossal; it is very clearly underdeveloped in terms of infrastructure. And naturally, we would like to build many roads now. But we need to repair everything we already have. I repeat, we must rebuild everything, preferably at a better level of quality, but we must rebuild the infrastructure we already had, rather than using the situation to build something new for tens or hundreds of kilometres. This would simply be impossible. We would drown in this work; we would be unable to restore the old or create new infrastructure. But, of course, it would be preferable to rebuild the old infrastructure at a higher level of quality (and I will tell the Minister that this is what we must strive for). This infrastructure must be excellent.
And finally, concerning elderly individuals, especially those living alone. We should not return them to the state they were in before. The governor needs to think about it, and this should be resolved on a regional level. We must create normal conditions for them, if there are any such cases, which I’m certain there are.
I have already spoken about financing protective structures.
We will consider funding for municipalities to acquire equipment. I think in this case, it can be done. Let me remind you that the money allotted from the federal budget in order for municipalities to acquire equipment was part of anti-crisis measures, to help the municipalities and support our engineers. We gave them money, they kept their jobs and production, and you received equipment.
But in this case, given the scale of the disaster, the scale of the flooding we are now experiencing, this, too, is a kind of crisis. We can and should think about it. I will give corresponding instructions to the Government; we will calculate a rough estimate to see how much equipment will be needed, how much money, what kind of equipment and so on. We just need to ensure that we avoid a situation wherein money is provided, you use the equipment to clean up your town, and then you don’t know what to do with it. We need to buy the kind of equipment that you will use in the future.
I already spoke about building new housing or acquiring housing on the market. As I understand, this is possible in Amur Region, where some facilities are almost ready. And this should be done for people who want to take advantage of new housing, perhaps even in a new location, but remain within the region.
But here is another point I would like to make. I do not want to talk about it, but I need to, I am obligated to say it. Assistance, including for housing, new housing, must only be provided to people who truly suffered and who need it – not relatives or good, close friends and acquaintances of bosses of various ranking. Unfortunately, we have seen such cases in similar situations in the past. I hope the local prosecutor’s office will also play a positive role, because that is their job – to monitor the resolution of these types of issues.
Finally, regarding the way that communication with citizens is organised. I must say that the enormous scale of work that you have done deserves respect and gratitude, and I want to express my words of gratitude for the work that you have conducted. However, there are also certain glitches and you need to know about them and assess the situation realistically.
Of course, glitches are inevitable. The disaster has shaken a large number of people, dozens and hundreds of thousands of people. So glitches are a possibility, but we need to react to them quickly; we need your colleagues and your field services to work very swiftly, ensuring there is no red tape involved, to avoid any instances where people make phone calls and are told some sort of nonsense (if anyone even answers the phone at all). I want to point out that this does happen, including in your region. So the various forms of bureaucracy and bureaucratic nonsense must be reduced to zero; they should be eliminated completely.
As for the main rumour-mongers or the people you find most inconvenient, those are precisely the people you need right now, because they are the ones who see what is happening and becoming indignant. They need to serve as your pillars. So when you are organising this work, especially when assessing the damage, which is exceedingly important, you need people to see that this work is transparent, and to do that, they need to be involved for themselves.
If you have any public structures, you should use them, and if not, you should create them, so that you are working with public committees which can see what is being done and how with their own eyes; they should be able to see how this assistance is being distributed, to whom it is going and the quality of the services and assistance being provided to citizens.
As far as the elections are concerned, I agree with the people who said the elections should not be cancelled. The results of the elections will be the best assessment of your work.
I wish you success. Thank you very much.
Geography
Amur Region
Topics
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 30, 2013, 14:30
Text version