Events
Working meeting with FSB Border Guard Service Director Vladimir Kulishov
Director of the FSB Border Guard Service reported to the President on the agency’s current activities.
August 15, 2013
14:10
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 3
With First Deputy Director of the Federal Security Service and Director of the Border Guard Service Vladimir Kulishov.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Kulishov, I have only one question to launch our discussion: how is your tenure as Border Guard Service Director going, what problems do you see, what challenges have you faced, what was unexpected or, conversely, how do you intend to resolve problems that you were already aware of? Has anything new arisen and what issues did you want to discuss with me?
First Deputy Director of The FEDERAL SECURITY SERVICE AND DIRECTOR OF THE BORDER GUARD SERVICE VLADIMIR KULISHOV: Mr President, first of all I would like to report that the operational situation along Russia’s state border has not changed significantly in the second quarter of 2013. The FSB Border Guard Service continues to work at implementing your directives and previously approved plans. I just made adjustments to my agenda as Service Director, and made several trips in order to become familiar with the real situation on the ground, including to what I thought were priority locations.
First of all, I travelled to border regions in the North Caucasus Federal District and visited our outposts and offices on the Russian-Georgian and Russian-Azerbaijani borders. Incidentally, I met with my Azerbaijani counterpoint at the Yarag-Kazmalyar border post, and we discussed joint efforts in this field.
I also assessed the security measures in place for the Olympics. In general Border Guard Service teams are ready to cope with the tasks at hand. With this in mind we went to Abkhazia, looked at the infrastructure of our border directorate there, including in places where ships are based and in our offices throughout the republic.
I made a working visit to the Far Eastern Federal District, where I visited Petropavlovsk-Kamchatsky and was briefed about the implementation of your instructions to create a Russian Coast Guard. I then headed north, circled over Wrangel Island and visited Ratmanov Island, where we are planning to place equipment to monitor current conditions, including the safety of the Northern Sea Route. Due to adverse weather conditions I stopped at Pevek, then went down to Magadan, where I also did some work, including holding a detailed discussion of various measures taken to protect biological resources.
With regards to international activities, I was elected Chairman of the CIS Border Troops Commanders Council at the Council’s 69th meeting in Odessa. I held bilateral talks with all the heads of CIS border services.
In Lithuania I met with heads of border services of the Baltic states and Belarus. We assessed our progress, entered into an agreement to continue cross-border cooperation, and planned a number of joint operations, including some designed to block the illegal migration channels through Russia to Europe. In the second quarter of 2013, we conducted an operation which resulted in criminal charges in Baltic countries, as well as in Belarus and the Russian Federation. This shows that such activities are needed as they help stop criminal activities, including cross-border crime.
This June in Yekaterinburg I met with the heads of border services of Shanghai Cooperation Organisation members and Afghanistan. We held bilateral talks with the Afghan Border Police.
In September 2013 we plan to visit the Far East. In Vladivostok, Russia will chair a meeting of heads of border services of the North Pacific region, including the United States, Japan, Russia and Korea. There we will also discuss joint efforts to protect biological resources and work out the priorities for our future events. After that I plan to stay in the region and work on coastal management, on Sakhalin and the Kuril Islands. In accordance with the federal targeted programme for Russia’s state border for 2012 to 2020, a number of facilities have been planned and I want to visit them and evaluate the progress that has been made.
Vladimir Putin: How are social issues being resolved?
Vladimir Kulishov: Mr President, naturally there has recently been significant progress in resolving the social problems our military personnel face, including thanks to federal targeted programmes.
These issues are being addressed more effectively in the Caucasus and Central Russia. In the Far East, good quality housing for border guards is being built fairly steadily where our border offices are deployed, and in regional centres. Naturally, the situation is more difficult along our distant frontiers, where service conditions and technical equipment are edging closer to the ideal, but living conditions remain a problem.
Vladimir Putin: We must develop service housing.
Vladimir Kulishov: Eighteen people live on Ratmanov Island; there is not a single village there, only our technical supervision point. Of course, the people who are serving there command our respect.
Vladimir Putin: Border guards perform a special service, they are always on duty in the truest sense of the word. Border guards are always battle-ready and really do perform combat missions. They have virtually no other employment, so we should look at monetary allowances. You know the plans as of 2014. All this will have to be comprehensively addressed, and housing issues too.
Everything relating to the protection of the state border is important – there are no minor issues here – but nevertheless we must pay particular attention to the south of the country, to the North Caucasus and cooperation with our colleagues in Central Asian republics in the light of the situation in Afghanistan. In addition, we must pay attention to the Far East and the Arctic.
Vladimir Kulishov: This year we have received applications from more than 300 vessels to use the Northern Sea Route, and the proportion of foreign ships is increasing. Therefore, we see our task as supervising and ensuring Russia’s security and interests specifically in the Arctic region. To do this, we build our work on research and development as well as use existing border infrastructure.
<…>
Topics
National security
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 15, 2013, 14:10
Text versionEvents
Working meeting with Acting Head of Daghestan Ramazan Abdulatipov
Mr Putin and Mr Abdulatipov discussed the situation in Daghestan and the main development trends in the republic.
August 15, 2013
12:45
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 3
With Acting Head of Daghestan Ramazan Abdulatipov.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon,
Mr Abdulatipov, naturally we will talk about the republic, about your assessment of the current situation and future prospects, what was accomplished during the brief period you have been Acting Head of Daghestan, and what you see as your next tasks and goals.
Acting Head of Daghestan Ramazan Abdulatipov: Mr President, in accordance with the directives you issued at my appointment, the republic is working on various reforms. Clean-up and renewal processes are underway in all fields.
If I were to characterise the findings very briefly, I would say that Daghestan was fed, but not taken care of, and therefore a lot of bad cells have multiplied.
Secondly, Daghestan was fed, but its development was not fostered. It is virtually impossible to find a single institution or source working towards developing the republic. Therefore, we concluded that we need a fundamentally new development strategy.
I’m not here to ask the President for funding for current expenses. If there are any such requests, they will be aimed at ensuring the region’s long-term development.
In accordance with your May 2012 executive orders, we have elaborated ten development priorities for the region. If these priority programmes are implemented – there are both one-year and three-year programmes – then in seven to eight years we will be able to actually triple the size of Daghestan’s economy. Consequently, Daghestan must cease to be a problem region for Russia, but rather be an effective and stable one.
Vladimir Putin: What do you see as the main vectors of development?
Ramazan Abdulatipov: First of all, ensuring the republic’s security. To achieve this, we are currently drafting the Safe Daghestan programme together with the FSB, Interior Ministry and other agencies. We must take a completely new approach, not just increasing a military presence and so on, but by introducing modern technology, providing the requisite equipment and analysing the situation in the republic.
The second area – what I call new industrialisation – involves analysing the current state of manufacturing companies, renovating and sometimes actually building new enterprises.
And third: removing out-of-date enterprises from city centres. In particular, Makhachkala is so overcrowded with these that there is no room for normal infrastructure. So we must clear out old industrial sites, and organise playgrounds, parks and so on.
We also consider agriculture to be one of our main ladders for climbing out of the crisis. In the early 1990s, Daghestan grew 380,000 tonnes of grapes. Today we produce 100,000 tonnes during the very best years. In addition, virtually every hectare of vineyard creates four to five jobs. In the coming years we are planning to cultivate more than 5,000 hectares, and this means that more than 20,000 people will be employed there.
Vladimir Putin: This is in addition [to already existing vineyards]?
Ramazan Abdulatipov: Yes, in addition.
We can establish greenhouse farms. I spoke with the Defence Minister about feeding troops with food from Daghestan, fresh food, vegetables and so on. He answered: “If it’s year-round, then I’m for it.” So we have to provide it year-round.
There is a whole number of other directions [for development]. Naturally, at the end of the day all these priority projects must result in a new level of education, a new level of culture, and a new quality of life.
Of course, one priority direction indispensable to everything else concerns personnel training and candidate pools. In fact, we’ve had a situation in which many people could not get jobs, so they relocated to other Russian regions and settled down there. Today it is very difficult to find well-trained, creative personnel. And we are conducting a huge amount of work in this respect too.
Vladimir Putin: This is very important: people must have prospects.
How would you assess the current situation? First and foremost, I am referring to social indicators such as education, healthcare and wage levels?
Ramazan Abdulatipov: In accordance with your executive orders, we were able to ensure the target level of salaries for teachers, which meant a raise of 14.8%. While modernising healthcare we made sure wages increased accordingly. When I arrived in office, it turned out that increases in wages had been delayed for a few months. I made sure these calculations were made again and everyone was paid the outstanding wages they should have received following your orders.
I think that in general the budget of the Russian Federation provides sufficient funding for the normal functioning of our healthcare, education and other systems. Provided that the officials overseeing the spending of budgetary funds have honest and impeccable motives.
Recently we received an additional sum of about 2 billion rubles [$60 million] from the federal budget, and we are going to build more than 20 kindergartens. Sometimes there is no need to build new facilities, when the existing buildings can be employed. I recently visited a neighbourhood where people started talking about kindergartens. Many people from that neighbourhood work in the Stavropol Territory, as well as other regions. I said: “Who has a free house?” A woman stood up and said: “I have a two-storey house.” “How many children can you take in?” “20.” “What work do you do?” “I’m a teacher.” So I said: “I appoint you kindergarten director; we will start a kindergarten for 20 children in your home.”
Let me emphasise again that a great deal can be done if we act honestly, above board and with dedication, always thinking about people’s interests. And the most important result is that in the past months we managed to restore people’s trust in the authorities – both at the federal and primarily at the republican level. Today levels of trust are quite high. Therefore, we must work accordingly in order to maintain them.
<…>
Geography
Republic of Daghestan
Topics
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 15, 2013, 12:45
Text version