Events
Meeting with President of Ukraine Viktor Yanukovych
Vladimir Putin met with President of Ukraine Viktor Yanukovych in the Kremlin.
December 17, 2013
15:35
The Kremlin, Moscow
3 of 3
With President of Ukraine Viktor Yanukovych.
The meeting between the two heads of state was held prior to the session of the Russian-Ukrainian Interstate Commission.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Yanukovych,
It gives me great pleasure to welcome you to Moscow. This is a regular meeting scheduled to take place prior to the interstate consultations, and I very much hope that we can move forward in addressing the most important issues.
There can be no doubt that Ukraine is our strategic partner and ally in the fullest sense of the word. Unfortunately, as we noted during our recent meeting in Sochi, we have seen a decrease in trade over the past two years: 11 percent in 2012 and a further 14.5 percent this year. Therefore, it is time to take vigorous action so that we not only return to the level of previous years, but also create the conditions for moving forward.
Lately, our colleagues in the Government – the prime ministers and other members of our countries’ cabinets – have been working very successfully in several vitally important sectors, including energy, machine engineering, space, aviation and shipbuilding. I know that you have been briefed on the results of their work. Today we will have an excellent chance to strengthen our legal base in in these areas, and to create all the conditions necessary for expanding trade and economic relations between Russia and Ukraine.
I am very pleased to see you. Welcome!
President of Ukraine Viktor Yanukovych
: Thank you, Mr Putin.
I want to stress too that at governmental level, we went over very thoroughly the sensitive issues for our economy. You were completely right to note that the drop in bilateral trade that we have seen over these last two years, and that we discussed in depth in Minsk and then in Sochi, now requires urgent intervention on our part.
I think that over the coming period we will need to coordinate this work not just between Russia and Ukraine themselves, but also with the other CIS countries, so as get the free trade zone working to its maximum potential.
We know that the high level of cooperation that exists between Ukraine and Russia attracts other CIS countries too. Ukraine will do everything it can to coordinate this work as the country holding the CIS Presidency in 2014. We must use this opportunity to improve the situation, because the companies that have begun feeling the impact of falling trade are facing economic difficulties.
It is technically impossible and simply not profitable to produce only small volumes at plants with a continuous production cycle. Changing the situation is therefore our common task. I know that you are familiar with the work our governments have done. The agreements that have been drafted and the measures we will take over this coming period will make a big difference to improving the situation in the immediate future. 
Some sectors will require much more fundamental decisions. There are a number of areas in which we could produce new goods of new quality together. This would be something from which both countries would benefit. 
I have to mention the traditional issue on our agenda – gas. Regarding the programme that Gazprom is proposing to Ukraine, and Naftegaz also sees opportunities here, I think that neither we nor you will hinder these agreements. We will settle all the issues on a reciprocal advantage basis. Manufacturers in Ukraine are very much looking forward to seeing this happen.
I also want to mention sensitive issues such as energy-sector machine-building, transport machine-building, shipbuilding, aircraft manufacturing and the space sector. These programmes are all either ready now or require a little more work and will soon be ready, this year I think. If there is anything we do not sign today, we will need to sign it very soon and continue our work. In other words, today’s meeting is a strategic one to a certain extent, given the number of decisions ready for approval, especially in bilateral trade.
We must not stop there but must continue to develop this strategic partnership. We are talking here about trade between the border regions too, and interregional cooperation. We must develop these areas, which make it easier for both goods and people to cross the borders.
These are also issues that we should make the focus of the business forums that we hold. The regions can do a lot, but it is very important to give them the right conditions, and most importantly of all, not to get in their way. They will always be quick to reach agreements, especially the border regions. I think this is something that we should make a constant focus in our work.
I want to mention too the celebrations of the 200th anniversary of Taras Shevchenko’s birth. We have a programme for the 2014 anniversary celebrations, which, I was told, you have seen and approved. Taras Shevchenko was the poet who did much to unite our peoples. He was also a man of great foresight, who had far-reaching vision and left us a great legacy.
Thank you, Mr Putin, for the work that has been done. I think the results of this work will form the base for our further action.
Vladimir PUTIN: You mentioned one of the aspects of our humanitarian cooperation, the 200th anniversary of Taras Shevchenko’s birth. Our colleagues in this area have also been hard at work and have specific proposals for developing our humanitarian ties. This is very important, and not just for people who have relatives in each other’s countries – and there are many such families in Russia and Ukraine – but also for those who have come to Russia to work.
Official statistics put the number of people from Ukraine working in Russia at around 1.5 million people, and various estimates give a figure of up to 5 million people. This is a large number and we must create good conditions for these people so that they are free to live and work here, cross the border and help and support their families back home. We will discuss all of this today. 
<…>
Geography
Ukraine
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Yanukovych Viktor
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 17, 2013, 15:35
Text versionEvents
Speech at a meeting of the Russian-Ukrainian Interstate Commission
December 17, 2013
18:10
The Kremlin, Moscow
At the meeting of the Russian-Ukrainian Interstate Commission.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Yanukovych, colleagues,
I have just had a very detailed discussion of practically all areas of our cooperation with President Yanukovych. Russia and Ukraine are strategic partners not on paper but in actual practice. We share a centuries-old friendship and the bond of having spent a long time living together in a single country.
We went over all the different areas of our cooperation, especially economic cooperation of course, but we discussed humanitarian ties and other areas too.
We have a big agenda today. We will hear proposals from the heads of ministries and agencies on the key areas of our bilateral ties.
I remind you that Russia is still Ukraine’s main economic partner and accounts for up to 30 percent of Ukraine’s total foreign trade.
True, there are problems too, and we discussed them today. We are concerned about the drop in trade we have seen over the last two years. In 2012, our trade turnover dropped to $45 billion, down by 11 percent, and it fell by a further 15 percent over the first nine months of this year.
I think that we have come together at just the right moment to take a look at what we can do to reverse this negative trend and not just recover the lost ground but put in place the conditions for moving ahead. This is precisely the aim of the action plan for settling trade relations, which today’s meeting is set to approve.
We must implement in full the roadmap for investment, financial and sector-based cooperation that was approved in Kaluga in October. The roadmap was the result of a lot of hard work and was coordinated at the level of prime ministers.
It sets out a series of large-scale measures to stabilise economic cooperation and make it less sensitive to fluctuations in the global economy, diversify industrial ties and preserve cooperation between manufacturers. Direct contacts between business, which we will do everything we can to support, will play a key part in this work.
The money transfers that Ukrainian citizens working in Russia send home also play a big part in supporting Ukraine’s economy. Official statistics estimate at around 1.5 million the number of Ukrainians working in Russia. Unofficial estimates put the figure at closer to 5 million. Money transfers and remittances to Ukraine come to $2.3 billion a year. 
Ukraine also gets a large share of Russian investment. Accumulated Russian investment in the Ukrainian economy comes to $1.5 billion.
Russian companies are investing in Ukraine’s basic sectors, in particular the fuel and energy sector, chemicals industry, metals sector, and machine-building. 
We have a number of big projects lined up, including in nuclear energy, aircraft and engine manufacturing, and transport infrastructure.
Last year, we launched a four-year programme for peaceful exploration of outer space.
We are making progress in the agriculture sector, including in the grain trade. We are in the process of setting up the Black Sea Grain Committee, with Ukraine, Kazakhstan and Russia taking part. This will help to coordinate policy between these three leading global grain producers. 
Russia and Ukraine can work together more closely on the international stage and expand policy coordination on current global issues, above all regional security, in which Russia’s Black Sea Fleet, which is based at Sevastopol, plays a key part. 
We need to renew all-round cooperation in military and military-technical affairs. I discussed this in depth with President Yanukovych. As our countries build closer economic and political links, we are ready to look at the possibility of drawing on the Ukrainian economy’s capability for the needs of Russia’s armed forces, including in areas such as carrying out repairs and so on. The Russian and Ukrainian defence ministries have already drafted specific proposals in this area. 
Humanitarian ties play a special part in our bilateral relations. The main aim here is to expand contacts between our countries and peoples. In this respect we must pay greater attention to the cultural events that both countries are organising.
Mr Yanukovych mentioned the celebrations next year of the 200th anniversary of the birth of Taras Shevchenko. I want to mention that we will also celebrate the 70th anniversary of the liberation of Sevastopol from the Nazis next year.
I know that everyone taking part in today’s meeting has already been working together for quite a long time now. I would like to give the floor to Mr Yanukovych now, and then we will hear from our colleagues. I know that the documents have already been prepared, and we will be able to then proceed to the signing.
See also
Meeting of the Russian-Ukrainian Interstate Commission
December 17, 2013
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 17, 2013, 18:10
Text version