Events
Comments on the chemical weapons situation in Syria
September 10, 2013
21:00
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
Vladimir Putin commented on the chemical weapons situation in Syria.
Question: Mr President, everybody’s talking about Syria, chemical weapons and bringing Syria’s chemical arsenal under international control. We have just received a report from Washington saying you discussed this matter with President Obama
at the G20 summit in St Petersburg. Is it true? Did you talk about this? And if so, whose idea was it, President Obama’s or yours? And how realistic do you think this proposal is?
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: It is a well-known fact that Syria has a chemical weapons arsenal, and Syrians have always regarded it as a counterbalance to Israel’s nuclear stockpile.
Russia’s position on the issue is well-known: we are against the proliferation of any weapons of mass destruction, including both chemical and nuclear weapons.
Given the current situation in Syria, this issue is particularly pressing, and we did discuss this matter on the margins of the G20 summit in St Petersburg.
In fact, the matter of bringing Syria’s chemical weapons under international control has long been a subject of discussion by experts and politicians.
And, like I said, the US president and myself also talked about this on the margins of the summit.
We agreed to step up these efforts and instruct the Secretary of State and the Russian Foreign Minister to work together and see if they can achieve some progress in this regard.
On September 9, we heard US Secretary of State John Kerry saying in a public statement in London that the US thinks this is extremely important for the resolution of the Syrian crisis. We, too, think this is a serious matter which requires thorough consideration.
With the foreign minister of Syria currently on a visit to Moscow, our Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov
talked to him, and he then talked to his country’s leadership, and we hear that Syria responded positively to this proposal.
Not only do we think this is a viable option, but we really hope that our friends in Syria take this responsible decision and agree not only to bring their chemical weapons under international control but also to have them destroyed, and we hope Syria joins the international convention banning chemical weapons.
I think this will be a big step forward in resolving the Syrian crisis. Of course, all of this will only mean anything if the United States and other nations supporting it tell us that they're giving up their plan to use force against Syria.
You can’t really ask Syria, or any other country, to disarm unilaterally while military action against it is being contemplated.
We will work together with Syrians and our US partners, and, like I said, I hope this will be a big step forwards towards a peaceful resolution to the Syrian crisis.
See also
G20 summit
September 5 − 6, 2013
Additional
Vladimir Putin – about the situation in and around Syria
August 31, 2013
Geography
Syria
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 10, 2013, 21:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with elected Russian regional leaders
Vladimir Putin chaired a meeting with heads of Russian regions voted in during regional elections held on the single election day.
September 10, 2013
16:00
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 10
Meeting with elected Russian regional leaders.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Dear colleagues, good afternoon,
Voting has closed and you have won your elections; naturally I must congratulate you on your victory and wish you success. I have traditionally done so, and I do it with pleasure.
But I must say that this alone is not the meaning and purpose of our meeting today. Rather it is to realise, to once again understand and establish that elections do not only mean happily slapping each other on the back and congratulating each other. We must also acknowledge that a huge responsibility for the future of your region rests on those shoulders, on your shoulders. And these are vast regions where significant numbers of our citizens live. In several regions some very serious problems are still far from being resolved. And all this lies on your shoulders. This is the first point.
Second: you felt how political work has become more complex, and more competitive in the fullest sense of the word. And this is also the result of our actions in recent years to improve Russia’s political system. Not only parliamentary but also non-parliamentary parties are participating in elections; many of them significantly improved their standing in regions where legislative elections were held. This suggests that our citizens are looking for alternatives, looking for people that they believe can effectively solve the problems they face.
  Naturally I am pleased to note that all incumbent regional leaders were re-elected. But let me repeat that this demonstrates once again that we need to engage in normal work, create capable teams, and encourage people to work effectively together.
I would draw attention to the fact that in some regions we agreed with local deputies that regional parliaments will appoint their own leaders. This is primarily required by ethnic variety. Not so much to ensure security or resolve some related problem; above all this is a political tradition, related to the multi-confessional, multi-ethnic, special composition of these regions.
First and foremost I am referring to the Caucasus: to Daghestan and Ingushetia. Traditionally, members of different ethnic groups have occupied senior positions in the regional governments there. It is difficult to compose these agencies so harmoniously via direct elections, so I think that our colleagues were right. But in fact organising this work is also their business. Federal law gives you the right to elect regional leaders by direct secret ballot, or conversely via parliament. It’s their decision.
I would also note that United Russia has somewhat strengthened its position compared to the legislative elections [in 2011]. But this also means only one thing, that citizens’ trust must be vindicated.
And to conclude, something traditional but not formal. I would urge you to ensure that you build relationships not only with your supporters, but also with all of your opponents. Even though they lost, they sincerely aspired to a position of power in order to solve our citizens’ problems. And certainly there is something of value in their programmes that could be used for joint work, particularly for collaborations.
I would like to conclude on this point, and to congratulate you once again on the results.
< … >
See also
Nationwide day of voting
September 8, 2013
Geography
Republic of Daghestan
Republic of Ingushetia
Republic of Khakassia
Trans-Baikal Territory
6 more
Topics
Civil service
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 10, 2013, 16:00
Text version