Events
Beginning of meeting with President of Venezuela Nicolas Maduro
July 2, 2013
14:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
With President of Venezuela Nicolas Maduro.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, friends,
Let me once again welcome you all to Moscow. We had a good working day yesterday, and I want to thank you personally for taking part in the summit of the Gas Exporting Countries Forum.
As regards our bilateral relations, I’m pleased to note that you have picked up the baton from your predecessor, one of most prominent leaders in Latin America, Hugo Chavez, and continue to further develop Russian-Venezuelan relations.
Our trade and economic ties have reached a new level of $2 billion, and our companies have an ambitious investment plan that exceeds $20 billion. Actually, all our plans are developing successfully.
And we are working successfully on diversification of our ties. We have a rich agenda with many topics to discuss. And I’m very happy for this opportunity to meet with you personally.
“Our trade and economic ties have reached a new level of $2 billion, and our companies have an ambitious investment plan that exceeds $20 billion. All our plans are developing successfully.”
President of Venezuela Nicolas Maduro
(translated from Russian): Mr President, first of all I would like to thank you for the solidarity and personal friendship that you have had with President Chavez. Mr Chavez always showed great respect and love for Russia, and we have inherited this love from him.
We have come here to confirm our commitment to further strengthen and expand our strategic alliance with Russia. Over the last decades, we have built a whole range of multifaceted relations between our nations in various spheres. We have good progress in the energy sector, oil, gas, oil-and-gas equipment manufacturing industry. Our cooperation in the military sector is also progressing at a good pace.
Relations in the financial sector, agriculture, culture and education are also developing. We have 14 areas to develop and 63 topics, or issues to work on.
I would like to once again express my satisfaction with our visit to Moscow, with the fact that we continue to move forward along the track set by President Chavez.
Our country holds a special place in Latin America: it’s the motherland of the great liberator Simon Bolivar, — and Russia can rely on Bolivar’s home country.
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: I know that you have taken part in commemoration events in memory of Hugo Chavez. One of Moscow streets has been given his name.
Nicolas Maduro: That’s right. We are going to inaugurate this street in the afternoon. It’s going to be a very emotional moment. Thank you.
<…>
See also
Talks with President of Venezuela Nicolas Maduro
July 2, 2013
Geography
Venezuela
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Maduro Nicolas
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 2, 2013, 14:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting on developing the United Aircraft Corporation
Vladimir Putin held a meeting on the current state and development prospects of the United Aircraft Corporation.
July 2, 2013
20:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
5 of 5
Meeting on developing the United Aircraft Corporation.
The meeting participants discussed measures to develop civilian segment of Russia’s aircraft manufacturing sector, in particular, possible financial support mechanisms for producers and buyers of Russian-made civilian aircraft.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon colleagues.
We discussed our development plans recently at the St Petersburg International Economic Forum. The top priorities are investing in infrastructure, raising labour productivity and effectiveness, reducing our dependence on raw materials exports by modernising industry throughout the non-raw materials sector, and developing and modernising key industrial sectors.
“The OAK’s establishment was a calculated and objectively necessary step, because we needed to consolidate the sector’s financial resources in order to compete, develop, and restore our positions.”
We are here today to analyse the situation in aircraft manufacturing and discuss the tasks facing the United Aircraft Corporation (OAK). The OAK’s establishment was a calculated and objectively necessary step, because we needed to consolidate the sector’s financial resources in order to compete, develop, and restore our positions. The sector was successful in the past, but as you know, we ended up falling behind in the modernisation process. I will address it in more detail later. We had to clearly establish exactly how and with what resources we would increase production of Russian-made high-tech goods and carry out our plans to re-equip the armed forces and modernise our civilian aviation fleet. These were the objectives we set out to address in establishing the OAK.
The ultimate goal is to develop one of the biggest global aircraft manufacturing centres here in Russia. We have the necessary base for this. Over the 7 years since its founding, more than 100 aircraft companies, design bureaus and related organisations have become part of the OAK, and a modern management system has been put into place, effectively for the entire sector. The company is growing and developing, obtaining positive financial results, and shows good production figures. A number of new generation models have been launched and put into series production. Production of aircraft has doubled since 2007.
Last year, 104 aircraft across the product range were built. The OAK’s overall orders portfolio now comes to more than 1 trillion rubles [$33 billion]. State defence procurement contracts are going ahead smoothly. The first T-50 PAK-FA aircraft has successfully completed its first test phase and everything is ready for putting the modernised Il-76, Il-476 transport plane into series production.
Of course, plenty of difficulties still remain. As I said, our aircraft manufacturing sector ended up missing out a whole modernisation cycle and in the 1990s lost a lot of its specialists and production facilities. Inevitably we still feel the impact today. We remember what state the sector was in. It was fragmented, and each segment had some seemingly decent companies or design bureaus, but individually they had no weight and absolutely could not compete on the global market. This is unsurprising, because sectors such aircraft manufacturing and shipbuilding, perhaps aircraft manufacturing above all, need state support. They need a comprehensive approach and big companies able to invest serious money in modernisation and research. And so, the effects of our past problems inevitably still make themselves felt today, above all in civilian aircraft manufacturing, where we have lost a lot of ground on the global market and on the domestic market too.
“The ultimate goal is to develop one of the biggest global aircraft manufacturing centres here in Russia. We have the necessary base for this.”
In this respect I want to bring several important points to your attention.
First, we have invested serious money in developing new model civilian aircraft such as the Sukhoi Superjet-100 over recent years. Production of this aircraft is steadily increasing. The MS-21 is another promising aircraft. The money that we invested in these projects, and continue to invest, is now bringing real returns and turning into real orders and contracts signed. The big task now is to increase sales, because a solid order book is the best guarantee of long-term sustained development in the sector.
I know that our aircraft manufacturers did well at the recent air show in France. Our aircraft demonstrated all their advantages and strongpoints. Big deals were signed for supplying civilian aircraft. To keep these deals running smoothly we are to ensure competent and modern work with customers, effective financial instruments, and support for deals of this sort. In this context, I think that we must put in place a systemic sales support mechanism for Russian aircraft, focused not on one-off deals, but on ongoing work with clients, whether domestic or foreign. I propose that we analyse this matter today and draft some concrete proposals at the end.
Second, the aircraft manufacturing cycle is quite a long one, and we thus have to ensure that the industry has a solid reserve of financial support and operates in such a way as to avoid excessive debt burdens and financial shortages. I ask the Government to draft the relevant measures and present its proposals on this matter.
Finally, we all know that an aircraft’s cost, technical features, and the contract’s financial terms all play a decisive part on the global market. But we should not overlook the very important question of providing quality after-sales service, reliable supply of spare parts, and organising modern pilot training centres. It is very important that Russian-made planes, no matter where around the world they are in operation, always get the timely service support they require. I ask the corporation management to give this area of work their utmost attention. We will talk about this area too, today. Let’s start work.
<…>
Topics
Transport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 2, 2013, 20:30
Text versionEvents
Press statement following Russian-Venezuelan talks
July 2, 2013
16:30
Press statement following Russian-Venezuelan talks.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen,
We have just had substantial and constructive talks with President of Venezuela Nicolas Maduro, and have discussed the key areas of our bilateral strategic cooperation. It was President Hugo Chavez, a strong and courageous man and a true great friend of Russia, who was at the origins of this close cooperation. Here in Russia, we have not forgotten him and we honour his memory. One of Moscow’s streets has been named in his honour as part of a public event under the name Russia Honours Hugo Chavez’ Memory.
Mr Maduro and I discussed our common desire to continue the strategic cooperation between our two countries in all areas.
We both took part in the second Gas Exporting Countries Forum summit and we think it was a success. We agreed to continue coordination of our work through the GECF to develop the global gas market and promote gas producer countries’ interests.
“Venezuela is a key partner for Russia in Latin America. Our bilateral trade increased by more than 12 percent in 2012 and came to more than $2 billion. It posted a three-fold increase over the first quarter of 2013.”
Venezuela is a key partner for Russia in Latin America. Our bilateral trade increased by more than 12 percent in 2012 and came to more than $2 billion. It posted a three-fold increase over the first quarter of 2013. True, this was also the result of several big military-technical cooperation and industrial equipment supply deals, but the general trend is clear.
Russian investment in the Venezuelan economy is increasing and now comes to an aggregate of $21 billion. We are also seeing Venezuelan investment in Russia, currently at a figure of $1.1 billion.
The energy sector is an important area for our joint investment projects. In September 2012, the Russian National Oil Consortium launched the first oil well at the Junin-6 oil field (investment totalling up to $20 billion).
INTER RAO UES is supplying gas turbine installations for power stations under construction in Venezuela, and is helping to build a thermal power station at Puerto la Cruz.
We see big potential in industrial cooperation. Russia and Venezuela are carrying out promising projects in the automotive industry, machine building, transport, and infrastructure.
KamAZ plans to establish a joint venture with Venezuela to produce trucks and buses. Five service centres have already been built for servicing these vehicles. The company is taking part in modernising Venezuela’s public transport fleet.
“The energy sector is an important area for our joint investment projects. In September 2012, the Russian National Oil Consortium launched the first oil well at the Junin-6 oil field (investment totalling up to $20 billion).”
Sovcomflot shipping company is transporting Venezuelan oil and oil products. Transport of these products from Venezuela’s ports has increased 7-fold over the last two years and now comes to 15 million tons a year.
The Moscow City Government Housing Construction Support and Development Fund is helping to build social housing in Venezuela. The programme’s first stage will see more than 6,000 apartments ready to move into by the start of 2014.
Our humanitarian ties are also developing. In August 2012, the Days of Russian Culture were organised in Venezuela, and a Russian Science and Culture Centre has been open and operating in Caracas since September 2012. An intergovernmental agreement on establishment and functioning conditions of science and culture centres took effect on April 30 this year. Every year, 50 Venezuelan students study at Russian universities at Russian federal budget expense.
We gave considerable attention to international issues during our talks. I want to thank our Venezuelan colleagues for the friendly spirit and substantial discussion today.
I take this opportunity to congratulate you, Mr President, and all of friendly Venezuela’s people on your upcoming national holiday, Independence Day, on July 5.
Thank you very much for your attention.
See also
Talks with President of Venezuela Nicolas Maduro
July 2, 2013
Geography
Venezuela
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 2, 2013, 16:30
Text version