Events
Address to delegates at the International Exhibitions Bureau’s General Assembly
A video address by Vladimir Putin to delegates at the International Exhibitions Bureau’s 153rd General Assembly has been published.
June 12, 2013
14:30
Candidate cities to host the Expo 2020 universal exhibition are presenting their bids today at the International Exhibitions Bureau (BIE) General Assembly in Paris. The bidding cities are Yekaterinburg (Russia), Dubai (United Arab Emirates), Sao Paulo (Brazil), Izmir (Turkey) and Ayutthaya (Thailand).
Russia is represented at the Paris General Assembly by Deputy Prime Minister and Head of the Yekaterinburg Expo 2020 Bid Organising Committee Arkady Dvorkovich, Governor of Sverdlovsk Region Yevgeny Kuivashev, and CEO of the Expo 2020 Bid Committee Erik Bugulov. 
In accordance with BIE requirements, videos presenting the candidate cities’ advantages and possibilities are the main component of the bid presentations. One of the central components of the Russian presentation details the state support for Yekaterinburg’s bid and includes a video address in English by Mr Putin.
President Putin examined Yekaterinburg’s Expo 2020 venue model together with President of the European Council Herman Van Rompuy and President of the European Commission Jose Manual Barroso at the Russia-EU summit in Yekaterinburg on June 4, 2013.
The Expo 2020 host city will be chosen in a final vote by the BIE General Assembly in Paris in November 2013.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ladies and gentlemen,
I am delighted to greet members and guests of the General Assembly of the International Exhibitions Bureau.
See also
Presentation of Yekaterinburg’s Expo 2020 venue model
June 4, 2013
Russia has a long and rich experience of participation in the World Expo movement. We took part in the very first universal exhibition in London in 1851. And at the Paris exhibition in 1900 our pavilion won the coveted Gold Medal and Grand Prix. But in all this time, Russia has not hosted the World Expo, not once. Surely, time has come to change this.
So, we proudly submit our bid to host World Expo 2020 in Yekaterinburg – a dynamic and promising city.
Our bid’s organising committee has the full backing of the Russian government. We guarantee: it will be a priority national project. We are going to build a massive state-of-the-art complex with the capacity to host 30 million visitors over the course of the event. We plan to allocate all the necessary funding for its construction.
I am confident: we shall welcome guests from 150 nations of the world with pride and dignity.
Now, once again I would like to make this very clear: Russia guarantees to fulfil the complete range of requirements set by the International Exhibitions Bureau. In particular, we are preparing a special programme of support for developing countries. This will enable around ninety countries to freely participate in the Expo, completely free of charge.
I can assure you that our grand-scale plans for 2020 will be delivered if Yekaterinburg is given the honour to host World Expo 2020.
Thank you for your attention, and I hope for your support.
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 12, 2013, 14:30
Text versionEvents
Speech at reception on Russia Day
June 12, 2013
14:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
Reception on Russia Day.
See also
2012 Russian Federation National Awards have been presented
June 12, 2013
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends,
Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, I congratulate you on Russia Day.
This holiday grows in importance every year. Its meaning, spirit and atmosphere reflect Russia’s development today. It is also a part of our history with all its difficult and sometimes dramatic moments.
We all remember how sudden and dramatic the changes of the early 1990s were, the transition to a new life, how difficult it all was, and how great the political and economic transformations taking place were. The Russian people’s will, strength, and patience helped us to get through the hardships of those years and ultimately reach civil, social and ethnic peace and set our country firmly on a development track that is inseparable from the ideas of democracy and respect for human rights and the rule of law.
These values are of paramount importance for us. Moreover, the energy of a united society and the freedom and responsibility of each individual citizen are a powerful force for taking us forward and guaranteeing the success of our bold and ambitious projects.
Friends, today’s holiday symbolises the common destiny of our people, who have lived in peace and harmony for centuries, and sincerely love their homeland, which is the common home for people of different ethnic groups and faiths.
We must always remember the importance and wealth of this unique experience, treasure the traditions that our forebears have handed down through the ages, and be worthy of their sacred love for their fatherland, their deeds and sacrifices. This is our priceless heritage and the foundation for strengthening our unity and for our moral and spiritual development.
Each generation has a duty to make their contribution to their great country’s history. We must do all we can to reach our goals, above all that of giving our millions of people a better quality of life. Our country’s democratic procedures, federal system, market economy and all forms of guarantees for human rights must work towards this priority goal today. Change makes sense when people actually see that their lives are getting better. These are the goals we will achieve.
Friends, once again I congratulate you on this holiday and raise a toast to a free and prosperous Russia and to prosperity for our people!
Happy Russia Day!
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 12, 2013, 14:30
Text versionEvents
Opening remarks at a ceremony presenting Russian Federation National Awards
June 12, 2013
13:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
Ceremony for presenting the 2012 Russian Federation National Awards.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Laureates, friends!
I congratulate you all on the Russia Day national holiday.
By tradition, this is the day we officially present the National Awards, and it is always a special occasion that fills me above all with a sense of pride in our country and its rich intellectual, scientific and cultural potential, and of course also a feeling of immense respect for people’s talent, devotion to their work, and outstanding achievements that affirm the tremendous value of creative and educational effort and contribute greatly to our country and its development. The laureates’ successes are inspiring examples for us all, and especially for our youth, for Russia’s young citizens.
Let me say a few words about each of today’s laureates.
Valentin Rasputin truly reveals the Russian people’s character in his novels and short stories. His work reaches philosophical pinnacles and puts the true sense back into concepts such as Motherland, memory, conscience, mercy, and patriotism. His name has become a symbol of the values that he has defended throughout his life. The fates of his heroes leave a deep impression. His characters are all different, but what always triumphs is the idea of staying true to one’s roots, the power of the spiritual beauty, and the importance of understanding between people.
These things are important in any field. This can be seen in the success of big teams that know how to combine tradition and innovation, experience and boldness. This goes in full measure for the group of laureates here today, the nuclear scientists Alexei Dub, Georgy Karzov, and Yaroslav Shtrombakh. The high radiation-resistant materials for nuclear reactor pressure vessels that they have developed ensure reactors’ reliable operation. I add too, that their work is ahead of similar research in many other countries.
Another research and development group is represented here by the specialists Yefim Mezhiritsky, Sergei Nikulin, and Viktor Shurygin. Their achievements have direct benefits for Russia’s defence sector. This is a sector of great importance, not an easy sector, and it comes with tremendous responsibilities before our people. The Yars strategic missile system that they developed makes a huge contribution to strengthening our strategic capability and guaranteeing our security.
Another scientific team, this time in the environmental field, is that of the biologists Dmitry Pavlov, Andrei Adrianov, and the world-famous soil scientist Gleb Dobrovolsky. Sadly, Mr Dobrovolsky passed away recently at the age of 97. He spent practically his entire life literally making our land cleaner and tried to change people’s attitudes towards our natural heritage.
The lives of scientists, researchers and devoted people such as these are beacons and examples for young people thinking of making science their career. All of the laureates have devoted their entire lives to their chosen scientific fields with love and dedication. 
We see all of these qualities reflected in the work of historian and archaeologist Anatoly Derevyanko. His research and publications on the earliest history of humans in Eurasia and the formation of anatomically modern humans have earned scientific recognition around the world as fundamental studies of great humanist significance.
By looking through the depths of history, people form their views and moral foundations and sense the pulse of time. The arts help to give all of this emotional substance, and this includes documentary film. Sergei Miroshnichenko, a great master in this field, is also one of the laureates today. His vivid and honest works will give future generations a means to learn about our country and the people living today, and they will look to his films to find answers to the questions on their minds.
I am sure that the work of National Artist of Russia Tair Salakhov will be just as significant for future generations. His works reflect several periods in our history and speak in a language we can all understand about events and people and the lives they lived.
It makes me very happy to see renowned director and head of Mosfilm Karen Shakhnazarov among the laureates today. People all around the country know and quote his films. But I particularly want to note the part he has played in preserving Mosfilm as one of Russia’s biggest and most important film studios. It was in large part thanks to his effort and talent that Mosfilm did not sink into the past but has become a flagship of the Russian filmmaking industry today.
I could speak a long time about each of the laureates and their achievements.
Friends, your lives and your efforts dedicated to the work you love inspire the deepest respect. I sincerely wish you new achievements and success.
I congratulate you from all my heart on receiving this National Award and propose that we now begin the presentation ceremony.
Thank you very much.
See also
2012 Russian Federation National Awards have been presented
June 12, 2013
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 12, 2013, 13:30
Text version