Events
Expanded meeting of the Interior Ministry Board
Vladimir Putin took part in an expanded meeting of the Interior Ministry Board.
February 8, 2013
15:00
Moscow
1 of 8
Expanded meeting of the Interior Ministry Board.
The President presented Interior Minister Vladimir Kolokoltsev
with the Interior Ministry Banner – the ministry’s official symbol.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Comrades,
We are here today to review the Interior Ministry’s results for 2012.
The Interior Ministry has always played a key part in Russia’s law enforcement system, and not just in the law enforcement system, but in the state government system in general. Your work is such that you have to use new and more effective methods to enforce the law, respond more flexibly to the changes in the country and society and take the emergence of new challenges into account.
I will mention the tasks that require the Interior Ministry’s particular attention over the coming year.
As before, guaranteeing the safety of our citizens and society in general and continuing the offensive against crime are top priorities.
I note that the total number of registered crimes fell by 4.3 percent last year. But a number of regions have posted a rise in unsolved crimes and this is a worrying development. Overall around Russia we have nearly 45 percent (44.4 percent to be exact) of crimes going unsolved – practically one in every two crimes committed. This is a clear sign that the Interior Ministry must make its work more effective.
”The situation on the country’s roads remains difficult despite the measures taken. The State Duma is scheduled to examine during the spring session a draft law that will considerably toughen the penalties for drunk driving. I stress the point that drivers must know that they will not be able to avoid responsibility in this area. Everyday corruption on the roads must also be stamped out.“
I have said it before and will say it again now: people who turn to the Police for protection of their rights and property must receive real help. The high rate of unsolved crimes and the fact that criminals are going unpunished do not help to restore justice and have a negative impact on public confidence in the law enforcement agencies and in the state in general.““
I ask you to give your utmost attention to raising the effectiveness of operative and investigative work at all levels. You also have to beef up the measures for ensuring law and order in public places. The statistics show that one in three crimes is committed in this area, and the total number of such crimes increased by more than 12 percent last year.
This situation is the cause of serious tension and a source of concern and complaints from the public. People’s feeling of personal safety and the safety of their children and families begins with law and order on the streets of our towns and cities, in our yards and building entrances, in parks and at schools.
The situation on the country’s roads remains difficult despite the measures taken, including through federal and regional targeted programmes. We had some improvement in this situation two or three years ago, but today, people are seriously worried by the increasing number of traffic accidents involving drunk drivers. Many of you here are specialists working in precisely this area and know the situation, but let me remind those who might not know the figures that 203,600 traffic accidents were registered in 2012, as a result of which 28,000 people were killed and 258,600 people were injured. These figures read more like reports from a war zone.
The State Duma is scheduled to examine during the spring session a draft law that will considerably toughen the penalties for drunk driving. I stress the point that drivers must know that they will not be able to avoid responsibility in this area.
We also should develop measures, including organisational and technical measures, to make checks of drivers more effective and make greater use of the latest technology and innovations in road accident prevention. Of course, everyday corruption on the roads must also be stamped out. This is something we must combat in systematic fashion.
Combating extremism remains one of the Interior Ministry’s top priorities. Xenophobia and ethnic and religious prejudice threaten our multi-ethnic people’s unity and Russia’s integrity as a state.
You must act firmly to prevent extremist organisations’ activities and take swift action against any forms of extremism, no matter from which quarters they come.
I stress the point too, that we are working steadily towards creating the environment for active political life in our country and fair and honest political competition. These are essential conditions for our country’s and society’s development. But the political battle and public discussion must remain within the Constitution’s limits and not erode and destroy our country’s and society’s foundations.
”The upcoming 2013 Universiade in Kazan and the Winter Olympics and Paralympics in Sochi in 2014 will also require security measures of the highest standard.“
We have a duty not only to ensure protection of human rights and civic freedoms, but a direct duty too, to protect each and every one of our citizens. I therefore repeat the point that no extremist activity can go unpunished.
Let me say a few words on the fight against terrorism. There were 637 terrorism-related crimes registered in 2012, including 24 terrorist attacks.
As you know, the bandits stop at nothing and act in cynical and base fashion. The terrorist attacks against Muslim spiritual leaders in Tatarstan and other Russian regions drew a sharp response from the public. More than 50 members of the Muslim clergy have been killed by bandits over the last 10 years in the North Caucasus. We are to guarantee these people’s security.
It is the Interior Ministry’s job to respond immediately to any information on crimes being planned. The lessons of Nord-Ost, Beslan and Buinaksk show that any delay or negligence can turn into a terrible tragedy.
Together with the National Anti-Terrorism Committee, you must improve the level of protection throughout the transport infrastructure and in other places with large numbers of people. Of course, the upcoming 2013 Universiade in Kazan and the Winter Olympics and Paralympics in Sochi in 2014 will also require security measures of the highest standard. I know that you are already working hard on this. I just discussed this matter with the [Interior] Minister in Sochi. I ask you to continue working decisively and in close cooperation with your colleagues from the other agencies and with the regional authorities.
One of the Interior Ministry’s priorities is the fight against organised crime, including transnational and ethnic-based criminal groups.
You must work more actively to track down the criminal networks that try to suck a parasite living out of the growing economic ties between Russia and its neighbours, especially within the Customs Union and the Common Economic Space. We must suppress all forms of smuggling channels.
”One of the Interior Ministry’s priorities is the fight against organised crime, including transnational and ethnic-based criminal groups.“
Decriminalising the economy and fighting corruption are still top priorities on the Interior Ministry’s agenda today. Protecting honest business from all forms of unlawful infringements is not just a priority for the ministry but is a matter of our national development, and I want you all to be clear about this.
I ask you too, to give particular attention to improving the situation in housing and utilities sector and ridding it of the various shadowy schemes, thievery and corruption that we find there. This is an area where you must work in close cooperation with our citizens, public organisations and local authorities.
Developing the state measures for crime prevention is also the order of the day. The State Duma is due to examine soon a draft law On the Foundations of Russia’s Crime Prevention System. This draft law sets out basic policy in organising prevention work, clarifies the powers of the different actors in this work, and essentially completes the creation of a full-fledged legal framework in this area.
Colleagues, last year, following the transition to financing from a single source – the federal budget – the Interior Ministry’s budget doubled compared to 2011. This made it possible to double the wages of Interior Ministry officers and servicemen in the Interior Ministry troops. I note in passing their effective work in conflict zones, where they have shown bravery and dedication in their work. They are the backbone of our fight against the most serious crimes today and I wish them good luck and success.
Turning to social issues, spending on housing provision increased 6-fold, from 3.6 billion rubles [$100 million] in 2011 to 22.6 billion rubles in 2012.
”Decriminalising the economy and fighting corruption are still top priorities on the Interior Ministry’s agenda today. Protecting honest business from all forms of unlawful infringements is not just a priority for the ministry but is a matter of our national development.“
The Interior Ministry’s specialised housing fund also grew substantially. More than 5,000 people received money to buy or build houses. This year, another 3.3 billion rubles will be spent on this purpose.
The state authorities will continue raising the level of social protection for Interior Ministry personnel and Interior Ministry Troops, and will do everything required to ensure that service in the Interior Ministry is prestigious and the honest and competent professionals will be deservedly rewarded for their work, both morally and financially.
At the same time, the Interior Ministry must continue improving its personnel. The ministry’s officials have the dual task today of holding onto experienced professionals capable of tackling the most difficult tasks and selecting young specialists who meet the highest modern standards. This is an essential condition for the Interior Ministry’s effective work and continued development.
Comrades,
It is my pleasure today to carry out the honourable mission of presenting the Interior Ministry with its main official symbol – the Interior Ministry Banner. The Banner unites many generations of Interior Ministry officers and embodies the best traditions of your service over the Ministry’s more than 200-year history.
I am sure that the Interior Ministry’s personnel will look after the Banner’s honour and be worthy in continuing their predecessors’ cause, protect law and order and people’s lawful interests and security and will always act professionally, bravely and responsibly.
I thank you all for your work and wish you success and all the very best.
<…>
Topics
Law enforcement agencies
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 8, 2013, 15:00
Text versionEvents
Ceremony awarding the President’s Prize in Science and Innovation for Young Scientists for 2012
Vladimir Putin awarded the 2012 President’s Prize in Science and Innovation for Young Scientists to Nadezhda Bokach, Dmitry Chudakov, Fyodor Ignatov, Kornely Todyshev, and Andrei Usachyov.
February 8, 2013
13:15
The Kremlin, Moscow
6 of 11
With winner of the President’s Prize in Science and Innovation for Young Scientists for 2012 Nadezhda Bokach.
This year’s prizes were awarded for research in biomedicine, organic synthesis, elementary particle research, and research into ancient Russian culture.
The award ceremony took place at the Grand Kremlin Palace’s Catherine Hall.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends, laureates,
Today is Russian Science Day, and it is our tradition on this day to pay recognition to our young scientists who have achieved outstanding results by awarding them the President’s Prize.
I congratulate on this professional holiday the laureates and everyone who has devoted themselves to science and the pursuit of knowledge and who truly loves their work and gives it all their heart and effort.
Scientific achievements shape a nation’s cultural, educational and intellectual potential. It is clear that a vigorous science sector and the ability to generate new knowledge and technology are the guarantees of any country’s independent and sovereign development in the modern world, and this is true for our country too of course.
”Scientific achievements shape a nation’s cultural, educational and intellectual potential. A vigorous science sector and the ability to generate new knowledge and technology are the guarantees of Russia’s independent and sovereign development in the modern world.“
Russia has ambitious goals before it today. We all know that time for their implementation is limited, and the results will determine the future of our statehood and the prosperity of millions of our citizens. I think there are two key issues we are to look at in this context.
First, we should make Russian science once again one of the leading institutions in developing our society and economy.
Second, we must ensure that science specialists have the possibilities they need to realise their potential, know that they are needed, feel a sense of professional pride, and see that society and the authorities give their work the recognition it deserves.
Of course we need projects on a scale with our past undertakings – the conquest of outer space and development of nuclear energy. These were projects that in their day gave an impulse to practically all areas of science and technology.
We have strong reasons to be able to say today that Russia and its science sector is capable of making new breakthroughs. We can and will put the required resources into these tasks. Russia is one of the world leaders today in terms of the amount of GDP it spends on civilian science. Federal spending on civilian-sector science grew 3.4-fold over 2006–2012. Along with support for our top universities and scientific centres, we are also giving more attention to individual laboratories, researchers and research teams, that is, to the people who are really in the process of creating new knowledge.
We will therefore continue actively developing the system of grants, which has individual scientists as its central focus. Financing for state research funds will also increase and reach 25 billion rubles [$800 million] by 2018. The Fund for Advanced Research has already been established to help us in our work on modernising the defence industry and related sectors.
”We should make Russian science once again one of the leading institutions in developing our society and economy.“
Demand for modern scientific achievements must come not only from the government but also from business. One of our key priorities is to open the economy up to innovation and stimulate continuous modernisation of job and companies. We will therefore put projects aimed at integrating science and industry and fostering cooperation between business, research centres and universities on a systemic footing. We have already built up good experience in this area through co-financing of research programmes and research centres. We will stimulate growth of new science and research centres around the country and develop the scientific infrastructure in general.
Technical and equipment resources in the research and development sector have increased by a third since 2005. Russia now has around 100 collective-use centres equipped with the most advanced technology. We are launching unique projects such as the Gatchina high-beam research reactor, the NICA superconductor collider in Dubna and others.
Of course, the main thing is that we have the support of this strong base of professionals that has developed in our science sector over all these decades. Although we have many problems – and are well aware of them – our scientists remain of the highest world standard.
We have gradually managed to turn around the trend that saw people leaving science and left us with an aging personnel base. There is still a lot of work to do of course, but the fact remains that talented young people are once again going to work in laboratories and see their future in science.
Since 2006, the share of young people among science personnel has increased by 1–1.5 percent every year. This is a substantial increase for the science sector according to international assessments. To give you the figures: the average age of researchers in Russia today is 48. More than a third (37.5 percent) are under 40, while in 2006 we had 30 percent of researchers under 40. We thus have an increase of 10 percent, which is not a bad result overall.
”We must ensure that science specialists have the possibilities they need to realise their potential, know that they are needed, feel a sense of professional pride, and see that society and the authorities give their work the recognition it deserves.“
The programme for attracting top researchers from around the world into Russian science and bringing them to Russian universities and laboratories has also proved its worth. It is pleasing to see that many of those taking part in the programme are our compatriots who are coming back to work in Russia.
I add too, that more than half of young scientists and post-graduate students in Russia today – 70,000 people – are involved in science projects through the various federal targeted programmes.
Since 2006, the average wage of science-sector specialists has increased more than 2.5-fold, and the average wage in the Russian Academy of Sciences has risen more than 5-fold.
By 2018, the average wage in the science sector should be more than double the average wage in the particular region of the country. This is most definitely a goal that we will achieve.
The new approaches we are using in organising and financing science and training scientists are bearing fruit. Our researchers are at the forefront in sectors such as developing composite materials for the aviation and space sectors. We have also had good results in developing supercomputers.
The Russian Academy of Sciences has launched large-scale projects in medicine and genetic engineering, including in very important areas such as treatment of cancer and cardiovascular diseases, and in other areas of vital importance for maintaining and improving health.
I am pleased to see that young researchers have played an important part in many significant developments and breakthroughs. Such young people are here today. Their work is already shaping the future of our country’s science and thus the future of Russia in general.
You have already heard their names, but I repeat them again. One of them is Nadezhda Bokach, who is a doctor of chemistry and the most-cited young scientist at St Petersburg State University. The results of her work have opened up the road to new composites and materials with the broadest range of practical applications.
”Demand for modern scientific achievements must come not only from the government but also from business. One of our key priorities is to open the economy up to innovation and stimulate continuous modernisation of job and companies.“
Also among the laureates are Fedor Ignatov and Kornely Todyshev of the Budker Institute of Nuclear Physics, Siberian Branch of the Russian Academy of Sciences. Their achievements reflect the huge potential of Russia’s fundamental science and boost Russia’s position in key areas such as microelectronics and cosmonautics.
Also present today is historian Andrei Usachev of the Russian State University for the Humanities. He has made a big contribution to the study of Russian statehood and ancient Russian literature, and has discovered previously unknown written monuments of our history.
Dmitry Chudakov, doctor of biology from the M. Shemyakin-Yu.Ovchinnikov Institute of Bioorganic Chemistry, Russian Academy of Sciences, has produced results that will find much use in neurobiology and immunology.
I sincerely congratulate our laureates on these high awards and I also have the highest praise for their teachers, mentors and colleagues. I wish all of you good health, prosperity and new successes, and I congratulate everyone once again on Russian Science Day.
Thank you very much for your attention.
<…>
Topics
Science and innovation
State awards
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Commissions and Councils, Council for Science and Education
Publication date: February 8, 2013, 13:15
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev
Vladimir Putin and Nursultan Nazarbayev discussed current issues in Russian-Kazakhstani cooperation.
February 8, 2013
19:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 7
With President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Nazarbayev
, colleagues, friends,
It seems like we met just recently, but nevertheless, many matters have accumulated since then. We have talked many times over the phone about the problems that have occurred. But that is normal, because our cooperation is very extensive and I am pleased to note that it is constantly growing and expanding.
This certainly benefits our economies and our peoples. We are gaining very good experience in integration, which is working and functioning very effectively.
I am very pleased to see you. Thank you very much for agreeing to come. We have a range of key issues that we would like to discuss, and I am happy for the opportunity to do so.
Welcome.
President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev: Thank you, Mr Putin.
It is a great pleasure for me to come here, as we agreed. We met in December and discussed certain matters. A new year has arrived, and with it, new challenges. We gave instructions on drafting a new treaty of friendship and cooperation. I hope that we will sign it in Yekaterinburg in the fall.
Other issues include integration, and we are making progress on all matters pertaining to the Common Economic Space and Economic Union. In May 2014, we must have an agreement so that beginning in 2015, we can announce that we are creating the Eurasian Economic Union.
I am grateful to you for the time you’ve made today for this meeting.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much.
<…>
Geography
Kazakhstan
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Nazarbayev Nursultan
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 8, 2013, 19:00
Text version