Events
Meeting with representatives of the Civil 20
Vladimir Putin met with representatives of the Civil 20, an international forum for dialogue between civil society organisations, politicians and experts from the G20 countries.
June 14, 2013
14:30
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 5
Meeting with representatives of the Civil 20.
Taking part in the meeting were delegates to the Civil 20 summit, taking place in Moscow on June 13–14, from Russia, Mexico, and Australia, the three countries that currently make up the G20’s official governing group, which comprises the current, previous, and upcoming presiding countries. Representatives of Turkey, which will follow Australia as the G20 presiding country, also took part in the meeting.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
It is a great pleasure to welcome you to Russia, to Moscow, and to have this opportunity to talk with you about the priorities as Russia sees them for the upcoming G20 summit.
As you know, it was Russia’s initiative to meet with civil society representatives. This is the first time such an event is taking place within the G20. I note in this respect that all matters of this sort are decided by consensus. We consulted with our colleagues, with the sherpas, and with the G20 heads of state and government. There was overall support for the idea. I will be so bold as to take it upon myself to then present your views to the rest of our colleagues at the G20 summit in St Petersburg in September.
See also
Greetings to Civil20 summit participants
June 13, 2013
As you know, one of the G20’s basic aims, and one of Russia’s aims during our G20 presidency this year, is to find ways of ensuring high economic growth rates and using growth to resolve social issues.
Of course, no matter how we formulate the main aims and objectives of groups and forums such as this, it comes down above all to preserving jobs, resolving economic issues, and tackling the various social issues that are always on the agenda at such meetings. 
At the same time, no matter how well prepared the experts who plan and work on these sorts of events (some of them are here today), officials and organisations dealing with official business always face some professional limits, which at times make it hard for them to see beyond the horizons of their own professional interests. This is why I think that this kind of work with civil society organisations and their representatives is needed too, and I hope it will become a regular feature at future events of this kind.
I will leave my opening remarks at this and propose that we now start the discussion and exchange of views. Please, go ahead.
<…>
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: One of the most important topics raised here is support for mothers and children.
First, I am pleased to say that in Russia we have implemented a very consistent policy supporting mothers and children over the past few years. It is particularly gratifying to see it producing positive results. I am not going to list all of this policy’s elements, but in Russia demographic indicators (birth rates) are the best they have been for the past 19 to 20 years. Unfortunately, we have not been able to resolve all the problems in this area, a great deal still remain. But what I mentioned definitely represents a positive trend, as do significant reductions in infant and maternal mortality.
Our colleagues in the G20 know about this; we have repeatedly discussed it and I have very good personal relations with some of them. We discuss this during workshops and in person, our experience is being studied, and we try to learn from our colleagues’ positive experiences. We know that demographic problems are very acute in some countries, particularly those with developed economies, both in Europe, and in other parts of the world. This is an extremely important topic that we work on together.
As for transferring money abroad, for law enforcement and other fields, those associated with supporting people who are in difficult situations because they can’t remain in their own countries. Of course, we have to think about this and to ensure that money can flow freely. Naturally, all this takes place within certain limits (something we must not forget) associated with the fight against organised crime and illegal cross-border financial transactions. So this is an issue that requires expert review and responsible decision-making.
Naturally, we feel our responsibility with respect to food security. Why? First of all, because Russia has become one of the world’s biggest grain exporters, along with the United States, Canada and Australia. We currently hold the 2nd or 3rd place measured by the volume of grain exports to international markets. And naturally, the question of whether or not we behave responsibly on this issue affects conditions on the international market, in Europe, and in several countries in particular.
Unfortunately, a couple of years ago we had to limit or even stop exports for a while, due to the difficult situation resulting from a two-year drought in Russia and the well-known crisis in the global economy. But I hope that this is something absolutely unusual, and we shall strive to fulfil all our contractual obligations.
And the second aspect, which makes us take an extremely responsible attitude to these problems, is the fact that Russia is one of the richest countries in the world measured in terms of arable land. We are currently witnessing a dramatic increase in our partners’ interest in this kind of activity, in work in agriculture. And we see our foreign partners’ desire to work in the agricultural sector of the Russian economy.
In this context, and in connection with a very sharp debate taking place in the framework of the World Trade Organisation, I consider it extremely important that the Civil 20, and civil society associations and organisations generally, participate in both the work of the G20 and the G8. As you know, the disagreement between developed and developing economies is long-standing and heated.
I think it is extremely important for all participants of this debate, politicians and professionals, to hear society’s views, and not only in developing countries, but also in developed ones. Because for developed countries to adopt quite critical and difficult decisions to open their markets is a complex and double-edged process. Some say it is better for us to open our markets to developing countries; the more they are open, really open, then the more everyone will benefit in the long-run. Some people think differently or say something like what I just said, but in actual fact do something completely different. But in any case, it would be extremely important to hear the views of civil society organisations and experts in this field.
Employment is a very important issue that will certainly be the focus of discussion at the St Petersburg summit this autumn. I am sure you know that Russia (you have certainly discussed it and the Russian colleagues have talked about it) has set an ambitious goal which may appear utterly unrealistic at first glance: to create 25 million new jobs. Strictly speaking, this is not even a government initiative; it originated with the business community, and received the support of the Russian leadership. I believe that this task is realistic even though it is a big challenge. In addition to creating completely new jobs from scratch, we are talking here about transforming the existing positions into highly productive modern jobs.
If we act aggressively and do not just go through the motions, I believe that we can succeed in this area. Russia’s top priority is to modernise the economy and put it on the modern high-tech track. If we manage that, jobs will also be modernised. This has vital importance for the economies of all G20 countries.
In this regard, our Turkish colleague’s remark on the need to develop infrastructure is highly relevant. First, we are trying to do just that in our country. It is a very important and challenging task for us, bearing in mind our vast territory (let me remind you that Russia is the biggest country in the world in terms of territory), as well as the long-standing infrastructure shortage in some regions.
In relations between states, we must strive to guarantee the movement of goods and labour. Incidentally, I want to draw your attention to the fact that on Turkey’s initiative within another organisation, the Organisation of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation, we are considering various projects aimed at expanding infrastructure capacity. I hope that the debate on this subject in the G20 will also have a positive effect and motivate us to work within the framework of regional organisations.
Environmental standards is one of the most pressing issues of our time that is always raised, regardless of the venue and format of our meetings. I fully agree that we must continue our efforts in this area. This not only pertains to the Kyoto process, although it has been at the centre of attention in recent years, and is considered to be the key to tackling various problems. However, it is probably not the only key as there are many other options and there is much controversy on the issue. I will not go into detail but I want to stress that the participation of non-governmental organisations is exceptionally important here for several reasons.
First of all, I would like to go back to regional cooperation. Many of the G20 countries are located far from each other, but some of them are neighbours. In this context, environmental cross-border issues are extremely important. If we are able to adopt even some very general standards, it will help us address many interstate issues related to compliance with environmental regulations. I must say that the G20 states usually succeed in reaching agreement and we are aware of our partners’ very responsible attitude to this matter.
For example, in recent years we have established a very positive, constructive dialogue with our Chinese partners. I must say that the Chinese leadership has responded very promptly and in a spirit of partnership to any problems that have arisen, and problems arise all the time, that is only natural between two countries that share thousands of kilometres of common borders. It is important to establish a dialogue and have the tools and principles in place.
At the same time I want to go back to the point I picked up from our colleague earlier regarding food security. She talked about the need to fight hunger, and said that people are starving in many countries around the globe and millions of people, especially children, go to bed hungry. And when the world leaders in general, and the G20 leaders in particular, think about ways to tackle these problems, some environmental issues automatically recede into the background. The question asked of environmental movements, tacitly or implicitly, is what would you prefer, shall we feed the people or work on forest conservation in this particular case or in a particular region? Shall we build new businesses and create new jobs or go hungry?
Finding solutions to hunger, creating new jobs and preserving the environment are the key challenges of our time. That is one of the key areas of effort. I very much hope that the awareness of these seemingly contradictory issues will lead to greater accountability of civil society, which should understand the full range of problems faced by the state, and will encourage the political decision-makers to adopt a more responsible approach to tackling them.
Naturally, issues related to energy efficiency, especially for offshore operations, are no less important. I must say that the Russian Federation adheres to the most stringent standards for such operations. If you look at what our companies are doing in the Caspian Sea, for example, you will certainly be pleased. There virtually not a single kilogramme of rock extracted during drilling is thrown back into the sea. Instead it’s all packaged, transported and stored in pre-arranged locations.
And in this sense, I am pleased to note that when working offshore, our companies and partners act in accordance with the very highest standards. Of course, first of all this must continue and, secondly, it must be improved as the methods themselves improve. And issues related to ensuring environmental security must be developed in parallel, or at least they must be raised; of course we need to ensure that they don’t get put on the back burner.
With regards to the fight against corruption, this is a very important issue. You know that Russia consistently makes international commitments and joins international treaties. I agree that we need to promote the well-known UN Convention Against Corruption you mentioned within the framework of the G20 and, crucially, to ensure its effective enforcement. In this sense, naturally the role and significance of non-governmental organisations are extremely important, because it is possible to put anything at all on paper – I know this very well – and report that everything has been accepted and implemented. How does all this work in practice? In this respect, naturally civil society and its representative organisations play a large and significant role.
As for financial education, this is also extremely important. You are right on all accounts. I must say that I have the impression that you are a member of the Government of the Russian Federation. We say pretty much the same things during our operational meetings.
At first glance, everything seems simple. But in fact it is difficult to achieve practical results because, as you rightly point out, we need teachers to be ready for this, we need it to be included in the school curriculum, and we need the professional teaching community to agree that this is a priority. But then you have to address the issue of students’ overall workload, decide what to remove from the curriculum, and whether to make this subject a compulsory one or to make it optional. But I definitely agree with you that this must be done.
The most important thing is that we are honest with people, and give them the opportunity to choose one of the vast numbers of instruments and products available on the financial market, making them more self-reliant. As such society as a whole will become much more modern and viable. So this is a very important thing.
My colleague to my right said that you have all been up since eight this morning, and have only been able to agree on a general declaration. I want to draw your attention to how difficult it will be for state leaders to work in order to find the essence of a consensus. I hope you will not get mad at us if something you recommend is not adopted.
I read what the Civil 20 is proposing with regards to ensuring confident, stable, balanced and inclusive growth. You know, we’re working on exactly the same thing ourselves. I will allow myself to make some specific points (you probably know them well, but nonetheless). Those are the need to conduct a macroeconomic policy designed to create jobs and stimulate aggregate demand (you know, it’s as if we were at an operational meeting here, and this makes me very happy), to implement fiscal and monetary policy (we discussed this just yesterday at our meeting), and to introduce a progressive tax scale.
By the way, I would like to ask those of you who worked on this to clarify what you mean by progressive taxation scale? Are you referring to tax on personal income?
Co-Chair of G8 and G20 NGOs Working Group Marina Larionova: That’s right. I know that there are risks associated with it in our country, in Russia. However, many countries still recommend and use progressive tax rates.
Vladimir Putin: Whenever I have talked with the leaders of countries that use a progressive tax, almost all of them said: “We are so jealous that you were able to put a flat tax rate for individuals into practice.” Why? Because experts believe that it encourages people to disclose information about their incomes and, ultimately, contributes to economic growth, which, in turn, helps address unemployment and food security issues, and everything else that follows.
We have been discussing this for a long time, primarily with the left-wing parties, who believe that a differentiated scale is more equitable. But when we talk with representatives of liberal parties, they say that in fact the measures which give the maximum economic benefit are socially just. I do not want to start a debate on this issue here, but I just want to say that this is certainly a valid point for discussion. We may introduce some elements of progressive tax rates at some time in the future. We never said that the flat rate is here to stay forever. This is also possible.
But if you look at the fiscal side of things (I want to tell you about this though you may know it already), when we had the progressive tax rate, some taxpayers did not pay taxes and the federal budget lost revenues as a result, whereas from the point when we introduced the 13% flat tax rate on personal income, budget revenues rose dramatically, and I want to emphasise this. There was a real result. And social spending depends of budget revenues. So that is what we saw. Thank you very much for your suggestions, we will bear them in mind. This is not a brush off, but I want you to understand our position. We are aware of all the pros and cons that I have just mentioned, and we are thinking about it.
The next item is combating tax evasion. From the point of view of personal income tax, the flat rate is the best way to fight tax evasion.
This item also includes combating tax evasion through offshore zones. It is necessary to take effective steps to relieve economies of offshore activity, and the Russian economy in particular. But at the same time I draw your attention to the fact that Russia is not the leader in creating offshore zones, though we may be one of the leaders in using them. The leaders include the Virgin Islands, other island states, as well as our colleagues and friends from the UK. The British Prime Minister is also aware of the need to fight this and to gradually abandon this practice, but it is part of their economy. Therefore, we realise that it is not easy for them to take such drastic steps, but it is clear that it is necessary to move in this direction.
Providing access to food, water, healthcare and so on – these are all things we have in mind. There are other very important essential issues which we will definitely not leave out.
Yes, you talked about the fight against infectious diseases. I want to thank you for your assessment of Russia’s contribution to this work. We have been working on this ever since 2005–2006, and we really are allocating the necessary resources. But the point is not that we are providing resources, rather that we are trying to act quite actively on this issue in Russia and in our neighbouring, partner countries. And I must say not without success, even though some problems remain. This is especially linked to preventive measures. I should note that in the Soviet Union such work was conducted better than it is today in Russia. We have to admit this and not just go back to previous standards, but to surpass them. We will also work actively in this direction both within Russia and with our partners.
Now with regards to the activities of NGOs. Our colleague from Australia said that quite a lot of resources are being allocated, and some funds are being sent abroad. And you said (I just noted it): “We can’t engage in political activities in other countries.” Well, in Russia you can. Only those organisations that receive money to engage in domestic political activity must register. That’s it; their activity is not prohibited. I want to emphasise this and for you all to know it.
However, I agree with our colleagues, including my adviser, about certain problems. We need to examine how things are enforced in practice, and reflect on how to improve the legislation, so that it doesn’t disturb anyone’s work, so that the government’s suspicions are not aroused by specific organisations, and so that these organisations are not disturbed.
As you know, this practice occurs not only in Russia, but also in other G20 countries, including the United States. Such laws have existed there since the middle of the twentieth century. But in fact our legislation is much more liberal, because in the United States, any public organisation receiving money from abroad and working in the environment, with mothers and children, in any field, must register as a foreign agent. In our country this concerns only those organisations engaged in domestic politics.
However, I agree with [Russian Presidential Adviser] Mr [Mikhail] Fedotov that the practice of the law must not go beyond the scope of decisions made, should be unencumbered, and should not interfere with anyone’s work. We’ll certainly reflect on this, including with civil society.
With regards to organisations active in healthcare, the environment, and local projects, there are absolutely no limitations. I want you to know this and to work in the Russian Federation as actively as you can, providing assistance to your partners here. 
And finally, to conclude I would like to say the following. First of all, I would draw your attention to the fact that our meeting today is not simply preparations by the Civil 20 for the meeting of state leaders in St Petersburg in September. On the contrary, it is a phase in your work. And I see that together you have done a very great deal, been involved in this work for a long time now, and directly influenced the course of work conducted by [G20] sherpas and experts. I consider this very, very important and extremely useful. Why? Because when state leaders meet, discuss things among themselves at the expert level, and then try to make decisions, naturally they try to carry them out one way or another, but they are not binding decisions. They remain recommendations, not binding international legal instruments. And when NGOs get involved in elaborating them, this significantly increases the legitimacy and moral force of such decisions. At that point decisions that are not international instruments whose application is mandatory are able to generate a completely different effect, and it is very difficult to not implement them at home.
And as I have already said and would like to repeat once again, a colleague here observed that the authorities view civil society representatives as crazy people who simply run around in the streets. It seems to me that our joint work will, on the one hand, increase the responsibility of civil society. Because when people are involved in problems and come to understand their multifaceted complexity, and when in the course of your own discussions you arrive at some kind of consensus decisions, then this increases civil society’s responsibility. On the other hand, this ensures that people who make decisions take your opinions into account. I repeat that all this combined makes working together more legitimate, more efficient, and more conducive to reaching a final agreement.
I want to thank you and assure you that we will listen to your recommendations very carefully. Thank you.
Additional
G20 Civil Summit
Topics
G20
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 14, 2013, 14:30
Text versionEvents
Interview to RIA Novosti News Agency
Ahead of the G8 summit in Great Britain and the St Petersburg International Economic Forum (SPIEF), Vladimir Putin answered questions from Russian News & Information Agency.
June 14, 2013
00:05
Question: You are going to the G8 summit not only as the head of one of the member states, but also as the leader of the country that currently holds the G20 presidency. In your opinion, is the G8 format still viable? Would you like to propose to your colleagues to divide the issues between the G20 and the G8, focusing the former on economic issues and the latter on political ones? Could you right now define the general vector of the agenda which will be proposed by Russia during its presidency of the G8 next year?
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: You are right, at the Lough Erne summit Russia will act in a special capacity: not only as the current chair of the Group of Twenty, but also as the future chair of the Group of Eight. Therefore, we have a special responsibility: we will have to coordinate the activities of the two forums this year, and in 2014 we will continue the work begun by our British colleagues keeping it at the same high level.
In my opinion, which is shared by our partners, the G8 is quite viable. Russia is actively participating in that club, and it is thanks to us that not only developed Western states, but also fast-growing countries, which play an increasingly prominent role in global politics and economy, have a voice there.
Discussions held within the framework of the G8 are characterised by depth and trust, which allows to constructively solve many issues, even the most acute political ones. For example, in Lough Erne we plan to talk about the situation in Syria, the Middle East and North Africa, Afghanistan and so on. We expect that the results of this discussion will be useful.
One more characteristic feature of the G8 is that it traditionally pays great attention to promoting international development, first of all in Africa, provides assistance to undeveloped countries. By the way, the concept of such assistance is significantly changing today. By maintaining a direct dialogue and interaction with these states, the G8 looks for key problems and develops joint action programs to solve them.
In particular, at this year's summit we will follow the suggestion of the British chair and talk about improving taxation systems and increasing the efficiency of public administration, as well as eliminating barriers to international and regional trade. All these areas are united by a single principle that contemplates the full mobilisation of unused or hidden internal resources of developing countries. We believe this will increase the volume of national budgets, improve the quality of public institutions.
Regarding the division of economic and political issues between the G20 and the G8, I think that each of these formats has its ”added value,“ and it would be wrong and inappropriate to artificially separate them on the basis of political and economic issues. We will try to prove that in 2014 when we will host the G8 summit in Sochi.
The specific agenda of our presidency is still being developed. Now I can only say that we will focus on searching for responses to new security threats, including at the global level.
Question: The issue of IMF reform has been already discussed for several years during the meetings of both G8 and G20. However, these discussions come to nothing due to unwillingness of the Fund’s ”founding fathers“ to share power and influence. Do you think it’s time to take some more radical steps, for instance, to dissolve the IMF, start from scratch and establish a new organisation taking into account modern financial and political realities?
Vladimir Putin: The IMF needs a thorough reform. This view is shared by all the shareholders of the Fund. The problem is that the IMF frequently fails to keep pace with the rapidly changing situation in global financial markets, first of all, when making efficient and timely decisions. Their implementation leaves much to be desired as well. A good example is the global financial crisis, which the IMF system failed to prevent.
I believe it is a wrong approach to think that the new councils, funds or other international institutions will become a panacea for all the problems. It is important, drawing upon the unique experience of co-operation within the IMF, to take further action to improve its work. We should be talking about the Fund’s overall reorganisation, ways to adjust it to current economic realities. And here it is most important to revise the existing IMF quota and voting system, to enhance the role of developing countries, including our BRICS partners.
It is true that negotiations on these tracks are not going smoothly. I would say that they have actually come to a standstill since 2010. We will make maximum effort to persuade our partners to reach a compromise and find mutually acceptable solutions in the run-up to the G20 Summit in St Petersburg.
I would like to stress that changes in the IMF represent only a part of the global financial architecture reform. Its other priorities include lending and public debt management policy, as well as enhanced collaboration between regional financial mechanisms and the IMF.
Question: Increasing transparency of the global economy and abandoning the active use of offshore zones was declared by Great Britain as one of the priorities of its G8 Presidency. What tools for global economy deoffshorisation will be proposed by Russia? In this regard, will Russia make a proposal at the summit to examine the problem of the British Virgin Islands, which are under the jurisdiction of Great Britain, more thoroughly?
Vladimir Putin: Deoffshorisation is an important condition for eliminating structural imbalances in the global economy. It is no secret that it is in offshore zones that considerable amounts of speculative and sometimes blatantly criminal capital are accumulated. And the countries and territories where it is registered often have very little understanding of the money owners or its origin. Sudden emergence and uncontrolled movement of these funds has an extremely negative effect on the global financial system.
The outflow of capitals to offshore zones reduces tax base, decreases tax revenues and threatens national fiscal sovereignty. Against such a background, it is difficult to talk about building a fair taxation system. We have all seen not so long ago the head of Apple answer awkward questions from senators about the fact that his company keeps tens of billions of dollars earned in the United States outside the American tax boundaries.
The fight against tax evasion through offshore zones is a very difficult and laborious task. To that end, it is important to use not only national, but also international regulatory tools.
As one of deoffshorisation measures, Russia proposes to conclude bilateral agreements with offshore and low-tax jurisdictions. Such documents should be aimed at countering illegal schemes of minimising taxation, involve the exchange of tax information and implementation of universal recommendations developed within the framework of the OECD.
Strengthening international cooperation on tax issues has become a priority for the G20 after the onset of the global financial crisis. The OECD Global Forum on Transparency and Exchange of Information for Tax Purposes is engaged in active and useful work. It assesses the legislation of this forum’s member states in order to identify whether it complies with international information disclosure standards.
Regarding the situation with offshore zones on territories under the jurisdiction of Great Britain, the host of the G8 summit David Cameron was among those who drew attention to this problem. The British prime minister has been consistently working to increase transparency in taxation (including the issues of tax evasion and aggressive optimisation) not only in the world as a whole, but also at home. I hope that his call to enhance interaction on exchanging tax information and facilitating access of supervisory authorities to the data on ultimate beneficiaries will be heard.
Question: Another priority announced by Great Britain for its G8 Presidency is the revitalisation of international trade. How urgent is the problem of trade barriers, in your opinion? How reasonable are the efforts of the states with radically different economic environments to find a common ground for their countries in order to revitalise international trade?
Vladimir Putin: The development of international trade is one of the key sources of economic growth. That is why we cannot help being concerned about the negative trend in the growth rates for world trade which declined to 2% in 2012. Estimates for this year (a 3.3% growth) do not seem very optimistic either.
This means that in spite of the crisis we should focus our joint efforts on developing trade and not on introducing protectionist measures. Protectionist lobbies within some countries have become more active which is the evidence that this threat persists.
It was in the spirit of joint actions that we proposed to our G20 partners to extend the moratorium on protectionist measures in trade and continue monitoring the implementation of such measures.
In this respect, I would like to emphasise that we consider the WTO to be the foundation on which the whole system of world trade rules is based. Unfortunately, we can see that there is certain stagnation right now within the WTO. However, this is not the reason to tear this structure down. We need to work to strengthen and develop it. We are actively trying to persuade our partners to conclude as soon as possible the Doha Round that has already been going on for 12 years. We hope that some progress will be made on this matter during the Ministerial Meeting scheduled for this December.
Now about the differences in the economic environments of the countries. They necessitate the establishment of common and clear for all market “rules of the game” in trade which would allow the countries to avoid biased approaches and protectionist barriers. The WTO creates a common legal framework and provides effective leverage against offenders. All this serves to make the world trade predictable and stable and ensure its more rapid development.
At the same time we have to look at the issue of liberalisation of trade and investment in a broader perspective. Integrated associations are becoming ever more important and free trade zones are being established. We are actively promoting the project of the Eurasian Economic Union that includes Kazakhstan and Belarus. This is a good example of barriers really lifted and trade revitalised. It is important that integration agreements correspond to the WTO requirements and regulations. We ensure this within our Customs Union, even though Kazakhstan and Belarus have not yet joined the organisation.
Question: Russia has been a WTO member for a year now. One of the arguments in favour of the WTO accession was our intention to assure that Russia plays by the “rules of the game” same as for the rest of the world. In your opinion, was this goal achieved?
Vladimir Putin: Last year we completed the WTO accession. Our domestic legislation and hundreds of tariff lines were agreed on and brought in line with WTO rules in the course of a long and uneasy negotiation process. This does not mean that after Russia's accession to the WTO rapid changes and new “rules of the game” will be introduced. We have been using the WTO norms and standards for quite a long time now. And the fact that all WTO members approved Russia’s accession to the organisation confirms that Russian economy is ready for the new working conditions.
Russia's accession to the WTO allows it to fully participate in the development and improvement of international trade rules. We are yet to learn how to take full advantage of the acceptable instruments to support domestic producers, resolve trade disputes and protect Russian goods in foreign markets.
Russia has one of the highest legislative transparency standards among WTO participants, as well as detailed external trade regulations. Of course, some claim that Russia does not fully comply with its WTO obligations. However, I would like to stress that we can make the same claims regarding our partners. We believe that Russian goods are unreasonably denied access to the domestic markets of mineral fertilisers, chemicals, petrochemicals and automotive fuel, as well as to pipe and metal industry in a number of countries. Nevertheless, it is a normal working process: the US, China, India, the EU and other international trade participants are settling the same disputes.
I would like to point out once again that we must take full advantage of WTO instruments to protect our trade and economic interests and prevent our partners from using unfair competition practices.
Question: One of the issues to be discussed at the upcoming SPIEF is whether the welfare state can be economically competitive in the modern world. In your view, does the European model of a welfare state have a future? Does it bother you that Russia can repeat the path of Europe that is affected by economic inefficiency?
Vladimir Putin: I think the question is incorrect. How can we link economic efficiency of a state, its competitiveness with the renunciation of all its social obligations? One of the main functions of the state is to take care of its population and ensure its social protection. A potential refusal from this function would endanger the existence of the institution of state as such.
The problem has a different nature, which was clearly shown by the crisis in certain European countries. The key word here is inefficiency. It is not the social policy that leads to the consequences Europe is facing today, but rather living beyond the means, losing control of the general economic situation and structural distortions. Moreover, many European countries are witnessing a rise of dependency mentality when not working is often much more beneficial than working. This type of mentality endangers not only the economy but also the moral basics of the society. It is not a secret that many citizens of less developed countries come to Europe intentionally to live off welfare, like they call it in Germany.
For Russia, such approach is unacceptable. A social state is not something that we simply want. It is a necessity. We are working on striking a balance between decent salaries in the budgetary field, an appropriate pension system, quality public services, including medical and educational services, and a reasonable budgetary policy and measures to stimulate the economy. Otherwise, people cannot be confident in the future, cannot trust the government, while it is essential for stable economic growth and national development. We can easily recall such a situation in the 1990s when many social obligations were not fulfilled and poverty was growing at a threatening pace.
We made our choice long ago. We will not renounce our social obligations. Today, the main economy stimulating factors in our country are income growth, consumer spending growth and growth of bank lending. The government allocates large funds for raising employment, creating jobs and implementing employment programs. And the real wage is constantly growing. Pensions and social benefits are adjusted in time; the pension system as a whole is being modernised. As a result, for the first four months of 2013 the unemployment rate in Russia remained rather low at 5.7%.
We pay a lot of attention to improving the demographic situation and developing the healthcare system. We are implementing the corresponding projects and programs.
As for Europe, we see that leading European countries carry out structural reforms to raise the competitiveness of their economies, and fight unemployment. At the same time, due to stronger coordination between budgetary and economic policies, the approach to budgetary discipline is getting more flexible. And these countries recorded their obligations in the EU strategy of social and economic development up to 2020. Therefore, we should not reject the European social model.
Question: This year the SPIEF traditionally provides an opportunity to focus on the issues of sustainable economic growth and Russia’s role in global affairs. What does Russia see as new sources of global economic growth and what will Russia itself use as catalysts for changes?
Vladimir Putin: Today, it is important to evaluate the internal reserves of each country carefully and look for new sources of growth there. First of all, it is essential to improve public administration, develop human capital and competition, as well as increase investments in social sector, education, science and infrastructure. These are the keys to economic growth, innovative technology and job creation.
Therefore, the issue of financing long-term investments has been put at the top of agenda under Russia’s G20 presidency this year. Before the summit in St Petersburg we are going to propose specific actions aimed at creating conditions for enhancing investment in real economy and increasing the number of effective tools for co-financing investment projects.
Booming international trade is yet another significant source of growth. Modern situation clearly illustrates that certain states or groups of states, no matter how big they are, have reached their potential in regulating economies and financial systems. We need to adopt a unifying agenda. Global challenges and threats can only be countered through consolidated efforts of all States.
Further progressive and sustainable economic growth, apparently, requires harmonisation of economic policies on a global scale, transformation of international monetary and financial system and financial regulation and supervision system, investment promotion, higher level of trust and enhancement of transparency and predictability of markets, including energy ones.
Such work has already begun. It is important to accomplish it and to complement the steps already taken with full-fledged universal agreements. Russia which has assumed the G20 presidency for this year will actively promote such agenda at the forthcoming summit in St Petersburg.
Topics
Economy and finance
Foreign policy
G20
G8
1 more
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 14, 2013, 00:05
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Valentina Tereshkova
On the eve of the 50th anniversary of the spaceflight by a woman, Vladimir Putin met with Valentina Tereshkova, major general, Hero of the Soviet Union, and the first woman cosmonaut.
June 14, 2013
16:30
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 12
Valentina Tereshkova arrived at the meeting with the President in a Chaika car. The Chaika was used during the Soviet era for the most special occasions, in particular, welcoming the first cosmonauts when they returned to Moscow from their legend-making spaceflights.
The President presented Ms Tereshkova, currently deputy chairwoman of the State Duma Committee for International Affairs, the Order of Alexander Nevsky at the meeting. Ms Tereshkova was awarded the decoration for her great contribution to developing parliamentarianism in Russia and for her active work as a lawmaker.
Ms Tereshkova joined the cosmonauts’ detachment in March 1962, and made a solo spaceflight on the Vostok-6 spacecraft on June 16, 1963. Her successful spaceflight was a big milestone in developing cosmonautics in Russia, and in the history of space exploration in general.
The main events celebrating the spaceflight’s 50 anniversary will take place on June 16 in Yaroslavl, Ms Tereshkova’s native city.
Other Russian cosmonauts also took part in the meeting, including twice Heroes of the Soviet Union Valery Bykovsky and Alexei Leonov, Hero of the Soviet Union and Hero of the Russian Federation Sergei Krikalyov, and Director of the Russian Federal Space Agency Vladimir Popovkin.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends.
We are meeting on the eve of an event that has great importance for the development of cosmonautics and the conquest of outer space, and also for our country’s life and history: the fiftieth anniversary of the first spaceflight by a woman, Valentina Tereshkova.
I am sure you will all agree that an event of this kind, when a woman does something that far from anyone, and far from every man, would be capable of doing, is unquestionably of historic significance. It is a source of pride that it was a citizen of our country, a citizen of the Soviet Union, who became the first woman in space.
Our cosmonautics sector continues its successful development today. We are one of the main participants in the international space programme and carry out the majority of space launches. We do have problems too of course, and we must resolve them. Every big undertaking has its problems. But we also have the needed technological, financial and human resources to keep moving forward.
As you know, we are currently building a new Russian space launch centre at Vostochny. This is a big project, one of the biggest projects underway in Russia now. This is not just a space launch centre but a whole science town. I am sure that this will be a big step in developing the space sector in general and developing advanced technology here in Russia.
A country like Russia, with its space sector traditions, should definitely have its own space launch centre. The work has already begun. I hope it will be of high quality and completed on time, and we will see the launches that take place there, including launches of manned spacecraft. 
I know and remember, and many of you remember, that fifty years ago, the space pioneers were not just famous names but were without question national heroes. Here today are people who had a connection to the first spaceflight by a woman. They include Valery Bykovsky, who I think was also in orbit at that time, and Alexei Leonov, the first person to carry out a spacewalk. These are all big milestones in our country’s life and in the history of space exploration.
I welcome you all here and wish you all success, all the more so as many of you who were pioneers back then are very active now with public and political work.
Ms Tereshkova has always been at the centre of public life in a broad range of fields, has always been very active, and is now a deputy in the State Duma. We often see her on the TV screen. She already told me that she was in Vienna yesterday, where she spoke at the United Nations and recalled these events, becoming the first woman in space fifty years ago. We are very happy to see that the international organisations not only do not forget these milestones, but are celebrating their importance together with us.
For my part, I want to tell you that Ms Tereshkova has been awarded the Order of Alexander Nevsky, and in the run-up to this anniversary, here in your presence, friends and colleagues, I want to present her now with this decoration. 
Presentation of the Order of Alexander Nevsky
Valentina Tereshkova: Mr President,
Let me first of all express my great thanks for your attention and kind words. You have a very busy schedule, but nonetheless find the time to meet with cosmonauts to discuss our problems and talk about the future.
Yes, it was my lot to be one of the pioneers laying the road into space. Was it difficult, yes, it was, but we were young and we were conscious of doing something very important for our country, and so we overcame all of the difficulties before us. We had marvellous scientists working with us, exceptional people who helped and guided us and prepared us for the spaceflights.
I am pleased to have been able to faithfully and honestly serve my homeland and country for 50 years now. Fifty years – it seems strange to think. You should know that we are always happy to see you in Yaroslavl. Thank you very much for the attention you give our city, and for the help that we always feel in our lives.
Not only schoolchildren enjoy visiting the planetarium that was built with your help. It is also a favourite place for youth and the elderly alike, for all of the city’s people. Thank you very much. 
I can assure you that I will try to be worthy of these kind words and this high decoration until the end of my days, and will do my best to continue faithfully and honestly serving our homeland.
Thank you very much.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much.
<…>
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 14, 2013, 16:30
Text version