Events
Press statement following Russian-Ecuadorian talks
October 29, 2013
16:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
Press statements following Russian-Ecuadorian talks. With President of Ecuador Rafael Correa.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President,
Our talks with our friends from Ecuador, with the delegation headed by President Rafael Correa, have just ended. We discussed all bilateral issues in detail and exchanged views on some international ones.
Relations between our countries are developing on the basis of the principles enshrined in our Strategic Partnership Declaration. One of its central themes is the expansion of trade and economic ties. Ecuador is one of Russia’s leading partners in Latin America. Our trade has doubled over the past five years, reaching $1.3 billion, and in the first 8 months of this year it increased by another 11 percent.
Today we talked about how it’s imperative that we diversify our ties and develop investment cooperation. We just signed an agreement on financing a gas turbine power generation unit and a steam turbine at Termogas Machala thermal power plant in Ecuador. Inter RAO will work on implementing this project from the Russian side. New projects worth approximately $1.5 billion are coming up.
”I am confident that the partnership between Russia and Ecuador will continue to flourish for the benefit of our nations, and help further peace and stability.“
We also discussed the possibility of attracting Russian businesses to get involved in implementing major industrial programmes in Ecuador, including in infrastructure, particularly railway infrastructure. Our countries have great opportunities to cooperate in prospecting and extracting hydrocarbons. During our talks we paid special attention to cooperation in high-tech sectors.
Russia and Ecuador successfully cooperate in combating organised crime and drug trafficking. We intend to continue to actively cooperate in the fight against terrorism financing, money laundering, and cybercrime.
Our cultural, educational and scientific links are growing stronger. We will continue the practice of providing scholarships to Ecuadorian undergraduate and graduate students. At present more than 4,000 Ecuadorians have been educated in our country.
Today active integration processes are underway in Latin America, and Russia is interested in expanding contacts with regional associations there.
In conclusion, I want to thank President Correa for the detailed and useful conversation. I am confident that the partnership between Russia and Ecuador will continue to flourish for the benefit of our nations, and help further peace and stability.
Thank you very much for your attention.
See also
Russian-Ecuadorian talks
October 29, 2013
Geography
Ecuador
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Correa Rafael
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 29, 2013, 16:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Henry Kissinger
Vladimir Putin met with former US Secretary of State Henry Kissinger.
October 29, 2013
20:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 4
Meeting with former US Secretary of State Henry Kissinger.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good evening! I am very happy to see you.
First of all, I want to congratulate you on receiving the title of Honorary Professor of the Diplomatic Academy of Russia.
You are more than just a long-time veteran of diplomatic service and related work – you have been involved in global politics for nearly your entire life. You have many friends in Russia – our foreign policy veterans, and people who always follow your assessments of developments in the world and various regions with great interest. So presenting you with the title of Honorary Professor of the Diplomatic Academy of Russia is fully justified.
Let me congratulate you once more, and I am very glad to see you again.
Former US Secretary of State Henry Kissinger: Thank you very much, Mr President, for receiving me, in the midst of a very busy period.
I’ve been coming to Russia for over 50 years. And things change, but the basic necessity that our two countries should find a way to cooperate remains ever stronger. And over the years, you have been very generous with your time, to explain your thinking and the Russian point of view to me. And you can be sure that I transmit it to the highest levels in the United States.
When you say kind things about my writing, it doesn’t always help me in the United States. But I appreciate it. And I’ve had very interesting talks here, which actually make me very hopeful. So thank you for receiving me.
<…>
Geography
United States
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 29, 2013, 20:00
Text version