Events
Beginning of meeting with President of the State of Palestine Mahmoud Abbas
March 14, 2013
15:40
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
With President of the Palestinian National Authority Mahmoud Abbas.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, dear colleagues and friends, I am very pleased to see you in Moscow.
We have met several times, but this is your first visit to Russia since Palestine was granted observer state status at the United Nations. Once again, congratulations on this momentous occasion.
Relations between Russia and Palestine have solid historical foundations. This will undoubtedly help us build relationships today and in the years to come. I am pleased to be able to say that relations between Palestine and Russia are developing successfully, including thanks to your efforts, Mr President.
We are very happy to see you. Welcome to Russia.
President of The State of Palestine Mahmoud Abbas (retranslated): Thank you, we are also happy to be in Russia, in Moscow.
As you said, Your Excellency, our common goal is to give a new impetus to our bilateral relations. We are proud that our relations have been constantly developing from their very inception. We are also pleased to observe that these relations are developing successfully both at the highest political level and in other areas too, including the economy, humanitarian relations and culture.
Your Excellency, we are sincerely happy to be able to express our thanks for the Russian Federation’s support for Palestine’s position in the United Nations, and not only during the voting period, but also while working with other UN members in support of our application. We consider this to be a very important undertaking, and will do everything possible to use this foundation to move forward and achieve new goals.
We hope that substantive peace talks with Israel will begin this year. Although these hopes are perhaps not very high, we nevertheless expect that in the end a political settlement based on a two-state solution will be reached.
As it turns out, most of our visits to Moscow occur when it’s snowing. In this regard, I would recall the comment of our late President Yasser Arafat, who always said that snow in Moscow is invariably warm. It is warm because we feel the warmth in your hearts.
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you, Mr President, especially for your concluding words.
I want to confirm that for our part nothing in this respect changes. We know that the situation in the region remains difficult. Just like you, we hope that it will develop in a positive way, and we will do everything in our power to facilitate this.
Thank you.
<…>
See also
Meeting with President of the State of Palestine Mahmoud Abbas
March 14, 2013
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: March 14, 2013, 15:40
Text versionEvents
Awarding President of the State of Palestine Mahmoud Abbas the Order of Friendship
March 14, 2013
17:15
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
2 of 3
With President of the Palestinian National Authority Mahmoud Abbas.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ladies and gentlemen,
President Abbas’s visit to Russia holds special significance. Last November, Palestine was granted observer state status at the United Nations. It is no exaggeration to call this a historic event.
I would like to recall that the Soviet Union recognized the State of Palestine back in 1988. Today during our talks we were concerned with further strengthening our trade and economic cooperation. We agreed with President Abbas to give additional instructions to our respective agencies on enhancing our trade and economic ties.
Russia provides humanitarian and financial assistance to Palestine and has traditionally helped train national Palestinian professionals. More than 500 Palestinian citizens are currently studying in our country and most of them on a so-called state-financed basis, whereby they do not pay. We intend to continue to support the Palestinian people in a variety of ways.
Naturally we discussed the situation in the region, in the Arab world in general, and we spoke at length about the events in Syria that are developing in such a tragic way.
See also
Meeting with President of the State of Palestine Mahmoud Abbas
March 14, 2013
Mr Abbas has done a great deal to strengthen Russian-Palestinian relations, and it gives me great pleasure to award the President of the State of Palestine this Russian state decoration, the Order of Friendship. This marks your significant contribution, Mr President, to developing close and multifaceted relations between Palestine and Russia.
We value your consistent efforts to expand international cooperation in humanitarian and cultural spheres in addition to political ones. Projects such as the Russian Museum and Park Complex in Jericho and the Russian Centre for Science and Culture in Bethlehem have been implemented thanks to your direct involvement.
Mr President, you have done a great deal to revive Russia’s presence in the Holy Land. We sincerely appreciate your kindness to Russia and desire to work together to further enhance Russian-Palestinian cooperation. Please allow me to thank you for all your work.
The award ceremony takes place.
President of The State of Palestine Mahmoud Abbas
(retranslated): Your Excellency, President Vladimir Putin,
It is with sincere gratitude that I accept this high award, the Order of Friendship. I consider it to recognise not only my personal contribution to strengthening and developing our bilateral relations, but also that of the entire Palestinian nation to developing multifaceted cooperation with the Russian Federation.
We would also note the consistent development of historically friendly relations between our two parties and are deeply proud of this fact. Just as you do, we try to give priority attention to our relations marked by partnership, mutual understanding and cooperation in various fields.
I would like to take this opportunity to express to you, Mr President, your Government, and the Russian people, Palestinians’ deep gratitude for the Russian Federation’s tireless efforts in support of peace in the region, and for its continued support to the Palestinian people as they strive for independence and freedom.
We hope with all our hearts and very sincerely that this year, 2013, will be the year of a settlement in the Middle East and the advent of peace in our region. It will require significant efforts to reactivate a serious and substantive peace process based on the Arab Peace Initiative and those decisions that have been sanctioned by international law.
The Arab Peace Initiative calls for a settlement ending Israel’s occupation of Palestinian territories and the establishment of a Palestinian state within its 1967 borders, with its capital in East Jerusalem. Such a state would coexist alongside Israel, with which it would entertain relations based on peace, cooperation, good neighbourliness and security.
We reached an understanding, Mr President, on the need to extend our strategic partnership not only to political spheres, but also in the economy and other areas in which we cooperate. We also agreed with you on new investment opportunities to develop fundamentally new projects.
Please allow me, Mr President, to express my deep gratitude once again. I am proud to say that this award is not just a decoration on my chest, but on that of all the sons of the Palestinian people who hold great respect both for you personally and for your policies.
Topics
Foreign policy
State decorations
Persons
Abbas Mahmoud
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: March 14, 2013, 17:15
Text version