Events
Press statement following the BRICS summit
March 27, 2013
17:00
Durban
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: President Zuma, heads of state and government, ladies and gentlemen,
Russia will continue developing close cooperation with its BRICS
partners and will do everything it can to facilitate the group’s development.
Our hosts’ active position has enabled us to hold a very energetic and productive summit. The eThekwini Declaration that we approved today reflects in full our countries’ common positions on a wide range of global political and economic issues.
The ambitious BRICS Action Plan for the coming year that we adopted today includes new areas of cooperation such as information security, joint efforts to combat drugs trafficking and terrorism, and promotion of youth and educational exchanges.
Economic partnership issues were discussed in detail at the summit. Russia supports the establishment of the BRICS Development Bank. We think that work should now continue at the expert level to settle the principles and rules for the institution’s operations.
The BRICS countries are aware of their role and responsibility as global growth leaders. As has already been noted today, our countries account for more than 27 percent of world gross domestic product – a total of $15.4 trillion.
We reaffirmed our commitment to continue expand trade and investment flows, strengthen our technical and industrial cooperation, stimulate the growth of our huge domestic markets, and carry out mutually advantageous business projects in third countries.
Russia put forward the initiative to draft a long-term economic cooperation strategy that would take into account national development plans and help to consolidate growth in all of the BRICS economies.
The summit paid particular attention to expanding business ties. We hope that the establishment of the BRICS Business Council will bring new substance and initiatives to our business communities’ work.
It is symbolic that all of our countries are putting the emphasis on not just the pace but also the quality of economic growth. This requires us to introduce the most stringent and advanced environmental and nature protection standards.
In this respect I note the signing of the multilateral agreement on financing green economy projects, including use of energy-saving technology and recycling of raw materials.
Development assistance is another important aspect of our work together, and in this respect we have signed the multilateral agreement on co-financing infrastructure projects in Africa. This shows the BRICS group’s interest in expanding our cooperation with the African continent.
In conclusion, I want to thank the hosts and organisers of today’s summit for their hard work and for their leadership in reaching the results achieved today.
Thank you all very much.
Topics
BRICS
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: March 27, 2013, 17:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of Egypt Mohamed Morsi
Vladimir Putin and Mohamed Morsi discussed current issues in Russian-Egyptian cooperation.
March 27, 2013
23:00
Durban
2 of 2
With President of Egypt Mohamed Morsi.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, I am very happy to meet you in person.
We have already talked several times over the phone. We have an opportunity to meet here, on the sidelines of BRICS summit, to talk about our cooperation.
Our countries have always shared a special relationship and we in Russia have always had particularly warm feelings toward the Egyptian people.
This year marks seventy years since the establishment of diplomatic relations between our nations. In spite of various problems in the global economy, our trade is growing and in the last two years it grew by 70%.
We have many promising areas for cooperation. I am very happy for the opportunity to meet you, make your acquaintance and discuss all these areas.
President of Egypt Mohamed Morsi
(retranslated): Mr President, I am very pleased to have this meeting with you today.
Just like you, I have awaited the opportunity to make your acquaintance in person, to discuss the relations of strategic partnership that have tied our countries for 70 years, and these relations have always been warm. I would like for our relations to keep their dynamic momentum in the present.
See also
Visit to Republic of South Africa. BRICS Summit
March 26 − 27, 2013
I am referring to a wide variety of areas for cooperation. These include political cooperation, the coordination of our positions regarding regional and global issues. Naturally, they also include science and technology cooperation between our states, cooperation in developing and transferring technologies, using the Russian Federation’s wealth of experience in this area.
Of course, this applies to a wide range of areas in economic cooperation. These include manufacturing, mutual trade and energy. And I would like to open a new page in our relations as far as the gas sector is concerned, I mean Egyptian gas supplies to Russia.
Naturally, there are also many other promising areas for cooperation, which I discussed with Mr Lavrov when he visited Cairo. I’m sure that he reported to you on that visit.
We consider our meeting with you today a kind of prelude to my visit to the Russian Federation, which I would very much like to make in the near future.
Vladimir Putin: Mr President, you have my invitation. We will find a date for your visit through our foreign ministries.
I will be happy to meet with you at a time that is convenient for you.
Mohamed Morsi: I will also be very happy to make that visit and I hope that we will soon agree on the dates for that trip.
<…>
Geography
Egypt
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Morsi Mohamed
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 27, 2013, 23:00
Text versionEvents
Speech at BRICS summit talks in expanded format
March 27, 2013
16:00
Durban
At BRICS summit talks in expanded format.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen,
Work in the BRICS group is one of Russia’s foreign policy priorities.
The medium- and long-term strategy, as we see it, is to consolidate the BRICS group as a key part of the global governance system in the political, legal, financial and economic spheres.
On-going cooperation with our BRICS partners guides the work we are undertaking within Russia’s presidency of the G20. I want to take this opportunity today to thank once again my BRICS colleagues for supporting Russia’s initiatives and helping us to develop the substance of the draft decisions for the summit that will take place in St Petersburg in September.
To overcome the negative trends on global markets the BRICS countries must make greater use of their own resources and possibilities. My colleagues, including the President of Brazil [Dilma Rousseff], spoke about this just now.
We have to achieve a quality expansion in our trade and economic cooperation, substantially broaden our mutual investment and launch big multilateral business projects.
We are already working in these areas. After the meeting is over, we will sign agreements between the BRICS countries on cooperation and co-financing in green economy projects and also infrastructure projects in Africa. We are also working on the idea of establishing the BRICS Development Bank. Russia thinks this is a project we can continue, and this position will be reflected in the summit’s final document.
The Business Council has been established at Russia’s initiative. Our business communities should focus on finding new opportunities for launching multilateral investment projects. Russia’s leadership will do everything it can to assist our business communities’ work.
We hope that our BRICS partners will support the initiative Russia put forward today to organise cooperation in the mining and processing sectors. The sectors concerned include aviation, the radio-electronics industry, energy machine building, the metals industry, machine-tool building, production and use of mineral resources.
”The medium- and long-term strategy, as we see it, is to consolidate the BRICS group as a key part of the global governance system in the political, legal, financial and economic spheres.“
The BRICS agenda is growing and new opportunities are emerging. The need to coordinate our on-going work is thus ever clearer. We propose examining the possibility of setting up a virtual BRICS secretariat that would be a working instrument for dialogue between our governments and an important information resource objectively covering our organisation’s work for the global public.
To this end, we support the idea of getting the scientific community more actively involved in launching innovative projects for the BRICS group. The Consortium of BRICS countries’ Expert Centres will work on just this.
We think it an important task to draw up a draft international development strategy for the BRICS group. Another avenue for work is to expand the circle of BRICS dialogue partners in all different areas. We are taking our first step in this direction at this summit by holding a meeting between the BRICS group and African leaders.
It would be useful to develop regular contacts between our group and the main international and regional organisations and organise systemic cooperation above all with the United Nations and its specialised agencies. I therefore propose that we send our summit’s final document to the UN Secretary-General and UN General Assembly President.
There is an ever clearer need to consistently develop joint efforts in combating modern threats and challenges such as terrorism and drugs trafficking. Russia proposes holding the first meeting of the heads of our countries’ drugs control agencies in June this year in Moscow.
We must take purposeful steps to strengthen the foundations of international information security and use the BRICS countries’ potential for launching initiatives in this area. It would be good to have the relevant agencies in our countries continue work on drafting a framework document that would set out the BRICS countries’ common policy in this area.
We place priority importance on expanding cooperation in humanitarian areas too. Russia proposes that we speed up the work to approve the multilateral intergovernmental agreement on cooperation in culture. This work is already underway.
Our countries’ civil societies are becoming more and more active within the BRICS format. The first meeting between young leaders from our countries will take place this year, and the parliamentary forum is preparing its launch.
I want to conclude by thanking the hosts, the President of South Africa [Jacob Zuma], and all of our colleagues for this fruitful and productive cooperation. I am sure that if we continue working in this spirit of partnership we will find effective solutions to the problems facing our countries and peoples, and will have a big and positive impact on global economic development.
Thank you for your attention.
Geography
South Africa
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: March 27, 2013, 16:00
Text version