Events
Press statements following Russian-Serbian talks
May 24, 2013
17:15
Sochi
Press statements following Russian-Serbian talks.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen,
I have just ended talks with the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Nikolic. This was our third meeting and I am happy to say that our dialogue is producing more results with each meeting. By signing the declaration on strategic partnership, we are affirming our countries’ desire to take our cooperation to a new level. I am sure that this declaration will give a big political boost to developing our ties in all different areas.
Looking at our economic cooperation, our bilateral trade dropped slightly in 2012, but it was already back up by 11.2 percent in the first quarter of this year.
We place great importance on energy sector cooperation, including construction of the South Stream pipeline. Construction is scheduled to start at the end of this year and will involve a total cost of 1.7 billion euros, with Russia taking on all of the financing obligations. We are working together with Serbia’s biggest oil company [Naftna Industrija Srbije – NIS]. 
Russia has already invested more than 1.5 billion euros in NIS since 2009. I informed Mr Nikolic that the Russian investor company plans to invest another 1.5 billion euros over the next few years. We are working together in the financial sector, in tourism, and in the metals industry too. We will continue to encourage and develop investment in the Serbian economy. 
We will continue providing loans and financial assistance to our Serbian friends. In January 2013, an agreement was signed to grant Serbia an export credit worth $800 million. This is a targeted loan that will be used for a major infrastructure project in Serbia to build and modernise railways.
See also
Meeting with President of Serbia Tomislav Nikolic
May 24, 2013
Russian Railways is taking on these obligations on the Russian side. I remind you that in April this year, we concluded an agreement on a preferential state finance credit of 500 million euros.
We continue our cooperation in the humanitarian sector. The Russian-Serbian Humanitarian Centre plays a unique part in this work. We will continue to develop our cultural and education ties and increase contacts between youth organisations.
In this area, I think that Russia’s help in rebuilding Orthodox holy sites in the Serbian Autonomous Province of Kosovo and Metohija is of symbolic significance and underscores the spiritual bonds we share. This work is being carried out with UNESCO’s support and is close to completion. We are also looking at other possible projects in this area.
A date of particular importance for our countries is approaching – the 100th anniversary of the start of World War One. We are ready to examine the options for restoring the unique Russian necropolis at Belgrade’s new cemetery.
We will continue developing our cooperation on international issues. We discussed the settlement process in Kosovo of course. Our principles and policies are well-known. We want to see the parties concerned reach a viable and mutually acceptable solution based on Resolution 1244 of the UN Security Council. Of course we support our Serbian friends as they carry out these difficult negotiations with the Kosovars through the EU and Brussels’ mediation. 
Let me finish by thanking the President for this frank and trusting discussion. I am sure that today’s meeting marks a big milestone in developing Russian-Serbian relations.
Thank you for your attention.
President of Serbia Tomislav Nikolic
(translated from Russian): Ladies and gentlemen,
This is a big day for Serbia. We have now given the official seal to our longstanding brotherhood and friendship with Russia. The declaration we signed will enable our countries to make use of the great cooperation potential that we have, especially in trade and the economy, science and technology, education and culture. 
We have established closer cooperation in meeting challenges such as terrorism and financing of terrorism, organised crime, drug trafficking, proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, environmental pollution, climate change, emergency situations, and social and economic backwardness and poverty.
Serbia and Russia have friendly, diverse and rich relations that go back centuries. Our political, economic, cultural and scientific cooperation is exceptionally positive and is growing all the time. This is reflected in our frequent visits and contacts at the highest political levels, which have produced numerous joint projects.
The Republic of Serbia and I personally place great importance on the Russian Federation and President Vladimir Putin’s contribution to developing and strengthening our peaceful cooperation and friendly relations. We have expressed this gratitude by awarding President Putin the Order of the Republic of Serbia of the highest degree for his services. It will be my great pleasure to present this decoration to you in Belgrade.
Russia’s support in settling the issue of Kosovo and Metohija is extremely important for us, especially Russia’s view that what is good for Serbia is good for Russia too. Serbia has put a lot of effort into resolving the Kosovo and Metohija issue, taking on the responsibility for finding a solution through negotiations at the highest political level with Pristina and adopting the resolutions that come out of these negotiations. Reaching and implementing agreements that are in the interests of both sides will help to strengthen peace and stability throughout the entire region. We hope for continued support of work to resolve the Kosovo and Metohija issue.
Serbia places great importance on carrying out the South Stream gas pipeline project. As a way of giving the project special support and speeding up its implementation, Serbia has passed a law that declares construction of the South Stream pipeline a project of particular state importance.
We are very keen to further develop our economic cooperation with the Russian Federation. There is big growth potential here, and this is in both countries’ interests. Agriculture is a particularly promising sector, given the demand and size of the Russian market. The Serbian authorities are working hard to make the national economy healthier and encourage foreign investment, in order to make the economy more competitive and able to produce enough goods to supply a big market like Russia.
Let me take this opportunity to invite Russian businesspeople to join in this process and seize the opportunities and advantages that the signing of today’s declaration opens up, as well as making use of all the other agreements that our two countries have concluded.
Mr President, on behalf of all of Serbia’s people, let me thank you for the generous support that you give our entire country.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 24, 2013, 17:15
Text versionEvents
Meeting on Russian film industry development
Vladimir Putin held a meeting on Russian film industry development.
May 24, 2013
21:50
Sochi
2 of 9
Meeting on Russian film industry development.
The meeting participants discussed the future of the Russian cinema, improving the efficiency and the rational use of state support for the film industry, training professionals for the industry, as well as the Russian audience’s expectations from the national cinema.
At the beginning of the meeting the President asked the participants to observe a moment of silence in memory of outstanding film director Pyotr Todorovsky, who died in Moscow earlier today at the age of 87. Vladimir Putin expressed his condolences to the director’s family and loved ones.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends,
I said good afternoon, but in fact today is a sad day. As you know, Pyotr Todorovsky, an outstanding Soviet and Russian film director, cameraman, screenwriter and actor, has died. I offer my condolences to all his loved ones. (Moment of silence.)
Colleagues, we meet regularly to consider ways to develop the cinema, this highly important field and art form. I think you'll agree that state support for the Russian film industry has been growing in recent years, but the industry’s current issues cannot be resolved by money alone, although, of course, it is impossible to achieve anything without it.
In recent years, allocations for the film industry just from the federal budget amounted to almost 58 billion rubles [approximately $2 billion]. Proper conditions for the industry to flourish have been established, or at least a great deal has been done to that end. We have taken into account the wishes of hundreds of film industry professionals, film directors and distributors, to adopt the necessary legal framework; concessions have been agreed for film production financing, both in terms of customs regulation and film studios’ economic activity, and significant tax incentives have been provided. To effectively address the industry’s problems we have created a profile government council and a federal fund for social and economic support of the national film industry, which has broad powers and capabilities.
As for funding, I would like to share some information with you, which is generally known and there is nothing secret about it. The amount of funding for the film industry has increased by 12.5 times from 2000, when it amounted to 528.6 million rubles, until 2013. Today, in 2013, the funding is 6,612,200,000 rubles. The figure was only 528 million, and now it is 6.6 billion.
The government is doing a great deal to help the Russian film industry become competitive and meet the demands of the time. Naturally, people expect a commensurate result: to have more and more films produced every year that will match the strategic objectives of national development and the needs of society, films that will have a serious, creative and educational impact, that will carry an educational and creative charge, promote healthy living, patriotism, spirituality, compassion and responsibility.
However, we must admit that we are still far from reaching all of these goals. Foreign films are gaining ground in the Russian box office, and the share of viewers' interest in Russian films at the box office now stands at only 15.5%. I have often said that the state can help to make a film but it cannot get people to watch a film they don’t like. We can reserve places in cinemas for Russian films but the question is how to fill the seats with viewers.
Most importantly, Russian viewers do not lose faith in our domestic film industry; they dream of a strong, national cinema and genuinely enjoy its successes. Remember how the public acclaimed Faust, The Admiral, and such unfortunately rare creative triumphs for our film industry as Yelena, The Brest Fortress, which, by the way, were made on a very modest budget. Legenda No. 17 took by storm millions of viewers of all generations and has been at the box office for over a month, despite the appearance of new foreign blockbusters.
I am firmly convinced that Russian viewers do not choose between foreign and Russian films, but between the good and not so good ones, to put it mildly, and are always ready to give preference to Russian films. When I say a good film, what I am referring to is its artistic value. That is what is important for viewers, who need films that describe ordinary human relationships and feelings. And the films that make us feel proud of our nation and its history have always been and will always enjoy great success.
Of course, these are just wishes. The state must not use censorship, dictate its terms or put pressure on the industry. Culture professionals have complete freedom of choice and expression. But freedom is not everything. You must earn public trust and respect for your work, make sure it is in demand and maintain the standard constantly.
I would like to remind you that I addressed the Film Council in November 2011, — and many of its members are present here today, — with a request to consider a kind of ethical charter for the members of the Russian film industry. I would like to come back to this issue, considering the way things are, as well as the opinions of the viewers, who keep complaining about the prevalence of mediocre films. I believe that such a charter and a list of its signatories can become a benchmark for the Government’s strategy and the continued support of the film industry.
In addition, it is important to investigate the situation and put an end to the dishonest attitude towards state support. Unfortunately, there are cases when the state allocates substantial funds, sufficient for implementing the projects of filmmakers and distributors, and these funds are used badly or, oddly enough, not used at all. The project initiators change the rules of the game in the process. It is unacceptable in any industry to waste state funds or use them inappropriately.
In recent years we have seen the emergence of large qualified producers capable of implementing quality projects, and you must go to those professionals if you believe there are certain topics that are important to convey on the film or TV screen. I say this because some agencies aspire to set up their own studios. I don’t think we need that. Agencies must deal with their own set of issues.
Speaking of professionals, I cannot ignore the current state and prospects of Russian film education. Many of you here know that I recently signed an executive order, in which the Gerasimov Institute of Cinematography (Russian State University of Cinematography) has been classified as a particularly valuable cultural heritage site. It is a well-deserved status, which reflects the university’s symbolic role in the preservation of the national film school’s unique traditions. However, it is also a great responsibility, because the flagship institution must always be the best of the best and lead by example.
It is no secret that many filmmakers today complain about the level of education provided at specialised educational institutions. According to them, and we should take their opinions seriously, the curricula are often outdated, to put it mildly, professionals are no longer trained for a number of specialties that are much needed for the modern film industry. The film industry employment market currently needs over 100 professions, while universities train specialists in only 10 of them. Training centres must move with the times (this applies to all educational centres); in fact, they must be one step ahead, they must work for the future. We have university professors and film industry professionals with us today, and I propose that we think together about how to meet the challenges facing this field.
These are the issues I propose we talk about today, but, of course, as in our previous meetings, feel free to raise any questions you deem necessary. My colleagues and I are at your disposal, so let’s start our discussion.
<…>
Topics
Culture
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 24, 2013, 21:50
Text versionEvents
Beginning of meeting with President of Serbia Tomislav Nikolic
May 24, 2013
15:00
Meeting with President of Serbia Tomislav Nikolic.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, friends,
It is a great pleasure to see you here in Russia. We agreed to hold this meeting, and I want to thank you for agreeing and finding the time to come here. I hope we will have the chance to discuss our bilateral relations and also go over a few regional and international issues.
We have quite a high level of mutual contacts. Our countries are carrying out promising major projects together. I am pleased to have this opportunity to discuss all of these different areas with you today.
Welcome!
President of Serbia Tomislav Nikolic (translated from Russian): Mr President, thank you for the invitation and for your hospitality.
As you said yourself, our relations are improving all the time and are showing solid growth. Our frequent contacts and the regular contacts between our officials are helping this process. 
We will discuss the projects already underway of course, and also those that are still at the planning stage. Overall, Serbia is happy with the Russian Federation’s policy towards our country.
There is always room for improvement, but Serbia is grateful to the Russian Federation for taking the side of international law with regard to the Kosovo and Metohija issue. We keep you closely informed on the situation regarding this issue.
Serbia has already started preparations for building the section of the South Stream pipeline that will cross its territory. It would make us very happy indeed if you were able to find the time to visit Serbia before the end of the year.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much.
<…>
Geography
Serbia
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Nikolic Tomislav
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 24, 2013, 15:00
Text version