Events
Russian-Indian talks
Vladimir Putin held talks at the Kremlin with Prime Minister of India Manmohan Singh.
October 21, 2013
17:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 5
With Prime Minister of India Manmohan Singh.
Following their talks, Mr Putin and Mr Singh
adopted a joint declaration, Deepening the Strategic Partnership for Global Peace and Stability. The two leaders also oversaw the signing of a number of bilateral cooperation agreements.
The documents signed include an agreement on transfer of people sentenced to prison terms, a memorandum of understanding between the Russian Energy Agency, the Russian Energy Ministry, and India’s Bureau of Energy Efficiency, a memorandum of understanding between Russia’s Federal Agency on Technical Regulation and Metrology and the Bureau of Indian Standards, a science and technology cooperation programme for 2014–2017, and a biotechnology cooperation programme for 2014–2017.
Mr Putin and Mr Singh made press statements following the talks.
Mr Singh is in Russia on an official visit at Mr Putin’s invitation.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister, friends,
It is a great pleasure to welcome you to Russia.
India is our longstanding and reliable strategic partner and ally. Much of what has been achieved over recent years, Mr Prime Minister, was accomplished under your direct leadership and with your personal involvement, and we are certainly very grateful to you for this.
See also
Press statement following Russian-Indian talks
October 21, 2013
We are actively developing our economic ties. We are happy to see the amount of trade we have, though it can and should be even bigger. But most pleasing of all is the quality of our trade, in which products with high added value account for a big share. We are working together in a very broad range of sectors, in practically all areas.
We are developing our cooperation in the military technical and defence sectors. Indeed, the latest Russian-Indian anti-terrorism exercises are underway right at the moment in India.
We are working together on political matters too and are actively involved in work in the UN and the BRICS group.
We are very pleased to have this chance to see you here, Mr Prime Minister, and to welcome you and your delegation to Russia. I wish you welcome.
Prime Minister of India Manmohan Singh: Mr President, thank you for your generous hospitality and for your kind remarks. I am very pleased to be back in Moscow for the 14th India-Russia Annual Summit.
Mr President, you have been instrumental in promoting and strengthening our partnership for more than a decade, and we are grateful to you for your sustained personal interest and commitment.
Mr President, India’s relations with the Russian Federation occupy a very special place in our foreign policy. We cherish our true and time-tested friendship with Russia, which has remained strong and relevant despite the changes in the world at large. The level of trust and confidence that we have in our relations with Russia is unmatched by any other relationship. I would like to reaffirm that our relations with Russia will remain a high strategic priority for us and will continue to grow not only bilaterally but also on global and regional issues.
Mr President, I am very happy that good and sustained progress is taking place in defence, energy, science and technology, as well as tourism, trade and investment. Our coordination in multilateral foras has also deepened, such as BRICS, Group of 20, and the East Asia Summit. Ours is truly a special and privileged strategic partnership, to which, Mr President, you have contributed enormously in this last decade.
<…>
Geography
India
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Singh Manmohan
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 21, 2013, 17:00
Text versionEvents
Press statement following Russian-Indian talks
October 21, 2013
17:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
See also
Russian-Indian talks
October 21, 2013
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minister,
Our talks have just ended. We discussed in detail the full range of our bilateral relations and outlined our next steps to continue strengthening the privileged strategic partnership between Russia and India.
Our countries and peoples are bound by traditionally strong ties of friendship, mutual respect and sympathy. This is the solid foundation upon which we are building our fruitful bilateral dialogue and are carrying out big projects in the economy, science and technology, and in humanitarian fields.
Our talks focused especially on economic cooperation. Despite the difficulties in the global economy, our bilateral trade increased by 24 percent last year. It is good to see that high-value-added products account for a big share of our trade. Engineering products account for half of Russia’s exports to India.
Total Russian investment in India’s economy is growing, as is Indian investment in the Russian economy. A large share of joint capital is being invested in projects in areas such as civil aircraft engineering, automotive industry, petrochemicals, telecommunications, pharmaceuticals, and fertiliser production. 
Let me mention our biggest achievement too: in July, operations began at the Kudankulam nuclear power plant’s first unit. It is being linked up to India’s energy grid now, and indeed, I think this will happen literally in the next few hours. The second unit is in the works now, and there are plans for building more units, perhaps four more. 
Russia’s big companies are well represented on the Indian market. Gazprom, Power Machines, Stroytransgaz, SIBUR, KAMAZ, AFK Sistema and other companies are all working in India today. Dozens of Indian companies are also actively doing business in Russia. 
We discussed our current military technical cooperation objectives. India is one of Russia’s biggest partners in this area. Our joint projects in this sector are evidence of the high level of our technological and industrial cooperation. One of the biggest projects here is the modernisation of a heavy aircraft carrier, which will soon be ready to be delivered to India.
What distinguishes our military technical cooperation as it is developing now is the big share of research and development work we are carrying out. Russian and Indian specialists are working together on developing a fifth-generation fighter plane, a multipurpose transport plane, and missile technology.
Russia and India have always paid great attention to the common threat of terrorism and to its combat. We are doing all we can at national and international level and are joining forces to fight terrorism. We will do everything possible to prevent it and to make sure that perpetrators are punished.
In civilian cooperation fields, we are expanding our contacts in science and technology and in education. We hope that the science and technology cooperation programme that we approved today will help to further develop our ties in this area. 
We remain just as keen as ever to develop our humanitarian ties too. The Indian Culture Festival is currently underway in Russia. We have decided to hold such events on a regular basis.
Of course, we also discussed current international issues. We work productively together in all of the international forums, including the UN, the G20, BRICS
, and the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation
.
We discussed in depth the situation in the Middle East, North Africa, and above all, in Syria. We exchanged information on our views on the situation in Afghanistan too. I want to note that our assessments are identical or very close on all of these issues.
We on the Russian side are happy with today’s talks. They were successful and I am sure that they will help us to continue developing the multifaceted cooperation between our two countries.
I want to thank the prime minister of India, Mr Singh, and all of our Indian friends and colleagues. 
We have big cooperation plans and I am sure that they will be carried out. Thank you.
Geography
India
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Singh Manmohan
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 21, 2013, 17:30
Text version