Events
Meeting on developing high-speed railways
The meeting examined the Moscow-Kazan high-speed railway project’s prospects and main parameters.
July 31, 2013
16:00
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 3
Meeting on developing high-speed railways.
The Moscow-Kazan high-speed railway is one of the big infrastructure projects the President announced at the St Petersburg International Economic Forum in June. It focuses on developing high-speed rail transport and takes the passenger transport system to a qualitatively new level.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
As was agreed, we are continuing today the series of meetings on carrying out the big infrastructure projects announced at the St Petersburg International Economic Forum in June.
Last week, we discussed modernisation and expanding throughput capacity on the Trans-Siberian and Baikal-Amur railways. Today, we will talk about the plans to build a high-speed rail link between Moscow and Kazan, which we expect to have ready to start operation in 2018. 
This is a new project for Russia. Essentially, it is the logical continuation of our high-speed railway development. We already have the rapid rail links operating between Moscow and St Petersburg, Moscow and Nizhny Novgorod, and the link with Helsinki. But what we are talking about today is a high-speed railway. We need to examine its feasibility on both the practical and economic levels. Maybe we should stick to building another rapid railway link. We need to look at all the issues involved. Whatever the case, the project’s goal is to take the railway passenger transport system to a qualitatively new level. 
”The Moscow-Kazan line would be just the first step. It could serve as the pilot project for a future rail link connecting Central Russia, the Volga region and the Urals.“
The project would cut the travel time between Moscow and Kazan four-fold, from 14 hours to 3.5 hours. The railway would pass through cities such as Vladimir, Nizhny Novgorod, and Cheboksary. Travel on this route would become more comfortable, the railway would help to stimulate more investment to bolster the economy and social sphere, and it would also make Russia more attractive as a tourism destination. 
The Moscow-Kazan line would be just the first step. It could serve as the pilot project for a future rail link connecting Central Russia, the Volga region and the Urals. We would have to think it through and calculate the economic costs, but perhaps we could even continue the line onwards, right on to Krasnoyarsk. I know that such lines are effective, today at least, only for journeys lasting around 8 hours, but we would need to calculate the passenger flows between Siberian cities, where there could certainly be high demand for these rail links. I will say more about this in a minute. But we should not try to do everything at once. We need to work step by step. 
The first thing to do in carrying out this project is to draw up a clear legal, organisational and financial implementation plan. We also need to start forecasting right now the passenger flows on the Moscow-Kazan route, estimate the railway’s potential traffic volumes, and come up with an effective and flexible pricing policy that would ensure competitive and affordable ticket prices for passengers. Only with this kind of information at hand, with clear forecasts of the project’s future revenues and returns, and a clear understanding of the possible risks involved, will the investors start to come.
Organising project financing is another important task, the key task really. We agreed that we would use part of the resources in the National Prosperity Fund to help resolve key infrastructure issues, including construction of the Moscow-Kazan railway.
”The project must be worked out in detail and approved with the regions that the new high-speed line will traverse. Any differences and disputes must be sorted out before construction begins.“
We will discuss the concrete mechanisms today. In particular, I want to get a clear picture of the necessary conditions and timeframe for the financing, what will be done to attract private investment, how return of invested funds will be guaranteed, how long this is expected to take, whether or not additional state support will be required, and how much. The timeframe question is a separate matter. We need to look at what other countries are doing, because this is a project with a very long cycle, and we must be realistic in our plans.
We must settle these matters as soon as possible in order to earmark funding for the project in the budgets for 2014 and the subsequent budget-planning period. We should also not delay with choosing a project operator.
I know that Russian Railways proposes establishing a joint venture that would see the High-Speed Railways company join with state and private investors to commission the design and construction of the Moscow-Kazan railway’s infrastructure. We will discuss this option today, and we will also look at the mechanisms for raising state and private investment to establish the company itself, including with the development institutions’ help.
Next, the project must be worked out in detail and approved with the regions that the new high-speed line will traverse. Any differences and disputes must be sorted out before construction begins.
I hope that the regional heads will take interest and be active in settling the issues related to this project’s implementation. This is especially true of facilitating land allocation for building the railway line itself and its adjacent installations. I very much hope that we can avoid any swindling here, so that no one rushes out now to buy up land and then sell it back later to the state at an exorbitant price. I ask you to monitor the situation closely right from the start of this project’s implementation.
I propose that we consider making the regions participants in this project. This would balance the project itself better, and would also make the regions more responsible for the work and its results.
Finally, the stages and deadlines for building the railway must be written up in the work plan and timetable drafted.
I ask you to make sure the plan is drawn up based on the results of our discussion today.
<…>

Topics
Regions
Transport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 31, 2013, 16:00
Text version    Events Meeting with Interior Ministry, Federal Migration Service, Investigative Committee and City of Moscow leadership   Vladimir Putin met with Interior Minister Vladimir Kolokoltsev, Federal Migration Service Director Konstantin Romodanovsky, First Deputy Chairman of the Investigative Committee Vasily Piskarev and Acting Mayor of Moscow Sergei Sobyanin to discuss issues of fighting crime at major markets and countering corruption within the law enforcement agencies.    July 31, 2013  20:30  Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region                                                       1 of 4 Meeting with the Interior Ministry, Federal Migration Service, Investigative Committee and City of Moscow leadership.        * * *President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good evening, colleagues,I have invited you to hear your suggestions on additional measures that can be taken to fight economic crimes – overall, and more specifically, crimes that are flourishing at major retail centres and markets. The steps being taken in this area are clearly insufficient. Either nothing happens at all, or progress is made at a rate that is unacceptably slow.Meanwhile, the damage to the economy overall and to the state is enormous. When I say the state, I am referring first and foremost to people’s attitudes concerning actions taken by the authorities in this area. Unfortunately, there is still a fairly low level of trust toward the law enforcement agencies and other state authorities that should be resolving problems in this domain. The reasons are clear: we react and boost efforts in this area only when people inform us about it directly, telling us it is impossible to continue tolerating this level of lawlessness. Or, in this case, when a police officer has his head fractured. That is an extreme situation. This is what recently happened at one of the markets in Moscow: policemen were standing there and watching as their colleague got beaten up. Why? Are they such cowards? Perhaps, but it’s unlikely. Most likely, their inaction is earning them money from those merchants. This is obvious and well-known to everyone. The only party that doesn’t know about it is the Interior Ministry security service. It should be taking action in response. Where are the results of its efforts? ”The steps being taken to fight economic crimes are clearly insufficient. Either nothing happens at all, or progress is made at a rate that is unacceptably slow.“ Moreover, more vigorous measures must be taken bythe Federal Migration Service and other agencies. Now I would like to hear your reports on what is being done about this situation, and then we will discuss the overall problem in more detail.Please, Mr Kolokoltsev, you have the floor.Interior Minister Vladimir Kolokoltsev: Mr President, colleagues,We have drawn some very tough conclusions from the incident that occurred. The local police chief has been dismissed, as were several staff members. We fully intend to continue these efforts. The measures we have taken since the incident will become a permanent part of our work. This is not some kind of a quick mop-up of the territory that is over in a couple of days, as some people are calling it. These measures will be carried out on different levels, and practically speaking, they must be shown to be effective. However, their effectiveness must be assessed by the citizens themselves, the city’s residents. They must give us a fundamental decision: are we capable of bringing order to such places, these markets, or are we incapable of fulfilling your instructions? Either way, we will continue this work.Vladimir Putin: Very well. Go ahead, please.First Deputy chairman of the Investigative Committee Vasily Piskarev: Mr President, the Investigative Committee has also analysed the situation carefully – this anomalous situation pertaining to the protection of police officers from the lawlessness we all saw. We have initiated two criminal cases against the police officers who observed the situation but did not intervene and did not help to apprehend the offenders, which resulted in a policeman sustaining serious injuries.We want to conduct a thorough investigation, and in addition to checking for negligence, we want to also investigate the presence of corruption between merchants and law enforcement agencies. It seems to me that this type of work should be conducted not just at the Matveyevsky Market, where the incident occurred, but also at other major markets, to uncover collusion between merchants and law enforcement agencies, as well as oversight authorities. We are prepared to conduct this work together with the Federal Security Service and internal affairs agencies.Federal Migration Service Director Konstantin Romodanovsky: Mr President, we have drafted and adopted laws in accordance with your instructions to increase liability for immigrants, up to the level of criminal liability. Soon, in the month of August, several new regulations will come into force, allowing us to reverse the situation to a certain extent. ”All government agencies that must make corresponding decisions and execute them are working sluggishly and ineffectively. One of the key problems is the coalescence of government agencies with trade and merchants.“ In the past, an individual who overstayed his or her visa was fined but allowed to remain in Russia. The new laws will give us the right to invariably impose a fine and deport the individual. Moreover, on Mr Sobyanin’s initiative, Moscow, St Petersburg, the Leningrad Region and the Moscow Region have increased penalties for the violation of migration regulations by legal entities and officials. This rule will come into force on August 9.In fact, the measures we have launched are leading to certain results that should compel our visitors to comply with our rules. In particular, we have prevented the entry of 145,000 foreign nationals into Russia since the beginning of February. That number should be even higher, but we are preventing a thousand people from entering every day; this work is carried out on an individual basis. And I believe that denying admission to foreign nationals violating regulations onto our territory is the most effective measure that will allow us to restore order quickly.Vladimir Putin: The Acting Mayor of Moscow has already pointed to these problems many times. I know that at this time, the Moscow City Hall itself is making vigorous attempts to change the situation. Mr Sobyanin, you have the floor.Acting Mayor of Moscow Sergei Sobyanin: Mr President, you have stated very accurately that Moscow’s markets are the zones with the city’shighest level of criminal activity. With your support and assistance, we have shut down such odious markets as Luzhniki, Slavyansky Mir and Mitino. Just two weeks ago, we closed down the Timiryazevsky Market, and that closure was supported by a police regiment because there was active resistance in spite of the court decision. Overall, we have closed down 30 markets in Moscow over the last two years. Today, for the most part, only food markets remain, but there are more than enough problems even there: they include tax evasion, the use of cash transactions, violations of migration and customs laws, sales of fake goods and so on.Incidentally, I want to say a few words about the Cherkizovsky Market; you gave harshinstructions regarding that market four years ago, and it was shut down. However, we received information that the activities there were still continuing. Today, at six in the morning, we carried out an operation, and indeed, this was confirmed. Counterfeit products were being produced on three underground floors; we arrested 1,200 individuals from Vietnam and other countries. In other words, this business was flourishing. Today, all this was removed from there.Mr President, I have a suggestion concerning the Cherkizovsky Market: it is an enormous but essentially abandoned space with excellent transport accessibility – four metro stations, two of which are right near the site. You have given instructions on finding space to create museum archives with exhibition halls, in order to establish an open museum depository. Moreover, we have been seeking space for a large CSKA athletic hockey centre. Indeed, it’s almost as if this space was designed for it; we can build a cultural and athletic centre there. If you issue the corresponding instructions, we will work the idea through together with the Federal Agency for State Property Management, the Sports Ministry and the Culture Ministry. Unfortunately, because this is federal land, we cannot manage it ourselves, but I am sure our colleagues will help us if you provide the relevant instructions. ”The merchant's ethnic and religious background do not have any significance. What’s important is the money being paid off to members of government agencies. And this is what we need to address.“ Vladimir Putin: This is an excellent suggestion. Indeed, it’s right in the centre of the city and has very good public transport accessibility. It would be very convenient for Moscow’s residents – both the athletic facilities and the archives, which should certainly be created not just as archives but as exhibition spaces as well. Let’s develop this idea; I will certainly issue corresponding instructions to the Government.As for the overall situation, I would like to say this: the issue undoubtedly requires a multifaceted approach. However, all government agencies that must make corresponding decisions and execute them are working sluggishly and ineffectively. I will not list them all now, but this pertains to many government agencies and directorates. One of the key problems is the coalescence of government agencies with trade and merchants. This is not directly related to the merchants’ ethnic background, although as far as ethnic criminal groups are concerned, we know that this problem also exists; but in this case, ethnicity and religion do not have any significance. What’s important is the money being paid off to members of government agencies. And this is what we need to address.I have already said that the Interior Ministry’s territorial internal security subdivisions do not demonstrate efficient operation, so this should certainly be conveyed to the Main Internal Security Directorate. They must work closely on it, together with other law enforcement agencies and special services, and we need to get results. Of course, this should apply not just to Interior Ministry employees, but the Federal Migration Service and all others, including local authorities. I have already spoken to the Prosecutor General and I am asking the Investigative Committee to work with the heads of other special services to ensure that all of you are actively engaged in this work.<…>         Topics  Fight against corruption    Fight against crime    Law enforcement agencies         Persons    Kolokoltsev Vladimir    Sobyanin Sergei                        Publication status Published in sections: News, Transcripts  Publication date:    July 31, 2013, 20:30  Direct link: en.kremlin.ru/d/18980    Text version        NaN /  