Events
Speech at the opening of Russian pavilion at Hannover Messe 2013
April 8, 2013
12:50
Hannover
Federal Chancellor of Germany Angela Merkel
(translated from Russian): Good morning,
I am very pleased that the Hannover Messe is opening today with this visit to the Russian pavilion, given that Russia is the guest country this year. On behalf of the Federal Government we wish a warm welcome to our guests from Russia at this year’s Hannover Messe. 
We are very pleased to see that Russian participants represent here a broad range of their country’s capabilities. We know that there are 160 exhibitors from Russia taking part. Russian business is much more broadly presented here this time than was the case in 2005. This reflects our growing bilateral cooperation in the industrial sector. 
I welcome this opportunity to personally greet some of Russia’s businesspeople and say once more, “Welcome to the Hannover Messe.”
It is my pleasure now to give the floor to the President of Russia.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Madam Federal Chancellor, friends, colleagues,
I want to start by thanking the organisers for giving Russian companies the second opportunity over these last years to be the main guests at this international event. I particularly want to thank Madam Federal Chancellor for finding the time to come here today to take part in the opening of the Russian pavilion.
Russia is presenting a very varied exhibit featuring 20 regions and covering a total of 5,000 square metres. We have 160 companies taking part. Not only the big names from Russia, but other companies too, working successfully in energy, engineering, including transport engineering, high-tech sectors, electronics, biomedicine and many other fields.
The pavilion’s visitors can thus get a clear picture of the scale and diversification of Russia’s economy today. I am sure this will be of interest to both specialists and the general public.
I wish all participants successful work at the fair and promising new contacts and contracts.
Thank you.
Geography
Germany
Topics
Foreign policy
Industry
Persons
Merkel Angela
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 8, 2013, 12:50
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Russian and Dutch business community representatives
President of Russia Vladimir Putin and Prime Minister of the Netherlands Mark Rutte met with representatives of the Russian and Dutch business community.
April 8, 2013
22:30
Amsterdam
1 of 2
At a meeting with Russian and Dutch business community representatives.
The meeting was held in a working dinner format.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends, colleagues,
It is a pleasure to meet again with my friends from the Netherlands, which is one of our most important, respected and valued partner.
Only last year, trade grew by 20% — it amounts to an impressive $82 billion, which is a significant achievement.
I think it is symbolic that the venue for our meeting is the Maritime Museum. It was here that Peter the Great studied shipbuilding. We just paid a visit to the library next door, and the director told us that Peter used to look at the nearby shipyard and its ships from one of this building’s windows. I am telling you all this because it was then, thanks to Peter’s good graces – though they say his graces weren’t always good ­– that the process began which did turn out rather well. I am referring to the development of our centuries-long multi-dimensional relations.
Over that period, Russia and the Netherlands have gained substantial experience of cooperation in the energy sector. I have already mentioned this at the news conference: we have been jointly implementing such major landmark projects as Nord Stream, Sakhalin-2 and Bergermeer. Russian energy giants like Gazprom, LUKOIL, Sovkomflot and Atomenergomash, almost all of which are represented here, are working successfully with Dutch partners.
”The Netherlands is one of our most important, respected and valued partner. Only last year, trade grew by 20%, which is a significant achievement.“
Bilateral economic cooperation is constantly expanding, including through high-tech and innovative projects. I am pleased to note that we have a long-standing good relationship with Philips, which is increasing its presence in Russia and has already built several businesses. I hope that we have not realised all of our potential yet and will continue to develop multifaceted cooperation in high technology industries. We are doing everything in our power to create favourable conditions for this work.
The Economic Development Minister corrected me earlier in that our GDP growth last year was 3.4% rather than 3.2%, but that is still a decent figure in the current climate and it creates a stable business environment. Our sovereign debt is moderate, or even minimal: we owe 2.5% to our foreign creditors, and a little more than 10% in total. Unemployment remains low at 5.5%.
Our gold and foreign currency reserves are growing, which creates a good environment for the development of foreign trade and gives us a safety cushion. Incidentally, even if we take IMF's criteria for the gold reserves required to successfully carry out foreign trade, our reserves are 100–200% bigger than what IMF requires. Standard is to have sufficient reserves for three months, and we have enough for more than a year, which is several times more than the IMF standard.
Trade is developing successfully. Last year it amounted to $865 billion, and the trade surplus reached a record amount of $195 billion.
We are doing everything possible to improve the business climate in Russia. Russian business leaders know this well because they were involved in creating the roadmap for improving the business climate in our country. There are probably things that we haven’t done yet. I should say definitely, rather that probably, there is still work to do but we are moving in that direction, and our partners in international financial organisations have noticed this, and Russia has moved up in the rankings.
We have established a Customs Union together with our partners from Kazakhstan and Belarus, and I think that is a positive sign for all of our partners in Europe, including the Netherlands. The market of 165 million consumers in three countries has begun to operate according to the WTO principles. Russia has joined the WTO, but Kazakhstan and Belarus have not. However, the Customs Union and the Common Economic Space we have created operate on the WTO principles. We have done this for your benefit as well. I am sure that it has become easier for our Dutch partners to work in the market in all three countries, despite the fact that Kazakhstan and Belarus have not acceded to the WTO yet.
That is all I wanted to say at the beginning. My colleagues from the Russian Government and I are at your disposal. We will be happy to answer your questions.
<…>
See also
Working visit to the Netherlands
April 8, 2013
Topics
Economy and finance
Foreign policy
Persons
Rutte Mark
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 8, 2013, 22:30
Text versionEvents
Press statement and answers to journalists' questions following a working visit to Germany
April 8, 2013
14:00
Hannover
2 of 5
News conference following a working visit to Germany.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Madam Federal Chancellor, ladies and gentlemen,
Once again, I want to thank you for inviting Russia to be the main partner at this year’s Hannover Messe. I want to congratulate the fair organisers: we saw today just what a grand-scale, substantial and interesting event it is.
I was able to get a sense of the mood among business people and industry representatives from Russia and Germany. They are happy with their work, happy with their cooperation, and they are talking about big prospects for joint work.
We have just looked around the stands our major energy companies have organised. Each of them has development projects worth tens of billions of euros. Given the advances our German friends and partners have made in high-tech fields, there could be numerous opportunities for German companies to join in these projects and the contracts they offer.
All of this benefits our economies and our peoples. This is no exaggeration. I said yesterday at the fair’s opening that in Germany alone there are more than 700,000 jobs related to production for Russia and jointly with Russia. These are no trifles – these are serious things, especially with the continued problems in the global economy.
”All of our discussions with German partners are constructive in spirit, very friendly and open. I think that this kind of work together will certainly lead us to new achievements.“
Russia is broadly represented at this fair with 20 regions and 160 companies exhibiting in an area of 5,000 square metres. I am very happy to see that our businesspeople feel at home here. This is a result of the close and friendly contacts we have with our partners.
We discussed a wide range of issues during our talks yesterday evening, and Madam Federal Chancellor listed these issues just now, so I don’t have anything to add here, but I want to say that the discussions were absolutely frank and honest, and I would call them very productive. 
Of course, we saw that we have different points of view on some issues, and this is something we have taken note of. But at the same time, let me stress that all of our discussions with our German partners are constructive in spirit, very friendly and open. I think that this kind of work together will certainly lead us to new achievements. We already have solid achievements: our bilateral trade with Germany comes to $74 billion, and this is not the limit.
I am leaving now for a brief visit to the Netherlands. The strange thing is that the Netherlands has a smaller economy than Germany, but our bilateral trade with them comes to $82 billion. This shows that we and our German partners absolutely have the potential to take our bilateral trade to at least $100 billion in the near future. We will definitely do this. 
The Federal Chancellor has already spoken about our discussions of international issues. As I said, I have nothing to add. If there are any questions you still have, we will do our best to answer.
Once again, let me thank the fair’s organisers, the government of Lower Saxony, and residents of Hannover for all their patience. These kinds of events always put a burden on the local infrastructure and involve some restrictions for local people. We ask them to forgive us for this, because, ultimately, these sorts of events bring benefits for the region and host city, and for our bilateral ties.
Thank you for your attention.
Question (translated from Russian): There has been further escalation in the Korean conflict, with more talk about the possibility of using nuclear weapons. What possibilities do you see for de-escalating the conflict?
I think the international community should take a more united stand. Russia can play a big part here, China too. I think that we share the overall common goal of getting North Korea to fulfil its international obligations. We should always try to keep talks going. The international community needs to stand as one.
”We are concerned about the escalation on the Korean Peninsula because we are neighbours. If something were to happen it might make Chernobyl, the consequences of which we know full well, pale in comparison.“
Vladimir Putin: We have already clearly stated our position on the North Korean nuclear issue. First, we oppose the spread of weapons of mass destruction.
Second, we seek denuclearisation of the entire Korean Peninsula. Finally, referring to your question, I do not hide the fact that we are concerned about the escalation on the Korean Peninsula because we are neighbours. If something were to happen it might make Chernobyl, the consequences of which we know full well, pale in comparison. I think that this threat is real. 
But at the same time, we should not overreact, and I would call on everyone to calm down, sit down calmly together at the negotiating table, and start sorting out all the problems that have built up there over the years. I think that the United States took a very important and correct step by putting off their ballistic missile test in order not to provoke things any further. I think that we should all thank the United States’ government for this decision. I hope that our partners in North Korea will note it too and draw the according conclusions, and that everyone will calm down and start working together to defuse the situation.
Question: My first question is about NGOs. How much of a detailed discussion did you have on this issue during your talks yesterday? What were Germany’s concerns? Has Russia succeeded in putting to rest Germany’s concerns that NGOs face obstacles in their work in Russia?
My second question is about Cyprus. This issue also has Europe worried. Do you think that the solution proposed for Cyprus could become a universal solution for dealing with financial and economic problems in other Eurozone countries facing difficulties?
Vladimir Putin: Non-governmental organisations was an issue that the Federal Chancellor spoke about yesterday in an official setting, and mentioned just before too, and of course it is something we discussed in quite some detail during the talks yesterday. I think that I did succeed in explaining to the Federal Chancellor our concerns related to NGOs’ work and the scale of the funding they receive from abroad – this was the issue in question – and I want the German public to know about this.
All of the steps we have taken are not about closures and bans, but are about establishing oversight of the money coming into Russian NGOs that are involved in domestic political activity and are being funded from abroad.
Let me give you the figures once again. Over the first four months alone since Russia passed the law on NGOs, these organisations received a total of 28.3 billion rubles from abroad. That is the equivalent of almost $1 billion in just four months. Such a situation cannot fail to raise some questions, and our public has the right to know where this money is coming from, and what it is being used for. As for these organisations’ freedom, it is in no way restricted. I want to stress this point. All we are asking them to do is to register. Other countries have similar laws in effect, including the United States, where a law on these lines has been in effect since 1938.
Tying in with your second question, on Cyprus, this money – a billion dollars is no small sum – could have been put into helping out countries in difficulty, including Cyprus, and then there would be no need to fleece unfortunate depositors. We discussed this issue in detail too. Russia has made its position very clear. But I think that we are looking at a one-off solution here and that this approach will not be used as a means of addressing the crisis in other problem countries in the Eurozone.
Russia is making its contribution here too. We approved a state loan of $2.5 billion for Cyprus at the end of 2011. The European Commission has asked us to restructure this loan, and we have agreed to do so. This is our real contribution to settling the problem in Cyprus.
Question (translated from Russian): One more question: some young women held a protest and called the [Russian] President a dictator because of setbacks over these last months in developing the rule of law in Russia. Mr President, do you see the contradictions that we in Germany see about what is happening in Russia? You talk about cooperation with Germany, about the road to democracy, but at the same time, you greatly mistrust organisations that cooperate with partners in the West and receive funding from abroad.
”All of the steps we have taken are not about closures and bans, but are about establishing oversight of the money coming into Russian NGOs that are involved in domestic political activity and are being funded from abroad. As for these organisations’ freedom, it is in no way restricted. All we are asking them to do is to register.“
Vladimir Putin: Actually, I liked the protest. We knew that such a thing was being prepared. We should thank these Ukrainian girls for giving the fair some extra PR. Without actions such as their protest, it is quite likely that events like the fair would get less publicity. To be honest, I didn’t really hear what they were shouting because the security guards stepped in very quick. I don’t really think it proper that the girls had these beefy fellows come down on them. They could have been less heavy-handed in their response. I didn’t catch just what it was they were shouting, didn’t even see what they looked like. But we are all used to these kinds of protests and I don’t see anything to make a fuss about. True, it’s better to respect law and order, and if you want to discuss whatever political issues, it’s better to do so with your clothes on rather than naked. There are other places for taking your clothes off – FKK, nudist beaches. But it’s warm enough here, so they won’t catch cold at least.
As for German organisations, including NGOs or governmental organisations working in Russia, you said that we are putting them under our control. Let me say again, in case you didn’t hear my answer to the question your Russian colleague asked: we are not putting anyone under our control. All we want to do is know how much money is coming in from abroad, through which channels, and what it is being spent on in Russia. Above all, we want to know if these organisations being funded from abroad are involved in domestic political activity. We passed a law on this matter, and everyone has to respect it. 
Question: Did the talks bring Russia and Germany any closer on the Syrian issue, or was this one of the issues on which you noted differences in your respective positions?
I have a second question on the future of bilateral relations with continuing instability in the Eurozone. Mr President, do you in Russia still have confidence in the euro as a currency?
Vladimir Putin: Syria is an issue that we discussed at some length. I set out all the nuances of our position in considerable detail, and I think the Federal Chancellor heard and understood our words.
Germany’s government is as concerned as we are about the bloodshed, and we, like our colleagues in Germany and other countries, want to find a solution that would at least stop the bloodshed at this stage.
I said that we noted differences in views on a number of issues, but Syria was in fact one of the issues where this was least the case. NGOs were the issue where the Federal Chancellor, like the German journalist just now, expressed concern that we are restricting the activities of German organisations.
I explained to the Federal Chancellor here and yesterday too, that we are not in any way restricting German organisations’ work in Russia. What’s more, we welcome them, and we hope that the organisations already registered and working in our country will continue to work with success and develop their activities. I can tell you, for example, that we have 2.3 million people in Russia studying German, and we are grateful to our colleagues who are helping in this work, and we will assist them in every way we can.
We have not yet reached a decision on Syria. I think the first thing to do is stop arms supplies to all sides in the conflict.
Second, when people say that Russia is supplying arms, let’s not forget that we are supplying them to the legitimate government, and this is not prohibited under any international rules. But we are ready to get together with everyone to discuss and find a way of ending this blood bath. There is the desire on both sides to end this conflict, this is a fact, and so I hope that we will be able to continue a constructive dialogue.
On the Eurozone, I already spoke about this in my interview with the German media. We regret the situation that has taken place with Cyprus, but there are nonetheless fundamental basics in the European economy and Germany’s economy, and Germany has been showing good growth and demonstrating its economy’s reliability. We therefore do not have any big concerns and we wish our partners success. It is a bit awkward in the Federal Chancellor’s presence to say this, but since you are asking me, I can repeat what I have said before and say that I personally agree with her approach to resolving the current economic problems, including in the Eurozone. The first thing to do is to resolve the systemic problems and then inject capital where needed, and provide help to the countries who need it. I think this is the only correct approach, but as I said, this is not our affair.
Let me conclude by saying that we have confidence in the European Commission’s economic policy and in that of our German friends.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 8, 2013, 14:00
Text versionEvents
Press statement and answers to journalists' questions following Russian-Dutch talks
April 8, 2013
21:20
Amsterdam
1 of 3
News conference following Russian-Dutch talks. With Prime Minister of the Netherlands Mark Rutte.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen,
Today we had a packed, substantive day. As Mr Prime Minister just mentioned, together with Her Majesty Queen Beatrix of the Netherlands we took part in the ceremony launching reciprocal cultural years – the Year of Russia in the Netherlands and the Year of the Netherlands in Russia.
This is a large-scale, multidimensional project. Over 350 cultural, educational and scientific events will be held. The Netherlands will hold Russian Language Days, and the Mariinsky Theatre from St Petersburg will come here on tour. There will also be exhibitions with collections from Russian museums, including the current exhibition on our reforming tsar, Peter the Great. I believe these events will bring our peoples even closer together, increasing the level of trust between the citizens of our nations.
Mr Prime Minister and I had a very substantive discussion in both restricted and expanded formats. The Netherlands is among Russia’s most important foreign trade partners. Our mutual turnover in 2012 grew to a record high of $83 billion. Experts use different estimates here, saying that the final product leaves the Netherlands and passes through other nations, including Germany. But in any event, this is a very good figure indeed.
”Together with Her Majesty Queen Beatrix of the Netherlands we took part in the ceremony launching reciprocal cultural years – the Year of Russia in the Netherlands and the Year of the Netherlands in Russia. This is a large-scale, multidimensional project. Over 350 cultural, educational and scientific events will be held.“
Dutch companies are among the leading investors into the Russian economy. The overall volume of capital investments from the Netherlands is $61 billion. We know and understand that this is partially the repatriation of Russian capital, but we are grateful to the Dutch government and our partners for creating favourable conditions and promoting this mutual exchange.“together with Her Majesty Queen Beatrix of the Netherlands we took part in the ceremony launching reciprocal cultural years – the Year of Russia in the Netherlands and the Year of the Netherlands in Russia. This is a large-scale, multidimensional project. Over 350 cultural, educational and scientific events will be held.“
I would like to say that Russian companies are also showing more interest in working in the Netherlands; Russian businesses are actively entering this market. Russian companies have already invested $30 billion in Holland.
We have spent many years cooperating closely in the energy sector. You all know this well. Over two billion cubic metres of gas are supplied to the Netherlands through the Yamal-Europe pipeline. Our Dutch partners are participating in the construction of Nord Stream, our pipeline project, which is of pan-European significance. Just now, Gazprom and Gasunie signed a Memorandum of Intent to increase the pipeline capacity. Also, Europe’s largest gas storage tank is being built here. I want to point out that it will provide gas for up to 2.5 million households.
The transit of a significant quantity of Russian crude oil to global markets is being conducted through Dutch ports. In turn, Dutch companies are participating in the development of enormous oil and gas reserves. The Shell group, with which we have very positive and business-oriented relations, produces liquefied natural gas in Sakhalin and is a shareholder in the Caspian Pipeline Consortium. We are examining opportunities for joint work in Yamal and on the continental shelf of the Kara Sea. Just now, we spoke briefly with the company’s management about additional opportunities.
We are not limiting ourselves to cooperation in the traditional sectors. Russia and the Netherlands are developing a strategic partnership in the area of sea transport with plans to build large LNG tankers in Russian shipyards. We are actively working on alternative energy sources.
I would like to note the dynamic development of bilateral technology and innovation cooperation. The well-known and globally respected Philips company produces medical equipment in Russia. The Royal DSM group is planning to launch production of vitamin and mineral complexes. And so on, and so forth. We will certainly support all this very actively.
We feel it is highly important to strengthen contacts in science and education, broadening student and academic contacts. Russian and Dutch scientists are working on joint projects in chemical technologies, nanomaterials and in other areas.
Interregional ties are also developing. We just witnessed the signing of a number of agreements that involve direct participation by Russian regions.
”The Netherlands is among Russia’s most important foreign trade partners. Dutch companies are among the leading investors into the Russian economy. Russian companies are also showing more interest in working in the Netherlands.“
During the talks, we gave particular attention to cooperation between Russia and the EU. We very much hope the rough patches that sometimes arise with our partners from the European Commission and whose resolution is clearly in the interest of individual EU members will be perceived by our partners with understanding, including here in Holland, and we will have their support. I am referring to the interest in developing economic ties not just on a bilateral but also a multilateral level.
Thank you very much for your attention.
Question: If you don’t mind, I will depart somewhat from the issues of the Russian-Dutch relations. Today, as you must know, we have received the sad news of Margaret Thatcher’s death. Can you tell us your opinion of the former Prime Minister’s contribution to building modern Europe and strengthening European security?
Vladimir Putin: Margaret Thatcher was one of the most brilliant political figures in the modern world. I knew her personally, and she always made a strong impression.
As for her contribution, she was a pragmatic, tough and consistent politician. That approach helped the UK to recover from the recession at the time. We all know that she came under harsh criticism for some of her policies, including the budgetary restrictions and limiting trade unions’ rights. But I think in an emergency, and the situation was indeed critical at the time, her actions proved to be effective. I think the British people should be grateful to her for that.
She made a significant contribution to the development of the British-Soviet and British-Russian relations, for which we will always be indebted to her and will remember her efforts with gratitude.
I believe that we have lost a major political figure. I regret this and would like to offer my condolences on behalf of the Russian leadership to the British Government and the British people.
Question: Mr Putin, could you please tell us if Mr Rutte touched on the human rights issues and the protection of homosexuals’ rights in your country? And what is your position regarding this?
Vladimir Putin: We spoke in detail on the problems of human rights, including the rights of sexual minorities. There is no secret here and I can very briefly clarify our position.
I want to make it perfectly clear that there is no infringement of the sexual minorities’ rights in the Russian Federation. They are no different from everybody else and enjoy all the rights and freedoms. As President of the Russian Federation, I see it as my duty to protect their interests and rights since they are Russian citizens and have no other President.
In this regard, I want to note that homosexuals in Russia have successful professional careers, receive state awards, medals, honorary titles and diplomas, if they deserve them. All of this is part of our political life, and I'm confident it will continue to be so in the future.
With regard to the issues that cause concern among our partners in Europe, including the Netherlands (i.e. the laws that have been adopted in the Russian regions prohibiting propaganda of homosexuality, which concern above all the promotion of homosexuality in schools), I want to draw your attention to the fact that those decisions were made in the regions and reflect the attitude of Russian society. Those decisions were not triggered by the federal centre. However, I believe we must respect this attitude in society. If we are talking about liberalism and democracy, then we must respect each other, including in the international arena.
”We feel it is highly important to strengthen contacts in science and education, broadening student and academic contacts. Russian and Dutch scientists are working on joint projects in chemical technologies, nanomaterials and in other areas.“
Now, let me be absolutely frank and share my position on this issue. I have already said that I believe it is my duty to protect the rights of sexual minorities, but let’s face it: gay marriages do not produce children. Both Europe and Russia are facing a demographic crisis. Of course, we can address this problem by increasing the number of immigrants, and that is one way to resolve this problem. But I would like to see an increase in births primarily among the so-called titular nations: Russians, Tatars, Chechens, Bashkirs, Daghestanis, Jews, and so on – that is, among the peoples who consider Russia their homeland. In this regard, I think we should come to a consensus with this community, negotiate cooperation terms rather than fight, come to an agreement, understand each other and establish certain civilised rules of behaviour. I think it's possible.
Question: Mr President, many of us have been following you around the world for 13 years, and we were saying earlier that we can’t remember any of your visits of the past 13 years provoking such a level of media controversy.
We saw demonstrations in Germany, in Hannover, where Femen activists staged a topless protest, and here we have seen a rally of sexual minorities.
Vladimir Putin: You’ve been lucky.
Question: I like pretty young women but not rudeness, otherwise everything’s fine.
So, Mr President, there is a lot of tension: the sexual minorities, the Syrian issue. In your opinion, why has your visit to Germany and the Netherlands provoked such a level of confrontation? They don’t understand us anymore? Is this someone's ill will?
Vladimir Putin: Actually, I have already answered this question when your Dutch colleague asked it, but let me try to be more specific.
I think that we should try to understand each other better, and we can achieve this with your help and your colleagues’ help if you inform each other better.
For example, we talk about non-governmental organisations – everyone says that we shut them down, chase them away, lock them up. Nobody is locking anybody up, and nobody is chasing anybody away. We believe our society has the right to know who finances our non-governmental organisations and how those funds are used, especially when these organisations are involved in domestic political activities.
With regard to sexual minorities, I have already stated my position, but I want to say this again. After all, you live in Moscow, and Moscow is not the same as the rest of Russia. It is our country’s capital and there are different attitudes there. I can’t imagine a court in Moscow allowing an organisation that promotes paedophilia. It is possible in the Netherlands, and there is such an organisation. I can hardly imagine a political party represented in the Russian Parliament that opposes women in politics. But your country has such a party.
We should just listen to each other more carefully, with more respect. Imagine if we had an organisation that promoted paedophilia. I think that in some Russian regions people would come up in arms. The same applies to sexual minorities. I can’t imagine that gay marriage will ever be allowed in Chechnya. Can you imagine that? You know, there would be victims. You must understand what kind of society we live in and build our relationship on that understanding.
”We believe our society has the right to know who finances our non-governmental organisations and how those funds are used, especially when these organisations are involved in domestic political activities.“
As for the young women. You know, I did not have breakfast in the morning. I would have been happy if they had shown me some sausage or bacon, but not the charms they were demonstrating. How do they say it in Ukrainian? I don’t want to get it wrong and offend someone. So, thank God, homosexuals didn’t take their clothes off.
Question: Mr Putin, a Dutch cameraman was killed in 2008, during the Russian-Georgian conflict, and your predecessor promised that there would be an investigation in Russia to find out whether the cameraman had died from Russian fire. Could you tell us about the status of the investigation?
Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister devoted some attention to this matter today. Unfortunately, and I want to apologise to you and to the Prime Minister, I was not able to give him a clear answer because I know nothing about that case.
I assume that Mr Medvedev when he was President acted in accordance with the Constitution and instructed our law enforcement agencies to investigate this tragic case. I will find out when I return to Moscow. I do not know anything about it, but I promised to the Prime Minister that we will come back to this and find out what happened there, what caused that tragedy.
Although, you must understand that during the shooting, when shooting comes from both sides, it must be difficult to determine how someone was killed. He was in the midst of armed clashes.
It takes my breath away sometimes when I watch your colleagues from Russia and other countries working in the hot spots, and to be honest, I pray for their health and their lives. But I understand that it's your job. I am very sorry that this tragedy occurred. We will try to figure out what happened.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 8, 2013, 21:20
Text version