Events
Meeting with Chairman of the Human Rights Council Mikhail Fedotov and Human Rights Ombudsman Vladimir Lukin
Vladimir Putin discussed the declaration of an amnesty to mark the 20th anniversary of Russia’s Constitution at a meeting with Presidential Adviser and Chairman of the Council for Civil Society and Human Rights Mikhail Fedotov and Human Rights Ombudsman Vladimir Lukin.
December 4, 2013
17:00
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 4
Meeting with Chairman of the Human Rights Council Mikhail Fedotov, Human Rights Ombudsman Vladimir Lukin, Deputy Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Vyacheslav Volodin and Presidential Aide and Head of the Presidential State-Legal Directorate Larisa Brychyova.
Also taking part in the meeting were Deputy Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Vyacheslav Volodin and Presidential Aide and Head of the Presidential State-Legal Directorate Larisa Brychyova.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues,
As I see it, we will continue some of the discussions that we began during meetings of the Presidential Council for Human Rights. Please, go ahead.
Presidential ADVISER AND CHAIRMAN OF THE COUNCIL FOR CIVIL SOCIETY AND HUMAN RIGHTS MIKHAIL FEDOTOV: During your meeting with the Council on September 4, we raised the matter of declaring an amnesty to mark the 20th anniversary of Russia’s Constitution. You said then that this is something we need to think about, instructed the Council to draft proposals and gave us a deadline of October 15. On October 11, we discussed the draft proposals at a Council meeting. The proposals were approved by the majority of the Council’s members and were sent to the Presidential Executive Office.
We discussed these matters informally before the meeting. There are various points of view and differences of opinion regarding the details. But it is important that there is an understanding that everyone who has taken part in the discussions agrees in principle with the idea that the Constitution’s 20th anniversary is a fitting occasion to sum up some results and draw a line.
In this respect, I would like to make reference to Professor Pavel Lyublinsky, who wrote 100 years earlier that the positive impact of an amnesty is first in that it has a calming effect and takes some of the antagonism out of social and political relations, and second, it has a strengthening effect in that it raises the moral, religious and other authority of the government that grants the amnesty.
In the context of the decisions that have already been made on reforming the public administration, law enforcement, and judicial systems, an amnesty would be a very logical step. There have already been 16 amnesties granted since the new Constitution came into force. There were even cases of two amnesties in a single year, big amnesties what’s more, concerning up to 700,000 people (the biggest amnesty of all was in 2000). There were also amnesties that concerned only a small group of people, the last amnesty for example, the so-called ‘economic amnesty’.
I have a review drawn up by the Supreme Court. It shows that as at October 1, 2013, 401 people had criminal proceedings against them stopped or were released from prison by the courts on the basis of an amnesty. Only 400 people in other words.
Vladimir Putin: But they are also all people too. The individual fates of each of these 400 people are important.
Mikhail Fedotov: Of course, but the institution of pardons exists for this purpose too. Pardons are a more personalised and individualised institution, whereas an amnesty is a non-individualised act.
I want to note another issue too, what I would call a problem of an organic nature. The matter is that the Constitution contains provisions on amnesties, which are directly linked to the Criminal Code’s provisions, and the Administrative Offences Code also refers to amnesties. In other words, amnesties can be declared for administrative cases, administrative offences too. There is no precedent here as yet, but I think that for all the difficulties, you have to start somewhere, and so one of the measures that we propose concerns an amnesty for administrative offences, in particular, as regards migrants.
<…>
Human Rights Ombudsman Vladimir Lukin: We studied the draft amnesty proposal very thoroughly. Overall, we think it is a good and serious basis to work with. I know there were some comments regarding incompleteness of exceptions to the amnesty, and there are some problems in that area. 
But this does not mean that the amnesty proposal itself is not good. It is a good proposal and indeed I think it is one of the best amnesty proposals. An amnesty is indeed an act of state and political nature that demonstrates a government’s strength and generosity all at once.
In this respect, I think the amnesty should be broad and include various different areas. There are of course exceptions that must be considered too, people accused of awful crimes such as paedophilia and so on. But in the case of people whose offences are not very serious, we could take a humane approach towards them, and I think this would only make the country more stable rather than the contrary.
<…>
Vladimir PUTIN: We will be going over the document together with the State Duma deputies, and I ask you to take an active part in this work. Mr Lukin, I ask you too, to work together with the deputies.
I heard what you said about non-violent crimes, and I want to say that this amnesty can apply only to people who have not committed serious crimes or crimes involving violence against the state’s representatives. I am referring to the law enforcement personnel above all of course. I ask you to keep this in mind, and to work out the details with the State Duma deputies.
I agree with you that this kind of action should have a conciliatory effect and should underscore our country’s humane approach. But it should in no circumstances apply to repeated criminals, and it should not encourage new legal violations by giving anyone the impression that you can commit a crime or offence today, tomorrow get the state’s forgiveness, and thus do as you please.
What we need of course is a balanced decision that without question aims to humanise our law enforcement practice. This is my position, and I will be waiting for the final document that you draft together with the State Duma deputies.
Topics
Human rights
Persons
Brychyova Larisa
Fedotov Mikhail
Lukin Vladimir
Volodin Vyacheslav
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Executive Office, Commissions and Councils, Council for Civil Society and Human Rights
Publication date: December 4, 2013, 17:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting of the Economic Council
Vladimir Putin held a meeting of the Presidential Economic Council.
December 4, 2013
19:00
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 3
Meeting of the Economic Council.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon colleagues,
Two years ago at the Business Russia congress, we launched the National Business Initiative. We set the goal then of creating a comfortable environment for doing business in the regions and in the country in general. 
We have already achieved visible results that are reflected in international ratings, as you know. It is not these ratings that are so important of course, but that it really is becoming easier and more convenient to do business.
To give you some concrete examples, we all remember the complaints and criticism about the complicated procedures and exorbitant costs of getting connected to the energy grids. This situation dragged on for years without any real change. The situation still cannot be called ideal, but coordinated efforts by businesspeople, experts, and the Energy Ministry have finally resolved a lot of the problems. Today, we will discuss the next steps needed to improve the situation in this area.
To take another example, broad use of modern information technology has made it possible to do away with superfluous administrative procedures and halve the cost of state services for cadastre registration and state registration of real estate property rights. We are now among the top 20 countries in the world for ease of doing business when it comes to property registration.
We have also made a lot of headway in improving customs administration. One of the measures taken under the National Business Initiative was to introduce preliminary notification when going through customs procedures, and also electronic payment of customs fees.
I stress though that we need to continue moving forward if we want business to really feel the benefits of faster and cheaper customs procedures. We will discuss this in detail too today.
I would note that the technology used for developing roadmaps and evaluating their results has become much more innovative, and demonstrated the effectiveness of modern approaches to project management and implementation. Together with entrepreneurs, society itself has determined what specific steps are needed to significantly improve the quality of the business climate, reduce the number of various procedures and permits, and cut administrative costs for businesses many times over.
More than 14,000 people from across the country have submitted around 10,000 proposals, and each of these was reviewed by ad hoc working groups composed of entrepreneurs, experts, and representatives of the Russian Government’s ministries and departments. Along with this, entrepreneurs themselves oversee the implementation of various roadmaps via the so-called Leaders’ Club that they helped to establishing.
I know that this dialogue is not always easy – that’s natural. Sometimes the business community disagrees with government agencies. But nevertheless, we were able to design all roadmaps to focus precisely on substantive, practical changes.
Today I would like to thank the leaders and members of the working groups, the Agency for Strategic Initiatives where these proposals and roadmaps were formulated, and everyone who submitted proposals for your perseverance and desire to help the national economy.
We know that it is much easier to plunge into gloomy pessimism, and start criticising everything. Much more difficult is to take responsibility for real changes in our country, and not to work for publicity, but at practical changes. Therefore the choice and position of all participants in the National Business Initiative certainly deserve our most sincere respect and support.
And in general, work to improve the business climate has demonstrated that a mature class of entrepreneurs is being established in Russia. For the most part it consists of people who did not participate in the privatization of the 1990s, who have created a business from scratch, who overcame all bureaucratic obstacles and the trials of economic crises, and who compete honourably with foreign companies, some of which have a little more experience and broader access to affordable credit.
These people have proven their worth. They invest in Russia, revive its economy and create new jobs. And most importantly, as citizens they intend to actively participate in the country’s affairs. I am convinced that we have to rely on precisely such people. That is why we consistently work together with entrepreneurs not only to improve the investment climate, but also on other reforms on the national agenda.
Colleagues, roadmaps have served as a measure of the effectiveness of all levels of government, their ability to get results rather than evade instructions, and, as I already said, to solve problems comprehensively, based on the needs and interests of both citizens and entrepreneurs.
The uniqueness of the National Business Initiative was its rejection of habitual bureaucratic logic. In fact, each roadmap constitutes a separate project with its own goals and timetables for achieving them. And these goals are measured by clear indicators. Along with this, within the roadmaps a particular ministry or department is designated responsible for the implementation of each particular indicator.
We must admit openly that far from all public authorities were able to develop an effective approach to joint work, and perform their tasks in an intelligent and timely fashion.
What is the situation at present, today? Unfortunately, a third of the activities foreseen by such roadmaps have not occurred on time. And equally unfortunately, a number of business proposals got hung up on issues relating to interagency coordination. Sometimes government agencies offer to take purely cosmetic measures.
I will say something in more detail about this. But it is clear that the greatest challenges in this respect relate to construction. That is the sector where there are the most difficulties. We must openly acknowledge that, unfortunately, here the dynamics are virtually unchanged. Transparent mechanisms for allocating land for development have not been created, and no exhaustive list of construction permits has been approved, among other things. Often entrepreneurs’ suggestions passed through a working group, were approved, and then changed beyond recognition within the depths of the departments themselves.
As a result, judged by the quality of administrative procedures in the construction sector, we are still at the bottom end of global rankings. But let me repeat once again: it is not the rankings that are at stake here, but the fact that due to the lack of clear decisions we are not receiving millions of square metres of housing, and, as before, it takes businesses months if not years to receive permission to build new enterprises and facilities.
I also want to stress that in a sector such as construction, a lot depends on output-based, engaged work on location, namely in regions and municipalities. Thus, serious steps to reduce administrative procedures have been taken by Moscow’s Government. In Sverdlovsk Region they have established lists of cases for which building permits are not generally required. There is progress in other Russian regions, for example in Rostov Region.
We need to ensure that the best practices – and let me repeat, they do exist in Russia – are introduced everywhere. And also to ensure that we remove all barriers from the regulatory framework that prevent developers from working normally.
I would ask the new ministry, the Construction Ministry, other departments, and State Duma deputies to take all necessary measures within the first half of 2014. I would also ask the business community to reliably oversee their execution.
Colleagues, we agreed that all roadmaps that are adopted must be implemented in the following two years. No deferrals or slippages will be tolerated. This means not simply passing a law, but also ensuring its high-quality performance, both at the federal and regional levels.
At present the country’s leading business associations are developing a national investment climate rating. This should provide an objective picture of each region: how work in all fields associated with the National Business Initiative is proceeding. It will be based on the assessment of businesses themselves.
Establishing an open, public national ranking should motivate regions to improve their work and, as I already said, use better practices to support investors. I should add that many of the mechanisms must be worked out within the framework of pilot projects. The extent to which the entrepreneurial community and entrepreneurs themselves can access these projects should be as transparent as possible.
< … >
Topics
Economy and finance
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Commissions and Councils
Publication date: December 4, 2013, 19:00
Text version