Events
Address at the ceremony for presenting the Order of Nakhimov to nuclear-powered missile cruiser Pyotr Veliky
January 10, 2013
18:30
Severomorsk
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, comrade officers and sailors,
See also
Visit to Northern Fleet naval base
January 10, 2013
Today the missile cruiser Pyotr Veliky is awarded the Order of Nakhimov. This military decoration was introduced during the Great Patriotic War as a tribute to the glory, courage and feats of the sailors who made a great contribution to the victory over the enemy.
Today, the Order of Nakhimov has regained the prestigious status of a state decoration. I see it as yet another symbol of the revival and development of the Army and Navy’s historical martial traditions.
Pyotr Veliky is a ship that is without equal in the world. Both the cruiser and its crew rightly deserve this decoration. The cruiser has repeatedly excelled in long sea missions, performed combat duty and flew the Russian flag in key strategic areas of the world’s oceans. The crew has successfully carried out its missions and showed impeccable professionalism, skills and bravery.
Courage, valour and honour were always characteristic of our sailors. So it was under Peter the Great, when the Russian fleet was born, and in the days of Admiral Nakhimov, the legendary naval commander and hero of the Sevastopol defence, as well as during World War I and the Great Patriotic War.
Today the Navy sailors here in the Northern Fleet and other fleets perform their duty with honour and make a major contribution to enhancing security and improving the defence capability of our homeland.
”The development of strong and effective Navy is one of Russia’s key priorities. We will consistently develop underwater and surface vessels, strengthen conventional forces and naval strategic nuclear forces.“
I want to emphasise again that the development of strong and effective Navy is one of Russia’s key priorities. We will consistently develop underwater and surface vessels, strengthen conventional forces and naval strategic nuclear forces. In coming years, the fleet will receive over one hundred new surface ships and submarines of different classes. We are fully committed to implementing this ambitious programme.
At present the Russian shipyards are developing and building new ships; design centres are creating new marine technology. A new nuclear-powered missile submarine Yury Dolgoruky will be commissioned into the Navy today. We are planning to build up the rate of the fleet’s renewal and growth.
Comrades,
I am sure you will continue to serve the fleet, your country and the people of Russia.
I thank the crew of the Pyotr Veliky cruiser for conscientiously performing their military duty. I wish you good health and success in the service to Russia.
I congratulate the Pyotr Veliky cruiser on receiving the Order of Nakhimov.
Additional
All news about the trip to the Northwestern Federal District
January 10, 2013
Geography
Murmansk Region
Topics
Armed Forces
Regions
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: January 10, 2013, 18:30
Text versionEvents
Naming ceremony for Vitus Bering icebreaker
Vladimir Putin took part in the naming ceremony for the Vitus Bering lead icebreaking platform supply vessel.
January 10, 2013
13:30
St Petersburg
2 of 3
Inspecting a multipurpose vessel of the Vitus Bering series.
Modern multipurpose vessels of the Vitus Bering series will conduct year-round deliveries of personnel, goods and expendable supplies to oil production platforms. In particular, it is planned to use this type of icebreakers to ensure the smooth operation of Sakhalin-1oil platforms at the Arkutun-Dagi field in the Sea of Okhotsk.
The lead ship of the series was named after Vitus Bering, an explorer and officer in the Russian Navy.
The President witnessed the signing of a master cooperation agreement between Sovkomflot and United Shipbuilding Corporation to build supply vessels of this class and an agreement between Gazprom and Novatek to create a joint venture to produce LNG on the Yamal Peninsula.
* * *
Speech at the naming ceremony for Vitus Bering icebreaker
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends,
It gives me great pleasure to be present at the naming ceremony for the Vitus Bering icebreaker, a new vessel in the Russian merchant fleet.
It is noteworthy that the vessel will operate in the Far East, where Vitus Bering and his crew explored the northern latitudes and the vast expanses of the Pacific Ocean as they carried out the plans of Peter the Great.
This is one of the most advanced ships in the world. Today Russia has the world’s largest nuclear-powered icebreaker fleet and we will continue our efforts to develop the full range of special vessels, including those working in such harsh conditions as the ones this ship will operate in.
I want to reiterate that this is one of the most advanced ships in the world, capable of operating in the ice up to 1.7 metres thick. It was built by Russian shipbuilders jointly with Finnish partners, and I want to express my gratitude to our Finnish colleagues.
It is significant that 90% of the work was done by Russian companies. We must continue with the same momentum in the future. I repeat, we have every chance to successfully develop the entire range of special, highly advanced vessels.
I sincerely wish the crew every success and congratulate you on this momentous event.
All the best. Thank you for your attention.
See also
All news about the trip to the Northwestern Federal District
January 10, 2013
Geography
Saint Petersburg
Topics
Regions
Transport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 10, 2013, 13:30
Text version