Events
Press statement following talks with President of Peru Ollanta Humala
November 7, 2014
19:20
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
Press statement following talks. With President of Peru Ollanta Humala.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ladies and gentlemen,
This visit by the Peruvian head of state to Russia is the first such event at this level in the 140 years of our bilateral relations and the 45 years of diplomatic relations between our countries. We are marking both of these anniversaries this year.
The talks with President Humala were constructive and friendly in spirit. I am sure that the agreements reached will give a big impetus to developing our bilateral ties.
We discussed current bilateral and international matters and outlined our plans for further developing our political dialogue and our partnership in all areas.
We paid great attention to the matter of expanding our trade and economic cooperation. We have already achieved some results in this area. Our bilateral trade has increased 2.5-fold over the last 5 years. Mr Humala and I think that it should be possible to double our reciprocal trade over the coming years. This requires us to improve the quality of our trade ties’ structure and encourage investment flows. Let me note that new opportunities are opening up now for increasing supplies of seafood, fruit, fish and other agricultural goods from Peru. 
We instructed our intergovernmental commission to be more active in promoting big projects in promising areas such as mining, the energy sector, the automotive industry, and air and rail transport.
We have already made some good progress in developing natural resources. A Peruvian business with Russian capital is involved in copper mining in Ica Department in Peru. They are using the very latest environmental standards. The importance that both countries place on environmental protection is reflected in the agreement on cooperation in this area that we signed today.
Our countries also have big plans for industrial cooperation. Our KAMAZ company is taking part in setting up a joint venture for bus assembly. AvtoVAZ has good positions on the Peruvian market and exports the Lada car there. Russian Helicopters is selling Mi and Ka helicopters in Peru, and United Aircraft Manufacturing Corporation is holding talks on supplying aircraft for civil aviation. 
Power Machines company has presented interesting proposals for turnkey supply of equipment for several Peruvian hydroelectric plants. Inter RAO is studying the opportunities for joining projects to build new power stations. We are also ready to make available our experience and modern technology for plans to develop nuclear energy, nuclear science and medicine in Peru. 
We see good prospects in telecommunications and space exploration, including satellite communications and navigation. Russian specialists took part in placing in orbit in August this year Peru’s first micro-satellite, Chasqui-1. Two more small satellites are also in the plans.
Russian companies are developing 4G broadband mobile internet in Peru and we are studying the possibilities for joint use of Russia’s global navigation system, GLONASS.
Our bilateral humanitarian exchanges are developing rapidly. We make 30 scholarships available every year for Peruvian citizens to study in Russian universities. We currently have 117 Peruvian students studying free of charge in Russia.
Tours by performers from the St Petersburg State Ballet on Ice, Rosgostsirk (Russian State Circus Company) performers and other groups were a great success in Peru. The exhibition 1,000 Years of Inca Gold met with great interest in its turn from people here. 
Our countries have had visa-free travel since 2011. This helps to develop our humanitarian contacts and business ties. We would like to develop tourism too. The agreement on cooperation in this sector will give a good boost to this work, I hope.
We also discussed international matters during our talks. With the APEC summit coming up soon in Beijing, we discussed Russia and Peru’s cooperation within this forum. Russia is interested in working together with integration organisations in the Latin American region.
I am happy to say that our exchange of views confirmed our close positions on many of the most important issues on the global agenda. Taking this into account, we agreed to coordinate more closely our efforts on the international stage. 
We discussed our work together on combating drug trafficking. We have a base for this work. Russian specialists are holding open courses for drugs control police from South America in Peru’s capital, Lima. 115 people from 9 different countries have already completed the courses. 
I want to conclude by assessing these talks very highly. They demonstrated our mutual desire to continue developing our bilateral relations and our dialogue at all levels.
I want to thank Mr Humala and his entire representative team for the work today and for all we have accomplished to develop our cooperation over this last period.
Thank you for your attention.
See also
Meeting with President of Peru Ollanta Humala
November 7, 2014
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 7, 2014, 19:20
Text versionEvents
XV Congress of the Russian Geographical Society
Vladimir Putin took part in the Russian Geographical Society’s XV congress.
November 7, 2014
15:15
Moscow
The congress re-elected Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu to be the Society’s president. Vladimir Putin heads the Society’s Board of Trustees. 
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends.
I welcome to Moscow everyone taking part in the Russian Geographical Society’s XV congress. First of all, I want to thank our colleagues who were elected to various organisational positions within the Society for their previous work and wish them continued success now. This includes of course Sergei Shoigu, who was one of those who helped to revive the Russian Geographical Society and has done much for its work over these last years. There is no doubt that these last years will go down in the Society’s history as a period of renewal and a time when its wonderful traditions found new demand and received new development, and its activities took on new dynamics and content.
The Society held an extraordinary congress here in Moscow in 2009. Now it has an extensive network of branches in all 85 regions of the country. Its headquarters in St Petersburg has been returned to its original historical appearance. The Society’s rich archives, library and collections were literally rescued and what’s more are now open for people to use. Even more valuable is that these collections are being added to, including and above all through the efforts of many those present here now. I want to say thank you very much to you for this.
Research and exploration work essentially got a new life, the intensity of which can probably be compared to the Society’s most fruitful period in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. The key ethnographic and environmental protection commissions were restored and new commissions have been established too. The Society has renewed wide-ranging publishing activities and is making use of all the modern information resources that enable it to carry out a huge amount of educational work, primarily aimed at young people of course. Overall, the revived Russian Geographical Society is doing a lot to restore its traditions and prepare a new generation to continue its work. It is enough to cite the establishment of the youth movement and the hundreds of projects being carried out for children, often by the children themselves.
Today, I particularly want to thank those who set out five years ago on the difficult road of reviving the Russian Geographical Society, organised its work and took part in its projects. I want to express particular gratitude to our trustees.
Friends, we all have many day to day problems and various difficult tasks to take care of. We encounter all manner of obstacles in life and we each overcome them in our different areas. But what you are doing to restore the Russian Geographical Society truly deserves our particular attention and special thanks. Like your predecessors, you are active in helping the Society in its constructive initiatives today.
I also want to thank the media council’s members. They have carried out a lot of information work, helping people to learn about what is happening in society and in many ways discover our country’s wealth.
The recent [Russian Geographical Society] festival showed clearly just how much demand there is for the Society’s projects and how popular they are. Over the week it took place it drew tens of thousands of visitors and was of interest to children and adults alike. It was important to see that many people came not just to look, which is good in itself, but also to propose their ideas and willingness to help with projects, which is even better of course. We are always open to those who want to get involved in the Society’s work and provide some help. The RGS grants tender has just started now and I am sure that much of what has been planned will be carried out over the coming year.
I would also like to make some proposals. We discussed these ideas earlier in one form or another, but I think that carrying out these proposals could raise people’s interest not just in geography but also in the homeland in the broadest sense of the word. 
There is the idea, for example, of launching the National Geographical Quiz, similar to the Total Dictation testing Russian language skills, which has been held for several years now and been a big success. This kind of voluntary national test attracts more and more people and obviously should reach out to new fields too. I am sure that the RGS’s regional branches and geography teachers would willingly support this idea (indeed, many of them already made proposals along this line earlier), and also the development of a common standard in geography and subsequent development of a series of new geography textbooks for schools. I know that teachers criticise modern teaching materials in terms of both presentation and content. 
Geography, as we have said many times in the past, can and should be one of the most interesting subjects in school. It is important here to put particular emphasis on studying Russia’s natural heritage, environmental issues, rational use of natural resources, and protection of rare animal and plant species.
When it comes to environmental protection, I note that the RGS’s environmental projects are concentrated mostly in the Far East and the Arctic, which is understandable. These regions are home to many unique landscape systems that one cannot find elsewhere in the world. There are also ambitious plans for developing these regions and we can implement these plans, as we have said on many occasions, only if we make a very thorough analysis of all environmental risks.
But Central Russia also deserves its share of attention. It is important here too, to establish nature preserves and restore animal populations, develop public efforts to clean up forests, lakes and rivers, combat illegal logging and dumps, and protect and restore natural and cultural sites, not just the sites recognised as our country’s national symbols, but also sites connected to the history of our small towns and villages.
Squares, parks and small forested areas are also an integral part of our country and its heritage. We must protect this, develop it and pass it on to our future generations. This was the principle the Russian Geographical Society always followed in its work.
I sincerely wish the congress delegates and guests and all members of the Society big success and interesting work for our country’s benefit.
Thank you very much.
Topics
Environment
Persons
Shoigu Sergei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 7, 2014, 15:15
Text versionEvents
Beginning of talks with President of Peru Ollanta Humala
November 7, 2014
16:20
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
With President of Peru Ollanta Humala.
See also
Meeting with President of Peru Ollanta Humala
November 7, 2014
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, good afternoon.
It is a great pleasure to see you. We were long since looking forward to your visit. The country you head is our longstanding and reliable partner in Latin America. We established our relations nearly 150 years ago now and we decided to celebrate the 45th anniversary of the restoration of our diplomatic relations in new conditions.
I am sure that your visit will give a good new impulse to developing our bilateral relations and will help Russia to integrate itself into the interesting and promising processes underway throughout Latin America. In general, Russia has always had great interest in the life and history of Latin America’s peoples.
I am very happy to be able to receive you here in Moscow, Mr President. I wish you a pleasant stay in our country. I am sure your visit will be full of substance that will give us the opportunity we need to move forward and develop our bilateral ties.
Welcome!
President of Peru Ollanta Humala (translated from Russian): Thank you very much, Mr President.
This visit is very important for Peru because it is the first time that a Peruvian head of state is visiting Russia.
Peru was one of the first countries to sign an agreement establishing diplomatic relations with the Russian Federation. This year, we are celebrating 45 years since we established diplomatic relations.
My visit to Russia is confirmation of the Peruvian government’s desire to strengthen and develop the friendship and cooperation between our countries.
Today, we will sign a number of agreements that are the fruit of the productive work we have carried out over this recent period. I hope very much that the signing of these agreements will help us to improve and deepen our trade and economic ties.
I think that Latin America, in particular Peru, is now at a stage when we can improve relations with the region in general and improve our relations with the Russian Federation.
Thank you very much, Mr President, for the hospitable reception. We look forward to seeing you in Peru on a visit.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much, Mr President.
<…>
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 7, 2014, 16:20
Text version