Events
Presenting state decorations
Vladimir Putin presented state decorations to prominent figures from the culture and arts.
May 28, 2014
15:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 16
Presenting state decorations to prominent figures from the culture and arts.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends,
First of all, I offer you my sincere congratulations on being awarded these high state decorations. It is symbolic that today’s ceremony is taking place in 2014, the Year of Culture, and that here at the Kremlin we are recognising the achievements of those who have dedicated their entire lives to serving culture. 
Present here today are architects and artists, writers, musicians, singers and actors. You are all distinguished not just by your particular creative gifts but by a deep awareness of the importance of your work for our country and society and for each Russian citizen.
As the specialists explain, the word ‘culture’ shares the same root as ‘cultivation’. I believe this is the case, and that culture does indeed have its roots in the concepts of creation, development and education. You perform this lofty mission exceptionally well, affirming in our society the values of learning, humanism, creative work and patriotism. You each make your memorable contribution to our cultural environment’s quality development and in this way have an enormous impact on shaping the way of life, outlook and perception of the world of millions of our people, and you have a particularly big impact on our young people’s education of course. 
I am genuinely delighted to see that those receiving decorations include teachers at arts-related universities and institutes, children’s centres and arts schools, people who are cultivating our future creative talent and passing on to them their artistic experience and aesthetic sense. 
Museum employees, restorers and craftsmen in folk arts and crafts also make a particular contribution to our country’s culture. You preserve and build on our historical and cultural heritage. Your names are generally not well known to the broader public, but the work that you do has tremendous importance for developing Russian culture’s traditions and strengthening its continuity and wealth.
The recipients of decorations today include famous actors, directors and performers. Your creative talent has won wide recognition in society. Millions of people here know and love you. People such as Natalya Gvozdikova, Yelena Tsyplakova and Nikolai Chindyaikin are in no need of an introduction. They fully deserve the title of National Artist of Russia. 
Each of you has your own road to success, but you all achieved personal victories and skill of the highest level, and that inner freedom that always distinguishes people from the creative professions and is the basis for your unique and unforgettable attainments and for your constant and active participation in our country’s life.
Now, when we are in the process of putting together the Basic Principles of State Cultural Policy, these qualities are particularly needed. Our aim is to create a public environment in which a person’s level of cultural development becomes a condition for their successful social, professional and moral establishment in life. You, the people involved in culture, literature and the arts, have a huge role to play in carrying out this task.
The draft document has already been presented for public discussion. I am sure that you, my friends, will also take a useful and active part in this discussion.
Once more, I congratulate you sincerely on these decorations and thank you for your work. Let me wish you success and new creative achievements.
Thank you very much for your attention.
<…>
Friends, I would like to once again sincerely congratulate you: you, your creative teams and your loved ones.
It is gratifying that the people decorated today and those present at the ceremony include workers in culture, the arts, literature from all over our vast, enormous Motherland: the Far East, Siberia, the Urals, the south and the north of our nation, and the west of the Russian Federation, including small towns. This is so important! After all, you fully understand that when the art and culture of smaller ethnic groups is injected into the great Russian culture and all this is in constant, on-going reciprocity – that is the enormous power of our state overall and our culture in particular. This is an enormous power that is hard to even imagine.
We certainly have many debts to culture overall, and particularly to the culture and literature of smaller ethnic groups, because unfortunately, there is no systemic work in this area, even though we need it – to support culture overall, and the cultures of smaller ethnic groups in particular. All this is extremely valuable. I recall a few years ago, in one of my first trips to Yakutia – it was entirely business-related, administrative work – during dinner in a traditional pavilion, my local colleagues, various officials, suddenly said, “Shall we sing?” And I said, “Sure, let’s sing.” Truthfully, I was expecting some sort of cacophony. But when they started singing, I opened my eyes and ears: it was breath-taking. I even thought, “Maybe I’m in Italy?” I looked, but these were Yakuts, who didn’t really resemble Italians. And I was really surprised by the purity of their performance, the notes and the melodies. And we can make an enormous, countless number of such discoveries. We are an amazingly talented people – or peoples of the Russian Federation, uniting into one enormous nation-wide family, a single nation.
There are, of course, some blunders. For example, theatre critics are not in our official list of professions. This has serious consequences. I understand that this has to do with pension legislation and many other purely administrative, day-to-day matters. I think this was the result – or rather, not the result, it happened after Ilf and Petrov, when they mocked a music critic who had previously worked as a policeman somewhere in Kiev, I think; so they probably decided to get rid of theatre critics too. I promise you that all this will be restored, and justice will prevail.
Thank you all very much.
Topics
State decorations
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 28, 2014, 15:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of the Supreme Court Vyacheslav Lebedev
On May 27, Vladimir Putin met at the Kremlin with President of the Supreme Court Vyacheslav Lebedev.
May 28, 2014
10:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 3
With President of the Supreme Court Vyacheslav Lebedev.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Lebedev, let me congratulate you on your confirmation in this high post of President of the Supreme Court. 
You have already held this post for some time, but the new law that merged the Higher Arbitration Court and the Supreme Court into a single body has made the court more powerful and boosted its place within the state system. Much depends on the court system’s quality work and on the Supreme Court in general, and in its new form this is even truer than before.
You are someone with experience and I hope that you will put all your energy, knowledge and experience into organising the Supreme Court’s work in its new capacity, all the more so with the court preparing for its upcoming move to a new home in St Petersburg. This means there is a lot of organisational work to be done. I congratulate you and wish you all the best.
President of The Supreme Court Vyacheslav Lebedev: Mr President, thank you very much for the great trust you have placed in me. Yes, there is indeed a lot of work ahead. On the human resources side we need to organise the Supreme Court’s staff and judges, and we need to prepare for the upcoming move. 
Overall, we know what has to be done, Mr President. Work is busy at the best of times but now will be especially so as we need to form a single team of people at the Supreme Court.
I am confident however that we will dispense justice competently and in timely fashion, because the people working at the Supreme Court will be professionals, legal specialists who know the law and know the practice. The people already recommended by the special Qualifications Board of Judges are people with high potential overall. We will keep working.
Vladimir Putin: The judges do indeed make up a highly professional body. There is criticism too of course, but this is only to be expected in a democratic society and is the case for all government bodies.
We know though just how important the court system’s effective work is in general for developing the economy, strengthening statehood and consolidating our society’s democratic foundations. I sincerely wish you success.
Vyacheslav Lebedev: Thank you.
<…>
Topics
Court
Persons
Lebedev Vyacheslav
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 28, 2014, 10:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Government members
Vladimir Putin held a meeting with Government members.
May 28, 2014
17:15
The Kremlin, Moscow
Excerpts from transcript of meeting with Government members
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
Before we start discussing several matters that come under the responsibility of the Government, Presidential Executive Office, regional authorities and deputies (one of these issues is comprehensive development of Kaliningrad Region, and in particular guaranteeing reliable energy supplies), I first want to ask Minister of Economic Development Mr Ulyukayev to say a few words about the results of the St Petersburg International Economic Forum. How do you assess the results? Please, go ahead. 
Economic Development Minister Alexei Ulyukayev: Mr President, colleagues,
The preparations for the Forum took place in what I would call exceptionally difficult circumstances. It was enough of a difficulty that we changed the dates by a month when the heads of big companies make their plans for years ahead, but we also had to deal with the recent tensions that you know, with more than 20 heads of big companies pulling out from attending the event after coming under direct pressure from people in the US administration.
Things turned out not as bad as we feared in this respect, however, and the Forum went ahead with success. As far as the statistics go, we had more than 7,500 participants, more than ever before.
We had 458 heads of big Russian companies and 248 heads of big foreign companies, including global leaders such as Telenor, Royal Dutch Shell, Philips, Total, British Petroleum, Eni, Alstom, Fortom and Danone, working in the energy sector, consumer sector and many other areas.
A large number of bilateral talks took place and contracts worth a total of 400 billion rubles [$11.6 billion] were signed. Agreements were reached in 175 different areas. That is as far as the statistics go.
But there is also the substance of the event. This includes the discussions themselves, the subjects covered, and also the technical possibilities at the participants’ disposal, the modern technology that enabled them to organise discussions, get feedback at the same time, and reach out to the broadest possible audience using video channels. 
Most important of all of course is that investors got answers to their biggest questions. After all, the reason why we hold such events in the first place is to make our plans clearer and explain our economic policy so that investors can see that the risks are acceptable. I think that they understood this.
The Forum fully lived up to its main theme of Sustaining Confidence in a World Undergoing Transformation. I think that confidence really did get a big boost, especially after the plenary session and the President’s speech and subsequent discussion. I think that investors came away with a better understanding of our economic policy, the 8–9 projects that we plan to carry out over the coming period to speed up economic growth, and our intention to do everything we can to improve the global climate so that investors can work better. We see this reflected in their speeches and the decisions they are taking.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you. In other words, your assessment is positive overall.
Alexei Ulyukayev: I would say it’s more than positive. Frankly speaking, all the scare stories beforehand were really exaggerated. These fears turned out empty in the end. The mood was very positive.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Our colleagues, the Energy Minister and Gazprom CEO, held talks on our energy relations with our Ukrainian partners. We are coming to a certain point now that could see the possible transition to advance payment by our Ukrainian colleagues for gas supplies to Ukraine. This is a harsh measure that was provided for in the 2009 contract. But I want to ask Mr Novak, and Mr Miller if necessary, to inform us on the talks and the agreements reached. 
Energy Minister Alexander Novak: Mr President, colleagues.
Trilateral consultations took place on May 26 between Russia, the EU and Ukraine. The three items on the agenda for these consultations were outlined in your letter to the leaders of European countries. They were, first of all, carrying out our contractual gas supply obligations to Ukraine, measures to ensure reliable transit for European consumers, and ensuring payment for gas supplies to Ukraine in light of the country’s current financial and economic situation.
The outcome of the talks was that Ukraine confirmed the existence of an undisputed debt as of April 1 for the November-March period of $2.237 billion. 
As a compromise solution, we and the European Commission proposed the following scheme for resolving the situation. Naftogaz of Ukraine will transfer $2 billion to Gazprom by May 30, and will transfer the next tranche of $500 million by June 7. This is partial payment for the gas delivered from November to April.
Vladimir Putin: To April inclusive?
Alexander Novak: Yes, to April inclusive. The June 7 payment is partial payment for May, since the deadline for the May payment falls on June 7. The bill will be higher of course, for the $500 million here is just partial payment. The two tranches combined come to $2.5 billion.
Once we receive the first tranche, which is due by May 30, we are ready to continue the talks. We agreed to meet again on Friday, May 30, to discuss our next steps, including possible options for future gas payments, taking into account of course that we could discuss a discount, but not a revision of the terms and conditions of the 2009 contract. By the way, Ukraine confirmed that both these contracts are indeed in force and does not challenge the contracts themselves.
Vladimir Putin: It would be hard to challenge them when they were signed by the Ukrainians, signed by the same people who are now in power, and have been in force since 2009. It would be nonsensical to challenge them. 
Alexander Novak: Mr President, I want to add that the European Commission supported us, which was important, especially in the last round of talks, and the Ukrainians took some time out until Thursday to hold further consultations with their leaders. In other words, today is the deadline when they are to inform the European Commission and Russia on their decision. 
Vladimir Putin: Mr Miller, do you have anything to add?
chairman of Gazprom Management Committee Alexei Miller: We gave our Ukrainian colleagues the preliminary bill for gas supplies for June. The deadline is June 2, Monday, by the end of the day. If Ukraine does not pay the money, then on Tuesday June 3, at 10 am, we will restrict gas supplies to Ukraine. Ukraine has been taking maximum daily volumes allowed by the contract throughout May. Gas supplies for May come to 3.5 billion cubic metres, and the cost for the month’s supplies comes to around $1.7 billion. This means that by June 7, Ukraine’s gas supply debt will come to more than $5.2 billion. There is not much time left. The next consultations are scheduled for Friday in Berlin. Mr Novak and I will take part in these trilateral talks with the European Commission and the heads of Ukraine’s energy sector and Naftogaz Ukraina.
Vladimir Putin: Good, that is agreed.
I think it is clear to any objective observer that Russia’s position with regard to our energy contracts and energy cooperation with Ukraine is not just that of a partner but is more than friendly. Up until now, as I have already said, we were supplying Ukraine for free with more gas than total consumption and our annual gas supplies to a country like Poland. This situation cannot continue forever. This is simply not possible and everyone understands this.
I hope that we will not end up in a situation when we are forced to move over to advance payments. In any case, if the conditions you agree upon with our partners are carried out and payments begin at the amounts that you settled on, the Russian Federation Government will need to decide on what it is ready to accept with regard to further cooperation in the gas sector with our Ukrainian partners. I will then ask the Prime Minister to make the relevant decision.
Thank you. Now let’s move on to the routine matters.
<…>
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 28, 2014, 17:15
Text versionEvents
A monument to Sergei Mikhalkov unveiled in Moscow
Vladimir Putin attended the unveiling of a monument to Sergei Mikhalkov.
May 28, 2014
13:30
Moscow
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends,
Today we have unveiled this monument to famous poet, writer, publicist and frontline soldier Sergei Mikhalkov. We all know that he was an unforgettable and outstanding person and a true and devoted patriot of our great country. His public work and his unique creative heritage are already part of our country’s history, part of our great culture. 
Sergei Mikhalkov always considered service to the Fatherland as his foremost task in life. We just heard some wonderful lines from a children’s poem that underscore the poet’s view of life. His feelings are firmly bound up with the country’s fate. He was the author of two national anthems, as you know. We can say what we like on this count, but this was in keeping with his nature: he linked his own life to the fate of his country and to its development in the different forms it took, but he always loved his homeland and always found deep and penetrating words. It is not by chance that his words are engraved on the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier and fill the hundreds of wonderful books he wrote, on which more than one generation has grown up. 
Sergei Mikhalkov’s works are relevant for all ages, as are the words of any great poet. At the same time, he was always particularly infused with the spirit of his times and was always at the forefront of events, at the vanguard of the era. His works harmoniously blend present and future, and this is one of the secrets of his creative success. 
Sergei Mikhalkov wrote everything from drama to satire, fables, and poetry, but he achieved fantastic success as a children’s writer. Hundreds of millions of copies of his works for children have been printed in various languages and continue to be reprinted today. I think that I can be confident in saying that he lit the childhood of each and every one of us with the warmth and wisdom of his thoughts, ideas and marvellous words. 
It is symbolic that this monument is being unveiled in the run-up to International Children’s Day. Sergei Mikhalkov remains today a friend, mentor and teacher for children. This is the true and undying recognition that young readers give him.
Today, as we unveil this monument, we feel pride that our culture and literature knows the great name of Sergei Mikhalkov.
I am sure that this monument fits harmoniously into the city landscape. Thank you to [Mayor of Moscow] Mr Sobyanin for choosing such an excellent site. This ordinary Moscow yard makes an especially heart-warming choice. I congratulate everyone on this event. I am sure that this monument to Sergei Mikhalkov in central Moscow will give the city special charm.
Thank you very much. My congratulations!
Geography
Moscow
Topics
Culture
Persons
Sobyanin Sergei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 28, 2014, 13:30
Text version