Events
Answers to journalists’ questions
At the end of his working trip to Vologda Region Vladimir Putin answered journalists’ questions.
February 17, 2014
21:40
Cherepovets
1 of 4
At the end of his working trip to Vologda Region Vladimir Putin answered journalists’ questions.
Question: Mr President, the Olympics are in full swing, the most exciting events are about to take place, and the President leaves Sochi. Have you lost interest?
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Of course not.
My main objective was to implement this project, to create a year-round world-class modern resort in the south of Russia. The project has been completed with success.
My task was to organise a celebration for people, primarily for sports fans and for the whole country. I think this is happening as well.
Meanwhile, I have other work to do, just like most of my colleagues. It is of course very nice to be in Sochi — I am sure you have seen it for yourselves. The festive atmosphere captures you, but we have to return to our jobs. So, like most of our people, I will have to follow the Games on TV.
I attend the Olympics when I have to for protocol reasons, or when I have the time. I am sure everyone who comes to Sochi and experiences this celebration of sports and the Olympics must feel happy with what they see, what they experience. This concerns both Russian and foreign fans.
Question: Mr President, another question on a different subject. Can’t stay away from the Olympics.
Vladimir Putin: Do you like it?
Question: I do, without any doubt.
Vladimir Putin: I have said several times that I am especially happy about our fans and the volunteers. We should be very proud of them because they are the ones who have created this unique atmosphere for national and foreign athletes, for the fans from all over the world.
Question: I have a question regarding our men’s ice hockey team. We were all disappointed, especially after the match with the Americans. As a fan, what do you think of our team and of that particular game?
Vladimir Putin: You know, disappointment comes from excessive expectations. This is a general rule in life. As for the Olympics: everyone knows that there can’t be any weak players at the Olympic Games, and this is true for all sports, including ice hockey.
Even the teams that are considered outsiders can do miracles and perform in a way nobody ever expected them to. Besides, our athletes have a huge responsibility. This is a heavy burden, but I am convinced that our ice hockey team is not just one of the best; I think it is the best team of the tournament.
I had the opportunity to watch our team and our potential competitors play both live and on TV. We have a very balanced, talented, exciting team capable of the highest achievements. I hope this is what will happen. However, we should not forget that sports is not only about athletes’ skill and courage, but also about luck.
I spoke to one of the players on our team, and I said they have not been very lucky so far: so many shots, but not too many goals scored, even when it looked like a goal. In reply he said, quite rightly, that eventually we will get lucky. We may not be lucky now, but we believe that we will be when it really matters.
Together with him and with all our fans I count on this, as much as I have confidence in our team’s courage and skill. I am very optimistic — I can see they are doing their best, regardless of what some people may say. They display talent and courage on the ice, regardless of problems or injuries. And as for luck – I am sure it will come too.
Question: Who did you talk to?
Vladimir Putin: It’s a secret. I won’t tell you yet. It’s our little secret.
Question: When you were watching the game between Russia and the USA, did you get the impression that the Americans moved the gate?
Vladimir Putin: I believe all our fans thought so.
Remark: Right.
Vladimir Putin: I can’t say what really happened. In any case it is a shame the judges did not notice this earlier, because it is always better for one of the teams to play when the gate has been moved – for the team whose gate was moved, of course, especially as long as the judge does not see it.
Then if the opposite team scores a goal, it can always be disputed, and if there is no goal, you can always count on a successful counterattack. However, even judges make mistakes, so I would not go around labelling anyone. I simply believe that we will always win with a good lead.
Yes, and we have another gold medal – in bobsleigh. Our congratulations to the athletes!
Good-bye.
See also
State Council Presidium meeting on family, motherhood and childhood policy
February 17, 2014
Meeting with employees at Cherepovets Steel Mill
February 17, 2014
Additional
Congratulations to winners of the Olympic bronze medal in ice dancing Elena Ilinykh and Nikita Katsalapov
February 17, 2014
Congratulations to winners of the 2014 Sochi Olympics in bobsleigh Alexander Zubkov and Alexey Voevoda
February 17, 2014
Geography
Vologda Region
Topics
Sochi 2014
Sport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 17, 2014, 21:40
Text versionEvents
State Council Presidium meeting on family, motherhood and childhood policy
Vladimir Putin held a State Council Presidium meeting on family, motherhood and childhood policy, in particular with regard to implementing the May 2012 Presidential Executive Orders.
February 17, 2014
20:30
Cherepovets
6 of 14
State Council Presidium meeting on family, motherhood and childhood policy.
See also
Meeting with employees at Cherepovets Steel Mill
February 17, 2014
Taking part in the meeting were Federation Council Speaker Valentina Matviyenko
, Deputy Prime Minister Olga Golodets
, Presidential Aide Igor Levitin
, the heads of federal ministries and agencies, and a number of regional governors.
Before the meeting began, Mr Putin visited the Cherepovets Steel Mill (Severstal), where he discussed support for motherhood with the plant’s workers.
* * *
SpeechattheStateCouncilPresidiummeetingonfamily, motherhoodandchildhood policy
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
First of all, let me thank the State Council Presidium for addressing this subject of state support for families, motherhood and childhood. The improvement in the demographic situation over recent years makes this a key issue and something we are working on, and so it is always important to keep it at the centre of our attention.
I visited the steelworks just before this meeting and spoke with the employees there. Overall they are positive in their assessments, but they nonetheless have some questions and particular concerns, and would like to see some adjustments or additions. I hope that we will have the chance to discuss all of these matters today.
Putting in place the right conditions for an increase in births, protecting motherhood and childhood, and strengthening the family as an institution are priority social tasks for Russia. They are crucially important for our country’s present and future and require systemic and coordinated work from the authorities at all levels, as well as from the public, from our citizens. This work must have clear and common objectives and a clear understanding of how we will achieve them.
It is timely that the State Council Presidium is discussing these issues, timely too because the Government is currently in the process of drafting a family policy concept document.
”Putting in place the right conditions for an increase in births, protecting motherhood and childhood, and strengthening the family as an institution are priority social tasks for Russia.“
The main task for the state in this area is to create conditions for the stable wellbeing of families. Several factors are involved here: primarily these are the family income, housing, accessibility and quality of education and healthcare, the physical and spiritual health of children and adults, and many other things.
This principle should form the foundation of the concept and the state policy on families. To achieve this we need to change significantly the objectives of family policy as a whole. Until now, it has been directed mainly at those who have found themselves in a difficult situation and need social security.
This is undoubtedly a very important aspect of our work that needs to be continued, and it will be continued. However, the state should create conditions for raising the living standards and the quality of life for regular Russian families, to raise their prestige in society, bearing in mind that, apart from the state, it is primarily the family that should be responsible for children’s lives.
I would like to focus on a number of issues that require our special attention and discussion. Much has been done lately to raise the importance of family, to establish its leading role in bringing up children. We have instituted special state and regional awards for large families.
We are especially happy to note that the birth rate continues to grow. Last year – we have cited these numbers on numerous occasions – 1.9 million babies were born, which is almost 5,000 more than in 2012. For the first time since 1991, Russia has seen a natural population growth. This is the result both of a decline in the death rate and an increase in the birth rate.
It is of course wonderful when children are born, and it is important for them to be surrounded with love. They should grow up healthy and receive a solid education so that they can apply their talents and abilities as they enter into adulthood and start families of their own.
The media, political parties and public organisations should take an active part in promoting the values of responsible parenthood and healthy living. There is a huge scope of work for them here. I suggest discussing today the efforts required to develop such a family-oriented information and educational policy.
The key issue is to raise the incomes of families with children. This is directly linked to economic development and the creation of new production facilities and, consequently, high quality jobs. This is our long-term priority that we need to focus on now.
Primarily we need to create conditions for parents to have active careers. We have to propagate the efforts of those employers who provide jobs to women who have young children and to parents of disabled children.
This is not only support to families with children; it is also an investment: a company’s reputation depends to a large extend on its attention to employees’ needs. By the way, here in Vologda Region, in Cherepovets, families with children receive various types of support.
Thus, at Severstal, which we visited earlier, pregnant women either are relieved or are redirected to light labour, while their average salary is retained. The women themselves were happy to report this today. PhosAgro runs a similar programme.
”The main task for the state in this area is to create conditions for the stable wellbeing of families.“
Another acute problem is the lack of preschools. Thus, today less than half of all preschools in the country have facilities for children under the age of three. We know what this leads to: we do everything to help mothers with continuing education or job training, adopt measures to assist in their employment, and all these efforts go to waste because they cannot find childcare facilities. Possibly, we will have to consider extending social benefits for women from 18 months to 3 years after childbirth.
It is always best to create proper conditions, but they have to be such that people can get good jobs and receive higher pay rather than depend on social benefits. However, this should be done properly, so that people have true social security. If, however, we cannot properly organise their employment and provide preschool facilities, we should consider raising social benefits. Preschools are currently unavailable for over 1.5 million children. We have to develop the system of childcare for infants under the age of three. This calls for supporting relevant business projects and helping volunteer groups to participate in these efforts.
Now over to preschools for children aged three to seven. This used to be one of our most acute issues, and it has not been fully resolved yet, though we are working on it. Overall, as of January 1, 2014, 425,000 children nationwide were on the waiting list for preschool childcare. The waiting list is getting shorter, though not as fast as we would like it to. However, we are making some progress.
Nevertheless, the problem remains in a number of regions. I would like to ask the heads of those regions to pay special attention to this issue. The situation is especially difficult in 17 regions of the Russian Federation, where the number of children on the waiting list for preschool childcare exceeds 10% of the overall number of children aged 3 to 7. I will not name those regions now, as I am sure their leadership is aware of the situation.
We also need to analyse the effectiveness of social benefits for families with children. As I have already said, these benefits mainly come in the form of monetary allowances, which are usually very modest and have little impact on the family budget.
I believe we should consider the proposal made by the State Council working group to increase allowances for families with children based on a social contract. To be precise, I would actually suggest expanding the population groups that are eligible for such benefits rather than raising the allowances themselves.
Another issue is assistance to large families. Last year 65 regions of the Russian Federation launched an absolutely new measure alongside the maternity capital programme. Thus, on the birth of their third and every consecutive child, a family receives an allowance of about 7,000 rubles a month until that child reaches the age of 3.
In 50 regions of the Russian Federation that have an unfavourable demographic situation, the allowances are co-financed from the federal budget. Meanwhile the criteria for such allowances differ: in some regions, they are based on per capita family income, in others – on an infant’s subsistence rate in a given region. We need to discuss which of these approaches is more justified and help large families to make better use of government aid.
Yet another issue is family instability. Every year some 51,000 parents in Russia are limited in their parental rights, or are totally stripped of such rights. As a result, almost 62,000 children are orphaned while their parents are still alive – we call such children social orphans.
We have done much last year to resolve this, to place children in foster or substitute families. However, our main job – and I am certain you will agree – is to reunite the children with their natural parents. This is not an easy job. Sometimes it is easier for the social services to isolate such children from their dysfunctional families. However, we should do everything possible to help the family, to help people who have found themselves in a difficult situation to get back to normal life.
A special federal foundation has been functioning since 2008, which provides support for children who have found themselves in difficult situations. I would like to hear what the regions and municipalities are doing in this respect.
I would like to say a few words now about non-commercial organisations that support families with children. They are assisting in the parents’ education and employment; they help large families and take part in resolving the issues faced by children with disabilities. These people deserve every respect for their selfless efforts, and the government should certainly support them in their honourable work. Let us consider what local, regional and federal authorities can do here.
Finally, there is a number of topics on our agenda that deal with housing for orphans and support for parents of disabled children. We need to consider all these issues today – this is something our citizens have to deal with practically on a daily basis.
”The key issue is to raise the incomes of families with children. This is directly linked to economic development and the creation of new production facilities and, consequently, high quality jobs. This is our long-term priority that we need to focus on now.“
<…>
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much.
There is a good reason why we are holding this meeting here in Cherepovets, in Vologda Region: Vologda Region Governor Mr Kuvshinnikov is the head of the State Council working group on this particular issue.
I would like to thank him and all those who took part in this work. I have seen the documents you prepared: you approached the job with great care, considered the current situation in every detail and came up with interesting proposals. Today we have gathered to consider all these proposals, which we have touched upon in the course of our work. Everything we speak about today was discussed during the preparations for this meeting.
I do not intend to go through everything we talked about one more time. I would only like to note that our joint efforts to resolve demographic issues, to strengthen families, to support motherhood and childhood do not end here with this meeting. Mr Savchenko [Belgorod Region Governor] has just told us why.
We are in for some hard times considering the fact that percentage wise, the number of Russians who will be soon entering adulthood and starting families of their own will be smaller than in the previous period. Fewer people were born in the 1990s and this creates certain problems.
Therefore, some years ago we started formulating our policy, suggesting various ways of stimulating the birth rate. Our task is to find further solutions to this problem, because it has definitely not been resolved yet.
Take, for instance, the situation with preschools. We should definitely support those families and those women who want to both raise children and carry on with their careers. A number of factors motivate them: young people do not want to lose their skills, they want to retain their place on the labour market and to progress in their careers.
However, there are other concerns here that we should not disregard. Unfortunately, despite all our efforts to encourage families to have children, the birth of a child is a heavy financial burden for a family. I am sure you are all aware of this.
Some 20% of all children live in families that regularly have to overcome such problems as buying new clothes and footwear, getting access to medical services and paying for medicines. 16% of children live in families that struggle even with meeting their nutritional needs, and a large number of children now live in families that have housing problems. These are all fundamental conditions for the normal development of society and family, and children in particular. We need to keep this in mind.
This does not mean, of course, that all we should do is take money from the federal budget and allocate it blindly to resolve these issues. Why not? Because this is often not the most efficient solution. We must bring together the efforts of municipalities, regional and federal authorities, as well as the business community, the way it is done here at Severstal and at other companies.
We must coordinate our efforts to look for efficient solutions, so that the public can get involved in this work as well. I have every reason to believe that we can do it, as we have proved in the past. As I already mentioned, some seven or eight years ago any sort of progress in this area seemed impossible.
Nevertheless, the situation has changed, and we are making headway, even though it may be slow. We should not cease our efforts; we must consider all the proposals made today and those that the governors came up with as they prepared for this meeting, and move forward.
Thank you.
Geography
Vologda Region
Topics
Children
Demographics
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, State Council
Publication date: February 17, 2014, 20:30
Text version