Events
Meeting on import replacement
Vladimir Putin held a meeting on replacing imports in the defence industry.
July 28, 2014
14:45
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 2
Meeting on replacing imports in the defence industry.
Rapid introduction and maximum broad use of Russian-made materials and spare parts in special equipment and arms production was the subject of discussion.
* * *
Opening remarks at meeting on replacing imports in defence industry
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: We are here today to discuss a number of issues linked to implementing our state arms programme and fulfilling our obligations, including in the military technical cooperation sector.
The main issue on the agenda today is speeding up work to replace imports in the defence industry and make the broadest possible use of Russian-made materials and components in production of special equipment and arms.
We have discussed this important matter on past occasions, held several meetings on the subject and agreed to draw up a roadmap setting out the steps to follow.
These issues are without question key matters for our military and economic security and for our technological and production independence and sovereignty. Our task is to protect ourselves against the risk of foreign partners not performing their contractual obligations. This includes risks of a political nature too.
We must ensure reliable and timely supplies of the needed parts and components and carry out strict quality control. As I said, we have discussed this matter on many occasions already and there are several issues that are clear to all of us.
Which issues am I referring to? First, we can definitely produce everything we need ourselves. There is no question about that. Second is the price, which is just as important, and third is the issue of quality. We must ensure that the price is reasonable and that there are no problems with quality, and most important, we must keep to the timetable that we planned for carrying out our arms programme and not allow any delays to occur. These are the matters we need to settle today.
We need to make a thorough examination of how much time is needed for manufacturing this or that component, how much money it will take, and how much time we will require to develop the needed production here at our production facilities and ensure financing for all of this work. 
No matter what the difficulties we may encounter, and to be honest, I do not really see any big difficulties so far, but I was thinking above all of technological difficulties, and I think that they will ultimately work to our advantage because they will give us the needed incentive to develop our production capability in areas where we had not done so yet.
This is all the more true if you consider that some of what we were getting and using in the state arms programme was already somewhat outdated. The technology used to make it was outdated, and the equipment used in the production process was old too.
But we now have the chance and obligation to build up a modern, hi-tech production base, and we can do this if we organise the work in proper fashion. We need to be persevering and consistent here, and of course we must not be wasteful with our money but need to make thorough calculations of the costs involved.
Let’s start work.
<…>
See also
Meeting on defence sector development
May 16, 2014
Meeting on implementing State Armament Programme and developing defence industry
May 15, 2014
Meeting on defence procurement
May 14, 2014
Meeting on economic issues
April 10, 2014
Topics
Armed Forces
Import replacement
Industry
National security
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 28, 2014, 14:45
Text version