Events
Speech at official breakfast hosted by President of the Federative Republic of Brazil Dilma Rousseff in honour of President of Russia Vladimir Putin
July 14, 2014
23:30
Speech at official breakfast hosted by President of the Federative Republic of Brazil Dilma Rousseff in honour of President of Russia Vladimir Putin.
President of Russia VLADIMIR PUTIN: Ladies and gentlemen,
I want to sincerely thank our Brazilian colleagues for their friendly, warm welcome and the exceptionally constructive atmosphere of today’s talks which, I am certain, fully reflected the spirit of mutual understanding that has developed between our nations.
Last year marked the 185th anniversary since the establishment of diplomatic ties between Russia and Brazil. From the very beginning, they were built on the principles of cooperation and respect for one another’s interests. And today, after almost two centuries, our cooperation serves as an example of openness and equality.
We consider the development of a strategic partnership with Brazil to hold particular, priority significance. During our talks, I once again ascertained that our Brazilian friends also intend to strengthen ties with Russia and cooperate closely with us in the global arena, including within the framework of the UN, the G20, and other international organisations. Our nations hold similar positions on key international problems and we jointly assert the principles of a multipolar world.
Russia and Brazil have truly colossal economic potential. Our assets already include a whole range of successful investment projects, including in energy, engineering and pharmaceuticals. But of course, we are interested in going further and deepening industrial cooperation in high-tech sectors such as IT, biotechnologies, aircraft engineering and air and space. We are prepared to create the most comfortable conditions possible for Brazilian companies to operate in the Russian market.
”We consider the development of a strategic partnership with Brazil to hold particular, priority significance. Our nations hold similar positions on key international problems and we jointly assert the principles of a multipolar world.“
The full-fledged development of bilateral ties is impossible without fruitful humanitarian contacts, including, of course, in sports, as Madame President just mentioned. The Football World Cup concluded yesterday, and Brazil, as an organising country and the host, raised the bar for organising this event. And we will need to do a great deal to maintain that standard [when we host the World Cup in 2018].
We recently hosted the Winter Olympic Games in Sochi. Brazil will be hosting the Sumer Olympics in 2016. We are confident that this event will also be held at a high level; and Russia, based on your experience, dear friends, will do everything possible to hold the 2018 Football World Cup to meet the standards of football fans throughout the world.
It is clear that we have much to learn from one another. But we already share a truly athletic disposition that allows us to overcome temporary setbacks and difficulties and to achieve the goals we set.
We are prepared to work closely in areas of interest to our peoples and states. I am confident that we can do a great deal by combining our efforts.
Just now, Madame President was telling me about her nation, Brazil, in an informal setting with such love and explaining Brazil’s development plans with such passion that I have absolutely no doubt everything will be implemented. We sincerely wish for you to be successful.
Please let me propose a toast to the friendship between our nations and peoples! To the health of Madame President and everyone present!
See also
Official visit to Brazil
July 14, 2014
Geography
Brazil
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 14, 2014, 23:30
Text versionEvents
Russia takes the relay to host the World Cup
Vladimir Putin has attended the closing ceremony of the 2014 FIFA World Cup, which concluded with Brazil passing the relay to Russia to host the 2018 World Cup.
July 14, 2014
01:30
Rio de Janeiro
7 of 15
With President of Brazil Dilma Rousseff and FIFA President Joseph Blatter at the ceremony handing over the FIFA World Cup host country rights from Brazil to Russia.
The ceremony took place at Maracanã Stadium in Rio de Janeiro which also hosted the 2014 World Cup final between Germany and Argentina, ending in a 1–0 victory for Germany.
Speech at the ceremony handing the relay for hosting the FIFA World Cup from Brazil to Russia
Vladimir Putin: President Rousseff, President Blatter, friends,
Football is more than a sport for millions of people all around the world. For many people it is a way of life and indeed even the sense of life, and yet it remains nonetheless a sport, the most popular sport of all.
The sportspeople, specialists and trainers have the job of demonstrating their skill, achieving victory and success, and making their supporters happy. Our job is to organise this work in fitting fashion and give the sportspeople, specialists, journalists and fans the best conditions. I want to congratulate President Rousseff on the way this work, which is very important for the country, was organised.
Brazil will prepare to host the Olympic Games over these coming years, and we wish Brazil success in this work. Brazil and Russia can learn from each other, all the more so as Russia just organised and hosted a successful Olympics in Sochi.
FIFA does a lot of work to put football to use in resolving the big social problems that the entire world faces. President Blatter puts a lot of personal effort into addressing these issues, and we hope that the preparations for the FIFA World Cup in Russia will also contribute to tasks such as fighting drugs, racism, and other challenges we face today.
Brazil has set a high standard for holding the World Cup. We will try to do all we can to meet this same standard and prepare well for this event, as is the hope and desire of millions of football fans around the world. 
We are grateful to President Blatter and his FIFA colleagues for giving Russia the honour of organising and hosting the World Cup in our country.
I promise you that we will do everything within our power to organise and host a worthy event of the highest level. Thank you.
See also
Official visit to Brazil. The BRICS summit
July 13 − 17, 2014
Geography
Brazil
Topics
Sport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 14, 2014, 01:30
Text versionEvents
Press statement following Russian-Brazilian talks
July 14, 2014
20:40
Brasilia
Statement for the press after Russian-Brazilian talks.
President of Russia VLADIMIR PUTIN: Madam President, ladies and gentlemen,
I must say that talks with the President of Brazil were substantive and constructive, just as we had hoped and planned. I would like to thank the President for this invitation.
We had a detailed discussion of the main areas in Russian-Brazilian cooperation and current international and regional issues.
Following our meeting, we signed a solid package of interdepartmental and commercial agreements intended to stimulate cooperation in a wide range of sectors.
Economic development issues have traditionally been at the centre of attention in our talks. Brazil is Russia’s major trade and economic partner in Latin America. In the last 10 years, our turnover has consistently increased, and, as the President just said, has recently grown more than two-fold.
At the same time – we discussed this today as well – in the last two years, mutual trade has dropped somewhat. Last year, our trade decreased by 3.2%. So it was time for us to get together, talk about all the problems that we are facing and plan steps for overcoming these problems. Ms Rousseff and I discussed possible practical steps and measures aimed at overcoming this situation.
We feel that another highly important objective on the bilateral economic track is active investment cooperation; indeed, we are planning for cooperation between our investment funds.
It is important to increase industrial cooperation and launch new projects, including in leading knowledge-intensive fields. Our joint action plan for developing trade and economic cooperation contains many specific initiatives for increasing mutual capital investments.
I will note that major Russian companies are already beginning to adapt to the Brazilian market. As you saw, Rosneft signed corresponding documents today and has invested in extracting hydrocarbons in the Solimoes river basin. Silovye Machiny [OJSC Power Machines] is another Russian company working in machine engineering and is opening a plant in Brazil to produce hydroelectric power station equipment. Another company has become a co-owner in a cargo marine terminal in Paraná.
”Economic development issues have traditionally been at the centre of attention in our talks. Brazil is Russia’s major trade and economic partner in Latin America. In the last 10 years, our turnover has consistently increased.“
We are developing industrial cooperation in aviation and automobile engineering. Russia fully provides for the Embraer aviation concern’s titanium needs. Flagships for Russian and Brazilian automotive manufacturing – Russia’s Kamaz and Brazil’s Marcopolo – have established a bus manufacturing plant in Russia.
More and more large projects are being implemented in the high-tech sector, as I already mentioned. Russia’s Biocad pharmaceutical company will be constructing a unique biotech research facility in Brazil. Another company – Kaspersky Lab – is making headway in the Brazilian software market, as is Megapay, a remote banking service, and Qiwi, an instant banking service, and others.
We intend to continue stimulating direct business contacts between our nations, including between small and midsize businesses. In this regard, we have high hopes for the memorandum signed by Delovaya Rossiya – our association of entrepreneurs – on cooperating with Brazilian partners.
Cooperation in the humanitarian sector has particular significance for our nations. Last year, Brazil successfully organised Days of Russian Culture. In May and June of this year, residents of Moscow and St Petersburg were very interested in the extensive programmes offered by the Days of Brazilian Culture.
Our plans include broadening contacts in science and education. Russian universities will participate in implementing Brazil’s national Science Without Borders programme and will welcome up to a thousand Brazilian students every year.
Sports represent a special area of cooperation. Brazil held the Football World Cup at a very high level. This involved a great deal of organisational and financial effort.
We agreed to continue a mutual exchange of experience in organising large-scale athletic events. Russia will be next after Brazil to host the Football World Cup in 2018, while Brazil will host the Summer Olympic Games in 2016, as you know. This year, we held the Winter Olympics; and in 2019, the World Universiade – the global student athletic event – will be held in Krasnoyarsk, Russia and in Brasilia, Brazil.
During our talks, we touched on issues pertaining to the international agenda. Russia and Brazil are united by their common approaches to resolving key global problems – with the central coordinating role of the United Nations and the rule of the regulations and principles of international law to resolve regional conflicts.
Naturally, we had a separate discussion on cooperating within the BRICS
format and discussed prospects for deepening ties between Latin American region overall and Russia and the Eurasian Economic Union that we are creating jointly with Belarus and Kazakhstan.
We are interested in cooperating with the common South American market. I hope that a corresponding document will be signed at the beginning of 2015, after our agreement with Kazakhstan and Belarus on the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union legally comes into force. Russia is interested in cooperating with Brazil to establish contacts with the Union of South American Nations.
In conclusion, I would like to thank all our friends in Brazil – first and foremost, Madam President – for the friendly and business-oriented atmosphere that was created during our joint work today.
Thank you for your attention.
See also
Official visit to Brazil
July 14, 2014
Additional
Official visit to Brazil. The BRICS summit
July 13 − 17, 2014
Geography
Brazil
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Rousseff Dilma
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 14, 2014, 20:40
Text version