Events
Meeting with representatives of international public and religious organisations
Vladimir Putin received a delegation of rabbis from several nations, including Israel, Austria, Belgium, the United Kingdom, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands and France.
July 9, 2014
17:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
The meeting touched on joint efforts to prevent the rewriting of history, the fight against neo-Nazism and neo-fascism, xenophobia and anti-Semitism.
* * *
Vladimir Putin: Good evening, friends.
We are meeting on the eve of a very sorrowful date, when thousands of Jews and Turkic individuals were killed in Sevastopol in 1942. In Russia, we are quite familiar with the tragedy of the Holocaust: six million Jews were exterminated on the territory of the Soviet Union and in European nations. At the same time, we are well aware that Jewish individuals fought Nazism in the ranks of the Red Army – they served as political officers as well as ordinary soldiers, doctors, and overall, made a worthy input into the fight against fascism. But the tragedy of the Jewish people certainly holds a special place among the crimes committed by the Nazis during World War II. I repeat, here in Russia, we know about this and feel that pain as no one else, because as you know, more than 20 million Soviet citizens, the majority of them Russians, died during the fight against fascism.
I remember when I visited the Yad Vashem museum in Israel; the experience really affected me. Everything was created with such great talent and was so penetrating that nobody can be left feeling indifferent. Following the Jewish community’s initiative, we have created our own museum – the Tolerance Museum in Moscow. In my view, in some ways, it might have illustrated the events of the Second World War and the tragedy of the Jewish people even more brightly.
I want to assure you that in Russia, we will not only always remember these tragedies, but also forever carefully maintain the memory of those who perished. And we will do everything to ensure that such tragedies do not reoccur in the future.
Of course, the revival of Nazi ideas here and there is particularly alarming. I want to thank the Jewish community and public organisations that are actively and bravely (in some situations in today’s world) continuing to uncompromisingly fight against any displays and any attempts to revive Nazi ideology.
I want to say that in this regard, we consider you to be our closest allies and I am asking you to view us in the same light.
That is all I would like to say to begin our meeting. I want to welcome you once again. Thank you for coming.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: You said that it is madness to declare an entire people as the enemy and to destroy that people. I have always thought this as well. Today, I think that it is more dangerous than madness. This is a conscious policy aimed at achieving one’s own mercenary purposes using inhumane methods. This is not madness. These are people who do not know what they are doing. And those who committed their crimes during the war – and this concerns the Holocaust and the annihilation of entire peoples – this is a targeted policy and it is worse than madness.
And another thing I would like to point out. You said that one must be stupid to deny what happened. You know, I think that one must not just be stupid, but also shameless, to deny what occurred. But unfortunately, just like 70 years ago, this shamelessness often achieves its purposes. After all, Goebbels had said, “The more improbable the lie, the faster people believe it.” And it worked out; he was a talented man.
I think that today, too, those who distort history are trying to belittle the merits of individuals who destroyed Nazism and even interchange the criminals and their victims. They follow that same logic: the more improbable the lie, the more quickly it is believed. And naturally, we must do everything possible to prevent such practices, such criminal practices.
<…>
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 9, 2014, 17:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Italian Foreign Minister Federica Mogherini
Vladimir Putin met with Italian Foreign Minister Federica Mogherini.
July 9, 2014
20:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 5
With Italian Foreign Minister Federica Mogherini.
Vladimir Putin: Ms Foreign Minister, colleagues,
This year will mark the 20th anniversary since the treaty of friendship was signed between Russia and the Italian Republic. We are very pleased that our relations are developing in accordance with the spirit and the letter of this document: this is true of our political, economic and humanitarian contacts.
Italy will chair the European Union for the next six months and we very much hope that this will serve as a reason to extend the level and quality of the relations we developed between our nations to the entire European Union.
Welcome.
Federica Mogherini (retranslated): Thank you, Mr President.
As far as I know, the very position of the President of the Russian Federation does not stipulate meeting with the Foreign Minister, so I am particularly grateful that you found the opportunity to meet with me, including as a representative from the nation that will chair the European Union for the next six months.
I also want to transmit to you greetings from President of the Italian Republic Giorgio Napolitano and Prime Minister of Italy Matteo Renzi, with whom as we know you spoke on the phone. We greet you and hope to see you among the participants in the ASEM (Asia-Europe) forum in Milan in October.
As you know, the current Cabinet is quite young. This is a Cabinet that received an ample mandate from Italian voters and will use that trust to carry out deep reforms in the nation and activate work in the Council of Europe.
<…>
Geography
Italy
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 9, 2014, 20:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with members of the Russian Federation Civic Chamber
Vladimir Putin met at the Kremlin with members of the Russian Federation Civic Chamber.
July 9, 2014
15:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 6
Meeting with members of the Russian Federation Civic Chamber.
Under the law, the Civic Chamber is made up of 40 people approved by the President and 85 representatives of the regional Civic Chambers (including Crimea and Sevastopol), and 43 representatives of national public groups, associations and other non-commercial organisations, selected via an internet voting procedure. The Civic Chamber has 168 members in total. Work is currently underway on a draft law on Sevastopol’s Civic Chamber, and once this law is passed, a representative from Sevastopol will also be elected to the Russian Federation Civic Chamber.
* * *
Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon friends and colleagues.
Let me start by congratulating you on the Council’s new membership. I want to thank Yevgeny Velikhov and the newly elected president of the Civic Chamber. I want to thank Mr Velikhov for all his work and wish his newly elected successor in this post success. 
As you know, the Civic Chamber’s members were chosen using new procedures this time. The members now include not just candidates proposed by Russia’s president, but also members selected in an on-line vote. There was a lot of debate about this procedure, but I think it nonetheless proved its worth as a means of direct voting and direct democracy. I hope very much that the representatives chosen from trade unions and professional associations will have a big and positive impact on the work of the Civic Chamber, which has been functioning for 9 years now.
As before, I think your participation in the Federal Assembly’s work will make a needed contribution, especially as regards the so-called ‘zero reading’ of draft laws of particular importance for society.
These are not the only areas. There are many other tasks too, which the Civic Chamber can use its authority and expertise to help resolve. This concerns establishing public councils within ministries and agencies and direct participation in these councils’ work, so as to have an albeit indirect and mediated, but nonetheless real influence on decisions or on their preparation, to be more precise. 
In short, there are many tasks. As they say in such cases, life is complicated and never short of variety. I hope greatly that the Civic Chamber will make a big and visible contribution to our society’s life, help develop the democratic process, and most important, contribute to preparing thoroughly considered decisions that can then be taken and implemented in the various areas of our life.
I will end these remarks here. I would like to hear your views and exchange a few thoughts with you on how we will organise our work together.
<…>
Topics
Public control
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 9, 2014, 15:30
Text version