Events
Meeting with President of China Xi Jinping
Vladimir Putin and President of the People’s Republic of China Xi Jinping discussed bilateral cooperation in trade and the economy, as well as international affairs, including joint participation of Russian and Chinese service members in the operation to remove chemical weapons from Syria.
February 6, 2014
18:00
Sochi
1 of 4
With President of China Xi Jinping.
Task forces of the Russian and Chinese navies are taking part in the international effort to remove chemical weapon components from Syria for their further annihilation. The fleet includes Russia’s heavy nuclear-powered missile cruiser Pyotr Veliky [Peter the Great] and Chinese war frigate Yancheng.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, my friend, dear colleagues and friends, welcome to Sochi!
I am very happy to see you, Mr President. I know you have come here when all of China is celebrating the New Year. This is a family holiday when people visit their relatives and friends. So let us look at your visit in the same way – you are visiting close friends. Thank you for being with us.
Allow me to wish you and the people of China a happy New Year, and may it bring success to all, including your team at the Olympic Games.
As for our bilateral relations, they have been on the incline, and despite the fact that they have always been very good we can see significant development.
See also
Video conference with nuclear-powered missile cruiser Pyotr Veliky
February 6, 2014
Our trade turnover has already reached $87 billion and we are approaching the figure of $100 billion just as we planned.
Our political contacts are also developing – we have five summit meetings planned for this year. Our security services are cooperating, as well as our military, including those engaged in removing chemical weapons from Syria.
Russia and China are making a significant contribution to international development and security.
We are very happy to see you here. Welcome!
President of China Xi Jinping
(translated from Russian): Mr President, I am very happy to meet with you again in Russia, in Sochi. I am very grateful to you for your invitation to take part in the opening ceremony of the Sochi Olympics.
As you correctly said, our country is celebrating the festival of Spring, while we are here in Sochi – and this is a major event for us, giving us double joy. There is a tradition in China: when our friend or neighbour is celebrating, we have to visit and congratulate. So, we have come here specifically to congratulate you on this wonderful event.
We also have a saying that a good mood always makes you happier. Today I can see you are very cheerful, in high spirits, and I am happy to see this.
The Winter Olympics is a major global event and the highest arena for competitions in winter sports. The sacred Olympic flame that will be lit here in Sochi is a symbol of Russia making its way towards power and prosperity under your leadership, Mr President. This is also a demonstration of Russia’s strong support for the international Olympic movement.
I am convinced that, given the careful organisation that Russia has put into them, the Sochi Olympics will be held at the highest level and will become an unforgettable international Olympic festival, an event that would contribute to the development of the international Olympic movement.
You may be aware that this year in the Chinese Lunar calendar is the Year of the Horse. For our people horses symbolise prosperity and happiness, therefore I would like to wish the Sochi Olympics good luck and success, while I wish our athletes – both Chinese and Russian — to take the lead in the competitions.
<…>
Geography
People's Republic of China
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 6, 2014, 18:00
Text versionEvents
Inaugural IOC President’s Dinner on the eve of the Opening Ceremony for the Sochi 2014 Olympic Winter Games
Vladimir Putin took part at inaugural International Olympic Committee President’s Dinner on the eve of the Opening Ceremony for the Sochi 2014 Olympic Winter Games.
February 6, 2014
22:00
Sochi
4 of 7
Speech at the inaugural IOC President’s Dinner on the eve of the Opening Ceremony for the Sochi 2014 Olympic Winter Games.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bach,
First of all, I would like to thank President Bach for his hospitality. Today, you are our host in this city and in this hall.
Naturally, I would also like to thank you, as well as Mr Jacques Rogge, your predecessor as President of the International Olympic Committee, for your active, engaged participation in our extensive joint work.
I feel it is imperative to once again stress the constructive, highly friendly nature of relations between the International Olympic Committee and the Russian Federation. Complete mutual understanding and constant, close communication greatly helped us bring the Olympic project to fruition and fulfil all the obligations our nation took on in Guatemala in 2007.
The Russian Olympic project has become truly unique in many ways. Much here was done for the first time ever. I am referring, among other things, to the most modern standards, technologies and technical solutions. Naturally, our objective was also to present Russia to the world: a country that is proud of its centuries-long traditions and is oriented toward the future. It is a nation that presents amazing harmony and unity in all its diversity.
”Russia has been striving to implement its Olympic project to the maximum. It has done everything to make the Sochi Olympics a spectacular, unforgettable event. And we believe that these Games will be exactly that.“
It is deeply symbolic for us that you, Mr Bach, have proclaimed that the motto for your work as President of the International Olympic Committee is “Unity in Diversity.”
This motto is close to the heart of every Russian because the fates of many peoples are intertwined in our country and the Olympic values, such as mutual respect, fairness, and peace for all time, are the foundation of our national culture and national character.
I think this largely explains why Russians share such love for sport and everything related to it, and are happy to host athletic competitions of the highest class and level.
Russia has gained a wealth of experience in holding major international events. I am confident that participants and guests at Kazan’s Universiade, the figure skating and athletics championships, and other major sports celebrations recently held in our country have been able to fully appreciate our organisational abilities and our traditional Russian hospitality.
In the near future, Russia will be hosting the world championships in hockey, bobsleigh and skeleton, football and the Winter Universiade. I have no doubt that they will be held in an atmosphere of strong emotions and in strict compliance with all regulations and requirements.
However, these are challenges for the future. Today, we are preparing for the opening of the XXII Olympic Winter Games in Sochi; we have only a few more hours before they begin. I don’t think I’d be mistaken in suggesting that the whole world is eagerly awaiting this grand athletic event and feels its special atmosphere and positive energy.
Russia has been striving to implement its Olympic project to the maximum. It has done everything to make the Sochi Olympics a spectacular, unforgettable event. And we believe that these Games will be exactly that.
I want to thank you once again, President Bach, as well as all the members of the International Olympic Committee and everyone who has helped make Russia’s Olympic dream a reality.
Mr President, you have invited us to this reception and so I would like to propose a toast to you and Mrs Bach.
Let us drink to the fruitful cooperation between Russia and the International Olympic Committee and to the upcoming celebration of sport, peace and friendship!
Thank you very much.
Topics
Sochi 2014
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 6, 2014, 22:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of Tajikistan Emomali Rahmon
On the eve of the Sochi Olympics, Vladimir Putin met with President of Tajikistan Emomali Rahmon to discuss bilateral cooperation, including in trade, the economy, humanitarian and military spheres.
February 6, 2014
16:40
Sochi
Following the talks, the two presidents witnessed the signing of a Protocol on Exchange of Documents on the Ratification of Agreement between the Russian Federation and the Republic of Tajikistan on the Status and Conditions of Presence of the Russian Military Base on the territory of the Republic of Tajikistan.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Rahmon, friends, welcome to Sochi!
I am happy to use this opportunity to meet with you as we prepare for the Olympic Games, to discuss our affairs and possibly even to complete some unfinished business. Although this – and I am referring to everything that has to do with the Russian military base – is not completion, but in a sense the beginning of a new stage of our cooperation, which will be more profound, more substantive and stable.
Apart from our military cooperation, which has become especially topical today in view of the planned international troops’ withdrawal from Afghanistan, no less important for us is the development of trade and economic relations and the extension of our contacts in the humanitarian sphere.
For us Tajikistan is undoubtedly a priority strategic partner. I am very happy to see you today and to discuss all these issues.
President of Tajikistan Emomali Rahmon
: Thank you. Allow me to begin by expressing my sincere gratitude to you, Mr Putin, for your invitation to the opening ceremony of the Winter Olympic Games. I would like to congratulate you and all the people of Russia on this historical event.
Our meeting today, as you correctly noted, is a good opportunity to discuss all aspects of Tajikistani-Russian cooperation, including the fact that today we finalise the creation of a Russian military base in Tajikistan and launch a new stage in our strategic partnership.
Thank you.
The weather here is so good, while back in Dushanbe it is minus 20C with over 15 inches of snow. The weather has traded places, it seems.
<…>
Geography
Tajikistan
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 6, 2014, 16:40
Text version