Events
Reply to a journalist’s question during a visit to North-Eastern Federal University
September 1, 2014
10:00
While visiting Yakutia, Vladimir Putin answered a question from BBC correspondent John Sweeney (on the right).
QUESTION on the situation in Ukraine.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: I will answer your question. The root of the tragedy currently unfolding, as I see it, is that the current government in Kiev does not want to engage in a substantive political dialogue with the country’s eastern regions. And I mean here a real political dialogue on the matters of substance.
What objectives are the southeast regions’ militia pursuing in their current military operations and why have they stepped up their activity? They are responding to the fact that the Ukrainian regular armed forces have surrounded towns and are firing directly at residential districts. What the militia are trying to do is drive back these armed forces and their artillery so as to prevent them from shooting at residential areas. Unfortunately however, many countries, including in Europe, prefer to ignore this fact.
I think it is a very important process that is starting now – the process of direct negotiations. We worked on this long and hard and reached an agreement on the matter with President Poroshenko in Minsk. Now these contacts will resume.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: September 1, 2014, 10:00
Text versionLet me say again that developing the Far East regions is one of our national priorities and the key to addressing many economic, social, demographic and even geopolitical challenges. Our progress depends directly on how effectively we can implement our plans and on our ability to create a good environment for people to live and work, for investment and for continuing promising projects and expanding international cooperation.
Undoubtedly, we need to take into consideration the specific international situation. I am referring to the limitations that were unfortunately imposed both by some of our partners and us in response. Various actions on our part could prove to be an effective response. We do not want to resort to them, and I hope that common sense will prevail and we will continue in a regular mode, so that neither our partners nor we would bear any losses from these mutual stings.
I would like to note that there have been certain positive developments in the Far Eastern regions over the recent period (we will clearly rely here primarily on our partners in the Asia-Pacific region). A positive trend in the Far Eastern Federal District’s economy continued in the first six months of this year, compared to the same period in 2013. Industrial production went up by almost 10 percent – 9.2 percent to be exact. This is the best figure among all federal districts.
We gave special attention to the clean-up operations following last year’s floods. The concerted efforts of the federal and regional authorities made it possible to help the victims in a timely fashion. We will get back to this topic with some colleagues later on during this trip. However, overall, according to Mr Trutnev [Deputy Prime Minister and Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoy to the Far Eastern Federal District], almost 90 percent of the work has been done. Some work remains unfinished in a number of areas, however we will not deal with this in any detail today – we have other things to consider.
Our main task now is to achieve cardinal, visible results in resolving systemic faults in the Far East in the next few years. These are things like the underdevelopment of territories, disbalances in infrastructure, transportation and personnel training. People are dissatisfied with the condition and functioning of social services.
The range of economic and social problems also affects our demographic situation. Incidentally, it results in a curious situation, an unusual one compared to other regions in Russia: we are seeing natural population growth in the Far East, and this is a very good sign. However, because of the migration flow, the number of residents in the region is still declining, which, of course, is alarming. In other words, the demographic indicators for birth rates and mortality are generally improving and birth rates are good; however, there is a continued outflow from the region. People are going to places where it’s easier to find interesting work and decent salaries, get modern education and quality medical care.
We have already said that most problems in the Far East require an integrated approach and that all ministries and departments must work to resolve them. In addition, much depends on the directions in which our joint efforts are focused.
I want to stress this again: our main goal is to ensure an uplift and advanced development in the Far East, to turn it into a prosperous region that is attractive for living and doing business, to create growth points that will serve as the drivers for future development. In this regard, I want to draw your attention to several issues that I see as priorities.
The first is improving access to transportation in the region, reducing infrastructure limitations in both the domestic market and for developing exports. It is imperative to modernise the Baikal Amur and Trans-Siberian railways. These long-distance railways have strategic significance for the Far East. Without a reliable transport network, it will be hard to implement large-scale investment projects in the region itself and generally unlock the potential of the territories and increase the region’s economic appeal. Moreover, we understand that these are purely economic projects and their efficacy is not in question. Their impact will be evident immediately upon implementation. We began rebuilding the major railways this summer. And today, it would be good to hear from colleagues who are working on this: what has been done, what problems have occurred, and so on.
Second is the creation of conditions for attracting additional investments to the region – both Russian and foreign. And here, we are talking first and foremost about investments in traditional and new sectors, developing deposits and building infrastructure, construction, developing transport, agriculture and, of course, the fuel and energy sector, raw material processing and creating modern manufacturing plants, including export-oriented ones. I know that the Ministry for the Development of the Far East is looking into multiple priority investment projects; and today, I would like to hear about them as well, what state they are currently in.
As you recall, two years ago, we created the Far East and Baikal Region Development Fund, managed by Vnesheconombank (the Bank for Development and Foreign Economic Affairs). However, it basically has not begun working: the funding – somewhere between 15 and 20 billion rubles – is still sitting in the deposits. Meanwhile, we need this kind of financial instrument.
Furthermore, in order to increase the investment appeal of Far East territories, we need to more actively apply best practices from APR nations. We need to reduce the volume and timeframes foradministrative procedures as much as possible when constructing manufacturing facilities, simplify access to infrastructure – electric, gas supply, and roads, and build access to other utilities. There are colleagues here today who deal with investments – who already work or are ready to work in the Far East. Naturally, we would very much like to hear from you.Events
Meeting with Vice Premier of China Zhang Gaoli
Vladimir Putin met with Vice Premier of China Zhang Gaoli before the start of a ceremony marking the joining of the first section of the Power of Siberia mainline gas pipeline.
September 1, 2014
14:00
Yakutsk
With Chairman of Gazprom’s Management Committee Alexei Miller (left) and Vice Premier of China Zhang Gaoli before the ceremony to mark the joining of the first section of the Power of Siberia mainline gas pipeline.
Vice Premier of China Zhang Gaoli
(retranslated): President Xi Jinping and Premier Li Keqiang asked me to pass on their warmest greetings and best wishes.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Please pass on my greetings to President Xi Jinping and Premier Li Keqiang. I am very pleased that you have come. We are launching this big project that was so long in discussion.
Zhang Gaoli: This is to the great credit of our countries’ two leaders.
Vladimir Putin: If President Xi Jinping had not become involved in this matter personally, I think we would not be standing here today. But I know that you are not just the Vice Premier and a member of China’s Politburo. You are an energy sector professional too, and much depends on professionals like you. We are very happy that it is you who has come here today.
Zhang Gaoli: Last year, we held talks in St Petersburg and they made a deep impression on me. Many of your proposals on expanding cooperation have already become reality. We had very good and productive talks with [Deputy Prime Minister] Arkady Dvorkovich, [Gazprom CEO] Alexei Miller, and [Rosneft CEO] Igor Sechin. 
I want to make it clear that China categorically opposes the sanctions the United States and Western countries have taken against Russia. China categorically opposes colour revolutions and attempts to hold back Russia’s development. I already said to Mr Miller and Mr Sechin that we will do all within our power. Our cooperation is expanding substantially now, and this includes in trade in agricultural produce too.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much.
Zhang Gaoli: President Xi Jinping is looking forward to seeing you again in Dushanbe. 
Vladimir Putin: Thank you. Please pass on my best wishes. I am also looking forward to this meeting. We have plenty to discuss.
As for restrictions on trade and economic activity, they ultimately cause losses for those who carry out such a policy. I hope that common sense will prevail and that we will return to normal trade. But this depends to a great extent on professionals such as yourself in China, in Russiaand in our partners’ countries.
Zhang Gaoli: We are developing our energy cooperation together with Mr Miller and Mr Sechin, in the oil and gas sectors, developing the eastern route. We are working together very comprehensively.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Sechin said he has proposed that you become a shareholder in one of our biggest oil production companies in the north of Russia. The state authorities support this idea and we would welcome your participation.
Zhang Gaoli: Our strategic cooperation is long-term, stable and sustainable. We can withstand any tests that come our way.
Vladimir Putin: And so our cooperation will continue. Vankor is one of the biggest production operations today and very promising. Overall, we take a cautious approach to letting in our foreign partners, but we of course set no restrictions for our Chinese friends.
Zhang Gaoli: I can assure you that China is a reliable partner. You have everything under your control now. You can be confident about your health too, for you are looking very well indeed.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
<…>
See also
Ceremony to mark the joining of the Power of Siberia gas pipeline’s first section
September 1, 2014
Geography
People's Republic of China
Topics
Energy
Persons
Zhang Gaoli
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 1, 2014, 14:00
Text versionEvents
Speech at a ceremony to mark the joining of Power of Siberia gas pipeline’s first section
September 1, 2014
14:10
At a ceremony to mark the joining of the Power of Siberia gas pipeline’s first section.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends, Chinese partners,
We are celebrating a happy event today – the start of a project that we had been talking about for a long time.
We and our Chinese friends were saying just before that this marks the start of the world’s biggest construction project. This will be the most ambitious project in this sector over the coming period. 
What’s important is not setting records though, but that this project has great significance for the Russian Federation and for the People’s Republic of China.
This project will make it possible for Russia to export gas and to develop our country’s own gas network in the eastern regions, the Far East and eastern Siberia. This will help us to boost these regions’ development and indeed give a boost around the whole country to sectors such as machine-building, the metals industry, the pipe manufacturing sector and the chemicals industry. This is all about big investment, creating new jobs and high-tech businesses.
It is the high level of cooperation between Russia and China that has made this project possible. In this respect, I want to express our thanks to the Chinese Government and President Xi Jinping for directly supporting our joint efforts.
I congratulate you all on the launch of construction and wish you every success.
See also
Ceremony to mark the joining of the Power of Siberia gas pipeline’s first section
September 1, 2014
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: September 1, 2014, 14:10
Text versionEvents
Meeting with students and faculty at the North-Eastern Federal University
Vladimir Putin visited the North-Eastern Federal University in Yakutsk on Knowledge Day, the first day of the new academic year.
September 1, 2014
11:00
Yakutsk
11 of 15
Meeting with students and faculty at the North-Eastern Federal University.
Before meeting with faculty members and students, the President learned about the university’s activities and toured a molecular genetics laboratory.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, everyone.
I want to congratulate everyone here and students of every level at universities and schools all around the country and their teachers on the start of the new academic year. 
We have this excellent tradition of celebrating the new school year as a holiday for the whole country. This is a positive and useful tradition because it underscores yet again the importance education has for us and for today’s world. I have said this many times, but let me say it again now: education, like healthcare, is one of the most effective instruments for economic development in the modern world, and this is the case in Russia too.
It has been a long time since I last visited Yakutsk, and I am happy to see that the city is developing and growing, despite its harsh climate. This development is visible. You perhaps do not see it as clearly because you live here and the change is gradual, but for me it made a pleasant surprise. New districts have emerged, even though the environment and low temperatures make construction here a difficult job.
Of course, the people here are very hardy and obviously used to the environment. I remember one of my first visits, when people came up to greet me in the street and there were these two guys dressed in suits, not even wearing jackets, at minus 50. I nearly fell over at the sight when I got off the bus. I asked them, “What are you doing here?” They said, “We’ve come to greet you”, and I said, “Look, let’s get inside quickly.” People like this can achieve a lot, and your republic is developing in general, the education sector too.
Your university fills a whole small district. New buildings have been added over these last few years, and you have a good development programme. 20,000 students is a good figure as far as student numbers go, and the quality of education and training that your teachers offer is of the highest standard. You have many faculty members from abroad, and many from elsewhere in Russia who come on short-term contracts, but you have many who work here on a permanent basis too. You have students from 37 different Russian regions studying here, and from 30 foreign countries. The university’s number of publications is increasing, and other indicators are on the rise too.
I was very happy to hear what Ms Mikhailova [Rector of NEFU] told us today about the work of small innovative businesses. I am happy for your successes in this area. Starting out with 4 million rubles and taking it to 150 million rubles in just three or four years is a very good result indeed. Obviously, we were right to take the relevant decision, including at the legislative level. It was not for nothing that we debated and argued when some of our colleagues said that we should not give universities the right to set up these kinds of small innovative businesses or get involved in business activity at all, since their main objective is to provide education and they should not get distracted from that task. But I think that we took the right decision. This is not simply about giving universities and the people taking part in these programmes the chance to boost their incomes. If the business activity is linked to innovative work and tied to the learning process then it is also a very good way of gaining additional skills and knowledge. 
It makes me very happy to see that big business is also starting to work with the university. We mentioned ALROSA earlier. Joint work with this company on environmental protection is very important. Today we are launching a big investment project, Power of Siberia, we have called it. It is a new gas pipeline that will not just increase our export supplies and broaden the geography of our gas export markets, but will also be a big step forward in getting our own country entirely connected to the gas network. This is particularly important in the eastern part of our country, in eastern Siberia and the Far East.
The next step will offer even greater opportunities in economic terms. Once we have developed and expanded the gas pipeline network here in eastern Siberia and the Far East, we will be able to join the European part of the gas transport system to the eastern part. This offers huge advantages in terms of export opportunities and expanding the gas network in our own country because it makes it possible to ensure supplies and flows no matter what the situation in the global world markets, so that we can work wherever is more effective – in the east or in the west.
This is important for you too because projects such as this require large numbers of highly qualified specialists. Preliminary estimates suggest that we will need at least 3,000 people.
I know that Gazprom has already signed an agreement in this area with the university and I think that this is just the start because this is a big project that will take place over a long timeframe. It will create new opportunities in other sectors too.
I would like to give you the floor, listen to you and discuss your current concerns and future prospects. Perhaps you have some ideas and proposals for improving the education system, not just here at your university, but more generally based on the experience you have gained during your studies. The floor is yours.
Once more, I congratulate you on the start of the new academic year.
<…>
Geography
Republic of Sakha (Yakutia)
Topics
Professional training
Regions
Universities
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 1, 2014, 11:00
Text version