Events
Russian-Belarusian talks
Vladimir Putin and President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko held talks during Mr Putin’s working visit to Belarus.
July 2, 2014
19:30
With President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko.
The bilateral meeting continued with talks over a working dinner.
Beginning of talks with President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko
President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko
: Mr Putin, as I just said, we greatly value your visit during these days of celebration. Those were very difficult times of course, but after all the trials this was such a hoped-for victory. It was our common victory, and your presence here at these celebrations is indeed symbolic, as friends and critics alike have said. Your presence here is symbolic in that it stands for our unity and shows that just as we were together then, so we will always be together. As I already said when some individuals pestered me on the issue, I told them, “Don’t worry, if need be, we will stand back to back and defend ourselves, fight together just as we fought together then.”
And so I thank you for coming as you promised. I thank you for the help and support that you are giving our country and economy. We remember this and we know that Russia and Belarus are both slowly pulling their way back up out of the global crisis. We will stand firm on our feet and will become economically even stronger.
Thank you, Mr Putin.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Thank you for the invitation, Mr Lukashenko. Once more, I congratulate you on the 70th anniversary of the liberation from Nazi occupation. I congratulate all of Belarus, and I congratulate you as the head of state, and the entire Belarusian people.
See also
All news about the visit to Belarus
July 2, 2014
We already recalled today the immense sacrifices that the Belarusian people laid on the altar of victory. We recalled how much was done after the Great Patriotic War to rebuild the republic, and we see what a beautiful and joyful city Minsk is today.
As for our cooperation, certainly, as you noted, we will continue to unite our efforts. I am sure that the difficulties we have been going through are linked not just to developments in our own economies but also to processes in the global economy. We know that all of these things are transitory. But our joint efforts in economic integration are already bearing fruit and will bring even bigger results in the future. We will not simply increase the size of our economy but will also transform its quality.
The Treaty on the Eurasian Economic Union will take effect soon, in just six months’ time. This will definitely be another step towards uniting the efforts of our peoples and countries on the good and positive foundation that we inherited from the past, this foundation that was built by the hands – and with the shed blood too, if we consider the war years – of our forebears, our fathers and grandfathers.
<…>
Geography
Belarus
Topics
Economy and finance
Foreign policy
Persons
Lukashenko Alexander
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 2, 2014, 19:30
Text versionEvents
Working meeting with Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu on Tuesday evening. Mr Shoigu briefed the President on the results of the snap inspection of Central Military District forces’ combat readiness.
July 2, 2014
09:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 3
With Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Shoigu, a snap inspection of combat readiness in the Central Military District ended a few days ago. How do you assess the results?
Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu
: Mr President, seeing as this was already the eighth such snap inspection, the results are getting better every time. We carry out these inspections in order to constantly improve the troops’ level of training. 
This time, acting on your instructions, we inspected troops in the Central Military District. Two armies took part separately in the exercises. Command was carried out separately by the chief command centres of the Air Force, paratroopers and ground forces.
A total of more than 65,000 troops, 177 planes, 56 helicopters, and 5,500 vehicles and armoured vehicles took part in the exercises.
As far as the paratroopers are concerned, for the first time in many years, an entire division along with its equipment and also a paratroopers’ attack brigade were transferred by air over a big distance of almost 3,500 kilometres. They were all deployed in exercises taking place at three test grounds.
The problems that we noted in the paratroopers’ command system last year have been fixed since then.
We tested the division’s command system, deployed a headquarters and command centre with all the necessary equipment and ensured its coordination with the work of the aircraft, drones and ground forces. We also tested the system for transferring large numbers of troops and equipment over big distances.
We based the scenario on potential reaction to events on the border with Afghanistan following the withdrawal of coalition forces from Afghanistan, and response to the threats that we are seeing emerge now on the borders of our CSTO
partners and colleagues. We tested all aspects involved. The troops have returned to their permanent bases and the mission you set has been completed.
I wanted to mention too that the armies and divisions used in these exercises were deployed not in fragmentary but in full formation. In other words, we also ensured the entire rear support system, fuel supplies, ammunition, fuel and lubricants. In short, we carried out the whole programme.
This inspection showed once more that our troops are ready for deployment in full number within 72 hours over a distance of more than 3,000 kilometres.
Vladimir Putin: We will certainly continue these kinds of inspections. I ask you to thank all of the military personnel for their work during these exercises that just took place.
Sergei Shoigu: Thank you, Mr President. I will certainly pass on your words.
<…>
Topics
Armed Forces
Persons
Shoigu Sergei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 2, 2014, 09:00
Text versionEvents
Speech at a ceremony marking the opening of a new building for the Belarus State Museum of the History of the Great Patriotic War
July 2, 2014
19:00
Minsk
Speech at a ceremony marking the opening of a new building for the Belarus State Museum of the History of the Great Patriotic War.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Veterans, Mr Lukashenko, guests,
I congratulate the veterans who fought on the frontlines and served on the home front, and the entire fraternal Belarusian people on this occasion, the 70th anniversary of the liberation from Nazi occupation, and on this national holiday, Independence Day. 
On June 22, 1941, Belarus received the first attack of Hitler’s armies. It lived through a ruthless occupation and experienced the full horrors of war and the Nazis’ cruelty. We remember the tragedy of Khatyn, which the President recalled just now, and the fate of other Belarusian villages that were razed, with all their inhabitants burned alive. But the Belarusian people stood firm and showed a true example of self-sacrifice and sincere love for their homeland. We bow our heads before the Belarusian people’s courage and strength of will. More than 1.3 million people from Belarus fought on the frontlines in the Great Patriotic War and more than 400 people became Heroes of the Soviet Union.
“Belarus received the first attack of Hitler’s armies. It lived through a ruthless occupation and experienced the full horrors of war and the Nazis’ cruelty. But the Belarusian people stood firm and showed a true example of self-sacrifice and sincere love for their homeland. We bow our heads before the Belarusian people’s courage and strength of will.”
From young to old, anyone who could hold a weapon in their hands – old people, children, women – fought in the rear. Belarus’ partisan movement, in which people of different ethnic groups fought together, became a symbol of the ordinary people’s heroism. 140,000 partisans and underground fighters were awarded orders and medals of the Soviet Union.
In these days, 70 years ago, our troops, together with partisan detachments, carried out the legendary Bagration offensive. This victorious battle was one of the biggest in World War II. It showed the talent of the commanders and the courage of the soldiers and officers. The whole world saw that there was no way of beating an army like ours. The Nazis were forever chased from Belarus and the troops went on to liberate Poland and other European countries.
The decisive offensive on the Belarusian front diverted dozens of Nazi divisions from the west and thus facilitated the success of the allied forces’ operation in Normandy. It brought victory in the Great Patriotic War closer, the common victory for which the Soviet Union’s peoples paid a tremendous price. It is for this reason that we take such pains to preserve the memory of this war, and it is for this reason that it is so important to preserve the memory of the courage, selfless dedication and endurance of those who fought Nazism.
As Mr Lukashenko mentioned, the decision to start putting together the collection that would become the Belarusian Museum of the Great Patriotic War was taken back in June 1942. Today, the museum’s new building is opening in the hero city of Minsk. It is a true memorial to the immortal feats of our forebears and compatriots, to all who fought Nazism. The museum’s exhibits will help greatly to educate young people, who should take as their examples these true heroes, who defended their homeland and fought for their freedom and independence. People such as you, our dear veterans, will serve as examples for them. It is absolutely vital to instil in young people a categorical rejection of the very idea of Nazism, so that never again does it rear its head anywhere.
“Our fathers and grandfathers won because they stood together, and this will continue to be the case. Russia and Belarus will further strengthen their good-neighbourly ties within the Union State.”
Veterans, friends, next year we will celebrate together the 70th anniversary of the great victory over Nazism. As the country presiding over the CIS, Belarus is making a big contribution to preparing the celebratory events that will take place throughout the Commonwealth of Independent States. We will continue close coordination of our plans for these celebrations with our Belarusian friends. 
Our fathers and grandfathers won because they stood together, and this will continue to be the case. Russia and Belarus will further strengthen their good-neighbourly ties within the Union State. The Treaty on the Eurasian Economic Union, which will come into effect on January 1, 2015, also opens up big new opportunities for deepening our relations. 
I am sure that our countries’ stability and prosperity and the unity of the Russian and Belarusian peoples are what the heroes of the Great Patriotic War fought for and dreamed of.
May these glorious traditions of fraternity, mutual aid and unity continue to serve as the solid foundation for developing Russian-Belarusian ties and our countries’ union and alliance.
I wish all veterans good health, long life and happiness. Thank you very much.
Once more, I congratulate you and the entire Belarusian people on this great holiday.
Thank you.
See also
70th anniversary of the liberation of Belarus from Nazi occupation
July 2, 2014
Geography
Belarus
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Lukashenko Alexander
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 2, 2014, 19:00
Text version