Events
75th anniversary of the Battle of Khalkin Gol
Vladimir Putin took part in celebrations marking the 75th anniversary of victory in the Battle of Khalkin Gol.
September 3, 2014
16:10
Ulan Bator
Mr Putin attended the official reception held to mark the 75th anniversary of victory in the Battle of Khalkin Gol, and together with President of Mongolia Tsakhiagiin Elbegdorj laid a wreath at the monument to Marshal of the Soviet Union Georgy Zhukov, who commanded the group of Soviet forces that defeated the Japanese army.
The two presidents then visited the Georgy Zhukov house museum, which is located next to the monument.
Speech at official reception
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, friends,
We are here today to pay tribute to the Soviet and Mongolian soldiers who achieved a major historic victory at the river Khalkin-Gol. Their feats will forever remain in our peoples’ memories.
Seventy-five years ago, Soviet and Mongolian troops selflessly blocked the invaders’ way forward. The unconditional victory at Khalkin-Gol had tremendous military and political significance. It pushed back militarist Japan’s entry into World War II by nearly two-and-a-half years and gave great moral support to the peoples of China and Korea in their struggle against the aggressors. 
”Seventy-five years ago, Soviet and Mongolian troops selflessly blocked the invaders’ way forward. The victory at Khalkin-Gol became a symbol of military comradeship and solidarity.“
President Elbegdorj is absolutely right: even during what were the Soviet Union’s most difficult moments in the Great Patriotic War, Japan, Nazi Germany’s ally at the time, did not attack the Soviet Union, thus making it possible to redeploy troops from the Far East and Siberia to the west at the end of 1941, which played a decisive part in the battle for Moscow.
In this context, let me cite a telling quote from one of the Imperial Japanese Army’s senior officials. He said, “We got our basic military training at Khasan, our intermediate training at Khalkin-Gol, and we are in no hurry to receive our advanced training.”
Khalkin-Gol was in many ways a rehearsal for the big battles of the Great Patriotic War. Here we put to the test the most advanced weapons of the moment, soldiers and officers toughened themselves up on the battlefield, and their commanders gained invaluable experience. 
It was in Mongolia that the military talents of one of the great commanders of World War II, Georgy Zhukov, really became apparent. President Elbegdorj also spoke about this. Today, we will visit the museum that bears the marshal’s name and lay flowers at the monument to him.
”It is our common duty to preserve the shining memory of these heroes who risked and gave their lives to fight for freedom and independence and defeated militarism and fascism.“
Next year, we will celebrate another important date – the 70th anniversary of Victory. May 9 is a sacred date for Russia’s people. Our country remembers well and values highly the help that Mongolia provided during the Great Patriotic War, which the President also mentioned just now. Mongolia’s people gathered the resources needed to build the Revolutionary Mongolia tank regiment, the Mongolian Arat air squadron, and sent to the distant front an enormous number of horses and also warm clothing and produce. During the Great Patriotic War’s first year, in the winter of 1941–1942, this was extremely important and it would be no exaggeration to say that it was of strategic significance. 
Later, we fought shoulder to shoulder in Manchuria and the Greater Khingan range, defeated the Kwantung Army and together wrote the final victorious page in World War II.
These heroic events that determined the fate of not just our countries but the entire world are ever further from us in time. It is our common duty to preserve the shining memory of these heroes who risked and gave their lives to fight for freedom and independence and defeated militarism and fascism.
The victory at Khalkin-Gol became a symbol of military comradeship and solidarity. Mr Elbegdorj cited one of the many Mongolian proverbs. Let me cite another. In Mongolia, people say that a roof pole is the support for a yurt, and a friend is the support in life. I am sure that as we continue developing our wide-ranging strategic partnership, we will build on and multiply the glorious traditions of friendship between the Russian and Mongolian peoples and will work closely with each other.
Happy holiday!
Thank you for your attention.
Geography
Mongolia
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 3, 2014, 16:10
Text versionEvents
Answers to journalists’ questions following a working visit to Mongolia
September 3, 2014
16:40
Ulan Bator
1 of 3
Answers to journalists’ questions following a working visit to Mongolia.
Question: Since we are here in Mongolia, I would like to ask about the visit’s results and whether you have managed to overcome the inertia in our trade and economic relations.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Yes, we talked a lot today about our trade and economic ties, although, as you know, this visit was timed to coincide with an event of a different nature – the 75th anniversary of the battle at Khalkin-Gol. This is a big event in our common history.
But of course we had to seize the opportunity too to discuss the full range of our relations, which we did, and, as I said during our work today, our colleagues from the various ministries, agencies, and companies representing the main areas of our cooperation did some very good work.
One of these areas is transport. This is a very important sector for Mongolia, and it is in our interests too to increase Mongolia’s transit potential. Mongolia is located between Russia and China after all. We are big trade and economic partners and have bilateral trade with China that will come to $64 or already 65–67 billion this year. It therefore makes sense to put Mongolia’s transport possibilities to greater use than is the case today. Then there is the metals sector, which was inherited from the Soviet period and is developing actively.
But there are clear problems too, arising due to the big imbalance in our trade relations. In this respect we are working now on increasing supplies of produce to Russia, but this is a case of our partners asking us to do this too. Some restrictions on supplies of animal products had been imposed earlier, but we have agreed that the Russian Federation Government will examine the matter of lifting these restrictions, especially those concerning meat supply quotas.
So we have transport, the metals sector, infrastructure development, and agriculture, and we discussed all of these sectors in quite some depth. We do have a concrete action plan but it has not yet been drafted on paper. We will need to complete this work soon. 
Investment continues, but it is very clear that this is still not enough. Work on investment is another component of our cooperation and I think that there are good prospects in this area too. 
Overall, I am happy with the results of today’s work.
Question: Mr President, you spoke with Mr Poroshenko today. The Ukrainian authorities initially announced that you had agreed on a complete ceasefire, but then explanations came that what is under discussion are concrete steps for settling the situation, which is understandable, given that Russia is not a party to this conflict. If there was discussion of concrete steps, what are they, and what will happen next?
Vladimir Putin: Yes, I did speak with President Poroshenko this morning, and it seemed to me at any rate that our views on how to settle the conflict are very close, as the diplomats say.
On the way here from Blagoveshchensk to Ulan Bator, I jotted down a few thoughts that could constitute an action plan of sorts. True, I have only these notes that I jotted down, but I can read them to you if you want.
In order to stop the bloodshed and stabilise the situation in southeast Ukraine, I believe that the parties to the conflict should immediately agree on and coordinate the following steps:
First, end active offensive operations by armed forces, armed units and militia groups in southeast Ukraine in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas.
Second, withdraw Ukrainian armed forces units to a distance that would make it impossible to fire on populated areas using artillery and all types of multiple launch rocket systems.
Third, allow for full and objective international monitoring of compliance with the ceasefire and monitoring of the situation in the safe zone created by the ceasefire.
Fourth, exclude all use of military aircraft against civilians and populated areas in the conflict zone. 
Fifth, organise the exchange of individuals detained by force on an ‘all for all’ basis without any preconditions.
Sixth, open humanitarian corridors for refugees and for delivering humanitarian cargoes to towns and populated areas in Donbass – Donetsk and Lugansk Regions. 
Seventh, make it possible for repair brigades to come to damaged settlements in the Donbass region in order to repair and rebuild social facilities and life-supporting infrastructure and help the region to prepare for the winter.
I think that the Kiev authorities and the representatives of southeast Ukraine could come to basic agreements and cement them at the contact group’s planned meeting on September 5.
I want to note that this statement and all I just said follow on from the telephone conversation with President Poroshenko that you asked about. I hope very much that Ukraine’s government will support the emerging progress in bilateral relations and make use of the positive opportunity the contact group’s work provides to bring about final and comprehensive settlement to the situation in southeast Ukraine, in full and unconditional respect for the lawful rights of those who live there of course.
That is all I have to say. I have nothing to add. Thank you.
See also
Working visit to Mongolia
September 3, 2014
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 3, 2014, 16:40
Text versionEvents
Press statement following Russian-Mongolian talks
September 3, 2014
13:50
Ulan Bator
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen,
Our talks with President Elbegdorj and this visit in general coincided with one of the biggest events in the history of our relations: the 75th anniversary of our joint victory at the river Khalkin-Gol.
I would like to express our gratitude to Mongolia’s government and people for looking after our common historic heritage. The celebration events marking this important date are proof of this respect for our past. Today we are taking part in one of the commemorative events.
Our common historic memory and heroic pages of the past certainly provide a good base for building our modern bilateral relations in a spirit of mutual respect, trust and friendship. President Elbegdorj and I were in unison during our talks in saying that our task now is to take concrete steps to continue developing our cooperation for the good of both our peoples. 
We examined in detail the various areas in our bilateral strategic partnership and outlined plans to strengthen and develop it, especially our trade and economic ties.
Following these talks, Mr Elbegdorj and I will give instructions to the relevant ministries to draft a roadmap for the work ahead. The focus will be on developing business activity, encouraging trade and reciprocal investment, and expanding our humanitarian contacts.
As the members of the press saw, we have agreed to step up our cooperation in developing Mongolia’s transport infrastructure. In this context, I want to say that developing the railway network will help Mongolia to open up rich but for now hard to access deposits and make broader and more effective use of its potential as a transit country.
We have built up solid experience in the mining industry. I would cite the successful example of Erdenet, which is one of Asia’s biggest producers of copper and molybdenum. I also want to mention Mongolrostsvetmet, which works in the gold-mining sector. These two companies account for up to 20 percent of Mongolia’s GDP and have plans for comprehensive technological modernisation. 
We agreed to intensify our cooperation in air transport. The protocol on cooperation in civil aviation and the memorandum on expanding Aeroflot’s and Mongolian Airlines’ route networks will help in this area.
Russia has traditionally been a reliable electricity supplier to Mongolia, covering 7 percent of the country’s electricity consumption and playing a big part in its energy security.
Russian company Rosneft, one of the world leaders in hydrocarbons productions, covers a large share of Mongolia’s demand for oil products, supplies Chinggis Khaan International Airport in Ulan Bator, and has big plans for developing its activities on the Mongolian market. 
I note too that Russian-made GAZ and URAL cars and buses and some other types of vehicles have earned a good reputation in Mongolia. Our manufacturers plan to increase their supplies to the Mongolian market. 
President Elbegdorj noted during our talks that the trade balance is somewhat skewed in Russia’s favour and proposed that we lift the restrictions on animal products from Mongolia entering the Russian market. We will certainly take this step in our Mongolian friends’ favour and the Russian Government will soon make the necessary decisions. 
Mongolia has good prospects for significantly increasing its supplies of livestock industry produce to Russia’s market so long as it complies with Russia’s health and sanitary norms. Our specialists have been in contact for a long time now and I am sure that they will manage everything with success. 
We also gave particular attention to humanitarian issues and ties, areas such as education, cultural ties, and reciprocal travel between our countries. 
We know that the Ulan Bator branch of one of Russia’s top universities, the Plekhanov Russian University of Economics, is very popular. The agreement with Rosneft will help to develop these opportunities. 
The agreement on abolishing visas for our citizens’ reciprocal travel is also important, as is our regional cooperation. We will of course support coordination in international relations and continue our cooperation in the main negotiation forums such as the UN and the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation. 
In conclusion, I want to say that these talks reflected our desire to strengthen the wide-ranging cooperation between our countries. 
I want to thank President Elbegdorj for the invitation and thank our colleagues on both sides for this visit’s thorough preparation.
Thank you.
See also
Working visit to Mongolia
September 3, 2014
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: September 3, 2014, 13:50
Text versionEvents
Beginning of Russian-Mongolian talks
September 3, 2014
12:45
Ulan Bator
Russian-Mongolian Talks in an Expanded Format.
President of Mongolia Tsakhiagiin Elbegdorj: Mr President,
Let me wish you welcome to Mongolia once again. Our people and our country’s leadership are genuinely happy to welcome you to Mongolia. 
The relations between our countries and peoples go back a long way, have stood the test of time, and are particularly warm and friendly. Your visit coincides with a historic date. Over these days, we are celebrating the 75th anniversary of the battles that took place at the river Khalkin-Gol. This in itself is proof of what I said just now about our relations. Mr President, I congratulate you and our Russian friends on this victory celebration.
The friendship that we forged in the battles of Khalkin Gol grew even stronger during World War II. We in Mongolia always remember with pride the heroic feats of the Soviet soldiers, who spared neither their own lives nor their blood to fight for our country’s sovereignty and independence and for our people’s free and happy life. It is here that lies the particular historical significance of the relations between Mongolia and the Russian Federation. 
We are proud that our peoples fought together during the war years and worked together side by side during peacetime. Mr President, as you said, we have a rich history of cooperation on the battlefield, on land, and in space. I am sure that your visit will open a new page in the history of our relations. Mongolia seeks to develop its relations with the Russian Federation in all areas.
I wish you and your delegation a good stay in Mongolia.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much, Mr President, friends.
Thank you for the invitation first of all. Today, we are celebrating together the 75th anniversary of one of the central events of our common history – our joint victory at the river Khalkin-Gol. The courage and heroism of the Soviet and Mongolian soldiers who fought side by side to defend Mongolia’s sovereignty and territorial integrity became a symbol, one of the symbols of our friendship.
Russia remembers and values the help that we received from Mongolia during the years of the Great Patriotic War. Mr President, we look forward to seeing you next May in Moscow to celebrate the 70th anniversary of Victory.
Our relations continue to develop today. This includes our military cooperation, humanitarian cooperation, and our economic ties of course. Mr President, I am very pleased to have this chance to discuss with all of my colleagues today in Ulan Bator the full range of our bilateral relations.
Thank you very much.
<…>
See also
Working visit to Mongolia
September 3, 2014
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: September 3, 2014, 12:45
Text version