Events
Working meeting with Transport Minister Maxim Sokolov
Mr Sokolov briefed Vladimir Putin on plans for using the transport infrastructure built in Sochi for the Olympics and Paralympics once the Games are over.
March 14, 2014
13:20
Sochi
1 of 2
With Transport Minister Maxim Sokolov.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon,
Mr Sokolov, the time has come to talk in more specific detail about the Sochi Olympic and Paralympic legacy. Transport infrastructure accounts for a big part of this legacy. I know that you have some proposals regarding its use. Let’s discuss them today. Please, go ahead.
Transport Minister Maxim Sokolov
: Mr President,
Yes, the Olympics are over and the Paralympics are still underway, but we can already see that the transport system was up to the job, thanks to the transport infrastructure that we developed in preparation for these Games.
The biggest projects were in road construction. Overall, we built, reconstructed and modernised nearly 400 kilometres of roads. We built 34 tunnels and 184 bridges and flyovers and other installations to ensure traffic flow on these roads. Some of these roads will be transferred to the federal executive authorities and the Federal Road Agency, and some of the roads will be operated at the regional level.
As well as the roads, we also built eight transport interchanges. The crowning jewel is of course the road that backs up the Kurortny Prospekt route, with its 15 tunnels and eight interchanges. This new road makes it possible to get from one end of Sochi to the other in just over 10 minutes. Before the Olympics, it took nearly two hours during rush hour to get from one end of the city to the other. You used this road yourself, Mr President. Of course this will be a useful part of our post-Olympic legacy.
Apart from roads, railway infrastructure has also undergone substantial development. Nearly 50 kilometres of combined road and rail infrastructure was built in the mountain cluster.
The railways probably handled the biggest number of people of all during the Olympics – almost 4 million passengers. The infrastructure that was built, the eight transfer hubs, and the modern railway station at Adler made this possible. Traffic capacity has been increased not just in Sochi itself but also in the direction from Tuapse. Now, railway capacity allows for 75 passenger train pairs a day to arrive in Sochi in the peak holiday season.
The new airport of course gives Sochi its air gateway. Now equipped with new runways, the airport can handle 575 landings and take-offs a day during the busiest moments. The interval between landings and take-offs was less than two minutes during the peak periods. 
Finally, during the Olympics, the visitors, spectators and athletes had a fleet of 1,500 modern new buses at their service. Of these buses, 900 will be put into service later in Moscow Region, St Petersburg, and Tatarstan. Some of the buses will continue to run in Sochi. Seven specialised bus fleets were established for this purpose. Most of them will be handed over to the city authorities later for operation on city routes.
One more thing, the marine infrastructure was essentially entirely rebuilt too. Apart from the freight terminal at Mzymta, which will be run as a marina after the Olympic period is over, the big cruise ship terminal was essentially completely rebuilt too. There are also seven port terminals that will ensure sea passenger traffic during the peak summer season. Already now, in this Olympic year, 169 requests for ships to berth at the big Sochi cruise ship terminal have already come in.
Vladimir PUTIN: 169?
Maxim SOKOLOV: Yes, 169 requests. I have them all here on my computer.
Vladimir Putin: But two weeks ago there were 68 requests.
Maxim Sokolov: The 68 requests were for berthing in Sochi alone, but there are also more than 80 requests for berths as part of a ring route that includes Yalta, Batumi, and Sochi. There is also the sailing ship regatta that will come to Sochi in May. This all adds up to 169 requests for 2014 at the moment.
In order to ensure this entire transport system’s smooth operation, we established a comprehensive traffic management system. This system’s control centre will be handed over to the Sochi city authorities for organising the city’s traffic flows. In general then, the transport infrastructure that was built all makes a good foundation for the tourist cluster’s continued operation, so that people from all around the world and from throughout Russia will be able to come to Sochi. This is all the more so as the Sochi airport has been included on the list of destinations that are subsidised for passengers from the Russian Far East, Siberia, and Far North.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you. Do you see any issues that require our further attention and maybe additional financing in order to put this infrastructure legacy to work effectively?
Maxim Sokolov: We are working with the Krasnodar Territory authorities at the moment on organising local railway routes. We had 38 train pairs with the lovely name Lastochka (Swallow) running on these local routes during the Olympic period, and some of them will continue operating on these routes. But it is clear that more funding will be needed to keep them running at an acceptable frequency. As things stand today, local trains come under the regional authorities’ responsibility, but the amount of financing needed here is quite large. We are working with the regional authorities and the governor, and I think we will have a solution to be able to propose to you soon.
Vladimir Putin: Some of the facilities, including the backup road for Kurortny Prospekt, were put into temporary operation. They still have some work that needs completing first, especially in areas such as fire safety and so on. What is happening here?
Maxim Sokolov: We did not interrupt traffic at all during the Olympics, not even for a single hour, and we will not need to suspend traffic after the Games are over either. We will bring these facilities into permanent operation and by May will have received all of the necessary evaluations from the relevant bodies.
Vladimir Putin: You absolutely must get this work completed.
Maxim Sokolov: Yes, we will do this.
<…>
Topics
Sochi 2014
Transport
Persons
Sokolov Maxim
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 14, 2014, 13:20
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Chairman of the Federation of Independent Trade Unions Mikhail Shmakov
Vladimir Putin met with Chairman of the Federation of Independent Trade Unions Mikhail Shmakov.
March 14, 2014
14:30
Sochi
1 of 3
With Chairman of the Federation of Independent Trade Unions Mikhail Shmakov.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Shmakov, we have a whole storm of events going on right now, especially in the international arena. But we have been planning to meet for some time now. For all the current turbulence in international relations, it is what is happening here at home that is more important, how people perceive their social situation, and what is being done to resolve socioeconomic issues. I know that the trade unions always have plenty of questions when it comes to these matters, have problems they want addressed, and demands for the Government. Let’s look at the various issues of concern to you and discuss them together.
chairman of the Federation of Independent Trade Unions Mikhail Shmakov: There are some problems that have built up. But I want to say first that it was the bad socioeconomic situation and lack of social dialogue in Ukraine that provided the fuel for the events that led to this turbulence in international relations. This was what lit the flames. Of course organisers played their part too and led things to the state in which they are today. 
As for here, Mr President, there are a number of issues that have built up and are in need of a political signal. 
First, we have these sector-based agreements that are signed as part of the industrial relations social partnership. The employers’ associations and trade unions in the relevant sectors negotiate these agreements, setting out the main benchmarks for wages, the wage payment system, additional social protection packages and so on. Unfortunately, what we are seeing increasingly frequently is that the big vertically integrated companies do not take part in these negotiations, do not join up with employers’ associations in the given sector. Often, it is fully or partially state-owned companies that are not taking part in this process. This is one problem we want to address. 
Vladimir Putin: But these are companies working in these same sectors too.
Mikhail Shmakov: Rosneft,Gazprom and a number of other companies are all rather unenthusiastic, to put it mildly, to the idea of taking part in the employers’ associations and, consequently, in the talks on the agreements in each sector. This ultimately creates distortions in the collective agreements and in the negotiations that we conduct.
Vladimir Putin: One can see why they’re doing it. On their own they already represent a large share of the sectors concerned.
Mikhail Shmakov: That’s exactly right. But the biggest problem is that they are giving a negative example to private companies or partially state-owned companies. If the big companies are not taking part in the process, others will follow suit, all the more so as this whole process does involve extra responsibilities for the employers.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, of course.
Mikhail Shmakov: So in this situation, we think that there needs to be some kind of signal sent, some kind of general impulse. We think that state-owned companies should be obliged to take part in this social partnership process, and perhaps incentives with regard to state procurement contracts could even be introduced for companies taking part in the partnership. Companies that are participating in the sector-based agreements and social partnership system could be eligible for preferences in getting state contracts, say, and if they don’t take part, they go to the end of the queue for getting state contracts. This issue needs to be addressed, but as I said, we think some kind of signal is needed to resolve this situation.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Shmakov, I do not know what final outcome these negotiations should produce, this is always the result of compromise, but I certainly do agree that these companies should take part in this process. 
Mikhail Shmakov: Absolutely, they should not ignore it.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, we will certainly send them this signal.
Mikhail Shmakov: There is another big issue that is not being resolved at Government level, not because it cannot be resolved, but because it always leads to debate between different points of view.
I am talking about the idea of a progressive personal income tax. This is something that people have been talking about for a long time now. The decision taken 14 or 15 years ago to introduce a flat-rate personal income tax was justified and gave an extra boost to business development. That said, the decision still did not fully live up to the hopes we had of it. Today, when we are seeing a bit of a slowdown in growth – and we are building a society based on social justice after all, and the public has increasing demand for social justice, a fair income system and so on – I think it would be worth taking an active look at this matter. Of course we should not take it as far as the kind of maximum personal income tax rates you see in France, but some kind of reasonable level would be possible.
At the same time, those who receive less than the subsistence minimum could be exempted from personal income tax altogether, as is the practice in some countries, or they could be taxed at a lower rate. This is also a big problem that we should come back to, and perhaps again a signal needs to be sent to the country in terms of building an economically fair society.
This brings me to another recurring issue. It is to my regret that I keep saying every time that some kind of principled economic decisions are needed on the minimum wage. What kind of decisions? We did succeed in ensuring that the terms of the general agreement we signed at the end of December contain provisions for raising the minimum wage to the subsistence minimum over the next three years, through to 2016. But the subsistence minimum is calculated using a very poorly designed method that has not changed since the mid-1950s. 
Economic developments are drawn up now for longer periods, and I think it would make sense for these plans to use a different figure. This is not just my opinion but that of the trade union community in general. We want a rational consumer basket to be used in the calculations. This produces a higher figure in monetary terms. According to the information from Rosstat [Federal State Statistics Service], the average wage for the country as a whole was 30,000 rubles [around $800] at the end of last year. But this average wage figure does not reflect the full picture. The median wage (when half of workers earn above this figure and half earn below this figure) is 22,000 rubles. But the economic development plans are calculated using the average wage figure. At the same time, if we calculate a rational consumer basket, we would get a figure of around 16,000–18,000 roubles in current prices.
Let me remind you that the minimum wage today is 5,554 rubles. Of course it would be impossible to raise it to the figure I mentioned overnight, but I think this should be included in the development plans for the future, so as to reduce friction when the time comes to conclude the next general agreement too.
Vladimir Putin: Let’s discuss these second and third issues in more detail. 
<…>
Topics
Labour market
Persons
Shmakov Mikhail
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 14, 2014, 14:30
Text version