Events
A number of cultural heritage monuments at the Kremlin will be rebuilt
Vladimir Putin met with Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin, Deputy Director of the Moscow Kremlin Museums Andrei Batalov, Rector of Moscow Architectural Institute Dmitry Shvidkovsky, and Kremlin Commandant Sergei Khlebnikov to discuss a project to restore the Ascension Monastery and Chudov Monastery on the Kremlin grounds.
July 31, 2014
14:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 8
With Kremlin Commandant Sergei Khlebnikov, Deputy Director of the Moscow Kremlin Museums Andrei Batalov, Rector of Moscow Architectural Institute Dmitry Shvidkovsky, and Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin (from left to right).
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: I asked you to come here today to discuss this historic site at the Kremlin.
As you know, the building that occupies this site [Building 14] was built in the 1930s, but previously there were two cloisters and a church here. The reconstruction began in 2001. Serious work began in 2007, and the buildings have been practically demolished now. It housed part of the Presidential Executive Office. They have moved to offices on Staraya Ploshchad and have quite comfortable working conditions there. In these neighbourhoods immediately surrounding the Kremlin there is quite enough space to arrange good working conditions for everyone close by the presidential residence.
That is how the idea came up of rather than restoring the 1930s building, returning the site to its historical appearance instead, with the two cloisters and the church. In today’s situation of course, they would be restored as cultural heritage monuments only.
Naturally, we would need to discuss this idea with the public, the people of Moscow, the architects’ community, and we would also need to get UNESCO’s approval, because the Kremlin is under UNESCO protection. We would need to examine everything very thoroughly, so as go about this work calmly, without fuss and haste, if we do decide that this is a project that should go ahead.
Deputy Director of the Moscow Kremlin Museums andrei Batalov: As you know, two cloisters stood on this site. The Ascension Monastery was founded by Grand Duchess Eudoxia, the wife of Dmitry Donskoy, in the late 14th century, and housed the tombs of princes and princesses. The Chudov [Miracle] Monastery, which stood slightly closer to where we are, was founded by Metropolitan Alexii. This site was where the khan had his palace. When the khan’s wife, Taidula, fell ill and was losing her sight, Metropolitan Alexii was invited to heal her. His faith was so strong that he did indeed cure her sickness. She gave him the palace site and it was there that he founded the Chudov Monastery. 
These two Moscow monasteries, among the city’s oldest, stood on this site until 1929. Their buildings came quite a lot closer than does Building 14. The Chudov Monastery occupied practically the whole square. This site was also the location of the Maly Nikolayevsky Palace, which was famous for being the place where Nicholas I had the famous meeting with Pushkin at which he said, “I will be your personal censor.”
Those buildings were all still standing in 1929. Despite the public resistance, which was strong, and the opposition by architects and artists, the buildings were demolished to make way for Building 14. It was built in 1929, essentially because they needed a site to house the All-Union Central Executive Committee Military School’s students, who guarded the Kremlin and its buildings. The early correspondence contains perfectly frank texts explaining why all of this was necessary. The building was opened in 1932.
It has undergone several reconstructions since then. The first was in 1952, when it was turned into the Kremlin Theatre, then in 1968, and the latest was in 1981–1983.
Rector of Moscow Architectural Institute Dmitry Shvidkovsky: Mr President, to be honest, I can say as an architect that the building does not have any real value in itself. It was built by a good architect, Ivan Rerberg, who, as you maybe know, built the Central Telegraph building and Kievsky Railway Station. But this building is one of his weakest works and, regrettably, is not really suitable for the Kremlin. It would therefore be no great loss.
Vladimir Putin: I want to say right away that I am not insisting on anything. This is an idea, a suggestion. And if, I repeat again, the architecture community and the public feel this is desirable, then I will give instructions to the Property Management Directorate and the Finance Ministry to develop this idea calmly, on a routine basis.
Dmitry Shvidkovsky: I would very much like to see it developed because this building is like a thorn in the flesh.
Mayor of Moscow Sergei Sobyanin: You should have started by saying that. (Laughter.)
Dmitry Shvidkovsky: A solution can be found. But we need to think.
Vladimir Putin: Very well. Let’s do that then. Mr Sobyanin had another idea; given that there is a large flow of tourists here, we could open the gates of the Spasskaya Tower, so tourists could enter there.
Sergei Sobyanin: That would be very good, because the tourists enter the Kremlin from the Kutafya Tower. As they arrive here, they end up at the Spasskaya Tower, turn around to go to the Red Square, walk through the whole of the Kremlin territory, and this, of course, is difficult logistically. If there is an exit directly through to the Red Square through the Spasskaya Tower, then this would be more convenient for residents and tourists.
Vladimir Putin: Let’s do that then. But before we start implementing the idea, the plan itself, we could put a park here.
Dmitry Shvidkovsky: Yes, although it would be nice if it is not too eye-catching.
Vladimir Putin: Well, we can do that in contact and dialogue with you as well.
Andrei Batalov: But first, we must discuss everything.
Vladimir Putin: Of course. I know how sensitive all of this is. I do not want to mess with you. (Laughter.)
Andrei Batalov: Especially since UNESCO hates changes to groups of structures.
Dmitry Shvidkovsky: We are prepared to conduct a student competition at our architectural institute – for example, for the park.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, please. We will do all this without any volunteerism, in contact with experts.
Sergei Sobyanin: If we then restore monasteries and cathedrals here, then we should certainly have a park or a square here that takes into account the future work, so as not to remove and rebuild it twice.
Andrei Batalov: We need to take into account the fact that in that case, this square will not be here as we currently see it.
Vladimir Putin: Our cultural workers often complain that we give a lot to the Church. There is a major discussion on this. These sites could be done – I repeat – we could rebuild them in the first phase exclusively as cultural heritage monuments.
Andrei Batalov: We will need to make more of an effort. Because I worked on the history of these monasteries back in the Soviet times so I know that there are fairly few materials for their restoration.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, I looked at the photographs. I hope that the experts will be able to figure things out.
Sergei Sobyanin: Incidentally, here we can conduct extra archaeological studies. Perhaps we will see the foundations of the churches as well as the later historical layers.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, we will need to deal with it thoroughly and carefully.
Andrei Batalov: Maybe we will find the foundation of the Maly Nikolayevsky Palace.
Dmitry Shvidkovsky: And the Church of St Catherine here by Rossi was very good.
Andrei Batalov: And the new cathedral of the Chudov Monastery was kept out of the development.
Vladimir Putin: Very well. Then let’s try to get this work started.
Thank you very much.
Geography
Moscow
Topics
Culture
Persons
Sobyanin Sergei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 31, 2014, 14:00
Text versionEvents
Presenting Russian Federation state decorations
Vladimir Putin presented state decorations and title conferment certificates to outstanding Russians, including cosmonauts, journalists, cultural figures, politicians, workers, and farmers from various parts of the country in a ceremony at the Kremlin.
July 31, 2014
14:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
10 of 60
Presenting Russian Federation state decorations. The Order for Services to the Fatherland, III degree, is awarded to two-time Hero of the Soviet Union, USSR Pilot-Cosmonaut Alexei Leonov.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends and colleagues,
Here at the Kremlin today are people from all around Russia who have achieved high recognition. Our country needs the results of your constructive and creative work. What’s more, your work plays a huge part in shaping our country’s successful development.
With your direct involvement, modern Russia acquires ever greater strength, pride and confidence in its own ability and carries on with dignity the traditions of our more than 1,000-year-old country, building on its rich scientific, cultural and spiritual heritage, and making full use of the truly endless opportunities for growth.
The award recipients today include a whole group of representatives of our country’s cosmonautics sector. This is a sector that unites tradition and innovation, talent and professionalism, and reality and the boldest dreams to produce fruitful and vivid results. Knowledge, experience, boldness and bravery are all valued in this sector. 
Today, Oleg Novitsky, Sergei Revin and Yevgeny Tarelkin are all receiving the Hero of Russia title for their bravery and irreproachable performance of their difficult duties in orbit. 
“You play a direct part in helping to give modern Russia ever greater strength, pride and confidence in its own ability. You are worthy continuers of the traditions of our more than 1000-year-old country, build on its rich scientific, cultural and spiritual heritage, and make full use of the truly endless opportunities for growth.”
High state decorations are being presented today to test pilots and cosmonauts Gennady Padalka, Yury Malenchenko, Oleg Kononenko, and also to Alexei Leonov and Svetlana Savitskaya, who are rightly numbered in the ranks of our most legendary cosmonauts.
Your achievements were and remain very important and meaningful for generations of Russians.
This is equally true of giants of Russian politics such as Mintimer Shaimiyev. It would be hard to overestimate his part in developing our country’s federal foundations and strengthening interethnic harmony. Mr Shaimiyev today becomes a full chevalier of the Order for Services to the Fatherland.
Taking part in the ceremony today are members of the Federation Council and State Duma. I sincerely thank you for your constructive, fruitful and creative work and for carrying out the legislative initiatives that our society needs.
Also here today are heads and employees of some of our country’s biggest companies. They make a huge contribution to developing Russia’s economy. Our leading universities are also helping to build up our country and develop a knowledge society. It is here that Russia’s intellectual elite receives their education. I am truly very pleased to see here today rectors from our foremost universities: Nikolai Kropachev, Viktor Sadovnichy, and Mukhadin Eskindarov.
This year is the Year of Culture, and so I am especially happy to say warm words about those who work in the culture sector and have a great influence on developing the artistic tastes and aesthetic ideals of millions of people, encouraging them towards creativity and opening up to the world. 
The educational and charity activities of Russia’s cultural and arts figures also deserve our respect.
Friends, I thank you sincerely for serving the interests of Russia and its people. Only with this kind of attitude towards life and work can we move forward with confidence, carry out our plans, increase our country’s prestige and make it prosper and flourish. 
I congratulate you all sincerely and wish you every success.
Thank you very much.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: Friends, recipients of awards,
Let me thank you once more from all my heart on your work. We saw just now what a diverse and impressive group of people has gathered here today. You come from different professions, are of different ages, different faiths. There are esteemed veterans here, and people still only in their youth. But you all represent our country. Not only do you represent Russia, you represent Russia at its very best. 
I bow low before you. Thank you very much.
Topics
State decorations
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 31, 2014, 14:30
Text version