Events
Trip to Volgograd
Early in the morning, Vladimir Putin arrived in Volgograd where he held a meeting on measures to combat terrorism and also visited one of the hospitals where people injured in the terrorist attacks are being treated.
January 1, 2014
08:30
Volgograd
6 of 8
During a visit to one of the hospitals where people injured in the terrorist attacks are being treated.
Taking part in the meeting were Director of the Federal Security Service Alexander Bortnikov
, Interior Minister Vladimir Kolokoltsev
, Chief of the Interior Ministry’s Main Directorate for Volgograd Region Alexander Kravchenko, Chief of the Federal Security Service’s Directorate for Volgograd Region Sergei Blinov, Healthcare Minister Veronika Skvortsova
, and Governor of Volgograd Region Sergei Bozhenov.
After the meeting, the President visited one of the hospitals where people injured in the terrorist attacks are receiving medical treatment. Vladimir Putin inquired about their condition and spoke to some of them. A female patient thanked the President for his attention and assured him that Volgograd residents are strong in spirit, and it would be hard to break that spirit. Mr Putin wished her a speedy recovery and a happy New Year.
Two explosions – one at the railway station on Sunday, December 29, and the second ripping a trolleybus apart on Monday, December 30 – rocked Volgograd in two days. According to the latest data, the terrorist attacks claimed 34 lives, leaving some 100 people injured; more than 60 people are still in hospitals of Volgograd and Moscow.
Opening remarks at meeting on measures to combat terrorism
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good morning, colleagues,
There is no need to comment on the abomination of the crimes committed here in Volgograd. Whatever the motivation of the criminals may be, there can be no justification for crimes committed against civilians, especially women and children.
I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Russian special units always do their utmost in the course of special operations to protect civilians, women and children in the first place. Here we see the exact opposite. Therefore today let us not discuss that, but let us focus on what is being done here and all over the country to ensure the security of our fellow citizens, what additional measures the law enforcement agencies and special services are taking.
Let’s start with the report from the Governor who will brief us of the efforts to help the victims’ families and on measures to support these people.
I would also ask you to report on the assistance and support rendered to the injured. I expect a similar report from the Healthcare Minister as to how the work is organised at local medical facilities and Moscow hospitals.
Then, we will hear the reports from the Chief of the Federal Security Service’s Directorate for Volgograd Region and Chief of the Interior Ministry’s Main Directorate for Volgograd Region who will brief us on the implementation of instructions regarding the work of law enforcement agencies and special units.
Finally, I would ask the Federal Security Service Director and the Interior Minister to stay after the meeting for a separate discussion of the measures you are taking to step up security on the entire territory of the Russian Federation in view of the events here, in Volgograd.
Let us begin.
<…>
Geography
Volgograd Region
Topics
Fight against terrorism
Law enforcement agencies
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 1, 2014, 08:30
Text version