Events
Working meeting with Interior Minister Vladimir Kolokoltsev
Ahead of the Interior Ministry Personnel Day marked on November 10, Vladimir Putin met with Interior Minister Vladimir Kolokoltsev and congratulated the Ministry staff on their professional holiday.
November 8, 2014
10:10
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 3
With Interior Minister Vladimir Kolokoltsev.
In the course of the meeting held in the evening on November 7, the Interior Minister briefed the President on the Ministry’s performance in 2014.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Kolokoltsev, ahead of the Interior Ministry Personnel Day, I would like to congratulate you and your staff on your professional holiday. Thank you for your work, for everything you are doing to ensure the interests of our citizens and their legal rights. I know that the efficient work of law enforcement agencies is of extreme importance for every citizen of this country.
Naturally, there are some difficulties, but I know that you and the entire leadership of the Interior Ministry are doing everything to overcome all these difficulties and meet the challenges you are facing. I know that a vast majority of your employees are working in good faith and I would like to wish them every success.
Interior Minister Vladimir Kolokoltsev
: Thank you, Mr President. Your assessment of our work is very important for us.
This year was not an easy one, with the Olympics and other large-scale events. Nevertheless, law enforcement agencies have exposed over 900,000 crimes, 206 of them are serious and grave offences, and we have solved 27,000 crimes committed in previous years.
Special attention was given to crimes that directly concern every citizen. There have been positive changes in maintaining law and order. The number of robberies, muggings, burglaries and murders has gone down. We are happy to report a reduction in teenage crime.
We are also working to strengthen international cooperation. Thus, our representative was elected to the Interpol executive committee by a majority European vote cast by secret ballot. We see this as an assessment of our efforts by our colleagues around the world and as evidence of their attitude to the Russian Federation.
Vladimir Putin: Special thanks for the latest major event, when you solved a crime committed by a group of people. This was in fact a terrorist act. I know you work jointly with special services and the Federal Security Service. I am confident that you will close this case.
Vladimir Kolokoltsev: We will rigorously work to meet all the targets set by the country’s leadership. We have both the dedication and capability to achieve this. Thank you for your assessment.
Vladimir Putin: Good.
<…>
Topics
Fight against crime
Law enforcement agencies
Persons
Kolokoltsev Vladimir
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 8, 2014, 10:10
Text version