Events
Meeting with Chief Rabbi of Russia Berl Lazar and President of the Federation of Jewish Communities Alexander Boroda
Vladimir Putin met with Chief Rabbi of Russia Berl Lazar and President of the Federation of Jewish Communities Alexander Boroda.
April 14, 2014
17:30
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 3
With Chief Rabbi of Russia Berl Lazar and President of the Federation of Jewish Communities Alexander Boroda.
Mr Putin thanked Mr Lazar and Mr Boroda for their work to strengthen interfaith harmony and noted the positive role the Russian Jewish Museum of Tolerance in Moscow is playing.
Mr Lazar and Mr Boroda told the President about the special events, in particular educational events, that will take place in different parts of the country, including Crimea and Sevastopol, to mark the Passover holiday. 
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon.
First of all, I want to congratulate you and all Jews in Russia on the upcoming Passover holiday. How long does the holiday last?
Chief Rabbi of Russia Berl Lazar: Eight days. Over those eight days we are not allowed to eat meat or bread or drink vodka. We can only eat matzos and other kosher products. It’s a holiday with strict rules.
Vladimir PUTIN: And after these eight days?
Berl LAZAR: Then everything is allowed as usual.
Vladimir PUTIN: We will be celebrating the Orthodox Easter on April 20, and so this gives us the chance to celebrate our holidays together.
Berl LAZAR: There was always a connection between the Orthodox Easter and the Jewish Passover. The Orthodox Easter begins the first Sunday after our Passover. You can see in this how everything is interconnected and how our religions live together.
Vladimir PUTIN: I want to thank you for everything that you are doing to strengthen interfaith harmony in Russia. This is a very important part of our work together. In this respect, I want to mention once again the marvellous museum that you planned and created – the Jewish Museum and Tolerance Centre. How is work going there?
Berl LAZAR: There are plenty of visitors. Thousands of people come every week. What stands out most of all is that everyone who comes there says they liked it, found it interesting, and that it made an impression on them. We need to thank you too, because it is thanks to you that we feel at ease and at home in Russia today, and that we can enjoy the highest degree of freedom of worship.
I think this year will be the first time that Passover is going to be so widely celebrated around the country. Big public celebrations will take place in every city. People are not shy about celebrating openly anymore. Today, people are proud to be Jewish and are happy that they can celebrate these holidays together with their community.
With the museum too we see that there are many Jewish people who come. They used to be not so open or even simply didn’t know things, and now they come to the museum and say, “We didn’t know that.” For other peoples it is interesting and useful too.
President OF THE FEDERATION OF JEWISH COMMUNITIES ALEXANDER BORODA: Exhibitions representing all different peoples take place there. We have an Azerbaijani exhibition underway there at the moment. There are different art exhibitions too. Most of the visitors are young people. The average age is between 20 and 30.
The Tolerance Centre works actively with schools. We have certified lessons and the Education Department is introducing them to schools. We provide content to schools and have produced good, well-coordinated work. In particular, the Passover holiday, which is about to begin, is being celebrated throughout the whole country. We have been working actively in Crimea, in particular, on organising celebrations. Simferopol, Sevastopol and Yalta will all hold big celebration events. 
Vladimir PUTIN: Are there synagogues there?
Alexander BORODA: Yes.
Berl LAZAR: Unfortunately, this kind of work is not so well developed there yet, but there are synagogues there and Jewish communities. Our task now is to expand our work and make it more open.
Alexander BORODA: As it should be in Russia.
<…>
Topics
Religion
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 14, 2014, 17:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Sergei Aksyonov
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Sergei Aksyonov.
April 14, 2014
18:45
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 3
Meeting with Sergei Aksyonov.
The President said that he will sign an Executive Order appointing Mr Aksyonov Acting Governor of Crimea.
Mr Putin and Mr Aksyonov also discussed the social and economic situation in the region.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Aksyonov, the Constitution of the Republic of Crimea has been adopted. In accordance with the Russian Federation’s current legislation, it is imperative to appoint an Acting Head of the Republic, and today I will be signing such an executive order. I am asking you to accept this proposal.
Sergei Aksyonov: Thank you. I will not let you down.
Vladimir Putin: I have no doubt; you and I have already discussed this. I also received your request to hold elections for the Crimean parliament and the subsequent election of the Head of the Republic. Corresponding documents will also be signed.
Today, I would like to hear your opinion on how ready Crimea is to hold elections in September, on the same day as the Russian Federation’s voting day – September 14.
Sergei Aksyonov: Mr President, Crimea is ready. Currently, 20,000 passports are being issued daily to our residents. We will include all these parameters in the budget. There are no grounds for concern. We feel that the elections will be held normally. Per your instructions, all of this will occur in accordance with the Russian Federation’s legislation.
Vladimir Putin: How do things stand in Crimea now? I am especially interested in the socioeconomic situation.
Sergei Aksyonov: We are working out the wrinkles in the banking sector. According to our data, 88 branches opened on Friday, and 30 more opened today. We will have 130 branches operating in Crimea by the end of the week. In just another ten days or so, we expect things to be fully taken care of: 200 to 220 branches will be opened – in other words, the minimum number necessary for the public not to experience difficulties with getting money and monetary circulation.
However, we do have problems with the water supply. Kiev has reduced the supply to the North Crimean canal: it is currently receiving about 5.5 cubic metres per second, instead of the usual 70 or so. Bear in mind that it is imperative to ensure irrigation at the farms.
Naturally, there are certain problems, but we are working on them. We are engaged in negotiations, there is a delegation working in Kiev, which includes members of the Crimean Tatar Majlis. Standard work is underway and various reserve options are being prepared. I think we will pull through this situation.
Vladimir Putin: We have discussed issues pertaining to the deported peoples. Now, let’s talk about it in more detail. We are preparing corresponding documents and I would also like to speak with you about it. How are the preparations for the holiday season going?
Sergei Aksyonov: We are taking a full inventory of the health resorts; we will have the stock of resorts fully presented by the end of the week. We are maintaining communication with all agencies in accordance with your instructions. The Presidential Executive Office is helping, as are all the federal agencies, and we are getting assistance from the federal regions in fulfilling your orders.
Today, work is under way to fill our health resort complex. We expect an influx of tourists, and we want the large number of visitors to have a high-quality experience. Thus, we are doing everything possible to ensure that tourists will not be disappointed that they came to Crimea. We will try to satisfy all the needs of the Russians first and foremost.
Vladimir Putin: How are your relations developing with colleagues from Russia’s federal authorities?
Sergei Aksyonov: We are working together and I think everything will be fine. Following your instructions, we will try to completely avoid bureaucratising the process. Based on our staffing structure, we should have about 39,000 federal civil servants for this region.
Fortunately, you gave instructions in this case to limit the appetites of federal authorities. We are fulfilling those instructions. We have a setup where our departments fully replicate the functions of federal authorities. Based on your instructions, we will reduce this to a minimum. I think that out of 93 existing agencies, only 12 will remain in the autonomous region.
Vladimir Putin: You will need to do this work with Crimeans who will fulfil federal functions locally, organise their preparation and their training in Moscow, educate them about our educational institutions for training administrative agency workers.
Sergei Aksyonov: This work is being carried out according to your instructions: we have identified a mentor in nearly every ministry from the federal departments, and they are now training the personnel.
We are also sending people to regions of the Russian Federation for training; tomorrow, we have a delegation leaving for Kazan, where they will gain experience.
Nearly every region in the Russian Federation has an agency it is fostering in the Republic of Crimea, providing assistance on a local level to all the managers.
Tomorrow, we will have a meeting on this topic under the leadership of Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Kozak, and we will fully build the process of cooperation. Plans are in place and the roadmap for cooperation between the regions has been signed. I am confident that we will carry out your instructions fully.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Aksyonov, you have done a great deal of work in reunifying Crimea with Russia; for that, you deserve special gratitude from Crimeans and the entire nation.
Sergei Aksyonov: Thank you, Mr President. It is to your credit first and foremost, so we are grateful to you.
Vladimir Putin: But even more remains to be done as Head of the Republic, because the economy is in a state of neglect. Crimea was artificially turned into a subsidised territory, and in order to reverse this situation, you will need to do a great deal and work just as persistently as you have been up until now – with great dedication and professionalism.
I want to congratulate you on your appointment as Acting Head. I am confident that the elections will be held in accordance with the time frame we just discussed, and you will be elected Head of the Republic. A great deal of work remains. I want to wish you success in carrying it out.
Sergei Aksyonov: Thank you very much. I will justify your trust; I will not let down the country, you, or the Crimeans. So we will work hard.
<…>
See also
Sergei Aksyonov has been appointed Acting Head of Crimea
April 14, 2014
Geography
Republic of Crimea
Topics
Civil service
Economy and finance
Social services
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 14, 2014, 18:45
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Alexei Chaly and Sergei Menyailo
Vladimir Putin held a working meeting with Acting Governor of Sevastopol Alexei Chaly and former deputy commander of the Black Sea Fleet and reserve Vice- Admiral Sergei Menyailo.
April 14, 2014
19:50
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 3
Working meeting with Acting Governor of Sevastopol Alexei Chaly and former deputy commander of the Black Sea Fleet and reserve Vice- Admiral Sergei Menyailo.
See also
Sergei Menyailo appointed Acting Governor of Sevastopol
April 14, 2014
Meeting with Sergei Aksyonov
April 14, 2014
The President announced that he will sign an Executive Order appointing Sergei Menyailo Acting Governor of Sevastopol.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Chaly, Sevastopol has basically adopted the Charter – essentially, the Constitution – of a Federal Constituent Entity. And now, we need to organise the government agencies in accordance with the Russian law. I know that you have some suggestions.
Acting Governor of Sevastopol Alexei Chaly: I do have some suggestions. Clearly, any city, any region, must work to simultaneously address two challenges: the challenge of housing provision and the strategic challenge of future development. Often, this is managed by a single operation centre.
Today, the situation in Sevastopol is special. In essence, for the past 23 years the city did not develop as the main base of the Navy; you know this just as well as I do. In fact, development was blocked. Now the situation has reached a critical level. So I feel that in these circumstances, it would be appropriate to divide these functions.
It is clear that the city needs to be developed. Various investors will bring strategic projects. It is essential to coordinate these processes so that we do not receive a set of expensive patches, but rather, a place we can be proud of. I would very much like to see that.
If we approach it that way, I think that it would be expedient to create a special agency; it could be called the Agency for Strategic Development or something else, and it would be responsible for coordinating such projects.
Based on my own mind-set, resources, experience and some preliminary preparations that have been done in this area, I see my place more within that agency than in the current government running the city’s day-to-day functions. So if you approve, I see myself more in that field.
Vladimir Putin: In other words, you are not a bureaucrat; you are a revolutionary.
Alexei Chaly: Not so. The revolution is over. In this case, we don’t have time for revolutions. I am talking about the city’s strategic development. I will repeat, if this process in the city is not managed, I am afraid we will end up with something that responds to the interests of only certain departments, and there will be a checkmark on the report, but our children will not be proud of us. Whereas I would like that to be the case in Sevastopol. We did not start this revolution for nothing. The revolution is over, and now we are dealing with a different set of issues. So, if you allow, I will continue.
Vladimir Putin: Please, go ahead.
Alexei Chaly: If we look at the situation from this perspective, then as an honest person, I must say: who will carry the weight of today’s challenges, the challenges that are still there? Clearly, we will have a difficult, complicated transition period.
I have not come here alone; I came with a man that I feel could be effectually appointed to this position. Sergei Menyailo is a man with an impeccable reputation in military management, a reserve vice-admiral, whose last position was deputy commander of the Black Sea Fleet.
Currently, he manages all of Crimea’s ports, and in this difficult time he has proven himself a very successful crisis manager. He was with us during the first days of the revolution and he really helped in the formation of Sevastopol’s self-defence squads.
I feel that such a configuration for Sevastopol would currently be the best, at least for the transition period. So I would like to ask you to support both proposals: to create a corresponding agency and to appoint Mr Menyailo the Acting Governor.
Vladimir Putin: When did you leave the army?
Former Deputy Commander of the Black Sea Fleet, Reserve Vice-Admiral Sergei Menyailo: In spring 2012.
Vladimir Putin: Did you resign?
Sergei Menyailo: Yes, I left voluntarily. After that, all of my work has been related to the Navy and Sevastopol.
As Mr Chaly mentioned, I am now the head of the Crimean Sea Ports state enterprise, which acts as the business entity in the water zone of Crimea’s five ports.
Vladimir Putin: So you are quite familiar with economic problems – in Sevastopol and Crimea, and overall.
Sergei Menyailo: I am familiar with those problems. On the one hand, they lie on the surface, and on the other hand, they are deep inside, but they are clear. They are the high-priority challenges we face today.
The first is the fight against corruption and the arrangements we had before. The second is a speedy formation of all executive authority agencies, as well as other bodies.
Given that Sevastopol has the status of a federal constituent entity, we need to create self-sustained, baseline, essential structures with the Republic of Crimea, so that they do not replicate each other’s functions. And, of course, we must make them work effectively.
As Mr Chaly said, we simply need to bring basic, good, normal order to the city, so that Sevastopol becomes the Sevastopol we knew in our childhoods – a beautiful, dignified hero-city.
Vladimir Putin: Governing a federal constituent entity and a city is a different kind of work, requiring difficult day-to-day work that may initially seem boring: to support and develop the city’s economy, housing and utilities, electricity and water supplies, and improve the living standards in the city. All these matters are the governor’s responsibility.
Sergei Menyailo: In my view, the most important objective today is to implement a system and try to bring it to a working condition while defusing social tensions. Naturally, the issues you just brought up are the most important.
Vladimir Putin: As I said, you must also align with the Russian legislation in terms of holding an election. What proposals do you have?
Alexei Chaly: We now need to adopt a law on elections, that’s clear. We used the St Petersburg Charter as a foundation for our own, and I think that we could use St Petersburg’s electoral laws as well.
Vladimir Putin: And also hold elections in September of this year?
Alexei Chaly: This is, in my view, an essential question, because the Charter was adopted on Friday, and we simultaneously approved a petition to you from the Legislative Assembly deputies concerning amendments to the Federal Law on holding elections in September 2014. Gubernatorial elections will then follow.
In my view, we cannot stretch out the formation of the executive authorities and all branches of government in accordance with the Constitution into a year-and-a-half-long process. The situation is changing so rapidly that we must do it this year. So I am asking you to also support this petition.
Vladimir Putin: Very well, that is what we will do; we will certainly support it. Of course, Sevastopol must prepare for the election. September 14 is Russia’s nationwide voting day. You will need to do the necessary work by that time.
Naturally, I also support your suggestion about creating a strategic development agency for the city. Of course, it must be more far-reaching than Sevastopol alone, but there is much work to be done in Sevastopol as well.
You will need to write out the statutory documents so that they complement the city administration, so you have a large number of development instruments in your hands – flexible, joint, and market-based – in order for the city administration to complement the agency and for the agency to complement the administration. We have this kind of experience – positive experience – in Russia.
Alexei Chaly: I know, which is why I looked at the experience in various regions to see which would work for our situation, as I see it.
Vladimir Putin: Very well, I agree with your suggestion. I will sign the executive order today to appoint Mr Menyailo as Acting Governor of Sevastopol. I want to wish you success.
Sergei Menyailo: Thank you, Mr President. I understand the degree of responsibility you are entrusting to me and the level of trust. I will do everything to justify it. I believe we will win and everything will turn out well.
  Vladimir Putin: Very well, everything will work out.
<…>
Geography
Sevastopol
Topics
Civil service
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 14, 2014, 19:50
Text version