Events
Meeting on developing Azov and Black Sea region ports
Vladimir Putin held a meeting to discuss the development of the Azov-Black Sea port infrastructure, also taking into account the reunification of Crimea and Sevastopol with Russia.
September 23, 2014
14:45
Novorossiysk
5 of 9
Meeting on developing the Azov and Black Sea region ports.
Before the meeting, Black Sea Fleet Commander Alexander Vitko briefed the President on the construction of a base in Novorossiysk.
Vladimir Putin also had a videoconference with the port of Taman and the Kochetovsky hydrosystem.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
We have met here today to discuss the development of the Azov-Black Sea ports. Let us see how we need to adjust our plans in view of the reunification of Crimea and Sevastopol with Russia.
Lately we have managed to launch a large-scale plan to modernise and expand Russia’s port infrastructure and start up projects to create major world-class logistics units, including here in the south of Russia, in Krasnodar Territory. All this creates the incentives for making Russia’s economy more competitive and for creating new successful companies and enterprises; this is the key to strengthening Russia’s position as an important element of the global transport routes.
I would like to note that the volume of cargo handled by Russian ports is growing steadily despite the complicated situation on the world markets. Last year it grew by almost 4 percent, while in the first eight months of this year it went up by another 6.4 percent to reach 412 million tons. This increase is observed in all the seaports: in the south of the country, in the Caspian and Far East regions, and in the north there is some advance in the Arctic area as well.
The Azov-Black Sea Basin accounts for over a third of this volume. Ports here have been developing rapidly, with cargo transhipment volumes growing by 10.8 percent in eight months – this does not take into account the ports in Crimea and Sevastopol.
Our task is to maintain the positive dynamics, enhance the capacity of Russian ports, effectively speed up shipping and handling and create new high-quality jobs.
See also
All news about trip to Novorossiysk
September 23, 2014
Here are some of the things I would like to draw special attention to today.
Firstly, as I have already said, we need to adjust our current plans taking into account the reunification of Crimea with Russia. The existing and future port terminals in Crimea and Krasnodar Territory should complement each other; we should make maximum use of the advantages of each port, each logistics complex. In this connection, we need to consider which facilities are to be developed in Crimea and which – in Krasnodar Territory.
Secondly, we need a detailed estimate of the modernisation and development plans for the Crimean ports to see how to load them most efficiently and make them part of Russia’s overall transport system. While doing this, we should not leave out environmental aspects: new construction sites and expanded port facilities should not harm the natural, recreational and spa potential of the peninsula.
Thirdly, we know that a major issue holding back the development of port terminals in the south of Russia is the limited capacity of the Krasnodar railway terminal. Significant funding has been allocated to remove these bottlenecks. I would like to hear a progress report today on the work done and when we can see this problem resolved. We discussed this on numerous occasions, even met in Moscow for the purpose.
In conclusion, I would like to stress that projects to develop transport infrastructure should be based on realistic loading forecasts and take into consideration the investment plans of private companies and our plans to locate in the region the Defence Ministry’s facilities and production facilities of the United Shipbuilding Corporation.
I would like to draw your attention here to the significant private investment into the port infrastructure. We need to respect this and plan the activities of government agencies accordingly. Of course, priority goes to the interests of the Defence Ministry, though we should all keep in mind at the same time that the development of the economy lies at the basis of all our activities. Please do not forget this.
The same is true of the United Shipbuilding Corporation. We have to make it clear what capacity are needed and where, what needs to be developed, how these capacities will be used and by whom.
This requires the concerted action of federal, regional and local authorities. Everything should be resolved promptly, without any lengthy approval procedures. I would like the presidential plenipotentiaries to take this under their direct control.
Let us begin our work.
<…>
Geography
Krasnodar Territory
Topics
Regions
Transport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 23, 2014, 14:45
Text versionEvents
Defence Minister’s report on the Vostok 2014 military exercises
Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu reported to Vladimir Putin on the Vostok 2014 strategic command-and-staff exercises.
September 23, 2014
15:30
Novorossiysk
5 of 7
Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu briefs the President on the Vostok 2014 military exercises via video linkup.
The report was made via video linkup from Kamchatka, where the headquarters of the Joint Command of forces in the North-East is located.
The Commander-in-Chief heard the report on board the large anti-submarine ship Vice Admiral Kulakov in Novorossiysk.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, Mr Shoigu. Do you see and hear me?
Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu
: Yes, Mr President, we can see and hear you well.
Vladimir Putin: For several days, from September 19 to 26 we have been holding the Vostok 2014 strategic command-and-staff exercises in the Eastern Military District. These are the largest exercises of this kind that we have ever held with 155,000 servicemen involved, along with 8,000 units of equipment, including over 600 aircraft, 80 combat and support vessels. The exercises are held in two stages.
Mr Shoigu, you have the floor, please.
Sergei Shoigu: Comrade Commander-in-Chief,
Today the strategic exercises in the Eastern Military District are in their active stage.
In line with your orders, a snap inspection of combat readiness of the troops and certain ministries and agencies was held a week before they began. Alerted were troops of the Eastern Military District, a number of control authorities, large units of troops from the Central Military District, Airborne Forces, long range and military transport aviation commands. As they assumed combat readiness and regrouped, the troops were deployed at testing ranges to implement training missions.
We implemented the mobilisation deployment of two military formations and six units. 6,500 reservists were summoned to training camps. Some 450 units of arms and military equipment were removed from storage and prepared for use.
Simultaneously, two battalion tactical groups were mobilised in the Western Military District. After relocation to Khabarovsk Territory and Sakhalin, they were supplied with additional equipment and transferred to the Eastern Military District. The troops were transported by rail and sea to distances less than 1,500 kilometres. Air transportation was used when distances between districts reached 10,000 kilometres, while distances within 1,000 kilometres were covered under own power. Military transportation aircraft carried two district and two army command posts to Sakhalin and Kamchatka.
See also
All news about trip to Novorossiysk
September 23, 2014
I would like to note that the qualification and training level of the units’ operational staff have gone up, along with skills of the troops on the march. Cooperation in mobilisation between headquarters and military registration and enlistment offices and the authorities in the Russian regions has improved.
The inspection has shown that we need to improve the support system of troop movement in remote areas. Special emphasis has to be made on the advance storage of supplies and further development of military infrastructure in the East of the country.
The inspection of ministries and agencies included a mobilisation base deployment in the Trans-Baikal, Primorye, Khabarovsk and Kamchatka territories and Amur and Sakhalin regions. Special attention was given to maintaining cooperation of the ministries under inspection with Russian regions and the National Defence Centre of the Russian Federation.
Overall, the organisations involved in the inspection accomplished their tasks. The Transportation Ministry and the Communications Ministry practiced in training special units. The Federal Road Agency and the Federal Agency for Rail Transport provided technical support to defence rail and motor roads. The Federal Agency of Maritime and River Transport transferred civilian vessels and port facilities to the Navy.
I would like to single out the coordinated action of the authorities in the Trans-Baikal and Khabarovsk territories, the leadership of the Russian Transportation Ministry and its subordinate organisations.
At the same time, the inspection has shown that some authorities have failed to take stock of the results of the Zapad 2013 exercises, when for the first time ministries and agencies exercised in the interests of the Armed Forces.
Certain drawbacks were obvious again during this inspection. Thus, due to the unpreparedness of the Sakhalin Regional Administration and the heads of certain organisations to function in wartime conditions, the call-up of reservists to training camps was not implemented in full. The task was implemented at the expense of other Russian regions.
Currently, together with the Chief Directorate for Special Programmes and all ministries and agencies concerned, we are analysing the results of the inspection and drafting proposals on how to resolve the problems that arose. We will report the results to you shortly.
Comrade Commander-in-Chief,
The snap inspection helped the troops to begin the Vostok 2014 strategic command-and-staff exercises on September 19 in an orderly manner. The manoeuvres are designed to train in protecting the interests and maintaining the military security of the Russian Federation in the East.
Overall, more than 155,000 servicemen are taking part in the exercises, along with 8,000 units of weapons and military equipment, including over 4,000 armoured vehicles, 632 aircraft and helicopters and 84 naval vessels. The troops are acting on 14 testing ranges in Sakhalin, Kamchatka and Chukotka and the south of Primorye. On the screen you can see some of the brightest weapon employment episodes.
Iskander-M missile units hit two targets at a distance of 200 kilometres. The combat crews demonstrated outstanding practical skills, including precision in hitting targets.
Two Tu-95MC aircraft launched cruise missiles at the simulated enemy at the Kura range. Simultaneously two MiG-31 craft of the Pacific Fleet naval aviation intercepted and destroyed them in flight.
Today was the most important stage of practical action in the Kamchatka line of operations. For the first time a multiservice grouping conducted an operation against marine landing troops near Skalisty Cape on a territory covering 126,000 square kilometres, including 120,000 of the Pacific Ocean waters.
Today S-300 missile systems destroyed two missile targets launched from surface craft. Two Granit anti-ship cruise missiles were successfully launched from nuclear powered submarine cruisers Tver and Omsk from submerged positions. Simultaneously a cruise missile launched from the Varyag cruiser hit an enemy surface target. Target destruction was confirmed by Forpost drones.
The Rubezh shore defence missile system operating together with fleet destroyer Bystry conducted a group missile attack at surface targets located at a distance of 120 kilometres, the targets being destroyed. In the vicinity of Skalisty Cape, army and navy aviation craft made some 70 combat training flights. They trained in the take-off and landing of two craft on a specially prepared section of the Vladivostok-Khabarovsk motorway, which makes it possible to significantly expand the manoeuvrability of combat aviation of the Armed Forces in the East of the country.
In the final stage of practical action in Kamchatka, units of the 36th army and 40th brigade of coastal troops conducted training in anti-assault landing defence of the coast.
The 68th army corps and the Pacific Fleet jointly landed marines on the islands of Sakhalin and Wrangel, the operation was conducted at night.
Overall, the exercises are being conducted as planned. We can already draw some preliminary conclusions.
The supply of up-to-date weapons and equipment helped improve the fire, strike and manoeuvre capabilities of military units and troops. New communication equipment and mechanisation helped maintain the stability and operational control of multiservice groups. Intensive combat training and snap inspections were instrumental in raising the level of training of military authorities and the cohesion of units.
I would like to single out the actions of troops in the Arctic area. We continue the development of the Arctic military infrastructure to protect the interests of the Russian Federation in that region. During the exercises, a group of combat ships of the Northern Fleet jointly with ships of the Murmansk shipping line and icebreakers of the Russian Nuclear Powered Fleet delivered staff and equipment to the island of Kotelny (the Novosibirsk islands archipelago).
The Pantsir-C short-range air defence system shot at a target launched from the Rubezh mobile coastal missile system. The target was hit.
Cruise missiles were also launched by Kinzhal units from the large anti-submarine ship Admiral Levchenko, also in the Novosibirsk islands archipelago. Work is almost complete on Wrangel Island and Cape Schmidt to prepare radar units and air direction centres for combat duty. For the first time a tactical air landing operation was performed on Wrangel Island by staff of the 83rd separate assault landing brigade of Airborne Forces troops and the 155th separate naval landing brigade of the Pacific Fleet.
The exercises will continue until September 25. Upon the return of the troops to their permanent deployment sites, we will conduct a complete analysis of their actions and present the results to you as soon as possible.
My report is over.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
I would like to thank you, all the senior executives of the Ministry, officers and servicemen, all who took part and are still taking part in the exercises.
I would like to see not only a report, but also an analysis of everything that was done, with an indication of the problems that were singled out in the course of the exercises. In the final stage, the Presidential Control Directorate will join you to assess the quality of the actions of the ministries, agencies and territorial and regional authorities of the Russian Federation that took part in these exercises.
Thank you.
Geography
Krasnodar Territory
Topics
Armed Forces
Persons
Shoigu Sergei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 23, 2014, 15:30
Text versionEvents
Interview for Vokrug Sveta magazine
As Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the national public organisation Russian Geographical Society, Vladimir Putin answered questions from the organisation’s magazine Vokrug Sveta [Around the World].
September 23, 2014
10:00
Question: Over four years ago, you became Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Russian Geographical Society. How would you assess the Society’s activity during this period? What are its strategic goals for the coming years?
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: The full-fledged revival of the Russian Geographical Society is a key event in Russia’s public life. The Society’s experience, great traditions, extensive research and intellectual potential can impress anyone who loves their country and wants to know and understand the various stages of its development. Geography is actually a very broad, multifaceted notion. It is linked inseparably with national history and with the lives of many generations. It is, of course, linked with nature and the environment, with the ethnic and cultural heritage and local studies, with scientific discoveries and creative initiatives.
In these past five years, the Russian Geographical Society team has managed a great deal. Primarily this is because they are focussed on reviving the Society’s traditions, which is their main objective. One of these traditions is the involvement in its activities of the public across the nation: young people, the academic and media communities and philanthropists. Historically one of the main priorities of the RGS has always been opening up new branches in remote parts of Russia. Today our Society is becoming the centre of attention for many active, passionate, creative and ambitious people.
We have an entire network of regional branches. There is also a youth section called RGS Pathfinders. I would like to stress that we attach special significance to involving young people in practically all of the Society’s projects. This is obvious: when you have the organisation’s future in mind you need to share responsibility for tackling the current tasks with the younger generation and support their initiatives. In a word, you need to work hand in hand, and RGS is doing just that.
We attach special importance to educational work. Our regional branches regularly hold educational expeditions for schools focussing on learning about their local areas, cooperate with school geography teachers, and arrange science workshops for young scholars. I consider these activities as important as major research. I would like to single out the book-publishing programme called the Great Russian Travellers and a TV series on national television called Geography Class. We expect the RGS’ educational, media and book-publishing projects to be used extensively as study support materials.
As for our strategic goals, we will continue providing every assistance to the development of geography and complementary sciences and bringing together people who initiate various projects in this area. We find it important to take part in nature conservation measures and to strengthen partnerships with organisations that support our agenda. I am certain that soon the RGS will be among the leading geographic societies of the world.
Question: Do you see the RGS as an instrument for developing domestic tourism?
Vladimir Putin: Undoubtedly, RGS activity should serve to promote tourism within the country, primarily by popularising our rich historical, cultural and natural heritage. This can be done not only through expeditions, but also by means of films, lectures, tours and on-site events.
This can also be achieved through the implementation of projects directed at the study of unique sites and entering them into the UNESCO World Heritage list. Russian sites account for only a few percent on that list. A meagre few percent – considering the vast opportunities offered by Russia’s long and rich history, its multi-ethnic people and its culture. A lifetime is not enough to see, experience and study all of it. This is where I see a broad scope for the Society’s hard work. We have to involve experts in various fields here: historians, biologists, ethnologists and landscape experts. There are great and exciting prospects.
Already now, RGS projects help open up the potential of environmental tourism. This work has to be developed in the regions where national parks and reserves attract both scholars and the public. These are places for recreation and for acquiring knowledge of these unique locations and their natural resources.
Clearly, the development of tourist routes should go hand in hand with nature preservation and environmental education. We already have examples of such efforts: these are the Sayano-Shushensky, Baikal and Stolby reserves. We need to spread information about their experience and local RGS branches could take an active part in this.
Question: Your interest in preserving and increasing populations of rare species is widely known. For example, the project to return the Persian leopard to the Caucasus, initiated with your support, became one of the most significant environmental initiatives within the framework of preparing for the Olympic Winter Games in Sochi. What future plans does the Russian Geographical Society have in store to protect animals?
Vladimir Putin: When we first began supporting projects to study and preserve rare species, we chose several, not just recognizable but, more importantly, “problematic” species. “Problematic,” first and foremost, with regard to the scale of the issues to be resolved.
For example, to preserve the Siberian tiger, we needed to work in various areas: research – research projects received significant support, and we introduced tiger population monitoring; international – we held the Tiger Summit; wildlife sanctuary – we set up the work of sanctuaries and increased their area; legislative – we introduced much harsher penalties for poaching and illegal hunted animal trade.
In a similar vein, we worked with other “participants” in environmental projects: leopards, snow leopards, polar bears, beluga whales and grey whales. We noticed positive changes quickly, and not just in terms of preserving those species. Most importantly, these programmes became the driving force that moved cooperation between the government, businesses and society in the right direction in three regions where these works were carried out.
In my view, this is the only right approach to nature protection activities. After all, it is no accident that we choose rare representatives of Russian fauna. It is much easier to use them as an example to explain the essence of the difficulties. That same tiger is happier living somewhere where there is prey, of which there cannot be too much. This way, we demonstrate that behind the problems of these rare species, there is a specific ecological system with specific issues of its preservation. And this becomes clear not just for experts, but for businesses and citizens as well.
When this role of a driving force played by the rare species became clear, we began to broaden the number of animals included in environmental projects, as well as their geography. Last year, they added the Atlantic walrus, the humpback whale, the eagle, and the Pallas cat; and this year, the European bison will join the list.
Concerning plans for the future, we plan to support studying species that represent not only the uniqueness of Russian nature, but also demonstrate the input of our nation into preserving Eurasia’s biodiversity. In this sense, I would include a species on the edge of extinction like the Saiga antelope – a symbol of the Asian steppes – as well as the sturgeon, whose preservation is of interest to all the nations in the Caspian region, and migratory birds that tie Russia to other nations in Eurasia.
Question: Major new projects being implemented every year under the aegis of the Russian Geographical Society; significant studies and expeditions are conducted, some of which you have personally participated in. What bright events can be expected this autumn?
Vladimir Putin: I suppose one of the main events this autumn will be the Russian Geographical Society festival in Moscow. This event is being held for the first time in the society’s history. The Central House of Artists will be showcasing everything the Society is doing, including each of its 85 regional offices. We would very much like for as many people as possible to strive to join this work, to share our values and aspirations. After all, generally speaking, the work of the RGS is aimed at instilling a sense of patriotism. It is impossible to work in the Society if you don’t love your Fatherland, your homeland. Formality and greed simply cannot survive here. On the contrary, this work values selfless devotion, initiative, knowledge and persistence. There are already many such people in the RGS. They inspire others not only with their passion, but also their devotion to their Fatherland.
Thus, we have increased the number of new expeditions, and the geography of our archaeological digs is increasing. We have more and more programmes aimed at attracting young researchers and enthusiasts ready to learn about our country to get involved in the RGS’s activities. After all, you do not have to travel beyond the seven seas to feel like a trailblazer. In St Petersburg, for example, an expedition is underway in the Gulf of Finland. It turns out that there are things to study just 180 kilometres from the northern capital.
Festival guests will be able to see not only the results of our projects but also, for example, try on professional explorers’ equipment and speak with legendary Russian researchers.
A ceremony presenting the Russian Geographical Society awards will be held for the first time. Awards will go to those who devoted their lives to studying Russia, discovering new pages in its history, those who actively promoted our nation’s cultural heritage.
Another important event will be the XV Congress of the Russian Geographical Society, which will be held on October 17 (*) at Moscow State University. In this forum, we will revise the Society’s charter and approve the results of the work carried out by its councils and commissions.
Question: This year, new regional offices of the RGO were added in the Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. What science and research priorities are you putting before them?
Vladimir Putin: I would like to note right away that the historical ties between the Russian Geographical Society and its members with scholars in Crimea and Sevastopol were never severed. The Crimean branch was founded in 1945. And from the very start of its work, it participated actively in the work of what was then the All-Soviet Union Geographical Society.
First and foremost, these were comprehensive expeditions that studied the peninsula’s mountainous areas, coves, shoreline, and marine area. This was important for economic activities and for developing scientific research.
Moreover, there were members from the society’s offices in other regions of our nation working in Crimea. And this joint work that lasted for many years resulted in some very strong professional and personal, friendly ties maintained up to this day. Thus, the Russian Geographical Society office in the Republic of Crimea was created on the initiative of geographers from Taurida National V.I. Vernadsky University.
A research programme is currently being developed in those Russian regions with participation by leading experts, including members of the RGS, staff from Moscow State University and many other high-profile organisations.
Today’s priority is the environment. Crimea’s shoreline is about 750 kilometres long. About half of the peninsula’s residents live on the shore. The comfort of their lifestyles, the development of domestic and inbound tourism, health resort treatment for our citizens require a joint approach to issues of environmental safety and rational natural management. In the last 20 years, organisations involved in conservation of the coast have either been entirely closed or significantly reduced.
Our goal is to restore the coastal environment. And it will be impossible without the help of scientists and experts in the field of geography and related science. Sevastopol’s geographers are currently analysing the state of Crimea’s coastal zone. The project received a RGS grant in 2014.
Landscape studies and archaeology, plant geography and soil science, ethnography and regional studies are all equally important for developing Crimea. And naturally, it is critical to engage in extensive educational work on its history, the peoples living here, their traditions and culture. Indeed, all these areas of activity by the RGS have significance for every Russian region.
The Russian Geographical Society has a lofty, important mission, which was defined by its organisers more than a century ago: cultivating Russia’s geography. It cannot be said better or more clearly. Geography – both as a science and a practical activity – always aims for creation and promotes a humane, careful attitude toward the environment. And hundreds of examples of selfless service to the Fatherland that are preserved in the history of the Russian Geographical Society are an inspiring symbol for today’s active participation in the life of the country, for building its successful future.
* – The XV Congress of the Russian Geographical Society and the ceremony for presenting the RGO's awards were rescheduled for later dates after the interview's publication in the print version of the Vokrug Sveta magazine.
Topics
Media
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 23, 2014, 10:00
Text version