Events
Speech at a narrow format meeting of heads of state taking part in the Fourth Caspian Summit
September 29, 2014
14:00
Astrakhan
At a restricted format meeting of heads of state taking part in the Fourth Caspian Summit. On the left: Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends and colleagues, it is a great pleasure to welcome you all to the Fourth Caspian Summit.
The Caspian Sea and its resources are a historic heritage belonging to all our countries, and we are collectively responsible for looking after it and developing it for future generations. The Caspian region could be called an oasis of peace and true good-neighbourliness. The foundation of this stability is the thoughtful and carefully weighed approach that our countries, peoples and governments take with regard to everything concerning the Caspian, be it security, economic or environmental protection issues. 
We worked out the organisational side of these policies at our earlier meetings and discussed various mechanisms, including steps to improve the ‘Caspian Five’ forum. This will not only make our summits more effective, but will also activate the work of our ministries and agencies, expert groups, business communities and youth organisations. This will make it possible for us to discuss all issues and find compromise solutions to even the most complex problems. 
Colleagues, in accordance with the agreements we reached at our last meeting in November 2010 in Baku, the experts have carried out a lot of work to prepare the documents that we will examine at this summit.
Today, we will discuss the results of our efforts, outline priorities for the coming future and the longer term, and adopt a political declaration that sets out the principles for multilateral cooperation in the Caspian. These principles will form the cornerstone of our future basic agreement – the convention on the Caspian Sea’s legal status. 
I am sure that our five countries’ continued effort to develop cooperation will strengthen regional stability, make the fight against terrorism, extremism, drug trafficking and other threats and challenges more effective, and will give an added impulse to our countries’ economic development and make them more competitive on global markets. 
Colleagues, we have a busy agenda for this summit. Apart from the Caspian’s legal status, security and economic matters, we will also discuss cooperation in the transport sector, protecting the Caspian Sea’s ecosystem, and will exchange views on current international issues. The most important thing is that we all share the determination to reach mutually acceptable agreements that will facilitate even closer cooperation between our five countries. 
Once again, I wish you a warm welcome to Russia, to Astrakhan, and I am sure that our work will be interesting and useful.
<…>
See also
The Fourth Caspian Summit has taken place in Astrakhan
September 29, 2014
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: September 29, 2014, 14:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of Turkmenistan Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedov
Vladimir Putin had a meeting with President of Turkmenistan Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedov. The Presidents of Russia and Turkmenistan discussed the outcomes of the Fourth Caspian Summit and the state of bilateral trade and economic relations and humanitarian ties.
September 29, 2014
20:10
Astrakhan
See also
The Fourth Caspian Summit has taken place in Astrakhan
September 29, 2014
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, friends, colleagues,
I am very pleased to have this opportunity to meet with you on the sidelines of the Caspian Five in this restricted format to discuss our bilateral relations. Russia and Turkmenistan have been bound by relations of friendship and cooperation over the course of many years and in a wide range of areas.
I want to thank you for your significant contributions to the results of the Caspian Summit. I know that your colleagues, with your direct personal participation, made a serious input into preparing the final documents. Thank you very much.
I hope to see you in Russia, in Moscow or any part of the Russian Federation, at a time that is convenient for you. I hope that we will agree on this today as well.
President of Turkmenistan Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedov
: Thank you, Mr President, for this opportunity to meet on the sidelines of the summit of Caspian states.
Indeed, we had a very good summit today and good agreements were signed which, I think, will benefit our states and peoples. I think we should continue at this same rate because, as you know, the current global geopolitical situation can change very quickly, and the Caspian Sea is becoming a kind of epicentre, particularly in the Eurasian space.
We have very good reserves that we could use based on the results of today’s meetings and in accordance with the signed documents.
If we are to talk about our bilateral issues, I can say with confidence that they have always been, are and will be developing upward.
Our trade and economic situation is developing well – its growth trends are good. Our humanitarian sector is working well too, with issues of education, science and especially applied research progressing well.
Our cultural ties are developing very nicely as well; we have many new initiatives to discuss: the Turkmen-Russian schools the Pushkin Turkmen-Russian Theatre, and there are many similar examples. What’s most important is that our interstate commission, which is coordinating everything, is furthering all of this.
So please allow me to once again thank you for today’s meeting, to wish you all the best and success in your government work. And all my best wishes to the great nation of Russia. Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
<…>
Additional
All news about trip to Astrakhan
September 29, 2014
Geography
Turkmenistan
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Berdimuhamedov Gurbanguly
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 29, 2014, 20:10
Text versionAstrakhan
2 of 5
With President of Iran Hassan Rouhani.
See also
The Fourth Caspian Summit has taken place in Astrakhan
September 29, 2014
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, colleagues,
Please allow me to once again welcome you to Astrakhan, Russia. We worked very productively within the framework of the Caspian Summit, achieving good results, thanks in part to your delegation’s position and your personal stand.
I am very glad that we have the opportunity to hold a bilateral meeting; we met fairly recently, but the volume of our business ties ensures that each of our meetings is quite substantive.
President of Iran Hassan Rouhani (retranslated): Thank you very much, Mr President, for your warm welcome, as well as the effort that has gone into successfully holding the Fourth Caspian Summit.
In essence, the agreement reached today is the result of intensive efforts from your side and your colleagues. The atmosphere we had at the summit was very positive. It demonstrated that all the nations strive to develop cooperation.
I am very pleased that during the past year, I had the opportunity to meet with you four times and discuss issues of interest to our nations. However, what’s important is not the number of meetings but the progress we have achieved in our relations.
For us, our relations with our important neighbour had special significance, and this significance is increasing today. This is due to bilateral developments, as well as the sensitive situation in the region.Events
Press statement following the Fourth Caspian Summit
September 29, 2014
17:10
Astrakhan
Following the Fourth Caspian Summit, the five presidents taking part made press statements.
See also
The Fourth Caspian Summit has taken place in Astrakhan
September 29, 2014
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ladies and gentlemen,
First of all, I would like to express my high assessment of the results the Fourth Caspian Summit has produced. One of the biggest achievements was the considerable progress made in preparing the convention on the Caspian’s legal status. This was made possible by the fact that we have now agreed on the key principles for our countries’ activity in the Caspian. 
These principles are set out in the political declaration that the five presidents just signed. This declaration will form the future convention’s cornerstone. I cannot claim that all issues have been settled completely, but there are far fewer outstanding matters now.
Our experts have received the instruction to step up consultations on the remaining issues to be settled and we have every reason to expect that we will soon have the convention ready for signing and will thus successfully conclude the work that has been going on for 18 years now.
More specifically, our talks enabled us to reach agreement on clear wording on delimiting marine areas, the seabed, subsoil resources, and rules and principles covering navigation and fishing. The provision that the greater part of the Caspian Sea’s marine area remains in our countries’ common use is very important. This makes it possible to rule out the sorts of misunderstandings and tension in our interstate relations that previously could arise over different interpretations of the rules governing the Caspian waters.
The declaration sets out a fundamental principle for guaranteeing stability and security, namely, that only the Caspian littoral states have the right to have their armed forces present on the Caspian. This was the way the situation developed over history, and we do not seek to change it now. In general, only the five Caspian countries that have sovereign rights over the Caspian Sea and its resources will resolve all matters pertaining to the region.
I think it is important to activate joint efforts on the basis of the Agreement on Security Cooperation in the Caspian Sea, which came into force yesterday. This is a framework agreement, and in order to implement its provisions in optimum fashion, we have set the task of drafting without delay protocols on cooperation between our five countries’ border guard and tax services. The Russian Border Guard Service has already taken the initiative of drafting this document and sent it to our colleagues.
We gave the economy particular focus. Russia’s trade with Azerbaijan, Iran, Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan came to $33 billion in 2013. This is an impressive figure but it does not match our countries’ potential. In this respect, we discussed steps to activate our trade ties, increase reciprocal investment flows and launch large-scale projects.
We see joint development of transport infrastructure as very promising, for example. One priority is to develop the North-South corridor that will link countries in western and northwest Europe with southern Asia via Russia, the Caspian basin and Iran. All five littoral states are involved in this project. Its implementation would halve the shipping distance compared to the current route. 
Another idea is to build a railway encircling the Caspian. The eastern semi-circle line linking Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan and Iran will be completed by the end of this year. In fact, our colleagues informed us earlier that this work is already nearly completed.
Work on the western semi-circle linking Azerbaijan and Iran should be completed in 2016. The aim is to link the main Caspian ports, which will cut freight transport times and costs considerably and thereby help to make our economies more competitive.
Aside from financing, many multilateral projects also require a lot of ongoing organisational support, and so we have agreed to look at setting up a five-party organisation that would be responsible for these matters. Our colleagues put forward various proposals on this subject today, and Russia supports these ideas. This might be a gradual process, taking each required step at a time, but we will certainly move in this direction.
As you know, the Caspian is an enclosed inland sea and has a fragile ecosystem that is highly vulnerable to external impact. Any industrial accident could have a disastrous effect on the sea’s ecosystem and would have consequences too for the lives of all of our countries’ people. This is why we put such emphasis on the agreement on five-party cooperation in disaster relief and clean-up. We agreed to develop this agreement’s provisions by defining the zones of responsibility of each country’s rescue services.
We attach great importance to the signing of the agreement on the Caspian’s marine biological resources. This gives us the legal base for joint implementation of comprehensive measures to protect rare fish species, the sturgeon, for example. I note that a moratorium on catching Caspian sturgeon has been in place in Russia since 2005, and we have no plans to lift it before the fish population stabilises.
Incidentally, a bit later on, the five presidents will take part in a ceremony releasing young sturgeons bred in Astrakhan Region into the Volga. They are a very valuable fish species and the Caspian’s symbol. 
Our many years of work on a cooperation agreement in the area of hydrometeorology have reached a successful conclusion. The agreement will enable us to set up a regional system for exchanging information on the state of the Caspian, needed for ensuring safe navigation and oil production.
It is good to see that we are developing new forums for discussing regional cooperation opportunities. A business forum and a Caspian Youth Summit took place with great success on the summit’s sidelines this year. 
In conclusion, I want to thank our colleagues for their constructive spirit and the fruitful discussions, and I want to thank the Astrakhan Region authorities and the people of Astrakhan for their consideration and patience with regard to any logistical inconveniences that perhaps arose, and for giving us a friendly atmosphere in which to work together.
Thank you for your attention. 
<…>
I agree completely with my colleagues who called this summit a breakthrough. This is indeed the case, as we agreed on the principles underpinning our cooperation, the principles for settling the main issues concerning our work together on the Caspian, and we cemented them in the declaration adopted today.
This is truly a breakthrough. Our experts worked on this long and hard and I say thank you very much to them for this. I also want to thank the members of the press for the attention you have given our work.
Thank you very much.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: September 29, 2014, 17:10
Text version