Russian-Chinese talks in expanded format.
President of the People’S Republic of China Xi Jinping (retranslated): Once again, I would like to welcome you, my dear friend, President Putin, on your visit to China.
In February, we had a successful meeting in Sochi. We set the targets for promoting Russian-Chinese relations for the subsequent period and gave a good start to the development of bilateral relations this year. In the time after the February meeting, the intergovernmental commission of our two states has been actively working to implement our agreements. Some significant progress has been made and a lot of work has been done to prepare this meeting.
After the negotiations, we will sign an important statement that will demonstrate our intention to strengthen mutual support, expand cooperation and improve the coordination of our diplomatic efforts to raise our relations, our cooperation and partnership to a higher level.
A number of important agreements and contracts have been signed in our presence. Your current visit will be very fruitful. The further development of Russian-Chinese comprehensive partnership and strategic cooperation based on mutual interest and dictated by the need to promote justice and equality in the world, maintain peace on the planet, by the need to achieve the joint prosperity of China and Russia, is an inevitable choice that proceeds from the process of forming a multi-polar world. This policy finds the support of the broadest communities within our countries. We need to support and strengthen our efforts. We should not be satisfied with our achievements, but rather consistently work for greater success in our cooperation.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, our Chinese friends,
In an atmosphere of trust and friendship, we have just had an exchange of views on the development of bilateral relations and international issues. Now, as we meet in expanded format, we have the opportunity to hear our colleagues. However, even after the first part of our conversation it is clear to all that our countries have made an enormous effort to bring our relations to an absolutely new level of comprehensive partnership and strategic cooperation.
China is firmly occupying the position of our leading trade partner. Trade turnover between our countries in 2013 grew by almost 2 percent to reach $90 billion. This positive tendency continues with the growth in the first quarter of this year of another 2 percent. If we maintain these rates, by 2015 we will reach a $100 billion mark and continue moving ahead.
At the same time, we expect quantitative indexes to be accompanied by change in the quality of our trade and economic relations. This requires expanding mutual investment. The first Russian-Chinese EXPO to be held this summer in Harbin is to serve this very goal. We also invite our Chinese friends to become our partner nation at INNOPROM 2015, the major international industrial trade fair in Russia, to be held in Yekaterinburg in July 2015.
We should improve the structure of our trade with an accent on such high technology areas as civil aviation, space industry and nuclear power.
We are successfully implementing a number of projects in the humanitarian sphere. 2012 was the year of Russian Tourism in China, and 2013 – the Year of Chinese Tourism in Russia. We have also launched a new important project – the Year of Youth Exchanges. Progress is being made on the program to establish a branch of Moscow State University in the Chinese city of Shenzhen. An intergovernmental agreement to simplify mutual travel for our citizens came into effect on April 26.1 of 2
Meeting with President of Mongolia Tsakhiagiin Elbegdorj.
The discussion focussed on cooperation between the two countries, particularly in transportation.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President,
I am very happy to have this opportunity to meet with you on the sidelines of the Shanghai events. Our relations have traditionally been very warm and friendly in nature. Currently, Russia firmly holds second place as Mongolia’s trade partner. We have many, or in any case, we have good joint ventures, large ones, which we have inherited from previous years, but we also have good prospects. So I am very happy for the opportunity to meet and talk with you.
In the lobby, you and I just discussed the events pertaining to the well-known developments on the eve of World War II – the battle at Khalkhin Gol. Of course, we should think about how we can hold all these events together and how to move forward, in the sense of good political relations, the level of political contacts, how to transform them into developing the economy.
President OF MONGOLIA TSAKHIAGIIN ELBEGDORJ: Thank you very much.
To save time, I will speak in Russian.
Thank you, Mr President, for providing this opportunity.
We traditionally have good relations and many opportunities. I will focus on three issues, three topics. The first, of course, is the issue of connecting railways and transport. As you know, Mongolia is a nation that lies entirely between Russia and China. The shortest path is via railways. So we should probably consider how we can take advantage of these opportunities, how to implement major economic projects, infrastructure projects. We are also working on a draft trilateral agreement on through transit, as well as a bilateral agreement between our nations on through transit. In addition, we are about to renew the 1949 agreements on establishing the Ulaanbaatar Railway.
See also
All news about the official visit to China
May 20 − 21, 2014
It is true that we have a strategic relationship between our nations. When I say it is “strategic” in nature, I am referring to our fundamental national interests, so I call these relations strategic.Events
Meeting with UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon
During his visit to China Vladimir Putin met with the United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon.
May 20, 2014
19:00
Shanghai
Meeting with UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon.
See also
All news about the official visit to China
May 20 − 21, 2014
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Secretary-General, colleagues, I am very happy to have the opportunity to see you again, this time in Shanghai. We see the intensive work of the United Nations Secretariat on key issues of the international agenda.
As you know, Russia is taking a very active stance in international affairs, specifically within the UN framework, which we believe is the only multifaceted international organisation, the only effective decision-making instrument on the most pressing international issues of our time.
I am very happy to maintain a working relationship with you.
Un Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon: Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank you for receiving me during this CICA meeting despite your very busy schedule.
I know you are a hard worker. Meeting with you at 10 pm means that you are working very hard and very much committed to peace and security in the world.
I would like to express my sincere condolences on the train collision, which happened near Moscow.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, I have been informed already, I am aware of the human casualties. We are taking all necessary measures to help the injured. And we will help the victims’ families. Repair works on the railway tracks is underway. There will certainly be a thorough investigation of the accident.
Ban Ki-Moon: My deepest condolences to them and a speedy recovery to those other people, and I hope all will be taken care of well under your leadership.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much.
Ban Ki-Moon: Mr President, I have limited time and I would like to continue our discussion of the situation in Ukraine and, time permitting, I would like to again touch briefly on the current situation in Syria.
<…>
Topics
UN
Persons
Ban Ki-moon
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 20, 2014, 19:00
Text version