Events
Meeting with President of Tajikistan Emomali Rahmon
Vladimir Putin met with President of Tajikistan Emomali Rahmon. The meeting was held on the sidelines of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation summit in Dushanbe.
September 11, 2014
21:50
Dushanbe
2 of 2
Meeting with President of Tajikistan Emomali Rahmon.
See also
All news about visit to Tajikistan
September 11 − 12, 2014
President of Tajikistan Emomali Rahmon
: Mr Putin, I am very happy to meet with you.
Dushanbe is hosting the SCO summit these days. Naturally, this is a good opportunity to discuss what our organisation has done and what we can improve within the SCO framework for our peoples and our nations.
At the same time, this is a good opportunity to discuss our bilateral issues as well. I think we have accumulated a fair number of them, but these are good topics, issues of growth and development in our relations. So I am very happy about our meeting and would like to first hear your thoughts on this.
Welcome.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much, Mr Rahmon.
I know that a great deal of care and work is involved in organising this major event. And we can see that you have prepared for it and are conducting it brilliantly – in any case, we can see the brilliant beginning of our talks in expanded format. Thank you very much for this.
As for bilateral relations, they are developing quite successfully; based on the results for January-July of this year, we are expecting our trade to grow by more than 60%. Naturally, this is an impressive indicator.
But we will discuss it now in detail. We certainly have things we could work on more to improve these indicators.
Our inter-parliamentary ties are developing, and we have some progress in the humanitarian sector as well.
We view Tajikistan as a very close partner and ally. These are not just strategic relations; they are allied relations. We greatly value this and intend to continue working in the same key.
<…>
Geography
Tajikistan
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Rahmon Emomali
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 11, 2014, 21:50
Text version