Events
Visit to Nicaragua
The President of Russia made a brief visit to Nicaragua. Vladimir Putin had talks with President of Nicaragua Daniel Ortega in Managua.
July 12, 2014
05:00
Managua
2 of 5
Russian-Nicaraguan talks.
Russian-Nicaraguan relations have special potential for development, the President of Russia noted during the talks. Mr Putin also stressed that the two nations have long-standing and very friendly relations, and this year marks the 70th anniversary since the establishment of diplomatic ties.
In the course of the negotiations, there was a detailed exchange of views on all areas of bilateral cooperation between Russia and Nicaragua. In particular, the parties touched upon supplies of agricultural equipment from Russia and the creation of a corresponding maintenance base in Nicaragua. Other issues discussed included the delivery of grain from Russia to cover the basic needs. Vladimir Putin promised to consider this issue as soon as possible. The discussion also touched upon the deployment of GLONASS ground stations on the territory of Nicaragua and cooperation in other areas, such as pharmacology. Cooperation between law enforcement agencies of the two countries was also considered.
Participants in the talks from the Russian side included Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov
, Presidential Aide Yury Ushakov
and Rosneft CEO Igor Sechin
. Participants in the discussion from the Nicaraguan side included the President’s special envoy for trade, economic and investment cooperation with Russia Laureano Ortega, Deputy Foreign Minister Valdrack Jaentschke, who also heads the Russian-Nicaraguan interstate commission on economic, science and technology cooperation, Nicaraguan Commander-in-Chief Julio Cesar Aviles, and President of the Enatrel energy company Salvador Mansell.
***
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, thank you for your invitation.
I would like to congratulate you on the upcoming 35th anniversary of the Sandinista Revolution, which, I know, is a very special event for you. We have very warm relations with your country that have a long history. We have always admired both your personal courage and the courage of your people.
Nicaragua is an important partner for Russia in Latin America. This is a special year for us: we will celebrate 70 years of diplomatic relations later this year. Naturally, we have a lot to do to develop our relations further, especially economic ties. However, the basis is very good. Thank you.
President of Nicaragua Daniel Ortega (retranslated): Dear Vladimir, esteemed Mr President,
We are very happy to see you here. This is an honour for us. This is a historic visit. It is like a ray of light, like a flash of lightning. This is the first time a Russian President visits Nicaragua. We are very happy to welcome you in our country. Please consider it your country.
We are dedicated to the struggle for peace; we are actively fighting poverty and working to raise the standard of living. We are combatting drug trafficking, organised crime and terrorism. Our cooperation with your people follows a very busy agenda. We see that this cooperation is being enhanced step by step.
We saw some buses on our way to the airport. They were supplied to Nicaragua by the Russian Government. Now Nicaraguans use these buses to go to work and return home. I believe that the most successful cooperation is the kind that enhances the everyday lives of ordinary people.
Our relations are brotherly in nature. This is very important, especially now, when we need to join efforts in the struggle for peace. We accept and support the initiatives put forth by Russia in the interests of peace and are ready to take part in them, and are already doing so. We are ready to support initiatives aimed at establishing peace in the whole world, and especially those aimed at peace in your region within the framework of the conflicts that exist there now.
The resolution of a conflict is not facilitated by bombing or artillery fire. The resolution of a conflict requires good judgement and a sensible approach. The main and most important thing is to take into consideration the will of the people, and that is being done.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
<…>
Geography
Nicaragua
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 12, 2014, 05:00
Text versionEvents
Statement for the press after Russian-Argentinian talks
July 12, 2014
23:00
Buenos Aires
Press statements following Russian-Argentinian talks.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Madam President, ladies and gentlemen,
I would like once again to thank the President of Argentina for the invitation.
We had very detailed talks both in a restricted group and in an expanded format. We touched upon the international agenda, noting that we are successfully cooperating within leading international organisations, primarily the United Nations, the G20 and others.
I would like to note that we are developing our relations with Argentina in all areas. This concerns politics, the humanitarian sphere and the economy. Despite the current complicated developments in the world economy, we have managed to retain the positive trend in the trade turnover between our two countries: it has grown by over 16 percent in the past year.
Overall, Madam President has touched upon all the issues we discussed. I would like to specify a few things.
I want to remind you that over 20 percent of hydropower in Argentina is generated using Russian equipment. We expect our companies to take an active part in the modernisation of the generating units and the construction of new power stations in Argentina.
One of our companies Inter RAO UES plans to take part in the construction of the Chihuido-1 hydropower station worth a total of $2 billion. Another company is implementing a contract to supply $19 million worth of turbines to the Punta Negra hydropower station. That company is ready to take part in the modernisation of the Salto Grande Argentinian-Uruguayan hydropower station. Work is also underway on the project for the Argentina-Patagonia hydropower station.
See also
Russian-Argentinian talks
July 12, 2014
As Madam President has already said, we see great prospects for our cooperation in nuclear power generation. Russia’s Rosatom is bidding for the construction of the third generating unit of the Atucha nuclear power station.
Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to note that Russia employs advanced technologies in the engineering of nuclear power stations. They are known for their economic efficiency and the most stringent safety and environmental standards.
An agreement was signed today on cooperation in the use of nuclear power for peaceful purposes. We expect it to become a firm foundation for close cooperation in this area.
We intend to strengthen cooperation in other high technology areas as well, including space exploration. We expect a positive decision on the deployment in Argentina of ground-based equipment for the Russian GLONASS global positioning system.
We attach special importance to our cooperation in military technology. Today we discussed some projects in this area, among them shipments to Argentina of helicopter equipment and military cargo planes for joint operations in the Antarctic.
”We are developing our relations with Argentina in all areas. Despite the current complicated developments in the world economy, we have managed to retain the positive trend in the trade turnover between our two countries“
We are expanding cooperation between our law enforcement agencies, and you had the opportunity to witness the signing of a relevant agreement.
There is one more important point I would like to highlight. We will continue developing cooperation in the information sphere. This is the purpose of the Agreement on Cooperation in Mass Communication, which in one way or another has to do with the activities of our esteemed colleagues present here today. The agreement will help leading news agencies in Russia and Argentina to expand their contacts and to exchange information on a regular basis.
We are grateful to Argentina for the opportunity it has provided to the Russian broadcasting company Russia Today. For the first time the audience of a Latin American country will be able to watch its Spanish programming round the clock on a dedicated channel.
Of special importance are our cultural ties. We support the tours of our leading companies to Argentina. As I have already said, we suggest holding a mutual Year of Culture in our two countries next year, when we will be marking 130 years of diplomatic ties between Russia and Argentina. A week of films by Mosfilm studios is scheduled for September in Buenos Aires.
In the course of our talks today, we have covered pressing regional and international issues, as Madam President has said. I would like to note that in this sense Argentina is a very comfortable partner for us. Naturally, Argentina often has its own opinion on key international issues, but this is its own sovereign opinion – something you do not see very often in the world today and we value it highly.
I would like to thank Madam President one more time for the positive working and friendly atmosphere that was created during our meeting today.
Thank you for your attention.
Additional
All news about the visit to Argentina
July 12 − 13, 2014
Geography
Argentina
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 12, 2014, 23:00
Text version