Events
Completion of repair work at Sayano-Shushenskaya Hydroelectric Station
Vladimir Putin gave the command via video linkup to launch the last of the ten turbines at the Sayano-Shushenskaya Hydroelectric Station that was damaged in an accident in 2009. The ceremony marked the completion of repair work and the station’s renewed operation at design capacity.
November 12, 2014
07:30
Vladivostok
3 of 5
In a video linkup, Vladimir Putin gave the signal to launch the last of ten modernised turbines at the Sayano-Shushenskaya Hydroelectric Power Station.
Rosneft CEO Igor Sechin, who headed the commission responsible for the clean-up after the accident, and head of RusHydro Yevgeny Dod reported that the turbine was ready to start operation. 
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues, good afternoon,
I want to congratulate you on the launch of turbine two, the tenth turbine to undergo modernisation, thus completing work at the Sayano-Shushenskaya Hydroelectric Station.
This turbine suffered the most damage in the accident, and it is thus symbolic that it should mark the completion of rebuilding at the station, which once again takes its place now as a leader in Russian hydroelectric energy production. Teams from all around the country carried out a huge amount of work at the station, but of course the greatest effort came from the station’s specialists themselves. I congratulate you.
I am sure that this work will not only improve energy supply in the Siberian region, but the Sayano-Shushenskaya Station will make a big contribution to our entire energy system’s stable operation.
This tremendous effort accomplished has taken the station to a completely new level. It now has an exceptional efficiency level of 96.6 percent. The turbines should operate for 40 years and their service lives have been considerably extended. These results reflect the work done by all of the specialists, the hydroelectricity experts at the station, and our energy machine-building experts. This is very good to see.
I congratulate you and wish you success.
<…>
Addressing participants in a concert marking the completion of reconstruction work at the Sayano-Shushenskaya Hydroelectric Station
Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends,
Today marks the completion of reconstruction work at the Sayano-Shushenskaya Hydroelectric Station.
I remember how in 2009, the entire country shared your sorrow over the tragic events here, the accident at the station and the loss of life.
We can say that much of this is behind us now. Of course those who were affected, the victims’ families, will never forget what happened. But a huge amount of work has been accomplished to rebuild the station. Just as the whole country shared your grief over the tragedy, so the whole country also worked to rebuild the station, which has now regained its place as Russia’s best hydroelectric power station and is without any exaggeration one of the best in the world.
Big teams of people were involved in this work, machine-builders, road builders, and the local authorities, who also made a big contribution to the reconstruction effort, especially in the social sector. The energy workers’ settlement, Cheremushki, has been completely modernised, and much has been done to resolve social issues and problems. 
I hope that everything will stay at this level we see today. Indeed, I hope that this level is not the limit but is the starting point for continued development in the right direction for our people’s benefit. 
I want to congratulate you on the completion of the reconstruction work and thank the power station’s team for showing such courage and dignity throughout these difficult trials and reaching this point today of complete rebuilding of the station.
I am sure that your team will continue to carry out your work in worthy fashion and will also achieve new successes.
I congratulate you sincerely and wish you all the very best.
Thank you very much. I wish you success. All the best!
See also
Commissioning of generating unit at Sayano-Shushenskaya Hydroelectric Station
May 22, 2014
Additional
All news about trip to Primorye Territory
November 12 − 14, 2014
Geography
Republic of Khakassia
Primorye Territory
Topics
Energy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 12, 2014, 07:30
Text version