Events
Meeting with permanent members of the Security Council
Vladimir Putin held a meeting with the permanent members of the Security Council, during which a detailed discussion on the situation in Ukraine took place.
March 21, 2014
12:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 7
Meeting with permanent members of the Security Council.
See also
Executive Order on recognising Crimean military service members’ ranks, documents on education and military service
March 20, 2014
Order on creating Black Sea Higher Naval School and Sevastopol Presidential Cadet Academy in Sevastopol
March 20, 2014
Meeting with UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon
March 20, 2014
Taking part in the meeting were Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev
, Federation Council Speaker Valentina Matviyenko
, State Duma Speaker Sergei Naryshkin
, Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Sergei Ivanov
, Secretary of the Security Council Nikolai Patrushev
, Interior Minister Vladimir Kolokoltsev
, Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu
, Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov
, Director of the Federal Security Service Alexander Bortnikov
, Director of the Foreign Intelligence Service Mikhail Fradkov
, Deputy Secretary of the Security Council Rashid Nurgaliyev
, and permanent member of the Security Council Boris Gryzlov
.
 * * *
Beginning of meeting with permanent members of the Security Council
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues,
We will discuss routine matters today, but we will also examine the biggest current issues too of course. Let’s start with the situation regarding Ukraine and Crimea.
Mr Lavrov, what do you have to say on these matters? What can you tell us?
Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov: The situation is developing quite rapidly and our Western partners continue to propose unilateral action. Following the first wave of sanctions against individuals, taken several days ago, President Obama has now announced new sanctions against some 20 individuals and one financial institution – Rossiya Bank. There are rules that usually apply in diplomacy in such situations, and so we are currently drafting proposals for countermeasures.
Vladimir Putin: How many individuals are affected?
Sergei LAVROV: Around 20.
Vladimir PUTIN: We ought to keep our distance from them or they might compromise us. (Laughter)
As for the financial institution concerned, as far as I recall, this is a medium-sized bank. Personally, I did not have an account there, but I will definitely open one on Monday.
What other information do you have on this matter?
Sergei Lavrov: Our Ukrainian neighbours continue to make contradictory statements regarding relations with Russia. In particular, they said that they are ceasing or suspending their participation in the Commonwealth of Independent States and plan to introduce visas for Russian citizens. If this does happen, we will brief you on our proposals.
Vladimir Putin: In both the first case, the US sanctions, and the second case, the Ukrainian proposal to introduce visas, I think that we should refrain from taking any countermeasures for now, especially as concerns visas for Ukraine, because if we introduce visas for Ukrainian citizens, millions of innocent Ukrainians would suffer, people who are not well off as it is and come to Russia to work and earn a bit of money here to support their families. We should not take such a step.
Sergei LAVROV: If I may, regarding another aspect of the current international developments, our partners in NATO have suspended a number of cooperation activities within the Russia-NATO Council
. This raises a practical question. We have one joint project – the helicopter project – which is jointly financed by Russia and Western countries and is a programme that will help the Afghans to repair Soviet- and Russian-made helicopters and train the needed people to repair, service and maintain this equipment.
The helicopter project’s first stage has already been implemented quite successfully. Everyone agrees that it has helped to strengthen Afghanistan’s capabilities for ensuring its own security. The time has come now to organise financing for the project’s second stage, but given that our partners are now trying to freeze cooperation within the Russia-NATO Council, I wanted to ask your advice on what we should do in this situation. 
Vladimir PUTIN: We should continue this cooperation even if our partners from NATO freeze our joint activities. I think that we all have an interest in seeing this project continue. We need to strengthen Afghanistan’s government, and so I ask you not to halt any of this work and I ask the Government to go ahead with the required financing, which was provided for in the Russian budget.
As you know, UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon raised the question yesterday of sending an OSCE
mission and UN observers to Ukraine’s eastern and southeastern regions, and I ask you to continue cooperation with our partners on this matter too and find a solution.
Sergei LAVROV: We have nearly finished work on a draft resolution by the OSCE Standing Committee, and have ensured that OSCE observers will be sent not just to Ukraine’s east and southeast but to central and western regions too, where many unpleasant incidents have taken place over the recent months.
Second, we have agreed on the number of observers and the regions where they will be sent. Any changes to these agreements, such as an increase in the number of observers or the regions, would be decided by the OSCE Standing Committee. We will follow your instructions here.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
I have a question for Mr Shoigu on the situation with Ukrainian military bases in Crimea.
Defence MINISTER SERGEI SHOIGU: As things stood yesterday, 72 units had decided in their entirety to join the Russian Armed Forces. The commanders and officers raised the Russian flag themselves at these garrisons. We are now taking care of the formalities regarding the servicemen and officers serving in these units, settling the citizenship issue and acting in accordance with the decision you signed yesterday on recognising officers’ rank and educational qualifications.
The second aspect in this work is that this is taking place on a totally voluntary basis. In terms of the future possibilities for military servicemen in Crimea, we see three options. First, if people there want to serve in the Russian armed forces, we will of course offer them a place. If they do not want to serve in our armed forces but wish to remain in Crimea, this is also possible. Third, if people want to continue their service in Ukraine’s armed forces, they will have this possibility too and will be free to leave Crimea and continue serving elsewhere, in the Ukraine army's units.
We have already encountered such cases. The coast guard commanders, for example, said that they wish to continue their service in the Ukrainian army and will leave Crimea. We are organising transport for their families and property so that they can depart for Ukraine without problem.
I particularly note the executive order you signed yesterday about reopening the Black Sea Fleet Higher Naval School. Everyone there, including the students, swore the oath yesterday and it will continue work now as the Nakhimov Higher Naval Academy.
I also want to note one other significant fact, namely, that we are offering Ukrainian military personnel studying there the opportunity to continue their studies at the academy and obtain their diploma, after which they can choose which direction to take next.
Vladimir Putin: Good.
Mr Shoigu, I ask you to ensure a friendly and respectful attitude to everyone, no matter what their decision, and respectful treatment too of Ukraine’s state and military emblems.
Does anyone have anything else to add?
Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev: Yes, there is one matter that I want to raise. It takes us back a few years.
I remind you that when I was President, I signed the Kharkov Agreement with President Yanukovych. Under the terms of this agreement, we extended our use of the naval base [in Sevastopol] for a long period – 25 years. At the same time, under this agreement, Ukraine gained financially under a deal that exempted it from compulsory payments that would otherwise have been made to the Russian budget. What’s more, we started applying the new agreement’s terms immediately, even though our use of the base was still covered for quite a long period by the old agreement. This enabled Ukraine to save around $11 billion, and the loss to Russia’s budget thus also comes to around $11 billion.
The point I want to make is that now that the circumstances have changed and Crimea is now part of the Russian Federation, there are no grounds for keeping this agreement in effect. There is a principle in international law, in accordance with which an agreement remains in force only so long as the circumstances that gave rise to it prevail — clausula rebus sic stantibus – excuse me for the Latin.
Vladimir Putin: That’s all rather clever sounding, but it does make a substantial point.
Dmitry Medvedev: Yes, it sounds rather weighty, but what we have before us is precisely this kind of case. If this is so, then we should revoke the agreement in accordance with the set procedure. But this raises the matter of the $11 billion that our budget has lost. I think it is perfectly fair to raise the question of having Ukraine’s budget compensate these funds. This could be done through the courts, in accordance with the revoked agreement’s terms. Of course, these are tough measures, but at the same time, the agreement no longer has effect, but the money we paid is real, and our Ukrainian partners must understand that nobody hands over money just like that, for nothing.
At the same time, I remind you that Ukraine’s debt, public and corporate, to Russia is quite large as it is. This includes the $3-billion loan that we gave them recently in accordance with our agreement to buy Eurobonds, and the nearly $2 billion that Ukraine owes in accumulated debt to Gazprom. All in all then, Ukraine’s total debt comes to a very large sum.
Vladimir Putin: 11 billion plus 5 billion?
Dmitry Medvedev: Yes, it comes to all of $16 billion. I don’t think we can afford to lose that kind of money given that our budget faces difficulties of its own. I propose that we examine these issues in accordance with the set procedures.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Medvedev, remind me of the situation please. The way things turned out, we gave Ukraine a discount on energy resources immediately after signing the agreement, that is, starting in 2010, but we acted in advance so to speak, because the use of the naval base was still covered by the old agreement until 2017. In other words, we gave Ukraine this money in advance. 
Dmitry Medvedev: Yes, that is the situation, Mr President. This was essentially an advance payment taking into account our particular agreements at that moment. In principle, we could have chosen not to pay this money, but we did so, given that this was part of the new agreement’s terms, and it was also a way of helping Ukraine. But now that the circumstances have changed, this advance payment should be returned.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, there are grounds for this. Let’s not take any hasty steps though. Let’s discuss the whole matter and analyse it. I ask the Foreign Ministry to join in this work too and then present proposals together with the Government.
<…>
Additional
Comments regarding US sanctions against Russia, effective from March 20, 2014
March 21, 2014
Topics
Armed Forces
Foreign policy
National security
Persons
Lavrov Sergei
Medvedev Dmitry
Shoigu Sergei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Security Council
Publication date: March 21, 2014, 12:30
Text versionEvents
Ceremony signing the laws on admitting Crimea and Sevastopol to the Russian Federation
A ceremony signing the laws on admitting the Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol to the Russian Federation took place at the Kremlin.
March 21, 2014
15:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
5 of 6
Ceremony signing the laws on admitting Crimea and Sevastopol to the Russian Federation.
See also
Laws on admitting Crimea and Sevastopol to the Russian Federation
March 21, 2014
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues,
This is a big and important event. We are completing today the legal procedures for admitting Crimea and Sevastopol to the Russian Federation.
I want to thank the State Duma deputies and members of the Federation Council for their thorough and at the same time quick examination of these very important documents, ratifying the agreement on Crimea and Sevastopol’s accession to the Russian Federation, and passing the Constitutional Law on admitting new constituent entities to the Russian Federation.
I congratulate all of you, all people of Russia and all residents of Crimea and Sevastopol on this occasion, which is with no exaggeration a momentous event.
Ms Matviyenko, please, go ahead.
Speaker of The Federation Council Valentina Matviyenko
: Mr President, colleagues,
It is probably deeply symbolic that we are meeting here in the Catherine Hall, and on the spring equinox, which marks the turn towards the sun and the dawn. I think that Russia’s people are full of just such sunny and celebratory feelings today at this reunification with our brothers in Crimea. 250 years ago, during the reign of Catherine the Great, the famed land of Taurida became part of Russia. Crimea’s long history, which is filled with difficult times and tragic events, is a part of our history too.
There were many attempts to take Crimea from Russia, many attempts to prevent Russia from having access to the Black Sea. The heroic defence of Sevastopol during the Crimean War and the city’s immortal feat during the battle against Nazism are engraved forever in our history’s chronicles.
Crimea’s recent history has been difficult too and has unfolded before our very eyes. Crimea’s tragic history began not with the Kiev Maidan, but with Khrushchev’s arbitrary decision, taken in violation of the Soviet Union’s constitution.
Crimea’s drama continued a quarter of a century later with the Belavezha Accords. Already back in 1992, the people of Crimea wanted to hold a referendum but were unable to do so. Their 20 years of struggle have finally ended in success: they have held a referendum in which the region’s peoples expressed their unanimous will.
The historic event that we are witnessing today was made possible by this unanimous decision by the people of Crimea, and thanks to our President’s firm resolve and the support from people throughout our whole country.
Mr President, I want to inform you that the Federation Council unanimously passed two laws today that complete the legal procedure for Crimea’s reunification with Russia.
I think this is good reason to congratulate everyone, congratulate people in Crimea and in Russia on this exceptional victory and great historic event. Mr President, on Monday, the flags of our two new constituent entities will fly on the Federation Council building, together with the flags of our other regions, and a new map will be on display in the building, showing Crimea as part of our country. I hope that four senators from our two new constituent entities will also soon join us in the Federation Council.
Mr President, thank you for your will and courage and for not giving in to any pressure. I hope that you felt our constant support over this time.
Speaker of The State Duma Sergei Naryshkin
: Mr President, colleagues,
We are filled with genuine pride today at these historic events and decisions. Mr President, we are grateful to you for your firm stand that has reminded many that Russia’s greatness lies not just in the past or in the future, but is with us in the present too. 
Many of the State Duma deputies visited Crimea over this last month and saw in the eyes of people there at first the hope and then the joy of having Russia’s support. This support gave them confidence and they made a clear and unambiguous choice to return to their homeland, and their homeland was waiting.
The State Duma deputies understood the situation very clearly and understood the mood of people in Crimea and why they made such a resolute decision. Yesterday, to the sound of Russia’s national anthem, State Duma deputies from all four parliamentary parties passed the law on ratifying the agreement to admit to the Russian Federation two new constituent entities and approved the federal constitutional law on this matter. 
It is perfectly clear to us that Russia and the people of Crimea acted in strict accordance with international law. Those who have doubts on this point should refresh their memories and read the United Nations Charter and other basic texts of international law.
Valentina Mativiyenko: Excuse me, Mr President, but when deputies from the Crimea and Sevastopol legislative assemblies visited us, Nikolai Ryzhkov [a member of the Federation Council] said, “We will never give you away anymore.” Thank you.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: Colleagues,
I have signed several executive orders today, including one on establishing a new federal district – the Crimea Federal District, and have appointed Oleg Belaventsev Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoy to the new federal district.
We have a lot of work ahead to integrate Crimea into the Russian legal, economic and social systems. I discussed these issues yesterday with the Government and again today with the Security Council, and I ask the State Duma deputies and members of the Federation Council and the Federal Assembly as a whole to take an active part in this work and do everything within your power to ensure this process not only goes smoothly but benefits everyone in Russia and in Crimea.
Thank you very much for this joint work.
Geography
Sevastopol
Republic of Crimea
Topics
Regions
Persons
Matviyenko Valentina
Naryshkin Sergei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 21, 2014, 15:30
Text versionEvents
Expanded meeting of the Interior Ministry Board
Vladimir Putin took part in an expanded meeting of the Interior Ministry Board.
March 21, 2014
15:00
Moscow
1 of 3
Expanded meeting of the Interior Ministry Board.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends,
The Interior Ministry has undergone a lot of change and modernisation over the recent years. A modern legal base has been established and human resources methods and approaches are changing too. The Ministry’s central organisation has been optimised, as have regional branches, and the level of technical resources has also increased substantially.
Of course, it would be impossible to achieve truly radical change overnight in such a complex and multifunctional system as the Interior Ministry. A large number of internal problems had built up, as you all know. But the state authorities, and more important still, the public want to see improvement take place at even faster pace, want to see quality results that will make their effect felt on the country as a whole and on people at the individual level.
I am sure that the Ministry has the administrative, professional and human resource potential needed for achieving these important objectives. In this respect, I want to note once again the well-coordinated work that the Interior Ministry and Interior Ministry forces carried out during the Olympics and Paralympics in Sochi, and also during the World Student Games in Kazan.
Colleagues and friends, I want to thank everyone in the Interior Ministry and its forces who ensured security at these big events. I thank you for your professionalism, responsible approach, discipline, and your respectful attitude towards the guests, athletes, supporters, and the people of Sochi.
In many respects you not only ensured security but also created a positive atmosphere at these events. You gave a clear demonstration of what our law enforcement agencies can accomplish, including in terms of swift response and good coordination with other agencies and services and with the regional authorities.
I think it is important that we now take this positive experience and build on it, including in the big organisational task that is the establishment of branches of our law enforcement agencies in Crimea and Sevastopol, in accordance with our country’s laws.
The Minister and I were talking just now: the Ministry, jointly with the Presidential Executive Office, has prepared corresponding documents and draft presidential executive orders so that we can recognise military ranks, service records and diplomas for Interior Ministry staff members who used to work in Crimea and Sevastopol. This will allow us to formalise many of their documents so they can work. We must resolve all these issues as efficiently as possible with material and social provisions for Interior Ministry staff in Crimea and Sevastopol.
Colleagues, I would like to outline the priority challenges faced by the Interior Ministry in the near future and in the long-term.
The most important among them remains the protection of citizens’ legal interests and resolutely combatting crime. I will note that last year, we saw a continued trend in the decrease of registered crime numbers, including serious and particularly grave offenses.
This trend has continued in Russia over the last seven years, and it is certainly a good result. The number of registered property offences has decreased by 7% and the number of burglaries has dropped by over 10%.
At the same time, the overall number of crimes committed remains significant. So far, we have been unable to increase the crime detection rate. The share of unsolved crimes in Russia is nearly 44%; I want to draw your attention to this figure. It carries serious criminogenic risks, is detrimental to the department’s authority and, indeed, to the entire system of power; it leads to a lack of faith in justice, the power of the law and the inevitability of punishment for criminals.
We need to turn this situation around, first and foremost by increasing the quality of operative investigation and criminal procedure work, at all levels: from the neighbourhood branch to the central headquarters, and build more effective cooperation with other law enforcement agencies.
It is also imperative to react immediately to alarms and calls from people, identify and investigate them, without allowing delays, run-arounds, buck-passing and other types of heartless, bureaucratic attitudes toward this work, or even direct violations of the law and service standards. I am asking managers at all levels to monitor this very strictly and thoroughly.
An important area of your work involves decriminalising the economy and participating in the creation of a healthy business climate. I will note that compared to 2012, we have seen a nearly 20% drop (a little over 18%) in the number of economic crimes.
Incidentally, these indicators are directly related to fundamental changes in our legislation and law enforcement practices by interior affairs agencies. I feel that in the future, we must also consistently eliminate various opportunities for unfounded meddling by law enforcement agencies in economic affairs and disputes between businesses.
At the same time, we must be more active in cases when the interests of citizens, businesses and the state are genuinely threatened, including corporate raiding and unlawful financial operations, the embezzlement of public funds and corruption. It is imperative to use new approaches that will allow us to effectively identify such crimes in the early stages and thoroughly prepare the evidence.
Another priority is ensuring public safety, first and foremost by reducing the level of crime in public places, on the streets, and in our cities’ and towns’ courtyards.
The Federal Law On Citizen Participation in Maintaining Public Order should be very helpful in this work. It was submitted to the State Duma on your initiative and its goal is to engage volunteers who wish to help the police maintain order. Incidentally, most federal constituent entities have similar laws, which work effectively.
Our approach to preventing crime requires some serious adjustment. We have addressed this topic many times, putting a lot of effort into building a corresponding state system. At the same time, it is clear that the system’s legal and methodological framework must fully correspond to modern demands.
The time has come to update many of the stipulations that create the legislative backbone of this system, paying particular attention to minors and individuals in difficult situations.
We will need to improve the efficiency of neighbourhood police. Their assignments and responsibilities are very extensive, and their area of work is certainly difficult and quite complex. It is important to release them from non-core functions and allow them more time to be involved in their direct duties.
Citizens should know the faces of their neighbourhood police officers, as they did in the past, and police officers should have a good understanding of the problems faced by their territory and its residents, including the risk groups, and be aware of the latest information. In many cases, this information allows them to identify criminals more quickly. For example, statistically speaking, in nearly one quarter of burglaries, the criminal’s identity was discovered with the help of neighbourhood police.
Furthermore, there are serious risks associated with uncontrolled migration flows. Last year’s data analysis shows that the number of crimes committed by foreign nationals – first and foremost, citizens of CIS nations – grew by 10%.
Clearly, in addition to the existing decisions aimed at establishing order in the field of migration – and I want to stress that this is not some sort of campaign, this is serious work aimed at improving the situation in this sphere – we need to consider an additional set of measures for effectively preventing such crimes and using combined knowhow, strategic information and assistance from our colleagues in CIS nations.
The same approach needs to be applied in countering illegal migration and building closer coordination – first and foremost with security agencies, the migration services, bailiff offices – in order to identify and intercept groups organising illegal migration, giving particular attention to territories adjacent to the border.
The fight against extremism remains one of the most important objectives of the Interior Ministry. Statistics show that such crimes have increased in the past year, and this poses a serious threat to our entire society. I have already said this and I want to repeat it: it is unacceptable to close our eyes and underestimate anyone’s extremist actions.
Your professional duty is to emphatically fight against all manifestations of xenophobia, nationalism and religious hatred, work to prevent extremism among young people, and use all of the Interior Ministry legal and organisational opportunities to intercept hate speech and radical propaganda, including online and through other information technologies and resources.
As experts, you are well aware that there is a direct link between extremist and terrorist groups, and here, the Interior Ministry must also work actively with colleagues from other security agencies and services with the National Anti-Terrorism Committee serving as a coordinator.
I want to stress that the responsibility of all officials related to anti-terrorist security will only grow and increase – in order for us to finally nip this very serious threat to our nation in the bud.
There is another issue I would like to touch on separately: road safety. You know, we have toughened penalties for speeding and drunk driving, and adopted a whole range of federal and regional programmes; we have increased the technical equipment of the state traffic police several-fold, and practically all the main highways are equipped with video cameras. However, the number of traffic incidents is not decreasing. Moreover, the number of accidents involving drunk drivers increased by nearly 6% compared to 2012; there were over 13,500 such accidents, which is a very worrying figure.
I want to stress that every such incident should be treated as extreme, and perpetrators should be subject to the strictest measures provided by the law. And, of course, we need to raise the standards of behaviour on the road. Government agencies, public organisations, civil society groups and the media should all be involved in this work
Colleagues, one of today’s priorities is strengthening the Interior Ministry’s human resources. It is important to ensure consistency in appointing administrators, taking a principled approach to the professional and personal qualities of staff at all levels. We need to continue training and preparing the pool of high-potential managers, at both the federal and regional level. We must increase the level of internal discipline and require managers to be held accountable for the actions of their subordinates.
For its part, the government will help create good conditions for serving in the Interior Ministry. We will continue to equip units with modern equipment, transport, weapons and means of communication, increasing employees’ salaries and their level of legal and social protection.
As you know, budgetary expenditures for the maintenance of the Ministry and interior forces have been growing in recent years. I will also note that over the past two years, there has been a noticeable increase in Interior Ministry staff salaries. Housing is still an issue, and funding is being allocated for purchasing and building housing, and we will increase the availability of this programme as finances allow.
In conclusion, I would like to wish the Interior Ministry and interior forces staff success in their service. I am confident that you will continue to fulfil all the objectives before you conscientiously.
Thank you for your attention. Good luck!
Topics
Fight against crime
Law enforcement agencies
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 21, 2014, 15:00
Text versionEvents
Comments regarding US sanctions against Russia, effective from March 20, 2014
March 21, 2014
15:15
Question: You already commented on the sanctions at the Security Council meeting today, but nonetheless, the list includes some names that are difficult to explain, such as Mr Timchenko, Mr Rotenberg and Mr Kovalchuk, for example. Are they being targeted because they are considered to be your friends, or because they are somehow connected to the events in Crimea?
Vladimir Putin: Well, to be honest, they are those very same ‘polite people’ – the ones in camouflage gear, with semi-automatic rifles strapped to their waists. And their last names are a bit odd too. The names you just mentioned, for example: Kovalchuk, Rotenberg, Timchenko – all typical “moskal” [Ukrainian nickname for Russians] names. I think I’d be wise to keep my distance from them.
The sanctions target a bank too. Given that this bank definitely has no connection to the events in Crimea, and it has clients, we will certainly have to give it our protection and do everything we can to make sure that there are no negative consequences for the bank itself or for its clients.
As you know, I already said that I will open a personal account in this bank, and I have already instructed the Presidential Administrative Directorate to transfer my pay into this account. I have also sent a request to the Central Bank, not about my pay, but about supporting this bank, all the more so as it bears the highly resonant and symbolic name of Rossiya [Russia].
See also
Meeting with permanent members of the Security Council
March 21, 2014
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: March 21, 2014, 15:15
Text version