Working meeting with Lev Kuznetsov.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Kuznetsov, how long have you been working in Krasnoyarsk Territory?
Lev Kuznetsov: That depends on which office we are looking at, Mr President.
Vladimir Putin: As the region’s Governor.
Lev Kuznetsov: I’ve been in office as Governor since February 17, 2010, so around 4 years and 4 months in all.
Vladimir Putin: You already know that, acting on the Prime Minister’s proposal, we are establishing a new Ministry for North Caucasus Affairs, for developing the North Caucasus. We are offering you the post of minister.
I know that you have already discussed this matter with the Presidential Executive Office and the Government. I want to thank you for your work as Governor of Krasnoyarsk Territory, and I hope that you will make use of the experience and skills you gained in this high office in Siberia in your new post. 
This Ministry is being established, as was the case with some of our other vitally important regions, to concentrate the federal authorities’ attention on developing the North Caucasus.
I wish you good luck.
Lev Kuznetsov: Thank you, Mr President, for placing this trust in me. I think the experience I gained in Siberia will help me to do an efficient job as minister responsible for the North Caucasus development.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
<…>
See also
Executive order on the Ministry for North Caucasus Affairs
May 12, 2014
Lev Kuznetsov has been appointed Minister for North Caucasus Affairs
May 12, 2014
AdditionalEvents
Meeting with Nikolai Rogozhkin and Sergei Melikov
Vladimir Putin announced at the meeting the decision to appoint Sergei Melikov Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoy to the North Caucasus Federal District and Nikolai Rogozhkin Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoy to the Siberian Federal District.
May 12, 2014
16:00
With Nikolai Rogozhkin (left) and Sergei Melikov.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Rogozhkin, Mr Melikov,
Russia’s Interior Ministry forces not only perform their direct duties, but also offer us a good human resources reserve for work at the political level.
You know that Mr Rogozhkin has been offered the post of Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoy to the Siberian Federal District, and Mr Melikov has been offered the same post in the North Caucasus Federal District.
I want to inform you that Mr Khloponin will remain in his post as Deputy Prime Minister. He was combining the two offices [Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoy to the North Caucasus Federal District and Deputy Prime Minister] until now, and will stay on in the Government as Deputy Prime Minister. Acting Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoy to the Siberian Federal District Mr Tolokonsky will go to Krasnoyarsk Territory as Acting Governor of the region. 
You know the situation in these regions well – Mr Melikov has served in the North Caucasus for a long time now and knows the people well, and Mr Rogozhkin knows Siberia. I hope that you will make good use of this knowledge and put your best qualities, your organisational skills and experience to effective work in your new positions. 
Nikolai Rogozhkin: We will do our best to live up to the trust you have placed in us.
Sergei Melikov: We will work hard.
Vladimir Putin: Good.
<…>
See also
Sergei Melikov has been appointed Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoy to the North Caucasus Federal District
May 12, 2014
Nikolai Rogozhkin has been appointed Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoy to the Siberian Federal District
May 12, 2014
Additional
Viktor Tolokonsky has been released from his duties as Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoy to the Siberian Federal District
May 12, 2014
Alexander Khloponin has been appointed Deputy Prime Minister
May 12, 2014
Topics
Civil service
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 12, 2014, 16:00
Text version