Events
Video linkup with Gorky Automotive Plant
September 19, 2014
18:20
Kstovo
3 of 6
While viewing new GAZon Next medium-duty truck model.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends.
I want to congratulate you on this wonderful and important event not only in the life of your company, GAZ, but in the life of our country’s automotive industry and in the life of the millions of consumers who know and value GAZ.
You are launching production today of a new series of medium-duty trucks. I am sure that they will be an excellent product. The company’s managers just told me before that 90 percent of production is localised. Essentially this is a Russian-made vehicle, with the basic components all made here in the Russian Federation.
I know that the consumers have long been waiting for such a vehicle. GAZ is showing dynamic development now. This truck will find demand not only on our market, but, I am sure and I agree here with your managers, it will be in demand on the international market too. I hope that it will come at an affordable price for consumers. 
I congratulate you. This is another good step forward for GAZ and for your entire team. I congratulate everyone who took part in this work and I wish you further success.
I heard just now about the plans GAZ has lined up. I am sure that you will carry out your programme. I congratulate you and wish you all the very best.
<…>
Friends, let me congratulate you once again.
Aside from everything else, I cannot but agree with those who are watching the events and seeing the new truck up close that it is indeed a very fine-looking and modern vehicle and really makes a marvellous sight.
This is important too, because everything that we produce should not only be reliable, effective and competitive, but should also please the eye.
Thank you very much. All the best and my congratulations! I wish you success.
See also
Visit to the new RusVinyl plant
September 19, 2014
Additional
All news about trip to Nizhny Novgorod Region
September 19, 2014
Geography
Nizhny Novgorod Region
Topics
Industry
Transport
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: September 19, 2014, 18:20
Text version