Events
Meeting with President of Iran Hassan Rouhani
Vladimir Putin met with President of the Islamic Republic of Iran Hassan Rouhani. The two presidents discussed a broad range of bilateral cooperation matters.
September 12, 2014
16:10
3 of 3
With President of Iran Hassan Rouhani.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, colleagues, it is a great pleasure to have this chance to meet with you on the sidelines of the SCO
summit in Dushanbe.
Everyone knows that we are working steadily and consistently to develop our relations. We have big projects that have already been completed or are in progress.
We have good opportunities for working together and developing cooperation. This concerns political cooperation and also economic ties. I am very happy to have this chance to see you today and discuss the whole range of our relations.
President of Iran Hassan Rouhani
(retranslated): Mr President, I am pleased to have this opportunity to take part in the SCO summit and to meet with you and discuss the issues of mutual interest.
The Russian Federation is an important country in the region and the Islamic Republic of Iran places great significance on relations with your country. Our government’s work over these last years shows that whether in our regional policy or regarding the bilateral agenda we are working towards goals that are in the interests of our people and of the region as a whole.
I am very pleased that over this last year we have seen progress in our countries’ economic and political relations and in international policy too. The Islamic Republic of Iran is firmly committed to developing relations with the Russian Federation in all areas.
<…>
See also
Shanghai Cooperation Organisation Summit
September 12, 2014
Additional
All news about visit to Tajikistan
September 11 − 12, 2014
Geography
Iran
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Rouhani Hassan
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 12, 2014, 16:10
Text versionEvents
Answers to journalists’ questions
Vladimir Putin answered Russian journalists’ questions following the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation summit.
September 12, 2014
19:00
Dushanbe
1 of 5
Vladimir Putin answered Russian journalists’ questions following the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation summit.
See also
Shanghai Cooperation Organisation Summit
September 12, 2014
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, please, go ahead.
Question: The SCO summits always draw a lot of attention, and given the current international situation, the attention is even greater this time. What are the summit’s main results in your view? Could you give some greater detail? Of course we all noted the statements some of the CIS countries’ leaders made today with regard to Ukraine. In how much detail was the Ukrainian crisis discussed at the summit and how close are the SCO countries’ leaders’ views on this matter?
Vladimir Putin: Regarding the summit overall, I think it was a big success. We reviewed what has been achieved so far in the economy, in coordinating our positions on the international stage, and discussed at the meeting in narrow format our assessments of current events and the threats that we see and that we must respond to in timely and competent fashion, above all the Afghanistan problem. I will not go into detail now, but you probably all saw it for yourselves anyway, and it is all reflected in the documents. We discussed other troubled parts of the world too, North Africa, Iraq of course, and other countries. Of course we also discussed the situation in Ukraine. I briefed my colleagues on what is happening there. Our common position (and I mean precisely our common position, as we share practically the same views and approach regarding this issue) is reflected in the relevant summit document. You can take a look at it for yourselves. It sets out everything in detail. I would not say that Ukraine was discussed as a separate issue of its own, rather it was examined as one of the issues we face today.
I had bilateral meetings with nearly all of my colleagues. I had very constructive meetings with the presidents of Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan, and Tajikistan, and with the various participants and members of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation, including President of the People’s Republic of China Xi Jinping. We have highly developed bilateral relations with each of these countries. China, as you know, is our biggest trade and economic partner and our bilateral trade will reach a figure of nearly $90 billion this year. China is our biggest partner among individual countries. We also discussed our plans to enlarge the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation. You saw that we adopted documents today relating to procedures for accession of new member countries to the organisation.
”Our natural geographical proximity and Mongolia’s geographical location between its two biggest trade and economic partners – China on one side and Russia on the other – can encourage us into carrying out many joint projects, especially in infrastructure and the energy sector.“
Russia took over the organisation’s presidency for the coming year. We plan to hold a summit in Ufa next year. Over this time, we plan to hold more than 100 events of various types and level, economic and humanitarian. The summit will of course be the concluding event and will take place in July next year. Or course we will also work on the question of accepting new members into the organisation.
India and Pakistan have both expressed the desire to join the organisation. We will work with all of our partners and colleagues and with all participants in the organisation. Let’s see what results we can achieve by July next year. Overall, our delegation sees this summit as having been very productive and a big success.
Question: Continuing with the subject of the SCO summit, I want to clarify some of the bilateral talks’ results. In particular, did you reach any new agreements with China, and how did the trilateral meeting go with the presidents of China and Mongolia?
Vladimir Putin: We held this first ever trilateral meeting at Mongolia’s initiative. Excuse me for not mentioning this before. We agreed that we will continue meeting in this format. Russia proposed that we meet in trilateral format on the sidelines of SCO summits, all the more so as Mongolia is an observer country in the SCO and regularly attends the summits. 
We have plenty to discuss of course in this trilateral format. Our natural geographical proximity and Mongolia’s geographical location between its two biggest trade and economic partners – China on one side and Russia on the other – can encourage us into carrying out many joint projects, especially in infrastructure and the energy sector. These are all things that we discussed. 
Again, acting on Mongolia’s proposal, we also agreed that we will perhaps raise the level of our regularly functioning political instrument. The three countries’ representatives meet regularly at the level of ministerial department heads. We agreed to raise this level to that of say deputy minister or perhaps even minister.
We have an immense amount of work to do with our Chinese partners too. This includes work in the energy sector, machine building, aircraft manufacturing, and military technical cooperation. We went over our entire bilateral agenda, highlighted some things in particular, and agreed on what needs to be pushed through at the political level. Overall, we are happy at the way our relations with China are developing.
Question: The European Union has adopted a new package of sanctions. How do you assess them and how damaging will they be for Russia? Will there be any countermeasures, sanctions in response, and if so, what will they be? The new sanctions list the EU has announced includes politicians from Crimea, Donetsk and Lugansk peoples republics, and State Duma deputies too. [Vladimir] Zhirinovsky is on the list and so is [Vladimir] Vasiliyev. What are your thoughts on the matter?
Vladimir Putin: Russia’s position on sanctions is well-known. We have long since realised that sanctions as a foreign policy instrument are not very effective and almost never produce the hoped-for results, even when used against small countries, let alone against a country like Russia. 
”We have an immense amount of work to do with our Chinese partners too. This includes work in the energy sector, machine building, aircraft manufacturing, and military technical cooperation. Overall, we are happy at the way our relations with China are developing.“
Of course, imposing sanctions always causes some damage, including for those who impose them. The sanctions against Russia will be no exception. We know the losses that European business and US business too will face and the damage done to trade relations as a result of the measures Russia has taken in response, but as we say in such cases, we have been left with no choice. 
As for the latest round of sanctions, the use of this mechanism looks somewhat strange, even in a generally strange situation. I say this because, as you know, I had a telephone conversation with President of Ukraine [Petro] Poroshenko recently, and following on from that conversation I proposed an action plan for setting the conflict on track towards a peaceful settlement. 
I even said at that moment in Ulan Bator, talking about these plans, that President Poroshenko and I were generally in agreement in our positions. Building on that conversation, I put forward a seven-point plan, which, as we saw, essentially became the base of the peace agreements signed at the contact group’s meeting in Minsk.
We are pleased to see that the process did begin and that hostilities have stopped, the militia have ceased hostilities and the Ukrainian army, to give the Ukrainian President his due, has also taken the required steps under the agreements. They have pulled back, in some places at least, and have pulled back their artillery and multiple launch rocket systems to a distance from where they cannot fire on populated areas.
The peace process has begun and so have the first contacts, and I think that the possibility has emerged that this process might produce a political settlement, even if just a temporary one for now. This is definitely a positive shift in the situation that has unfolded in southeast Ukraine.
But I cannot fathom what these latest sanctions are actually about. Perhaps it is not to someone’s liking that the process has taken a peaceful turn? I have already said many times that our Western partners pushed things towards an anti-constitutional coup in Kiev, and then supported the military operations in southeast Ukraine, and now, just when the situation has taken a turn towards a peaceful settlement, they are taking steps that practically aim to disrupt this peace process. Why are they doing this?
I can’t help but think the seditious thought that no one actually cares about Ukraine itself. They are just using Ukraine as an instrument to shake up international relations. Ukraine is being used as an instrument and has been made hostage to the desire of some players on the international stage to revive NATO say, not so much even as a military organisation, but as a key instrument in US foreign policy, in order for the US to consolidate its satellites and scare them with a threat from abroad. But if this is the case, this is a real shame because it means that Ukraine has essentially become hostage to another’s interests. I do not see anything good in this practice. 
”Russia’s position on sanctions is well-known. We have long since realised that sanctions as a foreign policy instrument are not very effective and almost never produce the hoped-for results, even when used against small countries, let alone against a country like Russia. ”
As for our retaliatory measures, the Government is considering this. But if they are applied, then they will only be applied with the goal of creating better conditions for us. I feel there are certainly downsides to what was done to limit food imports for us as well, but they are minimal. There are far more positives for stimulating the development of our own agriculture, freeing the market from Western manufacturers that have thoroughly assimilated in our market, and meanwhile, they receive much more support and subsidies at a much higher volume than our agricultural producers.
Some people know, and others don’t, that subsidies per hectare of cultivated lands in the European Union are six times greater – I want to stress this – than in the Russian Federation. So the competition here was not very fair. But if the Government comes up with an idea that will help us somehow resolve our internal problems, then I suppose we should agree with it. But we will not do anything to harm ourselves. This concerns our response to sanctions.
As for the lists, I welcome this resolution by the European Union. The less our officials and heads of major companies go abroad and work on pressing matters instead, the better. The same is true of State Duma deputies, who need to communicate more frequently with their voters, rather than tanning somewhere at foreign resorts. Nevertheless, some questions arise; there are some names there that seem rather strange. I do not recall, I think it was one of the deputies, I think it was Babakov. And then the wording there…
Reply: For assets.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, for assets in Ukraine and in Crimea. But Ukraine’s current leadership also has many assets in Ukraine and in Crimea. Apparently, if you follow this logic further, they themselves need to be included in the sanctions list.
Moreover, it included the prime minister of the self-proclaimed Donetsk Republic. Our Western and Ukrainian partners insisted that officials from the self-proclaimed republics participate in the peace negotiation process. They came to us requesting that we use our influence to encourage them to participate.
We tried to do this. The prime minister is participating in this work and was accepted as a participant in the negotiations. But then they included him on the sanctions list. What is this, another attempt to somehow disrupt this peace process? Or what? What is this?
I would not want to think so. But there is certainly no logic in this whatsoever. And overall, you know, I am against these types of things – tit for tat, if they are not letting somebody in then we are not letting somebody in. We invite them to our nation; let them come and work. We are not going to refuse anyone. It is not even our choice. We will not follow that path. But if somebody does not want to work with us, there will always be alternatives.
Question: You said that you will not do anything to harm Russia with these sanctions; nevertheless, the limitations in food imports have already led to increased prices.
Vladimir Putin: You apparently got a little distracted, because I stated that certain aspects of this are undoubtedly negative. But if we look at the problem comprehensively, there are more positives than negatives.
Question: Yesterday, your aide said that [limitations] might involve cars, pharmaceuticals and…
Vladimir Putin: Listen. I am not getting involved in such technical work at this phase. It is true that the Cabinet is currently thinking this over, preparing certain suggestions. If my colleagues in the Cabinet come to the conclusion that a specific set of steps correspond to the interests of our economy, then we will do it. And if it’s just about showing off how tough we are, just to snap back and then to suffer damage as a result of that, we will not do it.
Ultimately, I wanted to convey our approach; as for the concrete steps that will be taken, if they are taken at all, we will see. Let the Cabinet think about it and make suggestions.
Thank you very much.
Geography
Tajikistan
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 12, 2014, 19:00
Text versionEvents
Shanghai Cooperation Organisation Summit
Vladimir Putin took part in the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation summit in Dushanbe.
September 12, 2014
13:30
Dushanbe
2 of 13
Participants in the SCO Council of Heads of State meeting in narrow format.
See also
All news about visit to Tajikistan
September 11 − 12, 2014
Following the meeting in narrow format, the SCO
Council of Heads of State met in expanded format with participation by representatives from SCO observer states.
The presidents of Russia, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, and China signed a package of agreements following the summit. The documents signed include the Dushanbe Declaration, the decision of the Council of Heads of SCO Member States on a standard memorandum on the obligations of countries applying to join the SCO, the decision of the Council of Heads of SCO Member States on approving procedures for accession to the SCO, the decision of the Council of Heads of SCO Member States on the draft SCO Development Strategy through to 2025, the decision of the Council of Heads of SCO Member States on celebrating the 70th anniversary of victory in World War II, and the decision of the Council of Heads of SCO Member States approving provisions on the SCO’s symbols and emblems.
The SCO leaders also witnessed the signing of an agreement between the SCO member states’ governments on establishing favourable conditions for international road transport.
* * *
Speech at an expanded meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation Council of Heads of State
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues and guests,
The organisation has seen its influence grow and strengthen over the year since our last summit in Bishkek. I want to stress in this respect that I believe it essential to continue to make our work together more effective so as to be better prepared to respond to the challenges that come our way.
This is all the more essential when we live in a complicated world burdened with a large number of threats of various kinds. As our colleagues have already mentioned, one of the problem spots in our region is Afghanistan. We had the opportunity to discuss this issue with the President of Afghanistan too yesterday.
As far as Afghanistan is concerned, Russia supports the rapid completion of the election process underway there. We continue to follow closely the handover of responsibility for law and order to Afghanistan’s own agencies. 
We take the position that the International Security Assistance Force will fulfil the obligations with which it was mandated by the UN. We consider it important to continue the practice of involving observer countries in the SCO’s political consultations on Afghanistan and other problems in the region.
At the meeting in narrow format we discussed some other current international affairs too, including the situation in Ukraine. We are very pleased to see that we share identical or similar views on the main areas of cooperation. This consensus of views is reflected in the Dushanbe Declaration that we are adopting.
”Russia takes its duties as the country chairing the SCO very seriously. Our presidency’s priorities include strengthening the organisation’s role as an effective mechanism for regional security, launching big multilateral economic projects, deepening cultural and humanitarian ties, and developing new approaches to current regional and global problems.“
Colleagues, let me remind you that the global economy has not yet overcome the crisis and its problems, and the current political risks and various restrictions and barriers are only worsening the situation, causing direct damage to the global business climate and undermining confidence in international trade and the financial system. 
In this situation, I propose that we reflect on updating the SCO Trade and Economic Cooperation Programme of 2003 and the Implementation Plan, which was reviewed in 2008. Many cooperation mechanisms in this area have already been established, including the SCO Business Council and Interbank Association, and the meetings of heads of relevant agencies. We also support stronger international ties at the regional level, in particular in line with the results of the recent round table on regional cooperation between SCO member states.
We see great potential in the idea of developing a common SCO transport system that would make use too of Russia’s Trans-Siberian Railway and Baikal-Amur Mainline and be tied into China’s plans for developing the Silk Road route. I am sure that big projects of this kind serve the interests of our organisation’s members and would benefit all countries in Eurasia.
Practical work in this area will get a good boost from the agreement signed today on establishing good conditions for international road transport. This agreement will help us to develop a network of road transport routes, including the Europe-Western China transport corridor, which links the ports on the Yellow Sea coast to the ports in Russia’s Leningrad Region. The next step is to approve the programme for coordinating SCO member states’ road development. Russia submitted a draft of this programme to our partners in April this year. 
I note too that Russia hosted the SCO Youth Entrepreneurship Forum in August this year. Around 500 businesspeople from Russia, China, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, India, Iran, and Belarus took part in the forum and more than 20 contracts were signed in the areas of education, information and communications technology, advertising and trade.
We are happy with the way the SCO is developing humanitarian cooperation. Russia this year hosted with success the 7th SCO Education Week and the international festival SCO Countries’ Student Spring. The SCO University is another very promising project and we hope to sign the intergovernmental agreement on its creation. 
”As Russia takes over as acting chair of the organisation, we hope that next year, the SCO’s enlargement will start to take on real contours.“
We think that developing the relations between our countries’ parliaments is also important and practically all the member countries show interest in this work.
Today, we will adopt important documents that regulate the procedures for joining the SCO. This completes the work on setting out the legal, administrative and financial conditions for accession to the SCO and for taking in new members. We think this will strengthen the organisation and boost its international influence. 
As Russia takes over as acting chair of the organisation, we hope that next year, the SCO’s enlargement will start to take on real contours. We will do everything we can to facilitate this process.
Let me stress that Russia takes its duties as the country chairing the SCO very seriously. Our presidency’s priorities include strengthening the organisation’s role as an effective mechanism for regional security, launching big multilateral economic projects, deepening cultural and humanitarian ties, and developing new approaches to current regional and global problems.
We will implement the decision on drafting the SCO Development Strategy through to 2025 by the next summit.
We place particular importance on joint celebrations of the 70th anniversary of Victory in World War II in 2015.
We think it important to develop ties between the SCO and the Customs Union between Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan, and to expand cooperation with other international organisations, especially the UN.
During our presidency, we will hold around 100 different events at various levels, chief of which will be the next SCO summit, which will take place in Ufa on July 9–10, 2015.
Thank you for your attention, and I look forward to seeing you all in Russia next year.
Thank you.
Geography
Tajikistan
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 12, 2014, 13:30
Text version