At the same time, it is patently obvious that the army and navy need further improvement and development. We need to carry out our defence procurement programme and all other defence development programmes in full.
I want to draw your attention to the following priority tasks.
First, we must complete drafting of the 2016–2020 Defence Plan. This plan should be ready for approval in a year’s time, in December 2015.
This year, we have made adjustments to the Federal Law On Defence and drafted amendments to the Military Doctrine. Together with the defence plan approved on November 26, 2014, they will serve as the base for drafting short-, medium- and long-term planning documents.
Second, we must develop all components of our strategic nuclear forces, which play a very important part in maintaining global balance and essentially rule out the possibility of a large-scale attack against Russia. In 2015, the strategic nuclear forces will receive more than 50 intercontinental ballistic missiles. You can imagine what a powerful force this is. We must continue modernising our strategic aviation and put the two missile-carrying submarines Vladimir Monomakh and Alexander Nevsky on combat duty.
In the medium term through to 2021, we need to complete the transition to entirely modern arms for our ground-based nuclear forces, modernise the entire fleet of Tu-160 and Tu-95ms bombers, and also develop a new generation strategic bomber. 
Third, we need to complete the establishment of the Aerospace Defence Forces in 2015. Deployment of this new type of force will make it possible to use in better coordinated fashion our aviation, air defence and missile defence systems, thereby considerably raising the level of protection of Russia’s airspace.
Fourth is a quality reinforcement of defence in strategically important parts of the country such as the Arctic and other regions. 
The unified strategic command [in the Arctic] was established on December 15, based on the Northern Fleet. Next year will see the completion of military infrastructure on Novaya Zemlya, Kotelny and Wrangel islands, and Cape Schmidt. I ask you to keep these matters under your constant control.
Let me say again that we have no intention of militarising the Arctic. Our action in the Arctic is restrained and reasonable in scale and is simply in keeping with what Russia unquestionably needs to do to ensure its defence capability.
Fifth, to maintain a high and constant level of combat readiness, we must continue the practice of snap inspections. Next year, they should extend to all military districts and branches of the armed forces, and also to the relevant federal and regional agencies and departments.
Furthermore, next year, we will hold the large-scale Russian-Belarusian tactical exercises Shchit Soyuza 2015, and the strategic command headquarters exercises Tsentr 2015, which will enable us to work through defence and security issues in the Central Asian region that is of crucial importance to Russia.
It is important in general to strengthen our cooperation with our allies and partners in the CSTO.
Colleagues, resolving military service personnel’s social issues remains a top priority for us. As at December this year, the Defence Ministry had provided more than 13,000 service personnel with permanent housing. Of this total, 4,800 used the new method of subsidies for purchasing or building housing. More than 18,000 people received service housing. This is nearly nine percent higher than the planned target for the year.
We need to keep up this positive trend in 2015 and above all complete the plans to build 24,000 service apartments. Let me repeat once more that construction of the service housing stock should be entirely completed in the coming years.
Let me remind you too that as part of our plans for developing military infrastructure, we will develop and modernise 535 military garrisons by 2020. Work is already complete at more than a quarter of them, and another 142 garrisons will be ready next year. As we agreed, all large garrisons with more than 1,500 people should have sports facilities with swimming pools, recreation and leisure centres and so on, all the needed social infrastructure. Modern conditions for service and possibilities for work, study, and interesting leisure for service personnel’s families are extremely important for making military service prestigious and for the mood and morale of the service personnel in general.
Colleagues, next year, we will celebrate a big date – the 70th anniversary of Victory in the Great Patriotic War. This date symbolises our people’s heroism, the courage of our armed forces, and the traditions that have been handed down here from one generation to the next and that – I am sure – will always serve as the benchmark for our armed forces and for all of our country’s soldiers and officers. 
I hope that you will mark this upcoming anniversary year with worthy results in military training, and I wish you success of course. 
I want once again to thank the heads and the personnel of our Armed Forces for their conscientious service.
Thank you very much for your attention.
<…>Events
Meeting with business community representatives
Vladimir Putin met with business community representatives.
December 19, 2014
20:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
3 of 3
During meeting with business community representatives. With Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Sergei Ivanov.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good evening, colleagues,
Our end-of-year meeting is becoming a tradition, and this year, I suppose the meeting is particularly necessary. I am referring to external circumstances, circumstances in the global markets, primarily commodities, oil and gas markets, which affect our economy significantly. I am also referring to the situation in our economy and finances, and the state of the national currency.
You know that in recent years, we have not made any significant decisions that affect the state of the Russian economy in some way without first consulting the business community. I hope that we will stick to this approach in the future.
Given the specific nature of today’s situation, I have asked representatives from the Presidential Executive Office dealing with economic issues to attend today’s meeting, along with the Deputy Prime Minister and Central Bank Chairperson. If needed, we are at your disposal to discuss current matters of mutual interest.
Overall, in my Address [to the Federal Assembly] I explained what the Government will be doing and repeated some parts in yesterday’s major end-of-year news conference. It is clear that we are facing difficult challenges and we may have to pass through a difficult phase in our development. It is also clear that we can get through it, and even, as we often say, take advantage of the situation to resolve the main challenge our economy has been facing for the past 15–20 years – the challenge of economic diversification.
In these circumstances, it is absolutely clear that new niches must appear, which will be profitable for investing available resources. In order to invest in them, we first of all need to have them, and we need to be certain that the government will help. Strictly speaking, the main purpose of these meetings is for all of us to feel the support of the other, for the government to feel the support of businesses and your teams. You have a large number of people behind you and you have an enormous responsibility for their wellbeing, the wellbeing of your workforces, their lives, the level of their wages, and the resolution of many social issues. But the government, of course, must also feel you and your concerns. We intend to continue working closely together, as we have done in recent years.
There were certain new ideas proposed in the Address. For example, the now well-known proposal to introduce amnesty for capitals. If needed, we can discuss this aspect as well.
Overall, I expect that we will have an absolutely free, informal, but business-oriented discussion today.
I am happy to welcome you. Thank you very much for your attention.
<…>
Topics
Economy and finance
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 19, 2014, 20:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting on commissioning defence industry goods
Vladimir Putin visited the National Defence Control Centre, where he held a meeting on commissioning defence industry goods.
December 19, 2014
15:45
Moscow
13 of 19
None
The President looked over the main facilities at the Centre, which began operation on December 1 and makes it possible for the Security Council, Armed Forces General Staff and the heads of the federal executive agencies to work simultaneously.
The National Defence Control Centre makes it possible for the Security Council, Armed Forces General Staff, and the heads of the federal executive authorities to work simultaneously.
Mr Putin visited the control and coordination, combat control, and daily operations control centres, which monitor combat readiness operations and implementation of defence procurement contracts, analyse the financial and material provisions and the personnel situation in the armed forces, and ensure information exchange with the federal authorities.
The President held a meeting at the Centre on standards and procedures for commissioning goods produced by the defence industry and reviewed the defence procurement programme’s results for 2014.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues,
Today is the latest of our common days for formal commissioning of defence industry goods. This management tool has become part of our standard practice over this year and enables us to make a quarterly inspection of the new equipment the armed forces are receiving. This makes it easier for the defence industry and the Defence Ministry to plan and organise their work in smooth fashion. 
During the videoconference, we will review the defence procurement programme’s results for the fourth quarter and indeed for 2014 as a whole. At the same time, we will assess how ready the units are for putting the new equipment into operation.
We noted during the recent meetings in Sochi that nearly all of the defence procurement plans this year have been fulfilled and the overall volume has increased nearly 1.5-fold compared to 2013. In fact, in some areas, the state defence procurement programme even exceeded its initial targets.
The armed forces received more than 4,500 new model arms, military and special equipment in 2014, including 142 planes, 135 helicopters, four submarines, 15 surface ships, 19 air defence systems, and 590 tanks and armoured personnel carriers.
As part of our work to strengthen Russia’s strategic nuclear forces, 3 regiments equipped with Yars missile systems have come on combat duty, and 7 Tu-160 and Tu-95MS strategic bombers have been modernised for the Air Force.
Let me say again that we have struck a good pace in our work and have settled practically all the main issues, including pricing, delivery deadlines, and organisation of formal commissioning of the new equipment.
We must continue to carry out all of our state defence procurement plans next year. This way, we will reach our targets for providing our Armed Forces with the modern arms and equipment they need. Let me remind you that the share of modern arms and equipment should account for 30–60 percent of the total in the different branches of the Armed Forces by the end of 2015.
Russia’s own defence industry must be able to produce the full range of modern arms. We have already made the needed decisions in this area and have drafted plans for import substitution.
Let me make it clear that we must end the critical dependence on imported technology, parts and components. I am sure that you all realise how important it is for us to find effective solutions here. It is not enough to simply place orders with our companies and design bureaus. We need to organise things in such a way that what we produce is even better than the foreign equivalents. Let me add that this demand for the highest possible quality applies to all work on the state defence procurement programme.
Finally, the Defence Ministry has been carrying out construction programmes across the entire country this year, building more than 4,000 military sites. A total of 1,300 military infrastructure sites have been brought into operation this year. This is three times more than last year.
The number of sites where construction remains uncompleted has dropped this year. Facilities worth a value of more than 134 billion rubles began operation in 2014. We need to make sure this trend continues in 2015.
<…>
See also
Meeting on developing new models of arms and military equipment
November 28, 2014
Meeting on defence industry development
November 27, 2014
Meeting on military planning
November 26, 2014
Meeting on developing the Armed Forces
November 24, 2014
Topics
Armed Forces
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 19, 2014, 15:45
Text version