Events
Meeting on the efficient and safe development of the Arctic
Vladimir Putin held a meeting on the efficient and safe development of the Arctic, focussing on its scientific support and environmental security in the implementation of projects on the ocean shelf.
June 5, 2014
17:00
4 of 5
At the meeting on the efficient and safe development of the Arctic.
See also
All news about trip to St Petersburg
June 4 − 5, 2014
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends and colleagues.
Today is World Environment Day, if I am not mistaken. This is a very good reason to discuss the issues that have brought us together. World Environment Day was initially launched to attract public attention all over the world to environmental issues and to help promote a careful and zealous attitude to nature.
It makes good sense that on this very day we are having our round table discussion of the safe and efficient development of the Arctic. This part of the globe largely determines the environmental wellbeing of the entire planet, of our shared home.
Our meeting place is also symbolic. We are meeting at the historical headquarters of the Russian Geographical Society. Ever since it was founded in 1845, the Russian Geographical Society has been implementing programmes to develop the North and the Arctic, and supporting projects linked to nature conservation. At the RGS’ initiative and with its active participation we launched a massive ‘spring cleaning’ effort on our Arctic territories a few years ago.
This actually boils down to clearing the consequences of our past attitude to the Arctic, which was often thoughtless and consumerist. However, we should not only fix the damage done to environment in the past decades. We should also make sure we never repeat these mistakes in the future. We need a new logic and up-to-date work principles in the Arctic.
Attending our meeting are representatives of government agencies whose activity is linked with Arctic studies, businessmen who are implementing industrial and infrastructure projects in this region, as well as leading Russian environmental experts: ecologists and researchers whose participation in the economic development of the Russian Arctic is of principal importance.
It is common knowledge that the nature of the Arctic is very fragile and vulnerable to our influence. This makes it clear how responsible people working there should be, especially in view of the scale and multi-faceted nature of the tasks facing them.
The plans to develop the Russian Arctic for the next few decades contain a number of major investment projects dealing with the development of hydrocarbon reserves on the Arctic shore and shelf and with the creation of new industrial facilities and transportation routes. Primarily I am referring to the revival of the Northern Sea Route.
Therefore, now, as the Russian Arctic is going through a new stage of industrial, social, economic and infrastructural revival it is especially important to focus on nature preservation.
I would like to repeat here that as we involve this region in economic development we must maintain a carefully planned and balanced approach based primarily on the precise understanding of the resources and the natural potential of the Arctic and on a fair assessment of the feasibility of certain actions. We have to develop our own scientific and technological capacities to develop the North. Second, we must strictly follow all the toughest environmental standards. Nature preservation is an absolute priority. Third, our activities in the Arctic should be perfectly transparent, which envisages, among other things, a constant dialogue with civic institutions and with nature conservation and environmental organisations. Naturally, we should give priority to those who are honestly working for a good cause rather than exploiting environmental issues, making them a subject of trade, personal promotion or business.
At the same time, we favour the development of international partnership in the Arctic, including in environmental efforts. I would like to stress that Russia, almost a third of which is located in the Far North, feels special responsibility for the Arctic, for preserving its environmental stability. This is why prior to launching work on the State Programme for the Social and Economic Development of the Russian Arctic until 2020 we adopted another strategy, namely the Strategic Action Programme for Environmental Protection. The importance of environmental protection was also stressed at the recent Security Council meeting dedicated to the development of the Russian Arctic.
I would like to reiterate that all work, all programmes and projects planned for this area should primarily pursue a balance between economic activity and preservation of the environment, should take into consideration the age-old culture and the needs of the indigenous peoples of the North.
As I have said, this can only be done in close cooperation with researchers and environmentalists, with proper scientific support. The state, the business community and experts should maintain close constructive dialogue that should bring results. We have good examples of fruitful cooperation between business and environmental organisations. However, this approach should become part of the system and be applied nationwide. Today we will see how this can be achieved.
Thank you for your attention.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: Friends and colleagues, there has been a great deal of talk about developing the Arctic. Unfortunately, there has also been a lot of speculation and even provocations. However, you and I, we understand that humanity has to work in the Arctic; it is forced to develop these territories. Given this understanding, we should not allow any mistakes; we must approach this work with utmost responsibility and treat the environment with respect. Since we understand that we have to work there and develop these territories, we should do this in a professional manner and we should have timely discussions of the problems that need to be resolved, so that the work is implemented at the highest possible level, using the most up-to-date technologies.
I would like to say that this is a roundtable discussion and we did not envisage any final resolutions. However, I would like to assure you that my colleagues and I will consider how to document the ideas voiced here so that they are not forgotten, so that they are reflected in the practical work of the Russian Government.
We are grateful to our foreign colleagues who have joined us today to hear and even take part in the discussion. We wanted you to see how these issues are approached in Russia, so you become part of this process as our partners and understand the level of discussion that is taking shape in society and among experts, including not only your colleagues, oil and gas producers, but also the experts and representatives of environmental movements and organisations.
This is a very important and sensitive area, but, as I have said, neither humanity at large nor this country, which has enormous resources in this area, can bypass this issue.
I would like to thank you all for the work we did today, for this meeting, and to express the hope that we will continue working in the same calm, business-like and involved fashion.
Thank you very much.
Topics
Environment
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 5, 2014, 17:00
Text versionEvents
National awards presentation ceremony
Vladimir Putin presented national awards to organisers and participants of the project to study the relic subglacial lake Vostok in the Antarctic.
June 5, 2014
15:30
St Petersburg
6 of 7
Presenting national awards to organisers and participants in the project to study subglacial Lake Vostok in Antarctica. Anna Bystromovich, deputy head of Polar and Marine Operations, Directorate for Environmental Pollution Monitoring, Polar and Marine Operations of the Federal Service for Hydrometeorology and Environmental Monitoring, is awarded the medal of the Order for Services to the Fatherland II degree.
The ceremony took place at the headquarters of the Russian Geographical Society in St Petersburg.
Lake Vostok, the biggest subglacial lake in Antarctica, is located near Russia’s Vostok Antarctic station under a shield of ice around 4,000 metres deep and has been cut off from the earth’s surface for millions of years.
* * *
See also
All news about trip to St Petersburg
June 4 − 5, 2014
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends.
I would like to congratulate you on receiving the prestigious national awards.
It is symbolic that the ceremony is taking place at the headquarters of the Russian Geographical Society, as one of its members – outstanding Russian geographer Andrei Kapitsa – was the author of the hypothesis that there is a subglacial lake under the Vostok station in the Antarctic. In 1996, the hypothesis was proven correct. This was considered a major geographic discovery of the second half of the 20th century, while penetrating the ice shell around the lake became a true scientific, technological and human triumph, which made it possible, among other things, to make progress in the study of climate change on the planet.
However, this is not all. I have met with you, and I have a general idea what this work entails and what it means for science. You, my friends, made this triumph possible and I know that the road was long and difficult. You and your colleagues worked in the harsh conditions of the Antarctic with its extremely low temperatures and shortage of oxygen, persistently looking for ever new technological solutions, learning to use unique new technologies and equipment.
You overcame all these trials with dignity, demonstrating your courage and professionalism, while the drilling operations have been acclaimed as one of the most significant pages in the development of the Antarctic. This event not only caught the attention of the whole world, but it also demonstrated yet again the high level of Russian science and our country’s firm position in the development of the Antarctic.
We have plenty to be proud of in this area. Thus, it was our compatriots, Faddei Bellingshausen and Mikhail Lazarev who discovered this unknown land almost two centuries ago, in 1820. This country pioneered the creation of polar stations in the Antarctic as it launched the Complex Antarctic Expedition in 1955.
Today Russia has a large network of research stations operating in the Antarctic year-round. Hundreds of people work there every year and we intend to enhance this effort. Last year we opened a new wintering unit at the Progress station. The new ship owned by the Russian Hydrometeorological Service, the Akademik Tryoshnikov, is about to return to St Petersburg any day now after its second voyage to the Antarctic. A large-scale action plan is laid out in the Strategy for Developing the Russian Federation’s activities in Antarctica until 2020 and beyond. It is called upon to resolve the pressing issues of modernising transportation, acquiring new equipment and renovating the existing expedition and logistics bases.
We are well aware of the significance of scientific research in the Antarctic, of Russia’s constant and active presence on the sixth continent, and we intend to support all those who work there. You are working in conditions of extreme risk and under great physical and emotional strain. Therefore, I find it proper and fair to level out the social benefits of the experts working in the Antarctic with those of the Far North.
Last year we established a professional holiday of the Polar Explorer in honour of those who develop the White Continent and the Arctic. This is yet another acknowledgement of your services by the state and society.
I would like to thank you for your painstaking coordinated work, for being true to your cause and for achieving every goal, and I wish you every success in your future work. Thank you very much.
 <…>
Vladimir Putin: Friends, allow me to congratulate you once again.
Your work attracts extensive media coverage, but, frankly speaking, few people know of the outcome and significance of this research. However, when one begins to read carefully, think about it or hears you speak – it has a breathtaking effect.
Many things seem improbable; no wonder some experts compare the results of your work with landing on Mars. It is very difficult to imagine that there are still places on Earth that have not come into contact with our atmosphere, with our ecosystem for at least 500,000 years or even more.
This is a unique opportunity to study our planet and its climate, and maybe other subjects, and to conduct in-depth research whose value is still hard to assess.
When people do something like this, they probably do not think about awards, but you undoubtedly deserve them.
Thank you very much.
Topics
State decorations
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 5, 2014, 15:30
Text version