Events
Presentation by foreign ambassadors of their letters of credence
Vladimir Putin received letters of credence from eighteen ambassadors to the Russian Federation. The ceremony took place in the Grand Kremlin Palace’s St Alexander Hall.
January 16, 2014
14:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
President Putin received the letters of credence from Cesare Maria Ragaglini (Republic of Italy), Ziad Al-Majali (Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan), Jeanne d’Arc Mujawamariya (Republic of Rwanda), Carmelo Brincat (Republic of Malta), Vasile Soare (Romania), John Ronald Kur (Canada), Mohamed Abdelsattar Mohamed Elbadri (Arab Republic of Egypt), Jean-Maurice Ripert (French Republic), Mehdi Sanai (Islamic Republic of Iran), Shri P.S. Raghavan (Republic of India), Abdulaziz Ahmed Saud Al Adwani (State of Kuwait), Antonio Jose Vallim Guerreiro (Federative Republic of Brazil), Vladimir Remek (Czech Republic), Alex Van Meeuwen (Kingdom of Belgium), Ousman Badjie (Republic of the Gambia), Bernard Francis Shamlaye (Republic of Seychelles), Lameck Nthekela (Republic of Botswana) and Wilfred Eduard Christopher (Republic of Suriname).
* * *
Speech at the presentation by foreign ambassadors of their letters of credence
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen,
It gives me great pleasure to welcome you to Moscow, to the Kremlin.
I would like to begin by wishing a stable and prosperous New Year to each of your nations, despite the fact that the New Year has not yet arrived in some of your countries.
I would like to wish you and your loved ones happiness in the New Year, and I wish you success in your responsible and honourable mission in Russia.
Our joint tasks in 2014 will be to strengthen and develop the initial achievements made in resolving a number of key international issues, those of Syria and Iran first and foremost.
We should actively support efforts of the international community to prepare the conference on Syria. We expect all parties that can have a positive input into the resolution of this conflict to attend this event. We will do everything to make sure that the conference helps establish dialogue and end the pointless confrontation and bloodshed.
It is also crucial to make sure that the Action Plan on the Iranian nuclear programme, adopted in Geneva in November 2013, does not remain on paper. Its implementation will create conditions for an overall solution to the problem and will give Iran the right to use nuclear power for peaceful purposes under IAEA’s control.
We proceed from the understanding that through joint efforts we can resolve other pressing regional and global policy issues.
Russia, for its part, will continue to act in a rational, responsible and predictable manner. We intend to continue promoting traditional values and norms of international law. We will promote cultural, inter-faith and inter-civilisational cooperation in every way.
During its G8 Presidency, Russia will focus on searching for common approaches to combatting present-day threats to security and maintaining stable development. Our goal is to prepare the ground for the G8 Summit, scheduled to take place in Sochi on June 4–5, and ensure its success.
As you know, we are completing preparations for the Olympic Games in Sochi, which are to open in three weeks. We expect over 6,000 athletes from 85 countries and hundreds of thousands of fans to attend the Games. We are doing everything to turn this event into a great festival of sports not only for this country, but also for sports fans all over the world.
I would like to note – and this is especially significant here and will be appreciated, I believe, by this audience – that for the first time in the history of the Olympic Games all participants will be able to visit Russia without entry visas; they will only need to be accredited for the games. Our missions in different countries have opened special Olympic Offices to process such applications as a matter of priority.
The Games will certainly be held in full compliance with the Olympic Charter – with no discrimination of any kind. Russians will undoubtedly support their own athletes, but we wish success to all participants. We always appreciate the success of athletes from any country and are happy for them.
I am sure the Olympic Games will serve to bring nations together and to promote friendship, trust and the spirit of partnership the world over.
Ladies and gentlemen,
The heads of eighteen countries’ diplomatic missions are present here today. Allow me to say a few words regarding Russia’s relations with the nations you represent.
Italy. We have a multi-faceted strategic partnership and traditionally friendly relations with Italy. My recent visit to Rome and Trieste was very fruitful. We discussed new promising projects in a number of areas with Prime Minister Enrico Letta and other representatives of the Italian authorities. I am certain that holding reciprocal Tourism Years will serve to further bring our nations together.
Last year we marked 50 years of diplomatic relations with Jordan. We maintain regular contacts with your country’s leadership and with King Abdullah personally. We believe our joint defence and energy projects have great potential.
Russia’s relations with Rwanda are growing stronger. In 2013, the embassy of that country resumed its work in Moscow. There are good prospects for expanding contacts in trade, the economy and other areas.
Relations with Malta are developing steadily. Constructive dialogue between our countries helps maintain a good-neighbourly atmosphere in the Mediterranean region and in Europe as a whole.
We expect our cooperation with Romania to become more substantial and mutually advantageous. We are prepared to work together to strengthen political, economic and humanitarian ties.
We attach great importance to cooperation with Canada – our Arctic neighbour. Our countries have a great deal in common: our geography and climate; we are both federated nations with multi-ethnic populations and vast mineral resources. Another thing we have in common is our love for ice hockey.
Egypt is one of Russia’s most important partners in the Arab world. We hope that Egyptian society will overcome the current political, social and economic hardships and the country will return to the path of stability and growth. We are interested in invigorating the traditionally friendly relations between Russia and Egypt. I would like to use this opportunity to ask you, Mr Ambassador, to convey my best greetings to the Egyptian leadership on the success of the referendum on a new constitution.
We value our historically close strategic relations with France – one of the leading nations in the European Union. We maintain a high level of political dialogue and expanding cooperation in trade, the economy, science, technology, culture and humanitarian spheres.
Our relations with Iran are entering a new stage. We are conducting a fruitful dialogue with President Hassan Rouhani and Iranian Government on issues of bilateral cooperation as well as on the situation in Syria, Afghanistan and the Iranian nuclear programme. Mutually beneficial relations between Russia and Iran have great potential that has not been exhausted yet.
Cooperation with India – our truly strategic partner – is a priority of Russia’s foreign policy. We maintain a dynamic and constructive dialogue based on coinciding long-term interests, mutual sympathy and sincere trust. Negotiations in Moscow with Prime Minister Manmohan Singh have resulted in the signing of joint programmes in science, biotechnology and innovation. We have set specific plans to further develop our defence cooperation.
Our contacts with Kuwait are developing constructively. We are satisfied that our countries share similar views on major international and regional issues. We are interested in expanding trade and economic ties between our countries.
Brazil is one of our leading partners in Latin America. We are actively cooperating within the G20 and BRICS and hold similar views on numerous issues on the current international agenda. We have established a beneficial and confidential dialogue with President Dilma Rousseff and the Government of Brazil. Both parties are expressing their commitment to enhancing cooperation in trade, energy and high technologies.
Many years of good-neighbourly relations connect Russia with the Czech Republic, which is our valued trade and investment partner. We expect to see consistent implementation of joint projects in energy, including nuclear energy, and in the cultural and humanitarian spheres.
The history of our diplomatic relations with the Kingdom of Belgium dates back 160 years. Today these relations are characterised by stronger cooperation in the economy and in foreign policy.
We have stable relations with the Republic of the Gambia. We are ready to further develop our dialogue on international issues and to strengthen ties in various fields, including defence and education.
Cooperation with the Republic of Seychelles is picking up speed. We have organised cooperation to combat piracy in the Indian Ocean, and we are expanding tourist exchange.
We are satisfied with the friendly nature of our relations with Botswana. There are good prospects for cooperation in the mining and diamond industries, among others. We will continue to assist in training students and professionals from Botswana.
In our relations with the Republic of Suriname, we need to create a reliable legal contractual basis that would serve to strengthen ties in a number of areas. I would like to note that we are ready to work jointly with our colleagues in Suriname.
In conclusion, I would like to stress, ladies and gentlemen, that we value good relations with each of the states that you represent. I hope your diplomatic mission in Moscow will serve to promote bilateral cooperation.
I am confident that all your useful ideas and constructive proposals will find support and understanding on the part of Russian authorities, our ministries and agencies.
I wish you success in your work and thank you for your attention.
Geography
Belgium
Botswana
Brazil
Canada
14 more
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 16, 2014, 14:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Foreign Minister of Iran Mohammad Javad Zarif
Vladimir Putin received in the Kremlin the Foreign Minister of the Islamic Republic of Iran Mohammad Javad Zarif, who is in Russia on a working visit.
January 16, 2014
17:25
The Kremlin, Moscow
Earlier the Foreign Minister of Iran held talks with his Russian counterpart Sergei Lavrov
.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Minister, friends, welcome to Moscow!
Relations between our countries have traditionally been friendly. I am happy to note that through your efforts and the work of all the participants in the international process we have managed to make progress in the resolution of one of the most acute issues of today – Iran’s nuclear issue.
I am certain that this has been made possible mainly through the efforts of the Iranian leaders and their position. I spoke about this at the presentation by foreign ambassadors of their letters of credence; your Ambassador heard this. It is important not to leave all the agreements on paper but to move forward.
We have an extensive bilateral agenda. First, this has to do with our trade and economic relations. Unfortunately, we have experienced a certain decrease in trade and we need to see jointly what we can do to reverse this trend and expand our trade and economic relations.
I know that you had a detailed discussion of these issues with your Russian counterpart, Mr Lavrov. I would be happy to exchange opinions with you on the development of our contacts in trade, the economy and politics.
I recently spoke on the telephone with the President of Iran. Please convey my best wishes to him.
Foreign Minister of the Islamic Republic of Iran Mohammad Javad Zarif (retranslated): Thank you for this opportunity, Mr President. The President of the Islamic Republic of Iran has asked me to convey his warmest greetings to you.
Your Excellency, the leadership of the Islamic Republic of Iran attaches great importance to the role you have played in bilateral relations as well as in maintaining regional stability and in international issues.
Last year we witnessed Russia’s major achievement on the international arena. Your success in preventing war in Syria was very important and it has led to the destruction of chemical weapons.
Moreover, our success at the meeting in Geneva is also largely the result of Russia’s efforts and we are grateful to you for this. In both these areas, we are determined to continue coordinating efforts and cooperating with you. We would also like to wish you and the people of the Russian Federation success in conducting the Olympic Games.
As for our bilateral agenda, we have witnessed positive developments after the meeting Your Excellency had with the President of Iran in Bishkek. Here I would like to single out your personal role.
I would like to assure you that the President of the Islamic Republic of Iran is in turn also determined to develop cooperation with the Russian Federation. He notes that relations between Russia and Iran should be of a multifaceted nature, which would serve the interests of both nations and would not be to anyone’s detriment.
I have come to convey to you greetings from Mr Rouhani, who also asked me to say that he is satisfied with the results of your recent telephone conversation and we, in turn, are ready to implement all the agreements you have reached.
We are also very happy that in the course of your meeting with President Rouhani and during your news conference last year, you accepted the invitation to visit the Islamic Republic of Iran, and we hope to see you in Iran shortly.
See also
Telephone conversation with President of Iran Hassan Rouhani
January 9, 2014
Geography
Iran
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 16, 2014, 17:25
Text versionEvents
Meeting with designers of a new concept for a school textbook on Russian history
Vladimir Putin met with designers of a new concept for teaching Russian history.
January 16, 2014
15:45
The Kremlin, Moscow
With designers of a new concept for a school textbook on Russian history.
Taking part in the meeting were State Duma Speaker and Chairman of the Russian Historical Society Sergei Naryshkin
, Presidential Aide Andrei Fursenko
, Education Minister Dmitry Livanov
, Culture Minister Vladimir Medinsky
and representatives of the academic, education and expert communities.
* * *
Speech at a meeting with designers of a new concept for teaching Russian history.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
We are aware of the active and involved discussion in our society of the issues pertaining to history, specifically to the teaching of history at schools and universities.
This is no surprise: the views expressed in the course of teaching history here largely determine the attitude in society to what we are doing today, to our short- and medium-term plans, as well as our strategy for a longer historical period. This is the reason for such heated debate around the issues connected with history.
This is why I find it very interesting and important to meet with you, representatives of the restored Historical Society, the Military History Society, scholars, academics, authors of the new concept for teaching Russian history. Your assessment of what has been achieved so far and how we should proceed in this sensitive area is very useful and valuable.
The concept, which has been finalised and adopted, as far as I know, should form the basis for an entire set of textbooks and study guides.
I would like to begin by saying that coordinating our approach to the study of national history does not mean formal, official, ideology-driven single-mindedness. We are talking about something different: a single logic in teaching history, an understanding of the inseparability and interconnectedness between all stages in the development of our state and statehood, the fact that the most dramatic and ambiguous periods are an inseparable part of our past. There is a wide range of assessments and views on these issues and we should respect them, because this concerns the life of our nation and of our predecessors, and our history is the basis of our national identity, our cultural and historic code.
The purpose of this course, if I may touch upon this issue, is to give young people good fundamental knowledge of key historical facts, of our outstanding compatriots’ deeds. We often have serious problems with this. Willingly or not, we tend to diminish what had been achieved by our predecessors in the past years or millennia of the Russian state’s existence. I fail to understand why we do this.
Of course, we must not exaggerate anything or get snooty about things that may or may not be worthwhile, but we can and must give a fair assessment to everything our nation has achieved in the more than one thousand years of Russian statehood.
History, just like other humanities, should teach students to think independently, to analyse and compare different points of view. However, I would like to repeat that the backbone of the entire history course should be fairness and a lack of bias, respect for our past and love for our homeland.
I know that the new history-teaching concept was prepared on time, as I said, and on October 30, 2013, it was approved at an expanded session of the Russian Historical Society’s Presidium. Its authors are experts from the Russian Academy of Sciences’ research institutes for Russian and world history, leading university professors and schoolteachers.
Professionals and the public discussed the concept and historical and cultural standard for five months at various round-table discussions, in the media, and on the Internet; thousands of people took part, including academics and history teachers, veterans, members of parents’ organisations and high-school students themselves.
The authors took into consideration all constructive comments and proposals when finalising the concept. I expect to talk about this today as well.
I would like to take the opportunity to thank the head of the working group – State Duma Speaker Sergei Naryshkin, as well as all the authors of the concept for their extensive and fruitful work. I am grateful to all the participants in the discussions for their active civic stance, regardless of their approach. It is very important that people showed such interest – this is a good sign that we are not indifferent to our country.
Now, using the concept as a basis we should start drafting new history books for all school grades. Clearly, it will be a while before they appear in schools, and we need to envisage this transition. We should also use the concept as a basis for all examination materials, including the National Final School Exam. All this should be done before the start of the next academic year.
At the same time, as I already said, we should use the concept to begin preparing a new set of history textbooks. I would like to stress here that this should be done as openly as possible, without monopolising any aspect of this process. We should use the resources of both established and new historical groups, including young historians.
Professionals and the public should expertly assess all the materials before they can be recommended for use. I would like here to ask the Russian Historical Society to get actively involved in this expert assessment and consider the incentives the Society could provide for the best papers’ authors.
In addition, we should continue our unbiased professional discussion of the most controversial historical events. We must draw on established facts to bring our positions closer, to reach a coordinated interpretation, at least wherever this is possible. I believe we have quite a few such opportunities.
I am convinced, however, that we should not restrict teachers in their attempt to present to students varying viewpoints on historical facts and events and use supplementary materials in their teaching, such as collections of documents, manuals, etc. The main thing is for them to remain objective and base their views on fundamental scientific assessments and conclusions, and not to distort facts.
We should also consider how to synchronise the Russian history curriculum with that of world history, which is also taught at school, using the experience and findings of Russian universities, including such a highly accredited one as MGIMO [Moscow State Institute of International Relations (University)].
History is a complex subject that requires extensive and varied knowledge on the part of the teacher. It is very important therefore to properly organise high-level professional training and retraining for teachers, and to be able to use video and audio materials and the Internet for these purposes.
In conclusion, I would like to touch upon another important matter. This year will mark 100 years since the beginning of World War I. Ahead of us are the 70th Anniversary of Victory in the Great Patriotic War, 100 years of the February and October Revolutions [of 1917]. These dates are of great national significance, all of them, regardless of how we assess them. This is a fact, and we should consider together what events, and on what scale should be organised on a national level. I would like to hear your suggestions.
This is what I wanted to say as an opening. Thank you for your attention. Let us begin our discussion of the subject matter of this meeting.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: The purpose of all our work is not just for people to learn about the past or learn about objective assessments, but also to understand their own, personal measure of responsibility for the nation we live in; this is true both for today and, as I already said, in the long term.
I looked at these complex, difficult questions, some of which have already been debated for a thousand years. I think that for some of these problems, the debates between historians and experts have been recurring for centuries; they began even before Solovyov and our other well-known researchers – for example, the role of the Varangians in the process of building a unified Russian state. We do not have reliable data, so I think we can only speculate, but speculations are possible based on the overall data we obtain during archaeological studies and analysis of primary sources and texts.
So this, too, is not superfluous work. It is important for understanding our identity: who we are, where we came from, and how we are developing. These are highly important things, even if the arguments on this topic have been going on for centuries.
Mr Chubarian [director of the World History Institute at the Russian Academy of Sciences] said that the inconsistency in textbooks have made teachers’ jobs more difficult. That’s significant, of course, but it’s not what’s most important. What’s most important is that there are still things trickling through the school textbook certification system that are absolutely unacceptable, not only for our nation and our people, but for any nation and any people – it was like having someone spit in our faces. For example, certain assessments in certain educational materials of what was happening during World War II – it is simply a disgrace, it cannot be called anything else. I am not even talking about the deliberate downplaying of the role of the Soviet people in fighting fascism; there were even deeper things there, it was some sort of ideological garbage. And we need to get rid of it.
I want to stress again that this is not about any sort of uniformity or attempts to implement some kind of conformity in thinking and assessment. Assessments are important; I saw how the price of Peter the Great’s reforms or the price of victory in the Great Patriotic War is assessed in these complex debates. Of course, we can talk about all of this, it is important as well; but it is even more important to talk about what our colleague just said – the consequences.
Some say that Eastern Europe was plunged into the darkness of occupation by the Stalin regime as a result of World War II. In part, we must recognise that the Soviet-era ideology was working there and negatively influencing the development of these states. But we are talking about the consequences; and if fascism had won, what would be the consequences? Some ethnic groups would have been completely wiped out; they would have simply been annihilated.
So we need objective assessments, and today we can do this, especially since we can jointly develop the most objective possible approaches to assessment, as was just stated about our cooperation with historians from other nations. We can do this, and we need to do this.
In this respect, I would of course like to thank you for what has been done recently and very much count on this work to continue. As I already said in my opening remarks, it will continue – of course, with participation by the widest strata of society in this highly important joint work.
Topics
Culture
School
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 16, 2014, 15:45
Text version