Events
Meeting with First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Defence and Military Industry of Egypt Abdel Fattah el-Sisi
Vladimir Putin had a separate meeting with First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Defence and Military Industry of Egypt Abdel Fattah el-Sisi.
February 13, 2014
15:50
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 5
With First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Defence and Military Industry of Egypt Abdel Fattah el-Sisi.
The conversation took place after the Russian President’s meeting with the Foreign and Defence ministers of Egypt.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Thank you for making this visit. I know you have many problems at home, but I believe that bilateral relations between Russia and Egypt, which were 70 years old last year, are worth it.
I would like once again to wish you and all your colleagues success in your work for the benefit of the people of Egypt.
FIRST DEPUTY PRIME MINISTER, MINISTER OF DEFENCE AND MILITARY INDUSTRY OF EGYPT ABDEL FATTAH EL-SISI (retranslated): Thank you, Mr President, for providing this opportunity to exchange views on the most pressing issues, to discuss them in an atmosphere of sincerity, mutual trust and sympathy.
I am happy to note the degree of mutual trust and understanding that was demonstrated in the course of our talks today. This makes us very optimistic – optimistic regarding the future of Egypt, among other things.
We are certainly interested in various forms of cooperation with Russia to provide for a dignified lifestyle for our people. I believe other nations in the world share this interest. We have always been in favour of stability and peace in the world.
Thank you once again for finding the time to see me.
<…>
See also
Meeting with Defence and Foreign ministers of Egypt
February 13, 2014
Geography
Egypt
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 13, 2014, 15:50
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Vladimir Lukin and Ella Pamfilova
Vladimir Putin met with Russian Human Rights Ombudsman Vladimir Lukin and Chairperson of the Presidium of the Civil Dignity national public movement Ella Pamfilova.
February 13, 2014
17:45
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 4
With Russian Human Rights Ombudsman Vladimir Lukin and Chairperson of the Presidium of the Civil Dignity national public movement Ella Pamfilova.
Vladimir Putin met with Russian Human Rights Ombudsman Vladimir Lukin and Chairperson of the Presidium of the Civil Dignity national public movement Ella Pamfilova.
Mr Lukin’s term of office as Human Rights Ombudsman expires on February 18, and Ms Pamfilova has been nominated to this post. The new candidate must be approved by the State Duma within 30 days.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ms Pamfilova, Mr Lukin,
The subject of our meeting is well known and has been announced previously – we are on the threshold of appointing a new Human Rights Ombusman, and, as you may know, our leading human rights organisations, people active in the human rights movement, who are authorities in this area have almost unanimously supported Ms Pamfilova as a candidate to this post. However, before all the legal formalities have been dealt with, I wanted to meet and ask you a simple question: Do you agree to this? What will you say if we do this?
”Being a human rights advocate is a very specific job. It envisages constant interaction with the authorities, and not just interaction, but also a critical approach to what the authorities at all levels are doing. However, without this society cannot develop in harmony.“
Chairperson of the Presidium of the Civil Dignity National Public Movement ELLA PAMFILOVA
: I would like to begin by thanking human rights activists and you, Mr President, for taking the risk of nominating me. Of course, I accept and I hope that in my work I will have the assistance of all those who are interested in resolving these issues, if the appointment does take place. Thank you.
Russian Human Rights Ombudsman VLADIMIR LUKIN
: I have said on numerous occasions that since my term of office is expiring by law, I was very happy to hear and I supported this proposal of nominating Ms Pamfilova to the position.
Ms Pamfilova has all the personal qualities and the experience that this job requires. She enjoys respect and trust among various groups and has a very good reputation. Therefore, I have no doubt that Ms Pamfilova will be able to make a smooth transition and continue the work plus ultra, as they say in Latin – even further.
Ella Pamfilova: Mr President, I must admit that since you said that I could “eat them all alive” I have become a little frightened of myself.
I would like to say that if it all works out, the main thing is to be honest in our work, that is all. Honest and consistent. You can count on this.
Vladimir Putin: Being a human rights advocate is a very specific job. It envisages constant interaction with the authorities, and not just interaction, but also a critical approach to what the authorities at all levels are doing.
However, without this society cannot develop in harmony and the interests of our citizens cannot be protected in full, as much as this is at all possible. Therefore, I strongly hope to see the approach you described.
There is a constant competition of sorts going on, if I may say so in the context of the Olympic Games that are underway in Sochi…
Vladimir Lukin: And the Paralympic Games.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, the Paralympic Games will begin soon. There are constant clashes with the authorities, which is natural.
However, the goal of both the government and the human rights organisations is the same – the good of the people. Therefore, I expect to always see an element of cooperation with representatives of the authorities, which will all be for the benefit of those who we work for.
Ella Pamfilova: I fully agree with you. I hope that at all levels of power, and in the human rights community I will be able to find the support of those for whom these very issues are of primary importance. As I usually say, the best friend of an honest human rights advocate is an honest law enforcement officer. We will seek their support.
<…>
See also
Ella Pamfilova nominated for the post of Russian Human Rights Ombudsman
February 13, 2014
Additional
Meeting with representatives of Russia’s human rights community
December 10, 2013
Topics
Human rights
Persons
Lukin Vladimir
Pamfilova Ella
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 13, 2014, 17:45
Text version