Events
Beginning of meeting with Prime Minister of Hungary Viktor Orban
January 14, 2014
15:30
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
Meeting with Prime Minister of Hungary Viktor Orban.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister, friends, good afternoon. We are happy to welcome you in Moscow.
I am happy that our contacts are regular and business-like; they are developing in all areas, including the economy, inter-parliamentary and political contacts. Our Foreign Minister [Sergei Lavrov
] visited your country in May.
It is a very positive development that for your visit, Mr Prime Minister, our colleagues have prepared a number of important documents for us to sign, which will be a new serious step forward in our relations.
I am happy to welcome you in Moscow!
Prime Minister of Hungary Viktor Orban (translated from Russian): First, allow me to thank you, Mr President, for your invitation. I had a similar opportunity a year ago. 
Russia is a very important partner for Hungary. I would say that our economic partnership is of a strategic nature.
Besides, Russia is Hungary’s most important trade and economic partner outside the European Union. We highly value the progress that has been made under your leadership. This cooperation is very important for Hungary.
A year ago, we agreed to enhance our economic cooperation, and we did it. I believe our progress in trade was beyond any comparison. I would like to thank you for this.
I hope the documents you mentioned will become another step in this direction.
<…>
See also
Meeting with Prime Minister of Hungary Viktor Orban
January 14, 2014
Persons
Orban Viktor
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: January 14, 2014, 15:30
Text versionEvents
Press statement following Russian-Hungarian talks
January 14, 2014
17:40
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
Press statements following Russian-Hungarian talks. With Prime Minister of Hungary Viktor Orban.
See also
Meeting with Prime Minister of Hungary Viktor Orban
January 14, 2014
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ladies and gentlemen,
During our talks with Prime Minister of Hungary Viktor Orban, we covered a broad range of issues pertaining to our cooperation. We reviewed our joint efforts aimed at implementing the agreements reached at our meeting in Moscow on January 31 last year, and made plans for the future.
Hungary is Russia’s very important trade and economic partner. In terms of foreign trade, Russia and Hungary rank first among non-EU member states, and overall third after Germany and Austria.
Both countries maintain a good mutual investment rate – about $2 billion of accrued investment by both Russia in the Hungarian economy and by Hungary in the Russian economy.
We discussed with Mr Prime Minister certain problems in our mutual trade that we identified two years ago. We expect to see better figures for 2013, when we have them. 
Our cooperation in nuclear energy is a good example. Today we signed an agreement on the construction of two new power units, while already now the Paks Nuclear Power Plant accounts for 40% of all electricity production in Hungary.
The commissioning of the two new units will undoubtedly enhance Hungary’s energy independence and improve its security.
This is a unique agreement since 40% of all the work will be performed in Hungary. This means that an estimated $3 billion will be spent to maintain jobs in Hungary and the country’s budget will receive over $1 billion in tax.
We also discussed traditional energy sources, exchanged views on joint work under the South Stream project, and discussed our relations in the cultural, humanitarian and spiritual areas, including student exchanges.
I am certain that the agreement we reached today will help further expand cooperation between Russia and Hungary in all these areas.
In conclusion, I would like to thank Mr Prime Minister for the joint work and for the atmosphere that we enjoyed not only during these talks, but also in the course of the work of our experts and government officials.
Thank you.
Persons
Orban Viktor
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: January 14, 2014, 17:40
Text version