Events
Meeting with President of Kyrgyzstan Almazbek Atambayev
Vladimir Putin and Almazbek Atambayev discussed various aspects of Russian-Kyrgyzstani cooperation, as well as regional issues.
February 8, 2014
17:15
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, Mr President, colleagues. I am very pleased to see you.
We had the opportunity to speak briefly yesterday, and not only about the event that has brought us together. By the way, I wanted to thank you for taking the time to attend the opening of the Olympic Games. But yesterday we already had an opportunity to start our discussion regarding regional issues and bilateral relations.
Russia remains Kyrgyzstan's main trade partner. Moreover, trade between our countries is expanding: it has grown by almost 18%, which is a very good sign. We must work to preserve this trend.
I appreciate this opportunity to speak with you in detail on all aspects of our cooperation. Welcome!
President of Kyrgyzstan Almazbek Atambayev
: Thank you! I am very glad to meet with you here.
First, I want to congratulate you on the opening of the Olympics yesterday. It was a spectacular show that left a deep impression on me. I am sure the memory of this event will stay with me forever.
Naturally, I welcome this opportunity to discuss any issues that we need to examine and resolve .
In addition to being a major partner in trade and the economy, the Russian Federation is indeed our main strategic partner, as you suggested.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
< … >
Geography
Kyrgyzstan
Topics
Foreign policy
Sochi 2014
Persons
Atambayev Almazbek
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 8, 2014, 17:15
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Prime Minister of Japan Shinzo Abe
Vladimir Putin continued a series of meetings with heads of state and government who came to the opening of the 2014 Olympics. The Russian President and Prime Minister of Japan discussed issues pertaining to bilateral relations.
February 8, 2014
14:45
Sochi
3 of 5
Before the meeting with Prime Minister of Japan Shinzo Abe.
In particular, the meeting participants examined various aspects of cooperation in the economy, energy, medicine and culture, as well as in the fight against terrorism.
Vladimir Putin and Shinzo Abe agreed to hold the next meeting on the sidelines of the G8 Summit, which will be held in Sochi on June 4–5, 2014.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister, colleagues and friends,
It gives me great pleasure to welcome you to Russia – this time to the southern part of the country, the city of Sochi.
Russia and Japan are natural partners. Japan is our good neighbour and our relations have been developing steadily and successfully. We work together at a number of international venues, and our joint efforts are very successful and fruitful.
We have established new channels for interaction at the political level, both through the Foreign Ministry and the Defence Ministry, which is very important as it increases the level of trust in our relations.
The Intergovernmental Commission on Trade and Economic Cooperation has been working steadily, and trade and economic ties between our countries are expanding. We saw a 6% increase in trade last year. All this creates excellent preconditions for addressing the most complex interstate issues.
Mr Prime Minister, you came to the opening of the Olympic Games in Sochi, and we are very grateful to you for your attention to this event. We saw Japan’s large and impressive team, and I want to wish your athletes the best of luck in the Sochi Olympics.
Thank you.
Prime Minister of Japan SHINZO ABE
(re-translated): First of all, I want to say that yesterday's opening ceremony of the Olympic Games was outstanding, and I am very happy I was able to attend it.
I was deeply moved by the fact that the opening ceremony showcased Russia’s greatest achievements in art and high technology, and the entire structure of the ceremony was wonderful.
I am aware that 12,000 units of video and audio equipment produced by Japan’s Panasonic have been installed at the stadium and at other Olympic venues, including the latest large-screen displays. I'm very glad that these technologies will contribute to the success of the Olympic Games’ opening ceremony, and I am pleased that we were able to take advantage of Russian-Japanese cooperation in this area as well.
I would like to thank you for finding the time for this meeting over lunch despite your very busy schedule as the host of the Olympic Games. Let me sincerely wish you success in the Olympics.
We have already met four times in the past. This is our fifth meeting, and I believe that we were able to open a new chapter in the development of our bilateral relations. I would like to make certain that our meeting today will be equally successful and we will be able to continue working together and developing our bilateral relations.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
I would like to congratulate you on Japan winning the right to host the Olympic Games in 2020.
Japan has a wide range of opportunities that go far beyond Panasonic, which is so well represented here. We have also made use of Japan’s other great achievements in technology and organisation of major events. I think that your experts will also be interested to see how the Sochi Olympic Games were organised. Apart from Russian specialists, we involved professionals from all over the world in this project.
Once again, I want to thank you for your attention to the Sochi Olympic Games. Thank you for taking the time to be here today.
<…>
Geography
Japan
Topics
Foreign policy
Sochi 2014
Persons
Abe Shinzo
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 8, 2014, 14:45
Text versionEvents
Meeting with the organisers and participants of the Olympic Games' opening ceremony
Vladimir Putin met with the organisers and participants of the Opening Ceremony of the XXII Olympic Winter Games. The meeting took place at the President’s Sochi residence.
February 8, 2014
18:45
Sochi
4 of 4
Meeting with the organisers and participants of the Olympic Games' opening ceremony.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends!
I have invited you here to express my gratitude to all those who took part in the preparations for the opening of the Olympic Games and was directly involved in this grand event. We all believe – I am sure I can speak for all sports fans – that the show was spectacular, worthy of Russia and truly grand.
However, I want to draw your attention to the fact that this is only the beginning. This is particularly true for the organisers of the Olympic Games, the organising committee, all those responsible for holding the Games, the closing ceremony, and then the Paralympic Games – so we still have a colossal amount of work ahead of us.
I very much hope that everyone who is directly involved in this project, and there are many such people here, will not slacken their efforts. We mustn't relax after this brilliant start, but on the contrary, mobilise all our resources.
The beginning, I repeat, was a spectacular, memorable and very important part of the whole Olympic programme, which required a lot of energy and financial resources. But it was worth it to be able to show our nation's entire history in such a bright, beautiful, and meaningful display, and make a great start as the hosts of the Olympic Games in general. I want to express my heartfelt gratitude to you for this achievement and hope to continue our work together in the coming days.
Thank you very much.
<…>
See also
Opening of XXII Olympic Winter Games
February 7, 2014
Topics
Sochi 2014
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 8, 2014, 18:45
Text version