Events
State Council Presidium meeting on developing social protection system for senior citizens
Vladimir Putin held a meeting of the State Council Presidium on developing the social protection system for senior citizens. Improving senior citizens’ socioeconomic situation and access to healthcare services is the main subject of discussion.
August 5, 2014
20:30
Voronezh
6 of 11
State Council Presidium meeting on developing social protection system for senior citizens.
See also
All news about trip to Voronezh Region
August 5, 2014
The President visited the Kashirsky Nursing Home for senior citizens and people with disabilities before the start of the meeting and examined the Home’s facilities and living conditions, visited the medical centre, dining hall, and library.
* * *
Speech at State Council Presidium
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
We are here today to discuss social protection for senior citizens. This is a very important, very sensitive issue that concerns nearly a quarter of our country’s population. Today, we will discuss the package of measures we need to take in this area, in keeping with our demographic and economic possibilities of course.
We are meeting in Voronezh because the region’s governor headed the working group. It must be said too that the region is showing initiative in addressing this matter of social protection. We looked over some of the facilities here and we all saw that they look to be worthy models for our emulation and respect.
Let me start by saying that we have succeeded in increasing the average life expectancy for the country as a whole. The figure is still lower than in some countries. Average life expectancy in Russia today is nearly 70.8 years. As I said, this is lower than in some countries, but it is four years more than the figure we had in 2006. 
Our task now is to bring average life expectancy up to at least 74 years by 2018 and to 75.7 years in 2020. To achieve this we will need to give pensioners a better quality of life, and let me stress that we need to see improvement in all parts of the country.
At the same time, we have to realise that different groups of pensioners have different needs, aspirations and demands, and overall can no longer be seen as a single group of weak, defenceless people in need of the state’s constant care and support.
There are quite a few senior citizens in Russia these days who you would be hard pressed to call ‘old’ in terms of their appearance and state of health. It is not by chance that the new term ‘third-age people’ has spread around the world. Many people remain professionally, socially and publicly active at this age, travel, and play sport. Their ability to organise a healthy lifestyle is often a good example for younger people. One in three pensioners continues to work. I draw your attention to this statistic because it is important – one in three senior citizens is still working. 
Of course we do have many people who are in difficult circumstances, facing loneliness, inability to take care of themselves, often serious illnesses. These people need on-going and good quality medical care and effective social support, including at home. We saw today examples of how home help can be organised.
The most important things here are care, charity and attention. We need to get volunteers involved in this work, support foster families that take on the job of looking after senior citizens and people with disabilities, and be active in developing home-based social support services.
The time is long since ripe in our society for a new and modern policy towards senior citizens. It has to be based on a differentiated approach and on creating conditions for ensuring both active old age and effective support for those who really do need help.
Implementing this new policy will require radical changes in the way the social protection, healthcare, and education systems work. We will need to adjust a number of sector-based programmes and put more focus on developing the non-state social services provision sector. 
We cannot resolve all of these problems overnight of course, and so I agree with the State Council working group’s proposal to draft a common action strategy for senior citizens. Let me mention the main areas we need to take into account in this strategy.
Employment is a key issue. This is important for raising pensioners’ incomes and for giving them a feeling that they are needed and useful to society.
We have an ever greater need for experienced personnel. Many managers have begun to realise that the older generation can make a positive contribution to developing production and that we need to make greater use of specialists’ potential as experts.
It is true that not all senior citizens manage to keep up with the demands of the times. We need mechanisms for repeat integration into professions and re-training programmes for professions in demand on the job market. We also need programmes teaching computer and internet skills.
Let me stress too the importance of raising senior citizens’ financial literacy. Pensioners are active clients of credit organisations, but we cannot call them confident users of various banking products at this point. The reasons are clear: this is a sector that has undergone drastic change. Many senior citizens are probably not well informed about the possibilities today, accessibility, and security. In any case, this is an area that needs our continued attention.
It is imperative to adapt them to modern possibilities in terms of trade, catering, communications and transport. Let me stress that these organisational, informational, educational objectives must be resolved mainly at the regional and municipal level.
One of our priorities is maintaining and improving senior citizens’ health. Their need for medical services is 1.5 times higher than that of middle-aged people; they are hospitalized nearly 3 times as often. However, the medical service they receive often leaves something to be desired; much needs to be changed here. It is not okay when elderly people encounter indifference, spend long hours in queues, often simply to get a prescription, and thus lose a whole day.
These problems exist everywhere – I say this with regret. We must consider measures for encouraging healthcare authorities to treat senior citizens with attention and care, which should include more actively developing gerontological services and better training experts in this domain.
The next topic is organising their leisure time. Many senior citizens have the opportunity to work in their free time, but they also need to use the time they have outside of work. This includes creative pursuits, socialising and sports. The necessary infrastructure is already being built in many major cities – and not just within the social services system, but also in culture, education, sports and tourism. Civil society institutions and regional offices of the leading political parties are getting involved in this work. We certainly need to take advantage of their experience in drafting the Strategy.
Another priority objective is developing the social services market, increasing the quality of and access to such services. And the first thing I want to point out is the implementation of the law On Basic Principles of Social Service for Citizens in Russia. It comes into force on January 1, 2015 and stipulates many important organisational changes.
These changes need to be implemented wisely and carefully; the most important thing is not to ruin anything. What’s most critical is not to lower the quality and quantity of medical and social services, so that people who need constant assistance do not suffer.
Colleagues, I am asking today’s speakers, and those who will be speaking, to talk about interdepartmental coordination on this issue as well as about drafting of legislative acts. There should be quite a few of them: 49.
We will also need to discuss measures that need to be taken to get the businesses involved in the social services sector. The working group suggests introducing tax incentives for such organisations. Let’s look into this suggestion, as well as the working group’s other proposals, taking into account that it’s imperative to broaden participation by the nongovernmental sector in providing services to senior citizens. Currently, they account for just over 1% of the players in this area. And I want to once again stress the significance of volunteer initiatives to care for senior citizens. The regions and municipalities must provide active support for such initiatives.
Colleagues, I mentioned just a few areas (far from all of them) that require special attention. This is a very complex issue, as I said in the beginning, an issue of enormous scale. And we must do everything possible so that these challenges are resolved effectively and quickly, so that senior citizens can realise their plans, be healthy, feel comfortable, and receive the services they need. We must create conditions to ensure that their professional experience and knowledge are needed in society, so that retirement does not lower their social status, and on the contrary, provides them additional opportunities for an active and full life.
<…>
In conclusion, I would like to say the following. We are working on an issue that directly concerns a quarter of our nation’s population.
First of all, in any civilised society and state, it is always a direct duty of the government institutions and public organisations to take care of the elderly. And second, I want to stress that this concerns not only senior citizens, but the entire nation, people of all ages. Because when people see and know that the government cares about its senior citizens, they treat their country and their government differently; they even plan their lives differently, in the sense that there is a reliable system of state support and cares for people. And this always creates internal stability in any nation, in any society. This is no less important for us than any other nation.
So I want to thank the participants in the working group who worked on this issue and say that we do not feel that we have discussed everything here and that all the most effective suggestions have been made. We will continue working on these issues.
Thank you very much.
Geography
Voronezh Region
Topics
Disabled individuals
Regions
Social services
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, State Council
Publication date: August 5, 2014, 20:30
Text versionEvents
Working meeting with Acting Governor of Voronezh Region Alexei Gordeyev
During his working trip to Voronezh Region, Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Acting Governor of Voronezh Region Alexei Gordeyev.
August 5, 2014
19:15
Voronezh
See also
All news about trip to Voronezh Region
August 5, 2014
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Gordeyev, first of all, let’s talk about Voronezh Region’s socioeconomic situation. I know that overall, the situation here is developing well, investment activity is growing, GRP is increasing, and growth rates are slightly higher than the national average in manufacturing and agriculture. Incidentally, we just saw a new bypass. It’s a new road, completed in November of last year. How does this reflect on people’s lives?
Acting Governor of Voronezh Region Alexei Gordeyev
: Mr President, you very rightly noted that we are continuing to experience economic growth. Here are the adjusted data for the first half of the year: the industrial production index averaged 105%. There is also a good level of growth in agriculture, especially in everything related to livestock products, meat and milk production. With regard to investments, we were among the top 10 regions in the first half of the year – in other words, we continue to register serious growth here.
Today, we can also talk about social infrastructure – everything pertaining to government commitments. In particular, this year, we must complete the construction of a fitness and health complex and finish hospital renovations in every district centre. So we are certain that the year will be stable overall; I predict that we will achieve about 8% growth.
Vladimir Putin: Were the harvests good?
Alexei Gordeyev: Yes. As of yesterday, we have harvested three million tonnes. According to our forecast, we should have about four million tonnes including corn; right now, I’m taking about grain crops.
Vladimir Putin: And how much did you have last year?
Alexei Gordeyev: Last year, we had 3.7 million – in other words, we expect that overall, the harvest will be 10–15% greater than last year. We are fully providing ourselves with food grains and are ready to sell to other regions.
If we are to discuss problems, Mr President, our problems have more to do with the fact that industrial and agro sector representatives are starting to ask questions, particularly concerning our trade and economic relations, for example with EU nations. Ultimately, we feel the level of protectionism and direct support over there is much higher, and at the same time, they have a very different level of access to credit and financial resources.
But right now, in addition to investors and business representatives, labour collectives are also concerned with the use of political instruments related to putting pressure on businesses when they roll back trade relations with us, and with the use of additional trade preferences.
Of course, we are all worried about this and the question arises: where is the WTO? Where are the WTO rules and why, indeed, isn’t fair competition being ensured? And, of course, it would be nice if we could give them some level of confidence, send a signal to our businesses.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Gordeyev, I remember the discussions about the WTO with you back when you were the Agriculture Minister in the Cabinet; your position is known well.
Indeed, instruments of political pressure on the economy are unacceptable; they contradict all the regulations and rules. In this respect, the Government of Russia has already proposed a series of response measures to the so-called sanctions on the part of certain states. I think that in current conditions, in order to secure the interests of Russian producers, we could consider this. But, naturally, this needs to be done very carefully, to ensure that we support Russian producers but also do not harm consumers. I already formulated such instructions to the Government and I am confident that corresponding suggestions will be made very soon.
Alexei Gordeyev: Thank you, Mr President.
For our part, we – producers and agricultural workers – are prepared to increase production and aim to make economic growth our main goal, not profits.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, and competitive conditions must be equal, based on the considerations you just expressed, based on national security considerations and in strict compliance with the World Trade Organisation rules. And proposals will be provided accordingly.
Alexei Gordeyev: Thank you.
<…>
Geography
Voronezh Region
Topics
Economy and finance
Regions
WTO
Persons
Gordeyev Alexei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 5, 2014, 19:15
Text version