Events
Speech during a visit to Admiral Kuznetsov aircraft carrier
July 27, 2014
17:00
Severomorsk
Speech during a visit to Admiral Kuznetsov aircraft carrier.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon comrades, I congratulate you on Navy Day!
Officers, warrant officers and sailors, I once again congratulate this ship’s entire crew and everyone in Russia’s Navy on this holiday – Navy Day.
This holiday is an important date for everyone who stands guard over Russia’s sea borders, serves on ships and submarines, in naval aviation and in the marines, ensures the combat readiness of our Navy’s ships and troops, and works in the shipbuilding industry.
Of course this is also a special date for everyone who served in the Navy in the past, and is a date dear to the hearts of our veterans, who fought heroically at sea in the Great Patriotic War.
By tradition, this has become a holiday for the entire country. The Navy is Russia’s pride, strength and asset. Our sailors and officers have always been an example of strict discipline, courage and valour, and a model of selfless and complete devotion to our country. These foundations remain just as firmly in place today. Patriotism and the Russian Navy go hand in hand.
”The Navy is Russia’s pride, strength and asset. Our sailors and officers have always been an example of strict discipline, courage and valour, and a model of selfless and complete devotion to our country.“
Last year alone, our naval forces carried out 43 expeditions, including to protect Russian shipping and combat piracy.
Our Navy’s strength and glory will grow even greater and we will increase its defence capability, combat readiness and mobility, strengthen its resource and equipment base and modernise the coastal infrastructure. New ships will be built.
Last year, work on 26 naval vessels of different types was completed and 7 vessels were commissioned, including the strategic nuclear submarines Yury Dolgoruky and Alexander Nevsky. The cruise missile nuclear submarine Severodvinsk will soon begin service too. It has already gone through all of the preliminary trials and we see it ready to join the fleet today.
Construction of another 60 vessels — combat and auxiliary vessels — is underway, and work has begun on 11 new ships. One of our priorities of course is to strengthen the Black Sea Fleet’s capability. We will modernise its ships and build a modern military and social infrastructure.
Friends, once more, I congratulate you on this holiday. I congratulate all of you who serve in the Navy, responsibly and conscientiously carrying out your professional duties, effectively carrying out military missions, providing reliable defence of our country’s security and territorial integrity, protecting our national interests, and preserving the traditions of honest service, fraternal spirit, mutual aid, and love for your work.
I wish you and your families happiness, health and all the very best.
Thank you for your service.
See also
Navy Day celebrations
July 27, 2014
Geography
Murmansk Region
Topics
Armed Forces
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 27, 2014, 17:00
Text versionEvents
Videoconference with Sevmash Plant
July 27, 2014
18:00
Severomorsk
Videoconference with Sevmash Plant.
See also
Navy Day celebrations
July 27, 2014
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues. I congratulate you on Navy Day.
I know that this is a double holiday for you in the shipbuilding industry because you had planned to begin work on two submarines, but now it will be three new submarines. This is a big event for the navy. Please, you have the floor.
Sevmash General Director Mikhail Budnichenko: Mr President, in full accordance with the state arms programme that you approved, and in keeping with the timetable the Defence Ministry approved, we have begun work on three new nuclear submarines: Knyaz Oleg (fifth Borei class submarine), the strategic submarine Khabarovsk, and another Yasen-class modernised 885M design submarine.
All work has been carried out in strict accordance with the design specifications and has been certified by military commission 1059 of the Defence Ministry.
That was General Director of Sevmash Mikhail Budnichenko reporting.
Vladimir Putin: Good.
Mr Borisov, does this make you happy?
Deputy Defence Minister Yury Borisov: Mr President, financing provisions have been made in full for this work and the project specifications have been approved with the shipbuilders. We expect Sevmash to complete the agreed work on time and in full accordance with the contract terms.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Rogozin?
Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Rogozin: Mr President, my congratulations on Navy Day.
I want to say that stable work is underway not just at Sevmash but also at the neighbouring Zvezdochka plant. I visited this plant yesterday. They have also completed a new ship, the heavy transport ship Akademik Kovalev. The Government’s military-industrial commission is working in direct contact with the heads of our plants to settle all matters that arise, including social issues, because the main thing now is people themselves of course, their mood and the opportunities they have for realising their potential. Everything is going fine on the whole. 
Vladimir Putin: I wish the shipbuilders good luck then. All the best!
Geography
Murmansk Region
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 27, 2014, 18:00
Text version