Events
Meeting with Prime Minister of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan
Vladimir Putin met with Prime Minister of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
February 7, 2014
15:20
Sochi
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister, friends, it is a great pleasure to see you here in Sochi.
We’re very close to your home country here since we’re neighbours along the Black Sea. I want to thank you for finding the time to come to the opening of these Olympics
. I also take this opportunity to wish your athletes success, all the more so as, as far as I know, Russian coaches have trained your figure-skating pair, and so we will be supporting them too.
I am very pleased to have this chance to meet with you on the sidelines of the Olympics. Turkey is without question one of Russia’s privileged partners. We have very good relations and they are showing good development. It is enough to say that four million Russian tourists visited Turkey last year. This is an impressive figure. 
Since the early 1990s, Turkish construction companies have carried out work in Russia worth a total of more than $50 billion. This is also a big result. I take the opportunity here to thank Turkish builders for working on the facilities in Sochi.
Our specialists are all very happy with the work. The Turkish builders have worked very professionally, putting all their time and energy into the job, and have made a substantial contribution to the Olympic preparations. In this sense, this is our common achievement.
Our trade and economic ties are growing. We are priority partners for each other in terms of trade, although our trade volume did drop slightly last year.
In short, we have plenty to discuss and we are very happy to see you.
Prime Minister of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan
(retranslated): First of all, I want to say how happy I am to be your guest here at the Olympic Games. 
We are indeed taking part in these Olympics in our small way, in the figure skating. This is a first step for us. 
I also followed the work our construction firms did as part of the preparations for the Olympics.
Our bilateral trade is at a good level at the moment. There was a slight drop, but I think that we can make up the lost ground.
Our energy sector cooperation is of great importance.
The FIFA World Cup that you will host is also good news, and I think that our construction companies will be ready to give this event their support too.
 Vladimir PUTIN: I am sure they will.
 Recep TAYYIP ERDOGAN: I think that today’s Olympic opening ceremony will be a symbol of peace and freedom. I hope that many new records will be set during the Games.
 Vladimir PUTIN: Thank you very much, Mr Prime Minister.
<…>
Geography
Türkiye
Topics
Foreign policy
Sochi 2014
Persons
Erdogan Recep Tayyip
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 7, 2014, 15:20
Text versionEvents
Reception hosted by the President of Russia in honour of guests at the 2014 Winter Olympics
Vladimir Putin hosted an official reception in Sochi in honour of high-placed guests at the XXII Winter Olympics.
February 7, 2014
18:00
Sochi
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ladies and gentlemen, friends, colleagues, let me say a few words at the start of this gathering today.
First of all, I want to express my sincere thanks to the heads of state and government and all of our foreign guests here today for finding the time to come to this celebration of sport.
We value our good relations with our partners at all times, but today they are especially important and precious at this moment when we are getting ready to open the Olympics.
The opening of the XXII Olympic Games and the competitions ahead are more than just a magnificent celebration of sport. They are a symbol of unity, openness and mutual understanding for millions of people around the world and an exceptional event that belongs to all humanity.
I am particularly happy to be able to remind you that in Syria a three-day ceasefire of hostilities was declared today and humanitarian corridors have been opened in order to evacuate the wounded and give civilians – women and children – the chance to leave the war zone.
”We believe that these Games will give an energy boost and many wonderful impressions to fans around the world, and will fill their hearts with pride in their athletes and their countries. Even more importantly, they will inspire millions of people to take up sport themselves. Of course, they will also give people the opportunity to take a new look at Russia, its achievements, distinctiveness and traditions.“
I thank the Olympic Committee and the United Nations for this. Their appeals to the parties in the conflict unquestionably played a part in this decision. I hope this will set a good tradition and in this particular case will help to resolve all of the problems through peaceful means. 
Russia prepared for this day, for the Olympics’ opening, aware of its responsibility and obligations to the Olympic Committee. We have done everything we can to ensure that joy, understanding, comfort and security reign here in Sochi. Not for an instant have we forgotten that we are preparing a celebration for athletes and for sports fans all around the world. This is above all their celebration.
Once again, I want to thank the International Olympic Committee for giving us the right to carry out this big project and show in practice our commitment to the Olympic values.
We believe that these Games will give an energy boost and many wonderful impressions to fans around the world, and will fill their hearts with pride in their athletes and their countries. Even more importantly, they will inspire millions of people to take up sport themselves. Of course, they will also give people the opportunity to take a new look at Russia, its achievements, distinctiveness and traditions.
This was an ambitious undertaking for our country. I think that any country that organises and hosts the Olympics does so with some ambition, but it is healthy ambition that aims to promote greater understanding between the world’s nations. 
I remember how seven years ago in Guatemala I called on the members of the International Olympic Committee to support the Olympic ambitions of millions of Russians. Friends, we will do everything we can to live up to your expectations. 
I propose a toast to the success of the Sochi Winter Olympics, to marvellous new achievements, and to the Olympic movement’s continued development! 
Topics
Sochi 2014
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 7, 2014, 18:00
Text version