Events
40 years since the launch of construction of the Baikal-Amur Mainline
Vladimir Putin held a videoconference to congratulate veteran-builders and railway workers on the 40th anniversary of the launch of construction of the Baikal-Amur Mainline (BAM).
July 8, 2014
16:20
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 3
Videoconference on the 40th anniversary of the launch of construction of the Baikal-Amur Mainline.
The President observed the ceremony of laying the ‘silver link’ – a railway section symbolising the launch of modernisation of the Trans-Siberian Railway and Baikal-Amur Mainline, and spoke to BAM builders and veterans.
***
President of Russia VLADIMIR PUTIN: Mr Yakunin
, friends, good afternoon.
I am very happy to see you all and congratulate you on this event.
I see some veterans there, among them outstanding personalities in the history of the railway, and also young people, who will carry on your traditions – and are already doing this, I am sure.
”The BAM was not only a colossal construction project, but also a huge challenge for the country. People had to work in very harsh conditions; this was a strain for the entire nation, and especially for those people who actually worked there. What they did was undoubtedly a heroic feat.“
The BAM was not only a colossal construction project, but also a huge challenge for the country. It had great strategic military and economic significance. People had to work in very harsh climatic and geological conditions; this was a strain for the entire nation, and especially for those people who actually worked there. What they did was undoubtedly a heroic feat.
Unfortunately, in the 1990s the country faced certain difficulties, primarily those of an economic nature. The question arose whether the railway was worth the effort. However, by the beginning of the century these sentiments gave way to the recognition that the BAM has great value for the country.
Today, as you may know, we are working to expand the mainline and to establish this country as a powerful transportation nation; we want the BAM to be comfortable, easy and profitable to use not only for Russia, but for our partners as well. We intend to invest in the mainline’s expansion and, in my view, this should inspire our veterans, should demonstrate that their efforts were not wasted, that they have implemented a project that is of great importance for the country, a project that will be carried on.
I would like to thank you for your work and congratulate you on this anniversary.
Congratulations!
<…>
Topics
Regions
Transport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 8, 2014, 16:20
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Prime Minister of Serbia Aleksandar Vucic
Vladimir Putin met with Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Aleksandar Vucic, who is in Russia on a working visit.
July 8, 2014
17:20
With Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Aleksandar Vucic.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, Mr Prime Minister. I am very happy to see you.
I presume you already had some very constructive talks with your Russian counterpart.
We not only closely follow the developments in your country, but also try to take part in expanding our trade and economic ties. We have some very good projects, but we have even more opportunities.
I am very happy to see you. Welcome to Moscow.
Prime Minister of Serbia Aleksandar Vucic
: Mr President, I would like to begin by greeting you and thanking for your warm welcome. Your colleagues and I discussed everything yesterday, and I hope that today we will finalise the most important contract dealing with the South Stream.
One more time: I am very grateful for your invitation and your very warm welcome.
(Retranslated) I will continue in Serbian.
I am very grateful for the assistance with Kosovo and Metohija that we are receiving from you, and I am also very pleased that you wish to continue developing economic ties with us.
Thank you once again for the opportunity to meet with you. The entire Serbian delegation had a very hard day yesterday, but I believe that by the end of the today we will be able to say that both yesterday and today were very productive.
Thank you once again.
<…>
Geography
Serbia
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Vucic Aleksandar
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 8, 2014, 17:20
Text version