Events
Presentation of IOC members
In the run up to the Olympics, a ceremony was held in Sochi to present members of the International Olympic Committee to the President of the host country.
February 4, 2014
18:30
Sochi
Addresses at the presentation of International Olympic Committee members
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President Bach, friends, ladies and gentlemen,
I would like to sincerely welcome you all to Sochi and to thank the President of the International Olympic Committee, Mr Bach, all IOC members and all employees of this highly respected organisation for your invaluable support in the course of the preparations for the XXII Winter Olympic Games.
During all the years that we were implementing our Olympic project you were always close, helping us in word and in deed, and together we have achieved a great deal.
The Sochi Olympics will leave behind a truly great legacy. They have not only changed the image of the city, making it more beautiful and comfortable, but have also given an enormous boost to its social, economic, cultural and environmental development. I have just been telling some colleagues that the environment in the region has improved not by mere percentage points – it is two, three, and according to some parameters, four times better now. This is all the result of the work done here. I am referring to the quality of the roads, which means reduced emissions, transition to more environmentally friendly fuels (such as natural gas), and the creation of waste treatment facilities; the air is now three to four times cleaner, and even the water in the mountain rivers has changed for the better; there are no more burning landfills.
I am confident that the Games, which are to begin in two days, will become an important page in the history of cooperation between Russia and the IOC. We value the trust and friendly and fruitful dialogue we have developed from the start with the support of Mr Rogge, who is modestly standing back there among the other participants of this meeting and who has done so much to make it possible for Russia to host these Games, just as he has done a great deal for the organisation and preparation of Olympics all over the world. We are happy that you share our commitment to becoming a more active participant in shaping the international sports agenda and that you help us join in the efforts to develop sports around the world.
Today Russia has four representatives on the IOC. We regard this as a sign of special trust on the part of the International Olympic Committee.
I expect that our specialists’ extensive management experience and thorough knowledge of all aspects of the sports sphere will benefit both your reputable organisation and the entire Olympic and Paralympic movement.
 I would like to assure you that Russia is always open to new ideas, projects and events in sports; we are ready to support and implement all the creative initiatives of our big common Olympic family.
Once again, I express my sincere gratitude for your valuable help.
I hope your stay in Russia will leave you with warm and happy memories, while the upcoming Games will be rich in remarkable, exciting and memorable events.
Thank you, once again, ladies and gentlemen, for your cooperation.
Thank you.
International Olympic Committee President THOMAS BACH: Your Excellency, President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin,
Thank you very much for granting us the great honour of being with you this evening. We are on the eve of the Sochi 2014 Olympic Winter Games. We can see that you, Russia, and the Russians have delivered. You have set the stage for the best winter athletes of the world. You have delivered on all the pledges you and your team made seven years ago to the International Olympic Committee. And we would very much like to congratulate you and to thank you for this outstanding achievement.
At the same time, I would like to thank the people of Russia, the people of Sochi and the Krasnodar Region, and especially the many volunteers, for the warm welcome they offered to us in the traditional Russian hospitality.
Russia has always been a great winter sport nation with a long record of achievement. The legacy of the Sochi Games will help future generations add to that record, to that record of success, for many years to come. These Games – and you have mentioned it, Mr President – these Games will also help achieve the goal of transforming a whole region into a year-round destination for sports, conventions and recreation.
None of this would have been possible without your personal involvement. Thank you for your strong commitment to the success of these Olympic Winter Games.
Your passion for sport is evident. You are not just a keen observer of sport; you are, the people wrote to me here, an active participant. But, may I say, you are an athlete, and an inspiring role model for millions of people throughout this vast nation. With the Sochi Games, Russia is opening a new chapter in its long and glorious Olympic history that dates back from the founding of the modern Olympic movement in 1894. We all look forward and we wish you and us a joyous celebration of sport and Olympic values in the new Russia.
Thank you very much, Mr President.
Topics
Sochi 2014
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 4, 2014, 18:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of International Olympic Committee Thomas Bach
Vladimir Putin and Thomas Bach discussed the preparation and holding of the Olympic Games in Sochi.
February 4, 2014
19:30
Sochi
1 of 3
Meeting with President of the International Olympic Committee Thomas Bach.
Earlier the Russian President and the President of the IOC took part in the presentation of International Olympic Committee members.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, allow me once again to extend you a sincere welcome. Actually, I am not sure whether I should welcome you, or you should welcome me: I think Sochi is going to be your home too now, at least for the duration of the Olympic Games.
I would like to thank you for everything that you have done over the past years. We have said a lot about how much the city has changed, how the environment has improved, and about the conditions that were created for engaging in sports for both high-class athletes and the public at large. In addition, I would very much like the Sochi Games to become yet another step in the development of the Olympic movement.
I would like to thank you and the entire International Olympic Committee for all the joint work and for your constant support. I assure you that we are doing everything to turn Sochi into a hospitable home for all participants and spectators. Our main goal is to turn the Olympic Games in Sochi into a festival for all sports fans around the world.
Thank you.
President of the International Olympic Committee Thomas Bach (translated from Russian): Thank you, Mr President, for the warm welcome in your country. We have been received here with your traditional hospitality. In Russia we truly feel at home.
I was very happy to see how in the past 7 years Russia and Sochi have prepared venues for the best athletes of the world who will compete in the Winter Olympics. I have already had the opportunity to talk to many athletes and they are all excited about the sports facilities and the Olympic villages. They feel quite comfortable here.
We are very impressed by the development of the city and the entire region, which used to be, if I may say so, a provincial resort area, while now it is an international sport and cultural centre, a congress centre.
For seven years, we have been maintaining very productive contacts between experts of the Organising Committee and our Coordination Commission. This cooperation has proved to be very productive and positive.
First of all, Mr Putin, I would like to express my gratitude to you personally for your constant interest in the Olympic Games, and in sports in general. I know you give great attention to the development of a new Russia, where the focus will be on education, including professional, and inculcating the values and spirit of sports in children and young people. We look forward to having wonderful Olympic Games in a new Russia.
Vladimir Putin: Mr President, you have touched upon a very important subject. We spoke many times of the region’s development, of resolving all sorts of issues here. However, one of the most important tasks that we are working on here in Russia and you are working on as President of the International Olympic Committee is making a positive impact on young people by developing sports, taking young people and children off the streets, away from alcohol, drugs and tobacco.
Here the International Olympic Committee, along with some other international sports organisations, plays a truly outstanding role in resolving these tasks. I would like to assure you that we will do everything to support these efforts of the International Olympic Committee, you can always count on us.
Let me wish you success in this work. Meanwhile we will do our best to hold the Sochi Olympics at the highest possible level.
Thomas Bach: The preparatory work that we saw gives us every reason to say the Games will surely be held at the highest level. 
I am grateful to you for touching upon the topic of mass sports, since this will become the Olympics’ main legacy, so that children and young people can not only follow sports events on television, use certain sports related services or play, for instance, sports videogames, but also engage in sports. This is why I have no doubt that our good relations will continue after the Olympic Games as well, especially since Russia will be hosting other major sports events.
Vladimir Putin (in German): I express my sincere gratitude to you.
Thomas Bach: Thank you very much.
See also
Presentation of IOC members
February 4, 2014
Topics
Sochi 2014
Sport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 4, 2014, 19:30
Text versionEvents
Visit to Persian Leopard Breeding and Rehabilitation Centre
Vladimir Putin visited the Persian Leopard Breeding and Rehabilitation Centre at the Sochi National Park.
February 4, 2014
15:00
Sochi
5 of 9
At the Persian Leopard Breeding and Rehabilitation Centre with the Centre’s Director Umar Semyonov.
Vladimir Putin toured the Centre together with IOC Executive Director for the Olympic Games Gilbert Felli and IOC Coordination Commission Chairman Jean-Claude Killy.
The Centre was set up in 2009 within the framework of the programme to restore the Persian leopard population. It is the first centre in Russia for the breeding and rehabilitation of large carnivores that are subsequently released into the wild. Currently the Centre is home to six adult leopards and four cubs.
In 2001, the Persian leopard was entered into the Red Data Book of the Russian Federation and the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Fauna and Flora.
After his visit to the Persian Leopard Breeding and Rehabilitation Centre, Vladimir Putin answered questions from journalists.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: This is a unique centre: nothing of its kind exists anywhere else in the world. We are doing something truly commendable as part of the Olympics project. As you may know, poachers killed off all the leopards here in the Caucasus back in the 1950s. We decided to restore the leopards’ population as part of the Olympic effort. This is hard work that requires great sensitivity. I believe you have heard the experts talk about what they have been doing here – I found it both interesting and very encouraging. Let us consider the restoration of a lost animal species to be part of Sochi’s Olympic legacy.
I am sure you know that the environment here has become much better – many times better, and I would like to stress this. This is mainly due to a far better quality of the roads, which, in turn, has led to reduced emissions; there are no more burning landfills, and waste treatment facilities are more efficient. The environment is two, three, and according to some parameters, four times better now. The air is cleaner, the environment is better – this is obvious.
Naturally, such major construction sites cause concern among the environmentalists. However, overall the situation has become better, rather than worse.
I expect us to be able to implement other major projects of this kind with equal efficiency, although I doubt that we will have any more challenges of this scale in the near future. The next milestone will be the preparations for the 2018 FIFA World Cup, which is also a huge undertaking.
Question: Regarding the roads: I hear you took the new Kurortny Avenue on your way here, which has just been commissioned. What is the traffic like there? Not too heavy?
Vladimir Putin: Haven’t you been there yourself?
Remark: No, not yet.
Vladimir Putin: I strongly recommend you try it out. There are no traffic jams there, but that’s not the point. The thing is that this is a very complicated engineering structure since practically the entire road is made up of tunnels. The route has only been commissioned temporarily, on a trial basis. Nevertheless, I have to say that all the necessary security measures have been taken there. Some tunnels will have additional fire-fighting teams standing by. They have envisaged everything that has to do with security, even before fully commissioning all the electronic and fire-fighting systems. The road should be fully completed in about six to eight weeks. Overall, it is perfectly safe for operation provided the additional measures I have mentioned are in place.
Question: What about the situation in Sochi in general? We remember what you said in Guatemala: there will be no traffic jams, I promise. Will that be the case?
Vladimir Putin: It certainly looks like it. You have seen all the roads that have been built and all the interchanges. In my opinion, we should definitely be proud of this achievement. I am sure people will use them for years to come. There is a motorway and a railway going up into the mountains. I would like to repeat that I am truly impressed with all the interchanges they have built. I am happy to see that we have achieved so much in this area. There are still questions remaining regarding some of the hotels, but they are not of a critical nature. Whether there are issues or not, we have the required 40,000 hotel beds, and they are all ready to be used.
Question: Mr Putin, can you disclose the main Olympic secret: who will light the Olympic flame?
Vladimir Putin: You mean the torch?
Question: Yes, the torch. There are all sorts of jokes circulating on social networks. I am sure you are aware of them.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, I am, Dmitry Peskov [Press Secretary] told me yesterday. I am sure these are just rumours. We have quite a few outstanding athletes, including those in winter sports, all famous not only in this country, but around the world as well. Honestly speaking, I never got involved in this aspect of the preparations and have no intention of doing so. However, I have to say that I have deep respect for all athletes who have shown outstanding results.
This requires extremely hard work, and these men and women dedicate their lives to it, training twice daily from early childhood, working flat out. I know this partly from personal experience, and even to a greater extent from members of the national judo team, which is my favourite sport. They have practically no private lives to speak of: with two training sessions a day, they live from competitions to training camp and then to competitions again. They all deserve great respect. In comparison to, say, the so-called middle class, they work for meagre pay, only out of their love for sports, for their fans, for their country (with the exception of tennis, ice hockey and football players). I repeat, they all deserve great respect, men and women alike. We always tend to show special attention to women because often their achievements are even greater than men’s.
I believe I will speak for all fans if I say that we love them all – all the Olympic athletes, including the fair sex, and we wish them every success at these Olympic Games, and at all other competitions. I am sure this is how it will be.
As for who will light the Olympic flame, I am sure this will not be a problem. As I said from the start, we have enough great athletes doing winter sports.
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 4, 2014, 15:00
Text versionEvents
Opening of International Olympic Committee session in Sochi
Vladimir Putin spoke at the opening of the 126th session of the International Olympic Committee, held in Sochi ahead of the Winter Olympic Games.
February 4, 2014
21:00
Sochi
3 of 3
At the opening of the 126th session of the International Olympic Committee.
See also
Meeting with President of International Olympic Committee Thomas Bach
February 4, 2014
Presentation of IOC members
February 4, 2014
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ladies and gentlemen, friends, President Bach,
I am truly happy to welcome you to Sochi, which is hosting the XXII Winter Olympic Games.
We are only three days away from the moment when the Olympic flame will light up Fisht Stadium and this grand global athletic celebration will begin.
Russia has been preparing for it with all the responsibility, thoroughness and enormous love for sports, with a lot of excitement and great hope.
We have strong memories of the emotional, uplifting enthusiasm we felt during the 1980 Moscow Olympics and we feel truly joyful and positive because the mighty, inspiring spirit of the Olympic Games is once again returning to our nation.
We are grateful to the International Olympic Committee for the opportunity to host the Winter Olympics. We understand how difficult it was to give Olympic hosting rights to a city that, at the time, had only ten or, at most, fifteen percent of the necessary infrastructure; but everyone believed in our potential and in the Russian character that could meet any challenges.
I should note that such challenges only serve to rally us. And here in Russia, we have a big, multi-ethnic family; it’s hard to even count, but we have over 160 ethnic groups and peoples living in our nation. These challenges give all the Russian people powerful motivation to change the situation for the better, to prove that Russia is capable of overcoming any obstacle and successfully achieving the most ambitious goals, such as building elite sports facilities and all necessary city infrastructure in just five years, when it usually takes decades to complete this type of construction.
Today, each of you can see how the city of Sochi has been transformed over the last several years and ascertain for yourselves that our nation is prepared to make its contribution to the development of global sports. During our preparations for the Games, we gained extensive knowledge, which we are ready to share with all our friends and partners – members of the big Olympic Family, including in the area of education, in promoting the Olympic project itself as well as sports and the values of a healthy lifestyle.
Suffice to mention the largest media promotion programme in the history of preparing and holding the Olympic Games, the enormous number of bright cultural events that have united millions of citizens throughout Russia and, of course, the unique Olympic torch relay, whose duration and diversity reflected all the beauty and uniqueness of Russia, the largest country in the world in terms of territory.
In addition, hosts of future Olympic Games and other major athletic events will be interested in our experience of organising accommodation for Olympic athletes and the general plan we proposed for the Sochi Olympics.
These Olympic Games will also debut new types of sports, including the expanded freestyle skiing and snowboarding programmes, which are particularly popular among young people.
The Paralympic Games will open a little later, but I want to tell you right now that it is just as important for us to hold them at the highest level. I will note that many Russian media have expressed a desire and readiness to provide broad, detailed coverage of the brave Paralympic participants’ athletic competitions. We hope this move will not only increase the Games’ audience but also inspire thousands of young people to engage in sports.
We have strong memories of the emotional, uplifting enthusiasm we felt during the 1980 Moscow Olympics and we feel truly joyful and positive because the mighty, inspiring spirit of the Olympic Games is once again returning to our nation.
Indeed, that is the very objective that many Olympians are pursuing, first and foremost, the legacy they leave behind.
This legacy is not just about inculcating the values of an active lifestyle, mutual respect, equality and fair competition in people’s consciousness; it’s also about more tangible areas. When the Games are over, the Olympic facilities and the infrastructure will serve as the foundation for the first Russian international winter sports centre, where Russia’s national teams will train, where we will be happy to see not only our athletes, but our foreign colleagues and friends as well.
But most importantly, it will serve to train new generations of athletes: a Russian national children’s sports education centre will be created on the basis of the Olympic facilities. So far, the practice of using Olympic facilities for children’s sports has been a fairly uncommon thing around the world. However, it is entirely consistent with the spirit and the very idea of the Olympic and Paralympic legacy, which is essentially aimed toward future generations.
We also have high expectations for the Russian International Olympic University that has opened in Sochi and will train, with the IOC’s support, sports managers from around the world, as well as actively develop the volunteer movement in Russia.
And naturally, the city of Sochi itself deserves special acknowledgement. It is largely thanks to the Olympic project that this gem on Russia’s Black Sea will be able to fully realise its cultural and tourist potential, to attract guests not only with its unique natural environment but by also offering substantial infrastructure and hospitality options, a whole range of active recreation, educational and eco-tourism opportunities.
I want to stress again that in the years of implementing the Olympic project, a great deal of work has been done in all areas. On July 4, 2007, you, the members of the IOC, supported the Olympic dream of tens of millions of Russians; and for us, preparing and holding the Winter Olympic Games in Sochi, and doing it well, became a matter of honour.
I am confident that thanks to this extensive creative work – each of us has invested a part of our soul into it – the Games will remain in the memory of all Olympic athletes and guests. We hope that they will get to know better and appreciate the nature of modern Russia, to understand and appreciate our commitment to the Olympic Charter – Move forward and be open to the world – and, of course, our hospitality and kindliness, with which we always meet our good and true friends. I hope that each of you will feel it.
We consider everyone who has provided us full, comprehensive support during preparations for the Games in Sochi to be our friends. I want to thank you, Mr Bach, I want to thank Mr Rogge, Mr Killy, and all IOC members and staff, for your active assistance in implementing our Olympic project, fulfilling Russia’s Olympic dream.
Please allow me to sincerely wish you success in your work.
Friends, ladies and gentlemen,
Please allow me to declare the 126th session of the International Olympic Committee open.
Topics
Sochi 2014
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 4, 2014, 21:00
Text version