Events
Interview to Vesti v Subbotu programme
Vladimir Putin answered questions from the anchor of TV current affairs programme Vesti v Subbotu Sergei Brilev. The interview was recorded on April 17, immediately after the Direct Line with Vladimir Putin.
April 19, 2014
21:00
Anchor of Vesti v subbotu Current Affairs Programme Sergei Brilev: Mr President, today for the first time you said that Russian military men were, after all, behind the Crimean self-defence forces.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: I have already hinted at that before.
Sergey Brilev: Has it already rained medals? Or will we forever remain in the dark regarding who it was?
Vladimir Putin: I do not think we will find out in the short term, but the people will be rewarded by the state, that is for sure.
Sergey Brilev: I am sure you know how the West will present this – that the referendum was held at the barrel of Russian guns.
Vladimir Putin: I know and I said it deliberately. However, if we take a frank and fair look at this, we will all see that you cannot force people out of their homes and make them vote even at gunpoint, while 83% of the population came to the polling stations.
Sergey Brilev: The same is true of the possible ‘upside-down’ question: when they hear you say that it is wrong to send tanks against the civilian population, they will recall your anti-terrorist operations in the North Caucasus. They will say that this is also an anti-terrorist operation.
Vladimir Putin: There is an enormous difference: in the North Caucasus we were dealing with aggression on the part of international terrorism. These were specially formed, well-trained gangs armed and supplied by other countries. This is a huge difference.
Sergey Brilev: Mr President, rumour has it that Viktor Yanukovych may appear in Ukraine for Easter. Is it true?
Vladimir Putin: You will have to ask him.
See also
Direct Line with Vladimir Putin
April 17, 2014
Sergey Brilev: You mentioned one very interesting approach to Ukraine’s payment for Russian gas: Russia will wait a month and on May 17, eight days before the announced elections in Ukraine, will get back to the issue of gas payments. Does this mean that you recognise the May 25 elections, or are you preparing a surprise?
Vladimir Putin: This has nothing to do with the elections. We are not linking economic issues to the political developments in Ukraine. We were supposed to receive payment for March gas deliveries on April 7 this year. We never received it. I would like to repeat: we are talking about $525 million. Zero! We are acting in full compliance with the contract – and we are charging the lowest rate, with all the discounts. As we agreed, if they do not make regular payments, we will get back to the initial pricing formula. In line with the contract, it amounts to $485 per 1,000 cubic metres.
We say we could have done this right now, considering the accumulated debt of $2.2 billion, but we will not do so. We do not want to either destabilise the Ukrainian economy or question the reliability of gas transit to Europe, therefore we call on all European states, all countries that are interested in supporting the Ukrainian economy to get involved in providing assistance to Ukraine and work out a set of measures designed to fund the budget.
We are willing to wait another month, but we cannot wait forever, we cannot shift the entire burden of supporting a 45-million strong nation onto the Russian budget and the Russian taxpayers.
Sergey Brilev: Maybe we could start with Ukraine as regards sale of Russian oil and gas for rubles?
Vladimir Putin: This does not make much difference – Ukraine will have to find the rubles anyway.
Sergey Brilev: You told a wonderful story about the visit by Mr Rasmussen back when he was the Danish Prime Minister.
Vladimir Putin: No, he did not visit me – I went to Denmark.
Sergey Brilev: So he recorded your conversation, didn’t he?
Vladimir Putin: Yes, he did.
Sergey Brilev: I am sure you have also met with NATO Secretary General designate Mr Jens Stoltenberg, former prime minister of Norway.
Vladimir Putin: We are on very good terms, personally as well as officially. He is a very serious, responsible person. We will see how our relations develop once he assumes his new post.
Sergey Brilev: Will relations between Russia and the West change in the course of the year?
Vladimir Putin: You know, this is not for us to decide, or not only for us. This depends on our partners. I do not see anything that would stand in the way of normalising our cooperation.
Sergey Brilev: Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Additional
Answers to journalists’ questions following Direct Line
April 17, 2014
Geography
Sevastopol
Republic of Crimea
Ukraine
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 19, 2014, 21:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev to discuss the Government’s work in the previous year in view of the report the Prime Minister is preparing for the State Duma.
April 19, 2014
12:00
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
With Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Medvedev, in line with Russian legislation the Prime Minister is to report on the Government’s activities in the previous year. As I know, you are now working on this report.
“The Russian Federation has maintained the positive dynamics of economic development despite the complicated international economic situation.”
I would like to note in this connection that the Government of the Russian Federation has maintained the positive dynamics of economic development despite the complicated international economic situation. Although we are witnessing economic stagnation and even zero and negative growth indexes, the Russian Government has managed to achieve positive growth. I know that this is not entirely what the Government had planned; however, you have managed to show good results. Most importantly, you fulfilled all our social obligations.
The development of agriculture has been given significant attention, along with other economic sectors. I know that there have been quite a few debates regarding macroeconomic stability, which continue to this day. We will get back to this later today. Generally, many good, positive things have been done, though it is only natural for such a big job to also encounter setbacks. Now you must focus on the problem areas, tackle all the challenges that we come across and move on to develop our economy and the social sphere.
Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev
: Mr President, you are absolutely right in saying that last year, despite the rather complicated international economic situation we have managed to achieve economic growth, which is good. It is not as great as we expected, but this is forward movement nevertheless. 
Unfortunately, all the problems in the global economy and our internal issues, including structural ones, have clearly remained this year. However, the Government will do everything to achieve the main goals and implement the programmes that we have: beginning with the strategic Presidential Executive Orders, the main directions of the Government’s activities and through to the state programmes.
“Only a few years ago it was hard to imagine that agriculture would become such a powerful instrument in the development of our economy, but this is what we are seeing now, and it is a very good indicator that our efforts have not been in vain.”
This will require significant resources; however, despite what some people are saying, it is clear – I would like to assure you now, and I will say this in my report to the State Duma – that we have the resources necessary to meet all our social commitments. Challenging as they are, these commitments will all be met in every detail, including salaries and support for the social sphere. We will implement everything we have planned.
We will also work hard to stimulate further industrial growth and modernisation, despite the overall complicated economic situation and the tough situation in industry. Attention will also be given to investment into agriculture.
In the past ten years, agriculture has turned into a driver of the country’s economic development. We are hopeful there will be a good harvest this year. I will speak of all this to the State Duma deputies, pursuant to the Constitution.
I would also like to touch upon what you said regarding the macroeconomic situation and the debates that are underway. Generally speaking, we are drafting proposals for discussion with the President.
Vladimir Putin: Only a few years ago it was hard to imagine that agriculture would become such a powerful instrument in the development of our economy, but this is what we are seeing now, and it is a very good indicator that our efforts have not been in vain and we are creating additional opportunities for overall development.
Dmitry Medvedev: We are a country that was destined by God to have a strong agriculture. It has always been so and it is our duty to do everything for the development of rural areas.
<…>
Topics
Agriculture
Economy and finance
Industry
Social services
Persons
Medvedev Dmitry
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 19, 2014, 12:00
Text version