Events
Statement for the press after Russian-Vietnamese talks
November 25, 2014
17:15
Sochi
Statement for the press after Russian-Vietnamese talks.
See also
Meeting with General Secretary of the Vietnamese Communist Party Nguyen Phu Trong
November 25, 2014
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends, colleagues,
We have just completed our talks with the General Secretary of the Vietnamese Communist Party Central Committee Nguyen Phu Trong. These were friendly talks held in an atmosphere of trust.
The relations between Russia and Vietnam are those of a comprehensive strategic partnership. Prospects for their further development are reflected in the joint statement we made today. We maintain a constant political dialogue at all levels.
During our talks, we had a detailed discussion of a broad range of issues of bilateral cooperation and set plans for the future.
The main accent was on expanding trade and investment cooperation. In 2013 Russian-Vietnamese trade turnover went up by 8.5 percent to reach almost $4 billion.
The plans we discussed today would make it possible to reach a trade turnover of $10 billion in the next few years.
We have created various effective cooperation mechanisms. Among them is the so-called high-level working group, which has prepared 17 investment projects worth a total $20 billion.
The creation of a free trade zone between the Customs Union member-states and Vietnam will definitely serve to deepen our cooperation. Negotiations on this are entering their final stage.
Our partnership in the oil and gas sector serves as a good example of our fruitful relations. Gazprom, Rosneft and Zarubezhneft are all successfully working in Vietnam.
The company Vietsovpetro – the flagship of our cooperation – has produced 210 million tons of oil over the years of its existence. This cooperation has good prospects and joint work is underway on both the territory of Vietnam and Russia.
Nuclear power is a strategic area. We had a detailed discussion of the issues pertaining to the construction of the first nuclear power station in Vietnam with the participation of Rosatom.
We are consistently working to create a Nuclear Science and Technology Centre in Hanoi. A corresponding framework agreement was signed in October.
We intend to further enhance our cooperation in such areas as electric energy industry, machine-building, mining and railroad construction.
We have agreed to step up shipments of Vietnamese agricultural produce and seafood to Russia.
Our cooperation in the financial sphere is also growing stronger. The Vietnamese-Russian bank is operating successfully and work is underway to expand mutual payments in national currencies.
Our cooperation in telecommunications is very promising. We are negotiating the joint use of the GLONASS global navigation system, with a monitoring station to be set up in Vietnam.
Today, as you have seen, we have signed a number of agreements. We intend to enhance our cooperation in education, science and technology.
The Russian-Vietnamese Tropical Centre is a good example of our cooperation. It serves as a base for important research in biology, environmental studies, medicine and material engineering.
Some 6 thousand students from Vietnam currently study in Russia. This year we have issued 600 study grants for citizens of Vietnam, next year the number will grow to 700, to reach 1000 by 2020. We are considering the possibility of creating a Vietnamese-Russian technological university in Hanoi.
We attach great importance to developing humanitarian contacts. Thus, in November 2013 Days of Russian Culture were held in Vietnam and in June of this year the Russian Federation hosted days of Vietnamese culture. I am certain that the Days of Hanoi in Moscow will also be a success.
The number of Russian tourists travelling to Vietnam is growing, from 298 thousand people in 2013 to an expected 400 thousand this year.
We find it very important to coordinate our foreign policy actions. Our approaches to the resolution of many global and regional issues almost coincide.
In conclusion, I would like to express my gratitude to Comrade Nguyen Phu Trong for a fruitful and frank exchange of views. I am convinced that the agreements we have reached will serve to further strengthen the Russian-Vietnamese strategic partnership.
Thank you for your attention.
Geography
Vietnam
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 25, 2014, 17:15
Text versionEvents
Closing ceremony of the World Chess Championship
Vladimir Putin took part in the closing ceremony of the 2014 match to determine the World Chess Champion.
November 25, 2014
20:15
Sochi
The President congratulated the Norwegian grandmaster Magnus Carlsen on his victory over the Indian chess player Viswanathan Anand.
After the ceremony, Vladimir Putin spoke to the finalists.
The match to determine the World Chess Champion was held in Sochi on November 7–23.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends, I would first like to congratulate Magnus Carlsen on his victory. Congratulations! This victory allows you to retain the title of World Chess Champion.
I would also like to thank Viswanathan Anand for the wonderful game we will all remember.
This match between the two strongest grandmasters of the planet has truly become the focal point of the entire world chess championship. Millions of chess fans from all over the world followed it. As I have just been told, this was about 2 million people in over 100 countries every day. I am certain that the honest and fierce struggle of two equal and respectable players has met the expectations of millions of fans across the globe.
Chess is fairly considered an important part of world culture. In Russia it has traditionally enjoyed special respect.
We are happy and proud that the Olympic city of Sochi hosted the decisive match for the world chess crown.
This city is filled with a festive atmosphere of sports and competition, and the participants in this match have demonstrated the same qualities as the Olympic athletes did during the Winter Olympics.
The match to determine the World Chess Champion will definitely serve to further develop chess in Russia and the world at large.
We in Russia have a special love for chess. Let me remind you that this country gave the world ten champions.
We have about 540 thousand people doing this sport, while the number of those who like to spend their free time over a game of chess runs into millions.
Once again, my congratulations to Magnus Carlsen on his outstanding victory! I wish you success!
Thank you for your attention. I would like to ask the President of the World Chess Federation to present the awards.
<…>
Topics
Sport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 25, 2014, 20:15
Text versionEvents
Meeting with General Secretary of the Vietnamese Communist Party Nguyen Phu Trong
Vladimir Putin met in Sochi with the General Secretary of the Vietnamese Communist Party Central Committee Nguyen Phu Trong.
November 25, 2014
14:10
Sochi
2 of 6
With the General Secretary of the Vietnamese Communist Party Nguyen Phu Trong.
See also
Statement for the press after Russian-Vietnamese talks
November 25, 2014
After the talks, the two leaders issued a Joint Statement on the Further Progress of the Comprehensive Strategic Partnership Between the Russian Federation and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam and signed a number of documents.
Among them are intergovernmental agreements on cooperation in communications, information technologies and mass communication, cooperation in marine navigation and on strategic partnership in education, science and technology. The parties also signed a joint action plan to combat violations of customs regulations and a Memorandum on Sports and Physical Fitness. The Petrovietnam oil and gas corporation signed two agreements with Gazprom, and a Memorandum on Further Strategic Partnership with Zarubezhneft.
Vladimir Putin and Nguyen Phu Trong also made statements for the press.
 * * *
Beginning of the meeting with the General Secretary of the Vietnamese Communist Party Central Committee Nguyen Phu Trong
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Comrade General Secretary, friends, welcome to Russia. I am very happy to see you.
I would like to begin our conversation by noting that relations between Russia and Vietnam have been developing successfully. We maintain high-level political relations: our foreign policy agencies are actively cooperating, inter-parliamentary relations are developing and our intergovernmental commission is operating with success.
Last year our trade turnover has gone up by 9 percent, while Russia’s investment has grown to reach $2 billion.
We have good prospects and I am certain that your visit will make an additional contribution to the development of our relations.
Welcome.
General Secretary of the Vietnamese Communist Party Central Committee Nguyen Phu Trong (retranslated): Thank you very much, Comrade President.
I am very happy to have the opportunity to visit Russia, your wonderful hospitable country at your invitation together with Vietnam’s leaders. I am also happy that the weather is so nice today.
As you have noted, relations between our countries have been developing successfully. We have reached a high level of political trust. This is especially important in view of the celebrations next year of 65 years of diplomatic relations between Vietnam and the Russian Federation.
Today relations between Vietnam and the Russian Federation are those of a comprehensive strategic partnership, and Vietnam has always considered Russia to be one of its leading partners. This is a very important basis for the further deepening and strengthening of the traditional relations of friendship and comprehensive cooperation between our countries.
One of the goals of my current visit to Russia is to discuss with you and take joint measures to further strengthen relations between our countries to raise them to a new, higher level.
I would also like to tell you that in the past two days I have managed to meet with the leaders of the State Duma and the Federation Council, with Comrade Prime Minister of the Russian Federation and some other Russian friends and partners. All the meetings were very meaningful and the atmosphere was friendly and sincere.
Today I am very happy to have the opportunity to meet with you.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Geography
Vietnam
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 25, 2014, 14:10
Text version