Events
Meeting on healthcare development
Vladimir Putin held a meeting on healthcare development and the implementation of presidential instructions to improve the accessibility and quality of medical care.
February 20, 2014
18:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 4
Meeting on healthcare development.
Taking part in the meeting were Deputy Prime Minister Olga Golodets
, Presidential Aide Andrei Belousov
, Healthcare Minister Veronika Skvortsova
and Finance Minister Anton Siluanov
.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
We met fairly recently to discuss healthcare and set certain targets for the future. Let us see today what we have managed to do so far. Very little time has passed, but we were speaking of very specific measures that had to be taken during the past month.
The first thing I would like to draw your attention to is structural modernisation. We have been speaking of the significance of these measures for quite some time now. I would like to remind you that in my Address to the Federal Assembly last December I also spoke about this. These measures, as I have said, lead to a reduction of unnecessary costs in the healthcare system, which would eventually raise the quality of medical services and make them more accessible for citizens of the Russian Federation.
I gave instructions in January to develop a stage-by-stage plan of restructuring the scope of assistance and to set clear targets, and so on. The main thing is to arrange the implementation of this plan given that the authority largely, if not completely rests with the Russian regions. In this connection, the Government and the Healthcare Ministry should set the regions clear and, most importantly realistic goals.
”Structural modernisation leads to a reduction of unnecessary costs in the healthcare system, which would eventually raise the quality of medical services and make them more accessible for citizens of the Russian Federation.“
It is very important for the regions to understand what needs to be done and how, what it means to upgrade medical facilities. The regional authorities should be able to explain all their actions clearly to those working at these medical facilities and, more importantly to their patients. Clearly, people at every level of authority have to be responsible for what they are doing. Let us talk about this in detail today.
Furthermore, we have raised the issue of federal medical centres’ work twice in the past month. These organisations provide high-tech medical assistance, and we said that its volume must not decrease; on the contrary, it is imperative that it continues to grow. The Government needs to develop a precise, clear model of managing a network of such organisations and conduct structural optimisation wherever necessary. We discussed this last month as well.
Let me reiterate: the large medical research centres that took decades to set up, that treat patients from all over the country, should remain under federal authority. We cannot afford to lose this network, these facilities and their unique capabilities. I would like to stress that I am referring to those centres that can be rightly called the elite of our healthcare system, that have all the necessary resources: most importantly, highly qualified experts and the most advanced equipment and technology. I stress again that we must retain this.
As we said last time, there are probably some facilities that can be transferred to regional authority. However, we need to analyse this and make a balanced decision with due account of these institutions’ needs, the scope of medical aid they provide, their geographical location and, very importantly, the capabilities of the regions in case the Ministry decides to transfer some facility to their authority.
Another subject we will touch upon today is also related to high technology medicine: I am referring to medical aid for residents of restricted areas. The people who live there and who often work in special conditions require special attention, including from the government authorities responsible for healthcare. I already mentioned that conditions in such restricted towns are not always favourable. I would like to hear your proposals on how to resolve this issue.
We also need to return to the matter of funding federal healthcare facilities – something we have also talked about before. Let us agree to revisit this subject at the meeting with Government members on March 5, and discuss the issues that should have been resolved by that time in greater detail.
Let us begin our discussion.
<…>
See also
Meeting on healthcare development
January 21, 2014
Topics
Healthcare
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 20, 2014, 18:00
Text versionEvents
Gala event marking Defender of the Fatherland Day
Vladimir Putin congratulated veterans and the Armed Forces’ military and civilian personnel on the upcoming Defender of the Fatherland Day.
February 20, 2014
18:50
Moscow
2 of 3
Speech at gala event marking Defender of the Fatherland Day.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good evening, comrades, veterans, friends and colleagues,
We are meeting on the eve of Defender of the Fatherland Day. I congratulate all those who served in the Armed Forces or are in the service now on this truly national holiday. My congratulations to all those who dedicated their lives to defending their country and who serve as an epitome of honour and dedication to one’s country.
Military service has always been a pillar of Russian statehood. The Army and Navy have always firmly defended its national interests, maintaining peace and stability and, if necessary, firmly withstanding any attack and gaining victory. Today we pay our respect and express gratitude to them for their steadfastness, dignity and unparalleled devotion to their home country.
We are proud of all those who for centuries selflessly defended Russia’s freedom and independence: ancient Russian warriors, militiamen of 1612, heroes of the battle at Borodino, officers and men of World War I – all those, who fought in great battles and on nameless heights, who saved their Fatherland and demonstrated through their deeds what being a true patriot is about. There are veterans of the Great Patriotic War in this hall. We will never forget that it was you who defeated Nazism and brought Victory to the world. You saved life on the planet for the sake of creation and love, for the sake of the future of your children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren.
Today’s army and navy preserve and develop the best traditions, such as morale, confidence in victory and the understanding of their great duty and the moral value of military service.
Comrades,
Russia is a peaceful democratic state. We are convinced that international problems and conflicts should be resolved by political rather than military means. It is mainly due to this approach that Russia has managed to stop a number of tragic developments, such as the events around the Republic of Syria. However, the world today remains unstable; the area of potential conflict is expanding. In these conditions, we should be vigilant and remain prepared to defend Russia and its citizens regardless of how the situation may develop. Therefore, the combat readiness of our Army and Navy remain the most important national security factors.
We are consistently working on the new features of the Armed Forces. The quality of troop management and their training have improved. We have raised the potential of our aerospace defence system and navy. The troops are being regularly supplied with the latest armaments.
We will continue to increase the potential of our Armed Forces and all organisations responsible for the country’s security. We will provide housing and improve the healthcare system; we will create an up-to-date and comfortable infrastructure in military towns and will generally raise the social status of our servicemen.
I have to say, however, that the prestige of military service does not rest solely on the state. It is formed by the system itself, by the servicemen, and primarily by the officers, who have always been a pillar of the army and navy, of Russia itself. Today officers, commanders of all levels are the main force, the soul of all our reform. The successful modernisation of the Armed Forces is directly linked to their competence and persistence, their ability to think progressively and to implement tasks efficiently. Today’s generation of Russian officers faces tasks on a new level. They undoubtedly serve as an example of a responsible and honest attitude to the fate of the entire nation.
I would like to once again congratulate you on the upcoming holiday. Thank you for your service. I would also like to extend my warmest wishes to your families and friends, to all those who love and support you, who are always there for you.
I wish you health, prosperity and success.
Thank you for your attention.
Topics
Armed Forces
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 20, 2014, 18:50
Text version