Events
Meeting with President of Armenia Serzh Sargsyan
Vladimir Putin met with President of Armenia Serzh Sargsyan in Sochi. The two leaders discussed current issues of Russian-Armenian cooperation in various fields and ways to reach settlement in Nagorno-Karabakh.
August 9, 2014
17:20
Sochi
2 of 3
With President of Armenia Serzh Sargsyan.
See also
Meeting with President of Azerbaijan Ilham Aliyev
August 9, 2014
Earlier today Vladimir Putin held talks with President of Azerbaijan Ilham Aliyev
, which also included a discussion of the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict.
* * *
Beginning of meeting with President of Armenia Serzh Sargsyan
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Sargsyan, friends and colleagues,
First of all, I want to thank you for accepting our invitation to come to Sochi.
There is no need to characterise the Russian-Armenian relations; they are extremely friendly, strategic relations, as evidenced by the recent decisions of the Armenian leadership regarding the accession to the Customs Union and the Eurasian Economic Union. The work is in progress, and I would like to inform you about what has been done in this area so far.
We also have a number of issues on the bilateral agenda, and we will talk about them today. This is also an opportunity to discuss the Karabakh settlement. Therefore, our agenda today is very full and rich.
I am very happy to see you. Welcome.
President of Armenia Serzh Sargsyan
: Thank you, Mr Putin, for the invitation to Sochi and to this meeting.
Three months have passed since our last meeting, and there is a need to take stock of some of our agreements. In addition to our bilateral agenda, I would also like to discuss some issues related to the integration processes, specifically Armenia’s accession to the Treaty on the Eurasian Economic Union.
Naturally, we are concerned about the situation in Ukraine. If you wish, you could inform us about the measures being taken by Russia, and I, in turn, will describe in detail the situation in our region and the reasons behind Azerbaijan’s deliberate escalation of the crisis on the Armenian-Azerbaijani border and the contact line.
Thank you very much for the warm welcome and excellent conditions for our work.
<…>
Geography
Armenia
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Sargsyan Serzh
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 9, 2014, 17:20
Text versionVladimir Putin met with President of Azerbaijan Ilham Aliyev at the Sochi residence. During the talks, the two leaders discussed a number of bilateral and regional issues, including the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict.
August 9, 2014
15:20
Sochi
2 of 4
With President of Azerbaijan Ilham Aliyev.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Aliyev, friends. It is a great pleasure to see you in Russia. Thank you very much for accepting our invitation.
We have a large number of bilateral and regional issues to discuss. I am happy to say that our relationship is developing successfully: we have been in contact on a regular basis, both at the top level and at the level of our governments.
Russian-Azerbaijani economic relations, humanitarian ties and other areas of cooperation are expanding. This is due to an element of trust, which is constantly growing in our bilateral contacts, and we are very pleased about that. I am sure we will also talk about the long-standing issues related to the Karabakh settlement.
Once again, we are very glad to see you. Welcome.
President of Azerbaijan Ilham Aliyev: Thank you for the invitation, Mr Putin. We are pleased to visit Russia again and welcome the opportunity to meet with you and go over the very broad agenda of our relations.
As you mentioned, we have seen a positive trend in the development of our relations, stable and long-term growth. We value this a great deal and see Russia as one of our key partners in the international arena.
Our cooperation extends to a wide range of areas: in addition to political interaction, we have seen good results in the economic sector. Trade is thriving; we have seen growth last year and this year. The structure of trade has improved and mutual investments have reached significant levels. Naturally, this gives a new dynamic to our relationship.
We have very warm memories of your visit to Azerbaijan last year, which was a great success, and I think that gave a major boost to the development of our relations. We are determined to build up the potential of our cooperation.Sochi
2 of 2
During video linkup with the West Alpha drilling rig in the Kara Sea.
Rosneft CEO Igor Sechin and President of ExxonMobil Russia Glenn Waller attended the launch ceremony on the drilling platform in the Kara Sea.
Drilling at the Universitetskaya-1 site, the northernmost oil rig in Russia, will take place in open waters during the ice-free drilling season from August through to late October. The West Alpha rig has undergone additional modernisation to enable it to operate in the Arctic waters and has been furnished with innovative ice control equipment and a system for avoiding collisions with icebergs.
* * *
Video linkup with the West Alpha drilling rig in the Kara Sea
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends. I am very pleased to see all of you.
We are about to take another major step in the development of promising oil and gas fields in the Arctic. The West Alpha rig is ready to begin drilling an exploratory well on the Kara Sea shelf. This is a great achievement.
I know that the project being launched is unique in many ways. It will use the latest technology. A large number of geological surveys have already been carried out, and special environmental protection measures are in place. I know that Rosneft and all of its partners, including ExxonMobil, attach special significance and pay great attention to this aspect, especially in this part of the world with its sensitive ecology.
As I have already said, all this great work was made possible by uniting the efforts of Rosneft and our US partner, ExxonMobil. Practice shows that it is nearly impossible, or at least very difficult, to implement alone such large high-tech projects, projects of global scale and significance. Today commercial success is determined by effective international cooperation.
Businesses, including large companies, both Russian and foreign, are well aware of that. In spite of the difficult current political situation, pragmatism and common sense still have the upper hand, and that is very gratifying. In our opinion, this is a truly responsible, business-like approach, and only such an approach can be productive. We certainly welcome this position and, in turn, are open to expanding our cooperation with partners.Events
Attending combat sambo championship
Vladimir Putin attended the PLOTFORMA S-70 international combat sambo championship.
August 9, 2014
23:50
Sochi
11 of 11
With participants in the PLOTFORMA S-70 international combat sambo championship.
See also
Meeting with President of Azerbaijan Ilham Aliyev
August 9, 2014
Meeting with President of Armenia Serzh Sargsyan
August 9, 2014
This year, Russia’s national martial arts team is facing a combined international team that includes the best athletes from Europe, Asia, and America.
The team fighting ended with a victory by the Russian national team with a score of 9:1. The President took part in the award presentation ceremony.
Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev
, President of Armenia Serzh Sargsyan
and President of Azerbaijan Ilham Aliyev
watched the tournament together with Vladimir Putin.
* * *
Speech at the award presentation ceremony
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends,
First of all, I want to address the athletes with words of gratitude and admiration for their courage and their art.
Naturally, here in Russia we always cheer for our athletes. But there are no strangers on the mat, on the tatami or in the ring. This is a lesson we have learned from sport. Of course, there are opponents in the ring, on the mat and on the tatami. But there are no enemies. Wouldn’t it be wonderful if it was always like that, in life as well? Guys, thank you very much.
Also a big thank you to our guests, who have done us the honour of coming to Sochi, to Russia today. Sambo is a sport that was born in the Soviet Union. It is popular in Armenia, and it is well developed in Azerbaijan. I want to welcome our honoured guests and our friends, the Presidents of Armenia and Azerbaijan.
I want to say a word of gratitude to the President of Azerbaijan for having pushed through the first European Games in this wonderful sport, Sambo, which will be held next summer. Thank you.
Once again, I bow to all the athletes. Thank you, guys.
Topics
Sport
Persons
Aliyev Ilham
Medvedev Dmitry
Sargsyan Serzh
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 9, 2014, 23:50
Text version