Events
Meeting with President of Kyrgyzstan Almazbek Atambayev
Vladimir Putin met with President of Kyrgyzstan Almazbek Atambayev in Sochi. The two presidents discussed, in particular, key issues in bilateral relations and prospects for Kyrgyzstan’s accession to the Customs Union and the Eurasian Economic Union.
August 11, 2014
14:20
Sochi
2 of 4
With President of Kyrgyzstan Almazbek Atambayev.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends, colleagues,
It is a great pleasure to see you again, in Sochi this time, and discuss current matters.
We have many plans. On the Russian side, we have looked together over our entire agenda. We have big investment plans, especially in the energy sector, and plans for developing cooperation in other sectors. We agreed a while back to examine the state of progress in these different areas.
I am very pleased to have this opportunity. Welcome!
President of Kyrgyzstan Almazbek Atambayev
: Thank you, Mr Putin. I am also really happy, genuinely pleased, to have this chance to meet.
I want to say once more that Kyrgyzstan is firm in its intentions to steadily develop and activate our relations with fraternal Russia, our strategic ally.
I think that we will encounter difficulties too along this road, but if we are serious about our plans, we can settle many problems quickly. One of these issues, as you recall, is that, as I said, we hope to join the Customs Union
and the Eurasian Economic Union by the end of this year.
If there is a mutual desire and real support, Kyrgyzstan will put every effort into this work. I think that with God’s help all will be well.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Atambayev, we will certainly discuss our plans for integration in the post-Soviet area, and above all of course the issues concerning Kyrgyzstan’s accession to the Customs Union and the Eurasian Economic Union. We have already discussed these matters in detail and today will examine them again.
<…>
Geography
Kyrgyzstan
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Atambayev Almazbek
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 11, 2014, 14:20
Text version