2 of 3
Press statement following the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council meeting. With President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
This year’s final session of the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council took place in a business-like and constructive atmosphere.
Together with the presidents of Belarus, Kazakhstan, Armenia and Kyrgyzstan, we discussed pressing issues dealing with the implementation of the Eurasian integration project. As you have seen, we have approved a big package of documents aimed at the further development of our trade and investment ties, strengthening the institutional basis of our integration and improving the functioning of its bodies – the Eurasian Economic Commission and Court.
In just a few days, on January 1, 2015 the new Eurasian Economic Union will become fully functional. Its creation is the result of the joint efforts of the three states’ leadership, the close cooperation of our Governments, the Eurasian Commission, experts and the business community.
Naturally, the political decisions were made by the Presidents. Now, in the presence of all my colleagues I would like to thank them for the joint work – complicated, but very necessary and highly professional.
We have consistently and successfully covered all the stages of integration, having started with the creation of the Customs Union, which was later transformed into the Common Economic Space. We gradually brought closer and synchronised our work in trade and other areas of the economy, while now we are moving on to the highest stage of integration – the unhindered movement of goods, services, capital and labour.
I want to remind you that we are creating a common market operating on the basis of the universal norms and rules of the World Trade Organisation with over 170 million consumers and a joint GDP exceeding $4 trillion [as per purchasing power parity].
I would like to highlight the fact that all the participants in this integration process can feel its benefits. Many of the old customs and administrative barriers have been removed. Business opportunities have grown significantly, as well as opportunities for implementing joint investment projects.
Union member-states will conduct a coordinated policy in a range of key areas, including industry, agriculture, transportation and energy, try to align sanitary, veterinary and technical norms and protect consumers’ rights.
The Agreement on the Eurasian Economic Union envisages the creation by 2016 of a common pharmaceutical market. Today we approved agreements regulating trade rules for medicines and medical equipment on the territories of our countries.
We intend to continue our efforts to create by 2019 a common electric power market, and by 2025 – a common market of oil, gas and petroleum products. In the same year of 2025, a supranational body is to become operational to control the Union’s financial market.Events
Launch of Angara booster rocket
Vladimir Putin took part via linkup in the first trial launch of an Angara A5 heavy-class carrier rocket from the Plesetsk Space Launch Centre.
December 23, 2014
09:20
The Kremlin, Moscow
Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu and Commander of Space Defence Forces Alexander Golovko reported the launch of the carrier rocket to the President. Also taking part in the videoconference was Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Sergei Ivanov.
Angara is a new generation carrier rocket based on the universal oxygen-kerosene propelled rocket module. The Angara A5 carrier rocket with the Briz-M upper stage will boost a 2 tonne mock-up workload to a geostationary orbit.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Shoigu, Mr Golovko, Mr Ivanov, friends and colleagues,
Congratulations on the successful launch. As planned, today we had the first trial launch of the Angara A5 heavy carrier rocket.
This is a major achievement for our space rocket industry and for Russia in general. I would like to remind you that on July 9 we successfully launched a lightweight Angara carrier rocket. Thus, we are consistently implementing a large-scale state programme – something my colleagues have just spoken of – a programme that actually starts a new stage in space exploration.
As it has already been mentioned, the most advanced technologies have been used in the heavyweight Angara-A5 carrier rocket. It can be used to deliver existing and future space equipment of military, economic and research application to any orbit. Thus, as Mr Shoigu has said, they are designed for use in rocket attack early warning systems, in reconnaissance, navigation and communication, including relay-type communication. This will significantly boost Russia’s security.
I would like to highlight that all the component parts of the Angara are made in Russia. It has been developed with the use of advanced technologies that fully meet modern standards, including environmental requirements. This significantly reduces its impact on the environment.
In future, these rockets will replace their predecessors Proton-M and Rokot and will be launched from the Plesetsk Space Launch Centre.
I would like to thank everyone involved in today’s launch: engineers, designers, test engineers and servicemen. You have tackled this challenge with a great sense of responsibility and your success has demonstrated that Russia remains one of the world’s accepted leaders in space exploration.
As you all know, there is still a lot of work ahead. In the next five years starting in 2015 you will conduct a series of launches of various class carrier rockets. The trials are to be completed by 2020. I am certain that this work will be carried out with the same responsibility you demonstrated at this stage and we will reach new heights in space exploration.
Thank you all. Congratulations and best wishes for the coming New Year.
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 23, 2014, 09:20
Text version