Events
Celebrating Tuva’s accession to Russia
Vladimir Putin took part in celebrations dedicated to the 100th anniversary of Tuva’s accession to Russia.
September 6, 2014
14:10
Kyzyl
4 of 10
At a sports festival dedicated to the 100th anniversary of Tuva’s accession to Russia. With Head of the Republic of Tuva Sholban Kara-ool (left) and Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu.
The President visited a sports festival where he watched Huresh competitions, a national form of wrestling in Tuva. Vladimir Putin was accompanied at the event by Head of the Republic of Tuva Sholban Kara-ool
and Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu
.
***
Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends, residents of the Republic of Tuva,
I congratulate you on the 100th anniversary of Tuva’s unification with Russia. This did not happen by chance: the first Russian diplomatic missions appeared here back in the 17th century, and the first Russian Empire citizenship certificates date back to the same period.
”As a result of Russia taking Tuva under its wing, the local people managed to retain their national identity, culture, language and the faith of their ancestors. Tuva has a lot to be proud of: this is a people with an age-old culture.“
As a result of Russia taking Tuva under its wing, the local people managed to retain their national identity, culture, language and the faith of their ancestors. Tuva has a lot to be proud of: this is a people with an age-old culture, the land of the Valley of Scythian Tsars and Por-Bazhyn. Tuva has a vast heritage that any republic and any people can be proud of, not only within Russia but in the world at large.
This is the land of amazing, kind-hearted and talented people. We will never forget Tuva’s contribution to the Victory over Nazism during the Great Patriotic War; and we will always remember those who restored the country and your republic after the turbulent war years.
Tuva is an amazing land with unique nature. Here you have the Sayan Mountains, the Yenisei River, and a large number of lakes and rivers to admire and be proud of forever. This land has enormous natural resources that we are yet to develop as we create new production facilities and new jobs.
As you say here in Tuva, when streams come together they create a river, and when people come together, they create power. I am certain that we will achieve all the objectives we have set, overcome all the challenges, and come out as winners.
In the name of Tuva, to the glory of Russia! Happy anniversary!
Geography
Republic of Tuva
Topics
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 6, 2014, 14:10
Text version