Events
Working meeting with Finance Minister Anton Siluanov
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Finance Minister Anton Siluanov to discuss budget policy and making budget spending more efficient.
July 18, 2014
12:30
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 4
Working meeting with Finance Minister Anton Siluanov.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Siluanov, I know that the Finance Ministry and the Government in general are working hard right now on preparing the budget for next year and the subsequent planning period. I would like to know what stage things are at now and how you assess the work so far.
Anton Siluanov
: Yes, Mr President, the Government has examined the adjusted budget for 2015–2017 and the main budget policy guidelines. We have drafted this three-year budget at a moment when the global and Russian economies face difficult conditions. In this situation, we need to stick to the rules and principles that we set for our budget policy and not let spending grow. We need to keep following the budget rules and not allow a deficit of more than 1 percent of GDP. We will keep the deficit to within 0.6 percent of GDP over the coming three-year period.
Acting in accordance with our budget policy rules, we have informed the ministries and agencies of the budget funding limits. The Government is now in the process of discussing the main budget spending areas: the social sector, defence and security, industry and transport. We are examining the ministries’ and agencies’ proposals. As always, the ministries and agencies are asking for sizeable allocations, but even so, we cannot go beyond the set limits. 
Mr President, the main social spending areas set out in the draft budget and the funding needed to carry out the presidential executive orders have all been taken into account.
We do have new expenses, funds needed to rebuild the economy and social sector in Crimea and Sevastopol. These resources will come from existing budget funds and will not change the macroeconomic parameters.
Vladimir Putin: This year, we are settling all of the matters connected to Crimea’s and Sevastopol’s development using existing Government reserves.
Anton Siluanov: Yes, this year we have undistributed reserves and we plan to carry part of these funds over to next year and use them to finance development programmes in Crimea and Sevastopol.
Vladimir Putin: So Crimea and Sevastopol’s development will be funded this year from the Government reserves, and these same reserves, carried over to next year, will continue to be used?
Anton Siluanov: Yes, that’s exactly right.
The Government’s main task is to make spending more efficient, because there are reserves that we can draw on here. As part of our work to carry out the presidential executive orders on wage rises, we are working hard right now on increasing public sector labour productivity. The burden is growing and budget spending is becoming more efficient too. This work, which is one of our priorities, has also been taken into account in the budget. 
We are also working on assistance for the regions. The regional budgets have started running deficits of late and we see the need to support them. This support will take the form of financial aid that will come through reduced demands on regions’ participation in financing programmes carried out in the regions. We are also looking at various proposals for increasing regional budgets’ revenues.
Vladimir Putin: We spoke about not changing the budget rules, keeping to them in our work and doing our best to resolve our current economic and social-sector tasks on the basis of these earlier decisions. We will look for resources within our economy, within the budget, and increase revenues. I said at our last meetings that this must remain our basic position and that we need to keep these circumstances in mind. What is the situation like in this context? 
Anton Siluanov: Mr President, these were precisely the principles we used in setting the budget’s main parameters. We have not changed the budget rules at all. We are looking now for new resources within the budget. We have some proposals for optimising some of our programmes and the Government has approved these proposals. Essentially, we propose a two-percent optimisation of programmes. This would not involve any spending cuts in healthcare, education, transport and agriculture, which are all priorities. Programmes in these areas will be maintained in their entirety. 
But there are sizeable resources that we can draw on by making spending more efficient, and as I said, this is what the Government is working on right now.
Vladimir Putin: We agreed earlier that the Government reserve would be used to fund development in Crimea. The reserve this year comes to 243 billion rubles, which were not earmarked for current spending but were set aside by the Government to cover the possibility of a sudden worsening in the global or domestic economic situation. Fortunately, no such thing is happening. There is some tension and some difficulties, true, but no other needs have come up that would require these funds. So, how much of this reserve do you plan to put into Crimea’s development?
Anton Siluanov: This year, we expect to spend around 150 billion rubles.
Vladimir Putin: So this leaves us with another 100 billion for next year.
Anton Siluanov: Yes, around 100 billion rubles will remain.
Vladimir Putin: For these same needs?
Anton Siluanov: Yes, that’s right.
Vladimir Putin: Good.
<…>
Topics
Budget
Economy and finance
Persons
Siluanov Anton
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 18, 2014, 12:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with members of the Holy Synod and representatives of local Orthodox Churches
Vladimir Putin met with members of the Holy Synod and heads of delegations from local Orthodox Churches on the 700th anniversary of the birth of St Sergius of Radonezh.
July 18, 2014
16:30
Sergiyev Posad
2 of 4
At a meeting with members of the Holy Synod and representatives of local Orthodox Churches.
Patriarch of Moscow and All Russia Kirill: Your Excellency Mr President,
Gathered here today are the members of the Russian Orthodox Church’s Holy Synod and the heads of 15 local Orthodox Churches, who accepted our invitation to take part in the religious services and the programme of anniversary events. 
Of course it means a lot to everyone here today to have this opportunity to meet with you, the President of the Russian Federation and an Orthodox believer. We are happy that you could be together with us today to celebrate the memory of the holy and upright St Sergius of Radonezh. 
We have a chance to talk now, and so I give you the floor to address everyone present.
Vladimir Putin: Your Holiness, friends, brothers,
Recently, you met for the first time in this format to mark the 1025th anniversary of the baptism of Rus, and that seems to have started a fine tradition of meeting in this group for big Orthodox holidays.
The 700th anniversary of the birth of St Sergius of Radonezh is certainly one of these important dates. St Sergius helped to unite the Russian lands and made an invaluable contribution to our country’s history and development and to strengthening the Orthodox faith. 
We live in difficult times, sadly. Be it on the international stage or in our spiritual and moral lives, there are many, many problems that we must overcome. But we can succeed in this only if we follow the ideas that St Sergius of Radonezh formulated. The Patriarch and I recalled his words earlier today, his appeal for unity and love. He said that only in unity and love can we find salvation.
It is tremendously important that you have all come to Moscow to meet with each other, meet with the Patriarch of Moscow, talk, discuss the problems we face today and look at what we must do to overcome these problems. This is essential for our success.
I think the world is becoming ever more complicated. Orthodoxy has its own moral and ethical values, but they are very close to the moral and ethical values of other faiths and religions. It seems to me that although much divides us in the teachings of our different faiths, we have a great amount in common when it comes to the moral and ethical side of life.
I think that we can take everything good and positive that unites us and use it as a foundation for moving forward with confidence. I think we can say with full justification that in this we have not just the support of the overwhelming majority of people where Orthodoxy is the main religion, but that people in many other countries also share our view about the primacy of traditional moral and ethical values.
Once more, I want to thank you for coming to Moscow to be together with us for these anniversary events. I hope that this unity will continue to grow stronger for the good of all of our churches and for the good of our countries’ peoples. 
Thank you very much once again. I congratulate you on this holiday.
See also
700th anniversary of the birth of Sergius of Radonezh
July 18, 2014
Patriarch Kirill: I sincerely thank you, Mr Putin.
I think that what you just said is very important, that moral values unite people if they do not contribute to the destruction of those moral values. Today, we live in a world where, unfortunately, for the first time in all the history of human civilisation, legislative steps are being taken to destroy the moral foundations of human lives. There has never been anything like it.
And I must gratefully admit that Russia and other Orthodox nations do not share this general trend. We resist this as people who understand the seminal importance of a moral beginning in the life of human individualsand human civilisation. If this beginning is destroyed, then the human world will be destroyed.
I would like to express gratitude to you and the entire Russian leadership, our parliament, for the fact that we currently have a very high level of agreement regarding the need to protect moral values in politics, the economy and day-to-day life. And let us hope that we give spirituality this priority – or, at least, this significance – in our daily lives in the future.
I sincerely thank you for this.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Patriarch Kirill: Now, perhaps, one of the brothers would like to ask Mr President a question? We have a unique opportunity. Mr Putin does not have a lot of time, but if somebody would like to do so, then please, go ahead.
Metropolitan Timofei, representative from the Jerusalem Patriarchate. I will note that he was my student at the Leningrad Ecclesiastical Academy.
Metropolitan Timofei: Thank you.
Your Holiness, Your Excellency,
For us in Jerusalem, it is a great honour to participate in the celebrations honouring the 700th anniversary since the birth of St Sergius of Radonezh and in this historical meeting with the President of Russia.
We in the Holy Land have always regarded Russia as a protector of holy places and a protector of Christians in the Middle East. And today, these hopes are justified as Russia, represented by the President and Patriarch of the Russian Church, supports the Jerusalem Patriarchate.
We recently received a great deal of help in restoring the ancient historical Church of the Nativity. And we are all grateful for the enormous sacrifices from Russia and you personally, Your Excellency, for the Holy Land and for holy places. And we will constantly pray for Russia to remain strong.
We view Russia not only as a protector of Orthodoxy and Christianity, but also a protector of moral beginnings. And we are grateful to you for this. This is a great blessing – to have a President who is an Orthodox Christian.
We are proud that the holy Patriarch Kirill is the primate of the Russian Church. He truly understands the problems of all Orthodox churches and he always provides help to Orthodox peoples.
Thank you very much.
I think Orthodox Christians throughout the world view Russia as a great power that not only practices the Orthodox faith but also defends human rights everywhere. We pray for this and are thankful for it.
Vladimir Putin: For my part, I would like to wish you success in your service. You are carrying out your service, bearing your cross, in a unique place, in the cradle of Christianity. It is a part of the world that, sadly, has been constantly reeling from various conflicts for many years. And now, we once again see this conflict expanding there, with bloodshed and human victims.
We are alarmed to see what is happening there. But I am certain that the presence of the Orthodox Church should and will play a positive role in building peace between all the conflicting parties. And ultimately, everything ends in peace. It is only important that this path toward peace should be as short as possible, and there should not be a large number of victims on that path.
We are also watching what is happening in Ukraine, in eastern Ukraine, with alarm and sorrow. It is terrible, it is a tragedy. We also believe peace must triumph as quickly as possible in Ukraine; direct contacts between all conflicting sides should be established as rapidly as possible, and all sides in the conflict should immediately cease hostilities and move on to peace talks.
I think we must all strive for this and I will ask the Patriarch to do what he can for this peace process.
Patriarch Kirill: Thank you, Mr Putin.
We pray for Ukraine; it is a source of great sorrow for us. We say a special prayer for peace in Ukraine during every Sunday service and at celebratory liturgies.
We are calling this an internal feud; this is exactly the kind of infighting that took place in ancient times. But today, it is greatly exacerbated by many external circumstances that many of us know about.
We pray for the Lord to bring peace to Ukraine, for peace and justice to reign again, for every individual living in Ukraine to feel at home, in their Fatherland, so that they are not subject to any discrimination on a religious or faith basis, nor due to their political or philosophical choices.
A modern state must provide individuals the option to express themselves in accordance with their conscience. That is what freedom of conscience is about. We pray that all this will happen in Ukraine.
Vladimir Putin: You know that we are in contact with President of Ukraine Petro Poroshenko. I hope that he will be able to stir Ukraine in such a direction as to offer all the people – all people, regardless of where they live – a way of ensuring their lawful rights and interests that would lead to a final, full and long-term peace on this earth.
Metropolitan Elias (retranslated): Your Excellency,
We are the delegation from the Antioch church: Metropolitan Niphon, Bishop Yefrem, and I am the Metropolitan of Tyre and Sidon.
We are very happy and proud to be with you today on this great day. We thank His Holiness for the invitation, which demonstratesthe wonderful ties that exist between our churches and our peoples.
Your Excellency, we talked about the Reverend Father Sergius, how he always prayed for unity in Russia. The Reverend took his vow under the name Sergius in honour of the holy martyrs Sergius and Bacchus of Antioch. Holiness unites us with the Russian church and all of you.
Your Excellency, we are proud of what you are doing. We are so happy to see you in the church when you pray with us. We are very happy to see you as a leader, a great President, who defends human rights everywhere, who protects people who find themselves in difficult circumstances in other nations. We see everything that you are doing in the Middle East, how you care about peace in Palestine, Syria, Lebanon, Iraq, and everywhere else. We are proud that you have this attitude toward everyone, based on your faith in humanity. This is true Orthodox faith, for which the most important thing in life is spiritual values.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much.
I want to once again wish you all a pleasant and fruitful stay in Russia, in Moscow. I want to thank you for your service and once again stress that I very much count on your moral, ethical and spiritual support in upholding the values that we all serve.
Thank you very much.
Topics
Religion
Persons
Kirill Patriarch of Moscow and All Russia
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 18, 2014, 16:30
Text version