Events
Awards for Russian national ice hockey team
An award ceremony for the members of the Russian national ice hockey team – the 2014 World Champions – was held in the Grand Kremlin Palace.
May 27, 2014
16:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
See also
Ice Hockey World Championship final
May 26, 2014
On Sunday, the Russian national ice hockey team scored a victory in the 2014 IIHF Ice Hockey World Championship final, beating Finland 5:2.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends.
I am very happy to meet with you again and to congratulate you on your brilliant performance at the Ice Hockey World Championship.
You played a great game in Minsk, showing speed, skill and outstanding results, but most importantly, demonstrating excellent physical training, character and determination.
We know how many players were injured, but you played so well that nobody saw it, getting better from one game to the next. You were stronger in all the games, while in the finals you beat Finland – your main competitors of the past years, a very strong team that has great team chemistry and is worthy of the highest awards.
Our team made a worthy contribution to the great victorious traditions of Russian ice hockey. You reinforced our leadership in the world hockey ratings and made a wonderful gift to the millions of your fans nationwide, to all those who supported you and believed in your success.
I would like to single out the coaches’ work. In the past few years, we often said how difficult it is to achieve proper teamwork, a balanced make-up of the team, to find the right lines and shifts while the players were engaged across the ocean and by the Continental Hockey League.
In Minsk you did everything right. The players in every quintet demonstrated excellent teamwork; they knew exactly what their partners were doing. Both the experienced players and the 14 so-called newcomers to the national team at the World Championship all met our expectations.
I would like to congratulate Oleg Znarok on his professional success – his first gold medal at a World Championship. You took over the team only two months ago, and in this short time, you have achieved a lot.
I expect to see the same high readiness of the team in future competitions, both in prestigious annual tournaments and, of course, in the 2016 World Ice Hockey Championship, which will take place here in Russia.
Friends, ice hockey by right enjoys special love and attention in this country. Your triumph in Minsk is a great contribution to the popularisation of ice hockey, to the development of mass sports and promoting a healthy and active lifestyle primarily among the younger generation.
I have just had a meeting with people who are concerned with the health of children and young people. I would like to say that one of the most important components in addressing this national goal – improving the nation’s health – is to encourage greater interest in sports. Examples such as yours go a long way in helping us achieve this.
We are counting on you. We expect you to continue achieving great results, just as your great predecessors did, and keep the bar of Russian ice hockey high.
I congratulate you once again and wish you new victories and all the very best. Thank you very much.
<…>
Dear friends, allow me to congratulate you once again.
I have some information for you. First, today’s event and your victory are undoubtedly a result of the entire history of Russian sports and Russian ice hockey, of all those people, coaches and players before you who scored equally significant victories. We had many of those, as you know.
Here in this hall is a man who was on the USSR national team when it first took part in the Olympic Games in 1956 – Viktor Shuvalov. Unfortunately, it so happened that in the troubled 1990s Mr Shuvalov lost his Olympic medal – he had to face many problems and hardships. Eventually it made its way to the United States, where some of you are currently working. We found it and some sponsors helped to buy it, and now I would like to return it to Mr Shuvalov.
One more thing. As you know, I could not resist coming to your locker room after the game. The first thing I did was congratulate your coach Oleg Znarok on the result, his first achievement, and your victory. All of a sudden, I heard him say: “I am so sorry!” I was surprised and asked him why. “For my indecent gesture. It will never happen again.”
You know, at a moment like that, a moment of triumph and victory for a coach to say something like this is great – it shows we are determined to fight honestly and with dignity and win. This is exactly what you demonstrated in the game: you were reserved, showed courage and dignity.
I would once again like to thank all the coaches for their great job and of course the players for the victory. Thank you very much.
<…>
Topics
Sport
State decorations
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 27, 2014, 16:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting of Coordinating Council for Implementing National Children’s Strategy
Vladimir Putin held a meeting of the Presidential Coordinating Council for Implementing the 2012–2017 National Children’s Strategy. The focus of the discussion was on healthcare for young people.
May 27, 2014
15:20
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 4
Meeting of Coordinating Council for Implementing National Children’s Strategy.
The Coordinating Council was created in September 2012 to facilitate interaction between various bodies of authority as well as public associations in implementing the National Children’s Strategy. The Council also drafts proposals for the President regarding priority areas of the national policy on children.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
The agenda of this Coordinating Council meeting contains issues dealing with improving the health of our children and young people. It is no secret that the successful resolution of these issues is to a large extent the key to the future of this country, of Russia, to its economic, social and demographic prosperity, its defence capability and national security, and most importantly, to the physical and moral health of our citizens, our entire society.
Teenagers’ health has a direct impact on their future, their ability to acquire a profession, create a family and raise children. It is the age when the body changes, prepares for adulthood, a period of rapid growth when the individual’s personality and outlook take shape.
At this age, teenagers reach the toughest stage in their development. They are especially vulnerable, often even helpless in the face of the difficulties, temptations and risks they encounter in today’s world. We all know that nowadays young people face far more risks that we, their parents or grandparents, did. Therefore, it is very important to help the teenagers, and primarily to pay the most careful attention to their health.
Colleagues, the issues we will consider today are multifaceted. Many factors have an impact on young people’s health: this can be the atmosphere at home and at school, the family’s standard of living, the accessibility of healthcare, the quality of food and the availability of sports.
We have quite a few problems in all of these areas. We are well aware of this, and this is supported by alarming statistics. Thus, medical check-ups of 14-year olds conducted in 2011 found only slightly more than 16 percent of them to be in perfect health, 54.3 percent had various functional disorders, and over 5 percent had disabilities. These figures clearly indicate that the state of young people’s health leaves much to be desired.
A number of measures were taken recently to remedy the situation: for example, we increased the scope of high-tech medical assistance 1.3 times in 2012, and 1.5 times last year, compared to 2011.
To prevent problems with young people’s reproductive and psychological health we have reinforced corresponding branches of medicine. Thus, we have almost doubled the number of medical and social aid centres, which has led to a reduction in the share of children with psychological and emotional disorders. The number of suicides among young people has almost halved in the past five years.
However, I would like to stress that this horrible problem still exists. We have to make sure parents and teachers pay greater attention to the emotional state of children and teenagers, while expert assistance should be accessible, efficient and timely. I do not think I need to promote here in this group the idea that the state is right in limiting the propaganda of suicides on the Internet, among other things.
The results of medical check-ups of adolescents aged 15–17 last year showed a 6 percent increase in the number of absolutely healthy young people, while the number of those with chronic ailments went down by 5 percent.
We undoubtedly see a positive tendency here, but there has been no cardinal change yet, as over 70 percent of young people still suffer from various ailments, some of them chronic. In other words, the majority of young Russians on the threshold of adulthood have health problems.
This means a lot still needs to be done in the sphere of regular medical check-ups, rehabilitation, resort therapy, summer vacationing and disease prevention. As you may know, the network of corresponding health improvement facilities develops in summer. Apart from such major children’s recreation centres as Orlyonok, and Okean in the Far East, I hope we will soon manage to bring the once famous Artek back to its proper condition.
Currently it is in a deplorable state, all they have there are event venues now, while proper accommodation for children remains a problem. Nevertheless, we will deal with it. The Prime Minister was there yesterday to inspect the site. We will continue our work. It is important to maintain not only these major facilities – we need to develop across the nation a broad network of centres that will focus on restoring young people’s health in summer.
I would like to stress here that protecting and promoting children’s health is not the job of healthcare authorities alone. These areas require a complex approach by a number of agencies at all levels: federal, regional and municipal, and, of course, with the participation of public associations and civic society institutions focussed on social issues.
I believe that all regions of the Russian Federation should run their own programmes to develop young people’s health that would take into account the existing experience, prioritise goals and attract investment. The main thing here is to approach this with an understanding of the enormous significance of the matter that we all need to address, rather than show an indifferent formalistic approach.
Local government bodies have special responsibility here, as they have good knowledge of the situation on their territories and can arrange assistance to families with disabled children or families where young people have found themselves in critical life situations, in risk groups. In some cases, as we all know, the parents of these young people also need support and advice.
A great deal can be achieved locally in terms of creating sports and recreation facilities, places where people can take the revived Ready For Labour and Defence physical training test. I would like to stress that the revival of this tradition will undoubtedly prove to be beneficial for our young people.
According to experts, over 50 percent of all diseases are a result of people’s lifestyle and behaviour. We have to stop treating young people as people who only need the help and support of adults. We must teach them independence and responsibility for their health from a young age.
We need to get children involved in sports, hold all sorts of competitions, Spartakiada Games, and form groups of high-school students who will promote healthy living. The example of successful and active peers often has a better effect than the mentoring of adults.
Colleagues and friends, this is exactly what we have in mind when we bring major competitions, such as University Games, the Olympics and world championships to this country. We are doing this primarily to promote sports and a healthy lifestyle. I hope the latest success of our ice hockey team will work for the same goal. I am sure young people will make healthy living fashionable very quickly. We only need to direct and support them.
Friends, I have singled out only a few issues that I believe to be of priority interest. Undoubtedly many of you have your own ideas on what needs to be done and how. I would like to thank you for your attention. Let us begin our work.
<…>
Topics
Children
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Commissions and Councils, Coordination Council for Implementing the National Children’s Strategy for 2012-2017
Publication date: May 27, 2014, 15:20
Text version