Events
Speech at BRICS Summit plenary session
July 15, 2014
22:45
Fortaleza
Vladimir Putin: Ms Rousseff, colleagues, friends,
Our summits are always held in a constructive, business-oriented setting. We have a common interest in broadening multidimensional cooperation, strengthening trust and mutual understanding.
BRICS holds a unique place in the global economy. It is the largest market in the world. Moreover, our combined gross domestic product has reached 21% of the global volume and continues to grow steadily.
Our nations play an increasingly significant role in the global political arena as well. It is thanks to Russia and China’s firm stance in the UN Security Council, with support from other BRICS participants, that we were able to rally most international dialogue participants – including the European Union and the United States – and prevent a foreign invasion in Syria, achieving the elimination of Syrian chemical weapons.
It is important that we are united by a desire to act from unified positions in all issues of global development and the formation of the global financial and economic architecture. BRICS nations are cooperating constructively within the framework of the G20, actively contributing to substantively enhancing the G20’s agenda, developing agreements aimed at accelerating global economic growth and trade and resolving employment problems. We are working together to move forward on one of the most difficult problems in global governance: IMF reform.
See also
BRICS Summit
July 15, 2014
In the time that has passed since the Durban summit, we have been able to achieve significant successes. I want to stress that all the plans we set for ourselves a year ago have come to fruition. I am referring, first and foremost, to our plans to create a New Development Bank and a Contingent Reserve Arrangement for BRICS nations. Today, we have confirmed their founding documents.
The BRICS bank will become one of the largest multilateral financial development institutions in the world. Its stated capital will be 100 billion dollars.
The scale of possible operations within the framework of the Contingent Reserve Arrangement may also reach 100 billion dollars. This mechanism creates the prerequisites for effectively protecting our countries from financial market crises.
The bank and the Contingent Arrangement, with combined resources of 200 billion dollars, lay the foundation for coordinating a macroeconomic policy between our nations.
I am confident that closer economic and financial cooperation between BRICS countries will allow us to implement truly large-scale joint programmes with the aim of securely developing our nations.
I will note that recently, the BRICS Business Council has been working actively. Earlier, we acted as initiators in creating this organisation. We have already used it to prepare several promising multilateral projects, including improving the investment climate.
”Our nations play an increasingly significant role in the global political arena as well. It is thanks to Russia and China’s firm stance in the UN Security Council, with support from other BRICS participants, that we were able to rally most international dialogue participants – including the European Union and the United States – and prevent a foreign invasion in Syria, achieving the elimination of Syrian chemical weapons.“
The BRICS Banking Forum is functioning effectively. The BRICS Exchanges Alliance is an important direction for economic cooperation. It provides a cross-listing of shares from over 7,000 BRICS companies with a total capitalisation of about eight trillion dollars.
BRICS already has more than twenty cooperation formats, from yearly summits to working groups, addressing international information security, healthcare, agriculture, science and technology, and many other fields.
We are developing BRICS cooperation in the “outreach” format, which was launched in Durban by President of South Africa Mr Zuma during a meeting between BRICS and African Union leadership, as well as eight other leading integrated groups in Africa.
Tomorrow, we will hold a joint session with South American heads of state. I think such contacts with the leaders of various regions throughout the world help increase the prestige of our organisation.
In the conditions of increased international competition, the challenge of activating trade and investment cooperation between our nations becomes particularly important. This will allow us to realise the advantages resulting from the complementary nature of our economies, and to reduce the vulnerability of each BRICS nation to adverse global trends.
Russia, Brazil, India, China and South Africa already account for 11% of accumulated investment and nearly 20% of global trade. Trade between BRICS nations is growing. In the last five years, this indicator has nearly doubled.
The Russian side has prepared a draft BRICS Strategy for Multilateral Economic Cooperation. We are submitting it for discussion. We feel it would be useful to create a special high-level working group to work in depth on developing the draft Strategy.
The Strategy’s key positions are specified in another document prepared by the Russian side: the Roadmap for Investment Cooperation. It includes 37 projects in various areas, from high technologies to the humanitarian sector. Please allow me to highlight just a few of the most important ones.
”In the time that has passed since the Durban summit, we have been able to achieve significant successes. All the plans we set for ourselves a year ago have come to fruition. I am referring, first and foremost, to our plans to create a New Development Bank and a Contingent Reserve Arrangement for BRICS nations. Today, we have confirmed their founding documents.“
We propose the establishment of the BRICS Energy Association. We could create a Fuel Reserve Bank and a BRICS Energy Policy Institute under its roof. These steps would allow us to strengthen our nations’ energy security and prepare us for the creation of new instruments and new institutes to trade energy resources.
The joint use of the Russian global navigation system, GLONASS, in a wide range of areas – transport, public safety, and agriculture – seems very promising. According to expert assessments, the use of the GLONASS system in agriculture alone will allow for a 30–50 percent increase in crop capacity. A similar effect, and even better, is expected in other areas.
BRICS nations should cooperate more closely in commodities markets. We have a unique resource base; our nations hold 30 to 60 percent of global reserves of various resources. Therefore, we believe it is imperative to develop cooperation in mining and processing, and organise a centre for training experts in the metals industries in BRICS nations.
We believe it is important to broaden humanitarian contacts and form parliamentary, civic, trade union and youth dimensions within BRICS. We propose signing an Agreement on cooperation in culture and creating a BRICS network university that will include our nations’ leading schools.
Friends,
Russia will follow Brazil in chairing BRICS. We will certainly ensure continuity in the work of our association, taking into account the priorities put forward by our Brazilian colleagues. At the same time, we will try to enrich our practical work with new ideas. Overall, we will do everything necessary for further strengthening the role of BRICS in world affairs and in addressing regional problems.
I invite everyone to the BRICS Summit to be held in Ufa, Russia on July 9–10, 2015.
Thank you for your attention.
Geography
Brazil
Topics
BRICS
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 15, 2014, 22:45
Text versionThe 6BRICS Summit will be held on July 15–16 in the cities of Fortaleza and Brasilia. The heads of the BRICS nations will discuss political coordination issues and global governance problems. It is expected that many economic documents will also be signed.
XI JINPING (): I am happy to meet with you, President Putin, on the sidelines of the BRICS summit.Events
Meeting with President of South Africa Jacob Zuma
Vladimir Putin met with President of the Republic of South Africa Jacob Zuma. The two Presidents are in Fortaleza to participate in the BRICS summit.
July 15, 2014
04:30
Fortaleza
2 of 3
With President of South Africa Jacob Zuma.
President of Russia VLADIMIR PUTIN: Mr President,
Please allow me to once again sincerely greet you and personally congratulate you on your outstanding performance in the elections. The African National Congress won in the overwhelming majority of South Africa’s states and in the parliament. And I want to congratulate you on being elected President.
We have very long-standing, kind relations. You and I agreed that the domestic policy calendar must be concluded – and we can activate plans, first of all, of course, economically. I think that now is the time to recall some of our joint projects.
But even now, I want to note that despite the domestic policy events, such important ones as elections, we have nevertheless been able to maintain a very positive dynamic in our joint foreign trade. Last year, our trade grew by 11% and in the first half of this year, it increased by nearly 10%, so we are working from a good foundation.
Mutual capital investments are growing, and in various industrial sectors. They include metallurgy and high technologies. Overall, we have areas to work on.
I am very pleased to have the chance to meet with you on the sidelines of the BRICS
summit and discuss these issues.
President of South Africa JACOB ZUMA
(retranslated): Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you for the meeting, and for your congratulations regarding the elections. It is also a great honour for us to be able to see you today on the sidelines of the BRICS summit, and a great pleasure.
Indeed, we won in the elections, although it was a difficult victory; these were the most difficult elections since 1994, but nevertheless, we got a good number in parliament that we are satisfied with. Thank you very much.
Indeed, as you rightly noted, we are tied by long-standing and very warm friendly relations; we can always count on Russia’s support and provide our own support in return. Thank you very much; we greatly appreciate it. We can count on you.
Of course, today we have the opportunity to discuss joint projects and move forward on implementing them, which we very much hope for. And in this regard, this meeting on the BRICS sidelines is very valuable to us.
<…>
See also
Official visit to Brazil. The BRICS summit
July 13 − 17, 2014
Geography
South Africa
Topics
BRICS
Foreign policy
Persons
Zuma Jacob
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 15, 2014, 04:30
Text versionEvents
Interview given to Russian news agency ITAR-TASS
Vladimir Putin gave an interview to journalists from Russian news agency ITAR-TASS on the eve of the BRICS summit in Brazil on July 15–16.
July 15, 2014
01:00
Question: The BRICS
association, whose significance is increasing in the modern multipolar world, could advance important changes in international relations. What is the agenda, and what plans do you, as the Russian leader, consider it important to discuss with your BRICS partners at the upcoming summit?
President of Russia VLADIMIR PUTIN: The modern world is indeed multipolar, complex, and dynamic – this is objective reality. Any attempts to create a model of international relations where all decisions are made within a single ‘pole’ are ineffective, malfunction regularly, and are ultimately set to fail.
Those are the reasons why the interaction format proposed by Russia for such influential states such as the BRICS members has proved to be needed. Our joint efforts have truly contributed to enhancing predictability and sustainability in international relations.
The forthcoming summit's theme is Inclusive Growth: Sustainable Solutions. Therefore, we will consider the most urgent issues in global politics and the economy, as well as the BRICS development.
I believe it is time to raise the BRICS' role to a new level and to make our association an unalienable part of the global management system for sustainable development.
See also
Official visit to Brazil. The BRICS summit
July 13 − 17, 2014
How can this be achieved in practice?
First of all, to develop cooperation in the UN in every possible way, persistently counteract individual states' attempts to impose on the international community the policy of displacing unwanted regimes and promoting unilateral solutions to crisis situations. We propose to create a mechanism of regular high‑level consultations between our foreign ministries on different regional conflicts to agree, where possible, on common positions and joint efforts to ensure their political and diplomatic settlement.
We should coordinate BRICS policy more actively and counteract security threats and challenges, including counter-terrorism. Among other ways, this can be achieved through the mechanism of counter-terrorism consultations. An important place on the agenda will be devoted to expanding cooperation to combat drug trafficking. We are ready to build up joint efforts to reinforce the international legal regime of drug control.
Cooperation in setting rules of responsible behaviour in the global information space is another important issue. Such rules must be based on the principles of respect for a country's sovereignty, non-interference in domestic affairs, observance of human rights and freedoms, as well as equal rights for all countries to participate in Internet management. I think our joint efforts will ensure that the BRICS countries hold a leading position in strengthening international information security.
We are planning to shape a joint information policy in the international arena to support BRICS’ activity and to present a more unbiased picture of the world.
Naturally, we are going to thoroughly analyse the situation in the planet's hotspots. Those include Syria and Iraq, where the positions of extremist and terrorist groups are gaining strength. Serious attention should be given to the crisis in Ukraine and the international community’s measures to stop the bloodshed in the southeast of the country.
In the economic sphere, we are going to discuss the IMF reform. The BRICS countries are concerned about the unreasonable delay in holding a debate of this subject. This jeopardises all the efforts of G20 in this direction. In the meantime, it is the case of fulfilling the rightful demands of ”new economies“ to balance the IMF according to the 21st century reality.
One more important question we are going to raise at the summit is the increasing cases of unilateral sanctions. Recently Russia has been exposed to a sanction attack from the United States and its allies. We are grateful to our BRICS partners who have criticised such practices in different forms. At the same time, substantive conclusions should be drawn from the current situation. Together we should think about a system of measures that would help prevent the harassment of countries that do not agree with some foreign policy decisions made by the United States and their allies, but would promote a civilised dialogue on all points at issue based on mutual respect.
Question: What progress has been made in realising plans to develop economic interaction within BRICS? Some time ago, there was talk about setting up the association’s own bank; however, this initiative has not been realised yet. What are the prospects in this area? Do you believe it is possible for the BRICS countries to elaborate specific joint plans of action in response to different challenges?
Vladimir Putin: We intend to actively develop trade and economic ties within the association. The BRICS member countries’ share in Russian foreign trade balance is rising steadily: last year it was 12.5 percent, but only for in first four months of this year it has already reached 13.1 percent. Despite instability in the international economy, the volume of the BRICS countries' mutual trade is increasing (in 2013, it was over $300 billion).
It is in our common interest to use the complementarity of national economies to the maximum. Cooperation opportunities are great indeed. This is the market with almost three billion consumers. The BRICS countries have unique natural resources and a substantial technological, financial and industrial potential. 
On Russia's initiative the BRICS’ Economic Cooperation Strategy is being drafted at the moment. It will focus on creating preconditions for accelerated economic development and strengthening the international competitiveness of our countries, the expansion and diversification of trade relations, and ensuring interaction for innovative growth. A number of prospective cooperation ventures are being studied to make sure the document is backed by concrete investment projects.
I will note that last year our countries’ businesses established the BRICS Business Council. This institution is still to fully realise its potential, but we have already started work to identify and eliminate barriers that impede business interaction within of the association.
It is clear that all the BRICS economies need serious infrastructure modernisation. Our initiative to establish the New Development Bank is aimed at expanding cooperation in this sphere. In the year since the Durban Summit, we have managed to achieve significant progress in this direction. In the near future, we expect to finalise all the remaining issues and we will be able to use this Bank's potential to realise major projects in our countries. 
Another important initiative that is underway is creating a BRICS Contingent Reserve Arrangement. It will become a safety net to help us form a joint response to economic challenges.
I would like to emphasise that both the New Development Bank and the Contingent Reserve Arrangement are practical steps for our countries, intended to strengthen international financial architecture and to make it more balanced and just.
The BRICS countries have shared attitudes towards other modern challenges in the economy, including the prompt completion of the Doha Round Negotiations, creating a more just global trade system and ensuring transparency in regional trade agreements.
Question: How solid can a union of countries be if the majority of them do not have common borders? Is it possible that global processes will lead to the situation when over time the cooperation between the member countries dies out, as it sometimes happens with regional associations? Are there any plans to reinforce a political element in BRICS and add a military aspect to these countries' interaction?
Vladimir Putin: In the modern world the factor of common borders does not play a defining role. On the contrary, global processes encourage us to join efforts as challenges and problems become shared. In the BRICS case we see a whole set of coinciding strategic interests.
First of all, this is the common intention to reform the international monetary and financial system. In the present form it is unjust to the BRICS countries and to new economies in general. We should take a more active part in the IMF and the World Bank's decision-making system. The international monetary system itself depends a lot on the US dollar, or, to be precise, on the monetary and financial policy of the US authorities. The BRICS countries want to change this.
Another long-term common interest of the association’s members is strengthening the rule of international law and the UN’s leading role in the international system. To be honest, without Russia’s and China's principled position on Syria in the Security Council the events in that country would have followed the Libyan and Iraqi scenario.
Certainly, the BRICS countries intend to strengthen the political element of our cooperation. That is why we will develop the practice of mutual consultations and joint actions in international organisations, first of all, in the UN. In the long term, we will create a virtual BRICS secretariat. At the same time, I would like to stress that we do not have any plans to form a BRICS military and political alliance.
Topics
BRICS
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 15, 2014, 01:00
Text version