Events
Meeting with Government members
Vladimir Putin held a planned meeting with Government members to discuss implementing the Finance Ministry’s programme of work for 2013–2018, the situation on the stock and currency markets, and other current issues.
March 5, 2014
15:40
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
3 of 4
Meeting with Government members.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
We are here to discuss the situation on the financial and currency markets, but before turning to that question, I would like to hear some updates on a couple of matters.
I know that the Prime Minister has already instructed the Finance Ministry to coordinate with our partners in Ukraine on possible provision of additional aid, as well as assistance for some Ukrainian regions that have come to us with such requests. What is the situation now? Could you update us?
Finance Minister Anton Siluanov
: Mr President, overall, Ukraine is indeed facing a difficult situation. Budget spending is falling. Estimates show that only around 15 percent of planned budget spending is actually taking place at the moment. 
Naturally, this affects the regions, including Crimea, and so we have organised cooperation now between our Finance Ministry and the Crimean Finance Ministry.
Vladimir Putin: First, I wanted to hear about Ukraine as a whole.
Anton Siluanov: What we are looking at for Ukraine as a whole is falling revenue, which will result in budget spending being revised downward by 15 percent. 
In response, our foreign partners are offering aid, primarily through the International Monetary Fund. The United States and the European Union countries have also said they could provide support, and we think that we too should examine the various possibilities for providing assistance if the general situation worsens.
Vladimir Putin: Regarding the regions, do you propose that we work at regional level, work through the Russian regions?
Anton Siluanov: I know that Russian regions on the border with Ukraine have put forward proposals for financial aid, seeing as they have already concluded the relevant agreements with their neighbours on mutual cooperation and provision of financial support. These agreements could be implemented now. 
Vladimir Putin: Good, thank you.
Mr Miller, you already briefed [Prime Minister] Mr Medvedev on the situation on the Ukrainian energy market. I am aware of the situation and know the details in principle. Has there been any change of late?
Gazprom CEO Alexei Miller
: Mr President, of a total debt of $1.529 billion, Ukraine has paid off $10 million to date, but on March 7, the day after tomorrow, Ukraine’s debt commitments will increase by another $440 million in payments for February gas supplies.
Vladimir Putin: Are they going to pay?
Alexei Miller: Our Ukrainian colleagues have informed us that they cannot pay in full for the gas supplies in February.
Vladimir Putin: So what will this bring their total debt to?
Alexei Miller: It will increase it substantially, bringing it up to around $2 billion.
Vladimir Putin: I see. Keep the Prime Minister updated on developments in the situation.
Yes, go ahead.
Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Rogozin
: Mr President, I just want to add a couple of words on the electricity issue. You know that there are 15 nuclear power plant units currently in operation in Ukraine, as well as the four sealed units at the Chernobyl NPP. 
This matter concerns us of course because the reactors are Russian-built. The plants are operating normally and everything is ok there, but external security at the facilities is the responsibility of private security firms and troops from Ukraine’s Interior Ministry and Security Service.
There is also the issue of transit of nuclear fuel via Ukrainian territory to our partners in Eastern Europe, and the issue of fuel supplies for the nuclear power plants in Ukraine itself.
Ukraine’s power stations have enough fuel reserves to get them through March and April, but that is it. A ban on fuel transit through Ukrainian territory is in place at the moment because of the unstable situation in the country. 
We plan to go through [State Atomic Energy Corporation] Rosatom to request that the IAEA conducts an additional inspection of external security at Ukraine’s nuclear power plants.
Vladimir Putin: I have a request to you and your colleagues working in energy and finance. We are aware of the tense political situation, but it should not affect our on-going economic cooperation. We should not add difficulties to an already complicated situation. We need to keep working with all of our established partners. Of course we need to look after our interests too. No one ever gets anything for free, and this is still the rule today. But we should not exacerbate the situation and should not let our economic cooperation become hostage to the political situation.
Let’s turn to the issue we have gathered here to discuss; let’s ask Ms Nabiullina to describe the current situation in the stock and currency markets.
Please, go ahead.
Governor of The Bank of Russia Elvira Nabiullina
: Thank you.
Mr President, colleagues,
The situation on the foreign exchange market has been more tense since the beginning of the year; however, the reasons for this have changed over time.
In January, the main factor was the investors’ reducing their holdings in emerging market nations, caused first and foremost by the actions of the US monetary authorities, the US Federal Reserve and the overall slowdown of the growth rates in these nations’ economies.
A splash of volatility occurred in many of these nations, but overall, the situation was relatively stable. Russia would most likely have had a similar scenario, but unfortunately, the well-known political factor got in the way. Investors reacted quite sharply to the increase in political tension in Ukraine. The peak was on Monday. That morning, the Central Bank made two decisions aimed at creating conditions to stabilise the situation in the financial markets.
First of all, the Central Bank raised the key rate used for providing the bulk of liquidity to banks, by 1.5 points, to the annual total of 7%.
Second, we decided to set our currency market intervention parameters daily, based on the current situation. On Monday, we increased the amount of accumulated interventions. We have a rule, and we changed the parameters of that rule, increasing the amount of accumulated investments necessary for shifting the corridor of our bi-currency basket more than four-fold, to $1.5 billion.
Overall, on Monday, we sold just over $11 billion. In our view, this helped curb the panic and support the stability of the ruble. By evening, the situation on the foreign exchange market was getting back to normal, and at the end of the day, overall, the ruble lost about 1% against the basket of main currencies.
On Tuesday, we sold much less. We reduced the sales volume to $300 million, and the ruble exchange rate rebounded almost completely after Monday’s drop. In addition, another factor that affected the stabilisation of the situation was the Finance Ministry’s decision to halt the buying of foreign currencies for the Reserve Fund due to the increased financial market volatility.
The stock market experienced a significant drop in quotes on Monday – about 11%. The next day, the quotes also went up, regaining nearly half of the drop. However, the Russian stock market is not large enough and is more subject to fluctuations, and today we are seeing a slight decrease. Nevertheless, the Central Bank does not see any fundamental reasons for the ruble’s devaluation.
Right now, the pressure that the ruble experiences is caused by external factors. The current Central Bank assessments show an undervaluation of Russia’s currency, first and foremost given the current external balance.
The initial data – they are still preliminary – on the trade balance show that in January and February of this year, it was better than over the same period last year. The favourable current external balance has grown, according to our data, by 14% — from $17.3 to $19.7 billion. And the trade surplus grew by 11% from $32.5 to $36.3 billion. It seems the effect of the ruble’s depreciation in recent weeks had its impact.
However, the only factor for the ruble’s long-term sustainable strengthening is the positive dynamics in Russia’s key economic indicators, including higher economic growth rates, increased investment volumes, and lower capital flight.
Concerns have been expressed about how the depreciation of the ruble will influence inflation. According to our assessment, taking into account the measures taken, we can achieve our set goal of getting inflation down to 5% by the end of the year, although overall, for now, inflation remains elevated. In January, it stood at the annual rate of 6.1% and in February, it was 6.2%. The accumulated inflation since the beginning of the year, in the last two months, stood at 1.3%.
At the same time, I want to particularly stress that our decision on changing the level of our involvement in the currency market, which occurred on Monday, does not change our fundamental decision to make a shift to the inflation targeting regime. We will continue to increase exchange rate flexibility.
But, as stated earlier, in order to maintain financial stability – and that is our goal and responsibility – we will engage in the necessary volume of currency interventions, if needed. That is the approach we have implemented over the last days.
The Central Bank views the decision to increase key rates by 1.5% as temporary, since it entails certain costs, including its influence on the economic growth. We will monitor the development of the situation, and implement a corresponding monetary policy based on that situation. The Central Bank has a full range of instruments and sufficient international reserves to ensure stability on the financial market.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
<…>
Topics
Budget
Economy and finance
Persons
Miller Alexei
Nabiullina Elvira
Rogozin Dmitry
Siluanov Anton
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 5, 2014, 15:40
Text versionEvents
Interview before the Sochi Paralympics
Vladimir Putin answered questions from Channel One, Rossiya-1, NTV, and RBC TV journalists.
March 5, 2014
06:00
Sergey Brilev (ROSSIYA-1): Mr President, we are surrounded here by screens showing competitions from past Paralympics. In just a few days’ time, these broadcasts will show our logos – the logos of the VGTRK [National State Television and Radio Company] channels and of Alexander’s RBC (General Partner). 
Alexander Lyubimov (RBC TV): RBC is a private channel. We also decided to support the event. I think it is important that among the country’s elite, politicians and businesspeople we should promote…
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: It seems to me that I already tried to praise you once.
Sergey Brilev: We are starting these broadcasts and are counting down the last days and hours now before the Paralympics’ opening.
It would be strange to compare the Paralympics and the Olympics, and to ask which is better would simply not be the right question. But what are your hopes for the Paralympics, which are the logical continuation of the Olympics?
Vladimir Putin: I agree with what you just said: the Paralympics are the logical continuation of the Olympics. If we look back at history, we see that the first forerunner to what became the Paralympics took place in 1948, in Britain I think it was. Most of the people taking part in those competitions were people in wheelchairs as a result of injuries suffered during World War II. This gradually grew into the Paralympic movement. I think the first actual Paralympic Games were held in 1960, and the first Winter Paralympics took place in 1976, if I remember correctly. In this sense, the Paralympics are certainly a logical continuation of the Olympics.
What hopes do I have for these Games? I have great hopes, first of all because the Paralympics have been attracting an ever bigger audience over recent years. We think it is important that more and more people see the limitless possibilities of our athletes with disabilities. This gives the public the right kind of education and it also encourages officials at all levels to create a barrier-free environment.
Sergey Brilev: Not just in sports, but in general.
Vladimir Putin: Not just in sports, but everywhere. It reminds me of the problems.
Incidentally, here in Sochi, this is probably the first time that we have implemented a comprehensive programme to create a barrier-free environment in Russia. And I very much count on the regions to engage in consistent work to create the same kind of barrier-free environment across our nation. We signed a corresponding international convention and we have national programmes, but this requires constant attention on the part of authorities at all levels.
And the most important issue: what are the expectations? The expectations are that our Paralympians will also outperform.
Sergey Brilev: In other words, you are not playing it safe this time, after the triumph of the Olympics?
Vladimir Putin: No, I am being cautious. I am not saying how many victories we will have, and what kind. We are, of course, looking forward to victories, especially since we know what our Paralympians can achieve. At the previous Paralympic Games, as you know, our team was among the leaders, at the top. And chief executives of the International Paralympic Committee say it straight that they expect the most brilliant performances from the Russian Paralympians. We do, too.
Irada Zeynalova (CHANNEL ONE): Mr President, at our meeting before the Olympics, you said that nobody cancelled your work schedule as far as politics are concerned, but you will try to find the time to attend all the events you can, if you have free time. And we were constantly seeing you in the bleachers, watching hockey and figure skating.
Now, will you be attending the Paralympic competitions?
Vladimir Putin: Yes, I would very much like to.
Just now, they were showing ice sledge hockey here on the screen. You know, I have gotten into it recently; look at the passion there, the heat of competition – it is no less intense than at the Olympic Games. I would, of course, be happy to watch it, but for now I don’t know the schedule for the athletic competitions. Naturally, I will attend the opening. The cross-country skiing competitions are very interesting.
You know, when the Paralympians perform in alpine skiing, it is absolutely amazing; this is pure art. I just don’t know right now, I cannot say which events I will be able to attend, but I would very much like to.
Irada Zeynalova: And will you be watching the competitions you cannot attend, like ice sledge hockey, on TV?
Vladimir Putin: I tried to watch the Olympics on television and, of course, I will be watching the Paralympics.
Kirill Kiknadze (NTV): Mr President, on a moral level, the event that is coming up is, probably, no less important than the events that have passed. We will have people coming here for whom sports are not just a part of life, but something more – sometimes, they depend on what they are doing, they depend on their athletic achievements. They are grateful to sports for that.
I would like to know: there were 112 candidates for the national team, and 64 will be going. What would you like to say to the people who are left behind?
Vladimir Putin: You know, I don’t think that they need any sort of recommendations; everyone who was a candidate for the Paralympic national team – these are all outstanding athletes. This means that they are people with strong character. And here, I am certain that they do not need consolation. I have no doubt that they will continue to work and refine their skills; they will take part in other competitions and, if their age allows it, will fight to make it onto Russia’s Paralympic national team and perform admirably. They just need to work, and I’m certain that is what will happen.
Alexander Lyubimov: They truly are people of not just unlimited but limitless capabilities. In fact, we have started promoting the Paralympic Games specifically because, I think, these people are an example for all of us – of incredible bravery and strength of character. So we will demonstrate it.
The only thing, I think – I don’t know, maybe it’s like that in all nations… You are saying that after 1948, the movement started to gradually grow. In our country, the attitudes are not very impressive. We need people to watch this more on our channel, on Rossiya 2, so that they can feel that there are three million people with disabilities in our nation, who can be employed, whom we can help. It’s just that we often pass by these people in the streets… We have a problem with this in our nation; there are not enough promotion campaigns for good deeds.
Vladimir Putin: I agree. Here, a lot depends on all of us and on the media, especially electronic. There are people among you who regularly cover sports events; others focus on other areas, but you all know that sports-casting – especially on television – is a unique activity where it is extremely important to reflect the heat of competition, the beauty of movement, and endurance and stamina of an athlete. All this requires a high degree of professionalism. It is not enough to merely show a good camera shot of a jump, or say, a hockey match, or someone skating or racing down a slope. It is a special art to be able to demonstrate the beauty of sports, and the beauty of Paralympic sports is much more difficult to demonstrate.
Therefore, the efficiency of our propaganda will largely depend on those who do this work. The state of course bears the main responsibility here, but we cannot do without your professional efforts and support.
Irada Zeynalova: Mr President, the ratings of broadcasts from the Olympic Games, at least those on Chanel One, were fantastic. People wanted to see the Games, because they brought the energy, the feeling of joy and festivity that we all need. As for the Paralympics, how do we change the attitude of society to people who have found themselves in this situation? These are truly superhumans with limitless capabilities. How do we influence society so that the festival does not end after the Paralympics, so that people care for those who live a completely different life?
Vladimir Putin: The state should do more for people with disabilities. We should create a barrier-free environment for them everywhere, all over the country. The key issue here is to create jobs for them. I will not go into detail regarding what the state is doing to encourage businesses that create jobs for the disabled. We create special conditions for such enterprises, but these are few and it is definitely not enough.
Therefore our goal here – you put it correctly, I fully agree with you – is to make sure that after the Paralympics the people and the authorities at all levels do not forget about this. It also means that state policy should follow in the same direction, there should be special programs, which the media should support. And if you see that some government agencies, municipal or federal authorities at any level are not up to standards (there is no need to tell you how – this is your favourite part) you should point out such drawbacks.
Sergey Brilev: Mr President, I believe that during the Olympics a majority of Russians supported not only our champions and medallists (whom you have already presented with state decoration) but also athletes from neighbouring states. I saw myself – which pleased me a lot – the warm welcome they gave to the athletes from Georgia: there was a figure skater and downhill skiers. Everybody supported [Darya] Domracheva from Belarus; Russians gave a very warm welcome to the successful women’s biathlon team from Ukraine. It is no secret that many Russians gave equal support to both Russian athletes and to our brotherly neighbours. How do you define the notion ‘our people’ yourself? Whom do you support, apart from the Russian athletes?
Vladimir Putin: I believe that when we are hosting some major sports event, all our guests are our people. Primarily this applies to our own athletes, but to all our guests as well. For us everyone should be equal.
See also
All news about XXII Sochi Winter Olympics in Sochi
Topics
Sochi 2014
Sport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 5, 2014, 06:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting of the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council
Vladimir Putin, President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko and President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev held a meeting of the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council.
March 5, 2014
19:10
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
The three presidents discussed key areas in integration cooperation, the functioning of the Customs Union
and Common Economic Space
functioning, progress on the drafting of the agreement to establish the Eurasian Economic Union as from January 1, 2015, and the possibility of drafting an agreement on Armenia’s accession to the future union.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan are making steady progress towards integration, and today at this summit meeting of the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council we will discuss the latest developments in this area, where we are heading and at what pace. We will look at whether we have carried out all of the earlier steps and measures we planned.
Our common goal is to reach a new, higher level of cooperation and, as we agreed, have the Eurasian Economic Union in place by the start of 2015. To achieve this, we need to keep to our scheduled deadlines and have the draft agreement ready by May.
In accordance with the instruction we gave at the last meeting in Moscow in December last year, our three countries’ governments and the Eurasian Economic Commission speeded up work on the draft text. It was discussed in detail yesterday too at a meeting of our deputy prime ministers in Astana. Igor Shuvalov, Russia’s first deputy prime minister, briefed me on the results this morning.
The agreements’ institutional component needs to define the future union’s international legal status and organisational framework and cement the basic principles for its functioning. The functional, sector-based component will regulate the mechanisms for economic cooperation.
In all of this work it is important to guarantee the ‘four freedoms’ of unobstructed flow of goods, services, capital, and labour. We also need to set out concrete obligations for removing exceptions and restrictions that still remain in place in the Customs Union and Common Economic Space.
The future union should have broad powers in economic regulation. This would make it possible to carry out a common, coordinated policy in key sectors, increase our national economies’ stability and development potential, and ensure a large, common market and flow of new investment.
The Eurasian integration efforts are already bringing concrete results. Despite a slowdown in global growth and the global economy, trade between our three countries not only did not fall in 2013, but even increased slightly and came to $64.1 billion.
At the same time, our mutual trade structure is improving and the share of raw materials in our export-import operations is falling. Instead, we are seeing an increase in technological goods, goods with high added value, and this increase is substantial. The share of high-tech products in the overall trade structure increased from 28.9 percent to 40 percent.
Integration creates the prerequisites for equal competition in the Customs Union nations’ market. Consumer demand is expanding. This stimulates innovative activity among our companies, and manufacturers are using the resources at their disposal more effectively.
Taking into account the interests of the business community has become a priority direction for integration cooperation. The Eurasian Economic Commission has established close cooperation with our nations’ business associations and is consulting with entrepreneurs on improving the regulatory framework of the Customs Union and the Common Economic Space. I will say even more: they are doing more than consulting; in essence, business representatives are involved in this process and are the co-authors of all these documents.
The Eurasian integration project is appealing to our partners in the CIS. We are at a very advanced stage of negotiations concerning Armenia and Kyrgyzstan’s joining the union.
An action plan has been adopted and is being successfully implemented on the Armenian side to adapt to the norms and requirements of the Customs Union and the Common Economic Space. So we feel it is possible to start working on a draft agreement on Armenia’s accession to the future Eurasian Economic Union.
Naturally, we need to weigh all the pros and cons for all participants in this process. It is important to continue supporting Kyrgyzstan in the process of accession as well. It is imperative to work with our partners to approve the road map for further action.
Ukraine is the key economic partner for the Customs Union. We are united by close industrial and trade ties. Ukraine belongs to the CIS free trade zone.
We are very concerned by the extreme situation unfolding in Ukraine. The Ukrainian economy is going through an extremely difficult crisis. There may be negative consequences for the Customs Union market as well.
Thus, we need to think together about measures to take in order to prepare our manufacturers and exporters, and develop the framework for further cooperation with Ukraine. We certainly need to do everything to help our partners out of the difficult situation in which they find themselves today.
Naturally, today, we will also discuss other aspects of the situation around Ukraine.
The Eurasian integration association is open to cooperating with all states and has already begun working on a package of free trade agreements with a number of nations.
We have received about 40 proposals on closing such agreements, including from the European Free Trade Association (EFTA), which includes Iceland, Lichtenstein, Norway and Switzerland, as well as Vietnam, Israel, India, Chile and Peru.
And in conclusion, I want to stress that Russia values the constructive, equitable and open relations that have been built economically between our nations, and greatly appreciates the joint results that have been reached.
I am confident that Eurasian economic integration will open new, unique opportunities to the participants in this project, which can and should be used for the good of our nations’ citizens.
<…>
Topics
Economy and finance
Foreign policy
Persons
Khristenko Viktor
Lukashenko Alexander
Nazarbayev Nursultan
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 5, 2014, 19:10
Text version