Events
Official reception on Heroes of the Fatherland Day
An official reception marking Heroes of the Fatherland Day was held at the Kremlin.
December 9, 2014
19:10
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 3
At the official reception on Heroes of the Fatherland Day.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Dear friends,
I sincerely congratulate you on the Heroes of the Fatherland Day!
Today, here at the Kremlin’s St George Hall, which holds the glorious memory of the victorious Russian army, we honour those who commendably continue these great traditions.
The Heroes of the Soviet Union, the Heroes of Russia, the holders of the Order of Glory and Order of St George – you all have made a top-level contribution to strengthening our nation’s security. You have carried out feats on the battlefield and showed valour in peacetime, once again proving how significant the role of each person is in serving our Fatherland, the devotion to the duty to one’s land, one’s people, the traditions that our forefathers passed onto us, readiness to take real action when it is needed in the interests of the Fatherland. Your daring and courage embrave the others and strengthen the belief in the endless power of the human spirit. We are proud of you.
I welcome the veterans of the Great Patriotic War who are in this hall today. Your generation will always be an example of honest, selfless service to Russia, of bravery and endurance that make any force powerless. I imagine there are few nations in the world where these qualities are the foundation of the national character, where heroism in the name of honour and freedom of one’s Fatherland is set on the highest, moral pedestal.
The Heroes of the Fatherland Day is especially important in Russia. We pay tribute to those who protected the sacred right for people to live of their own free will and according to their own laws in earlier years and times. And we look up to you.
Dear Heroes of our nation,
It is you to whom I would like to address my words of the most sincere and profound gratitude. I once again congratulate you on this holiday. I wish you good health and happiness. And, of course, my warmest wishes to your families and loved ones, those who always support you and love you.
Allow me to propose a toast to mark today’s holiday. To the heroes, to these brave, strong people! To our people! To the great Russia!
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 9, 2014, 19:10
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Government members
Vladimir Putin held a regular meeting with Government members.
December 9, 2014
16:20
The Kremlin, Moscow
6 of 6
Meeting with Government members.
The discussion focussed on the practical implementation of the goals stated in the Presidential Address to the Federal Assembly.
Economic Development Minister Alexei Ulyukayev explained the causes behind price rises. Mr Ulyukayev said that consumer prices for foodstuffs as of December 1 were up 13.1 percent compared to last year. This, he said, is due in part to imbalances on the goods markets, including because of restrictions on imports of a number of foodstuffs. He said that this situation with foodstuffs prices could continue until the end of the first quarter next year. Starting in the second quarter of 2015, growth in foodstuffs prices is expected to slow down as producers adapt to the new situation and import supplies become more diversified.
Rising petrol prices on the domestic market, which has seen an increase of 9.4 percent this year, are due to a reduction in physical volumes of petrol supplies, Mr Ulyukayev said. The rise in costs of medicines is slightly higher than the consumer price index and comes to 11.6 percent.
Overall, in Mr Ulyukayev’s view, there are good prospects for bucking the price rise trend on the foodstuffs market and on markets for other important consumer goods. 
Mr Putin stressed the point that the Federal Anti-Monopoly Service and other oversight agencies, with assistance from the Economic Development Ministry, must constantly study this matter so as to ensure that market actors do not take action for which there are no objective justifications.
Healthcare Minister Veronika Skvortsova spoke about the work underway to raise medical personnel’s qualifications in preparation for the introduction in 2016 of compulsory accreditation of medical sector workers.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
Today we will work in two formats: first the discussion will be held by those present and later we will be joined by our colleagues from companies with state participation.
Both in the first and the second case, we will talk about implementing the Address [to the Federal Assembly]. I would like to thank the Government, the Government leadership for the prompt response to the Presidential Address. I know that the Prime Minister has already prepared instructions to be issued on this subject. Thank you very much.
There are some points we will need to talk about in this format, and we will do this now, but first we should discuss a few urgent issues.
I’d like to start by asking Mr Ulyukayev, the Minister of Economic Development, to say a few words about the consumer inflation issue. There are obviously some objective circumstances here, the situation with imports and the change in our currency’s exchange rate due to the drop in global energy prices. These are objective causes. Another objective cause is the restrictions that we introduced on imports of foodstuffs. We see this as a temporary problem because the current price situation is linked to the costs our companies are bearing and the need to increase production. This will ultimately benefit our agriculture sector and indeed our entire country.
But some of what we see is cause for question. Prices for petroleum products rose by 10 percent as of December 1, even though global oil prices have dropped by 35 percent. The questions do not end here. The whole situation would not be such cause for question if it were not for the fact that most of the price growth is in the retail segment, while wholesale prices are dropping. What are we to make of this? Where is the Federal Anti-Monopoly Service? I’d like to hear a few words on these issues. 
<…>
See also
Meeting on improving the efficiency of state companies
December 9, 2014
Topics
Economy and finance
Persons
Ulyukayev Alexei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 9, 2014, 16:20
Text versionEvents
Meeting on improving the efficiency of state companies
The President held a meeting on improving the efficiency of state corporarations and companies with state participation.
December 9, 2014
17:45
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 2
Meeting on improving the efficiency of state companies.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good evening, colleagues.
We have already begun to discuss several issues with Government members, and we have invited you here to talk about them today as well. I am referring to a certain part of the Address, and now I will say a few more words about this in detail.
First of all, I am talking about specific steps to increase the efficiency of state corporations and companies with state participation, where the state owns 50 percent or more of the shares.
We have 52 such companies. They hold leading positions in key sectors of the economy: in infrastructure, energy and the military industrial complex; they have close economic and cooperative ties with many companies across the country.
In this regard, I will stress again: state companies should prioritise placing orders with Russian organisations, first and foremost, with small and midsize businesses. It is of course necessary to buy abroad, but we must import only unique equipment and technologies without which we cannot develop, or will develop less effectively, worse than we would like. We are talking first and foremost about technologies and equipment that do not have analogues in Russia.
Naturally, domestic suppliers’ offers need to be competitive, both in quality and in price, since these expenditures are laid into the cost of production for state companies and, as we all understand, affect your profitability.
I will remind you that the Address set the objective to lower state companies’ operating costs by no less than 2–3 percent annually. Fulfilling this objective should become one of the key indicators of the company executives’ efficacy and should form the basis for their remuneration.
Overall, it is necessary to analyse state corporations’ business models, to clear their balance sheets and create a straightforward plan for disposing of their non-core assets; we must also update long-term development programmes and conduct audits. These instructions are in place. I expect to hear today about how they are being carried out.
At the same time, I would like to note that the development and implementation of a corporate strategy is systemic, but nevertheless internal work. However, taking into account the status of state-owned companies, I feel it is necessary for the Government to prepare a list of interrelated strategic documents that will be required for organisations with state participation.
Furthermore, as I said in the Address, it is imperative to bring order to state companies’ finances. This is fundamentally important for corporations with a wide network of subsidiaries and affiliates, where unfortunately, the holding company often does not see financial resolutions at the local level, which can lead to a diffusion of resources, low returns on investment, and losses.
It is necessary to monitor the flow of funds and financial risks in both the holding company and its subsidiaries, while all operations of a specific state-owned company should be conducted through a single financial settlements centre. This approach allows for optimising state companies’ money flows, making their management more efficient. As you recall, corresponding instructions were given to the Government. Starting next July, unified treasuries should start operating. And today, I would like to hear how this work is going, as well as work to transfer state companies’ funds to Russia’s core banks.
And the last issue I would like to touch on concerns discipline in paying dividends. It is clear that the state’s participation in state companies’ capital provides significant advantages, such as strong support in carrying out complex projects and the opportunity to strengthen positions in the foreign markets. At the same time, the government as the major shareholder certainly has the right to expect corresponding returns.
I want to remind you that we agreed on the general principle as regards payment of dividends to the state: no less than 25% of net profits. However, based on the results of the past two years, this requirement is met by just over half of state-owned companies, and some even managed to get individual Government resolutions allowing them not to pay dividends or significantly reduce their size.
It is clear that all of us here are grown-up, experienced people, and it is clear that the arguments are always solid and based on the need for capital investments. Let’s agree that if decisions are made, they need to be fulfilled. And if they are not fulfilled, then new decisions are needed, reasonable and systemic, not spotty ones, or ones in favour of individual enterprises that get close to the high offices.
With this in mind, let’s begin today’s meeting.
<…>
See also
Meeting with Government members
December 9, 2014
Topics
Economy and finance
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 9, 2014, 17:45
Text versionEvents
Russian Geographical Society's award presentation
Vladimir Putin took part in the Russian Geographical Society's award presentation ceremony. As Chairman of the Society's Board of Trustees, the President presented the Russian Geographical Society's Person of the Year award to Konstantin Bogdanov for the discovery and study of the battleship Lefort.
December 9, 2014
14:15
Moscow
3 of 3
Russian Geographical Society's award presentation ceremony.
Konstantin Bogdanov is the leader and organiser of the Lefort expedition. On May 4, 2013 participants in this project found Lefort, a battleship of the Imperial Russian Baltic Fleet. The location where the ship sank had remained unknown for one and a half centuries, and the catastrophe’s causes had been misunderstood. The tragedy of the ship and its 826 passengers ranks ninth in the list of the biggest wrecks in history that took place in peacetime. Studies involving dozens of dives to a depth of 70 metres helped identify the causes of the ship’s sinking and to recreate the course of events. A virtual museum with photo and video materials was created on the basis of the expedition’s findings.
Around 350 projects competed for the Russian Geographical Society’s awards, which were presented in seven categories: Expedition and Travel, Geographical Research, Youth Projects, Russia’s Natural and Cultural Heritage, Media Projects, Russian Geographical Society’s Person of the Year, and Best Foreign Project about Russia.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends, good afternoon,
You know, at the very beginning, when the host was introducing today’s event, I was looking at the screen, watching how various expeditions were organised in the previous years, long ago, and how this is done today. And I thought that this is actually a very difficult and sometimes dangerous work. This is a truly hard work that requires enormous effort and sometimes is a risk to life.
But nevertheless, people do travel, fly, sail, climb the mountains and dive underwater. Why? Because, first of all, they believe that what they do is very necessary. I want to address all of you and say that this is true, and I want to thank you very much.
And second, these are people who are very much dedicated to what they do; they give a part of themselves to this work, devote a significant part of their lives to the cause they have chosen to serve. And only when these two parts – a personal inner conviction that what you do is important and right, and readiness to devote yourself to this work – blend together, only then do you get results.
Of course, behind any result, there is usually not just one person, but an entire team, at least in the work that we are looking at today – it’s not just one person. Even if something is then given his or her name, there is usually an entire team behind it, a whole a group of likeminded people. So in presenting the awards to specific people today – it is no accident that they themselves spoke about it – we are honouring the entire group of people who stood behind the results achieved in these expeditions.
Today, we are attending a very pleasant event. We are giving rise to another tradition of the Russian Geographical Society – the presentation of awards. Here, our wonderful and widely respected cosmonaut said that the Russian Geographical Society once went to oblivion, but then was back to life again. Let’s think it took a lengthy nap and then once again returned to us, like a Sleeping Beauty, and now it brings us joy, inspiring new achievements.
When we talk about Person of the Year, it means that the team and its leader are recognised for having done something special, something important and very interesting. Let’s look at who this is and what their work is about.
The experts have decided to bestow the Person of the Year of the Russian Geographical Society prize to Konstantin Bogdanov, for discovering and exploring the Lefort ship. The location of its wreck and the causes were a mystery for nearly 150 years, but our laureate, together with his colleagues and friends, carried out this enormous work.
But, as far as I know, this is not the only work carried out by this team. They are engaged in a huge project to restore the names of heroes in the Great Patriotic War and World War I. They have an entire programme that is called A Bow to the Ships of the Great Victory. They are locating the wreck sites of submarines and battleships perished in World War I and World War II, in the Great Patriotic War and, as I already said, are restoring the names of heroes.
This is extremely important work; it is always important, and will be especially important over the centuries. But on the eve of Victory in the Great Patriotic War, this is especially important.
Thank you very much. I wish you new successes.
<…>
Topics
Environment
Science and innovation
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 9, 2014, 14:15
Text versionEvents
Interview to the Indian Information Agency PTI
In the run up to his official visit to India Vladimir Putin gave an interview to the Indian Information Agency PTI.
December 9, 2014
21:30
Question: Your upcoming visit to India is the first one since the government headed by Mr. Narendra Modi came to power; however, you have already met with him several times on the sidelines of international events. What results do you expect from the summit, primarily as far as Russian-Indian political, trade and economic relations are concerned?
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: As the President of the Russian Federation, I have been to India five times. I particularly remember my visit in October 2000, when we signed the historic Declaration on Strategic Partnership with the Indian partners.
With regard to my contacts with Prime Minister of India, Mr. Narendra Modi, that is true, we became acquainted on the sidelines of the BRICS Summit in Brazil this July. We also had meaningful conversations in Brisbane (Australia) in November at the meeting of the Heads of State and Government of the BRICS countries and during the G20 summit.
I note with satisfaction the commitment of the Indian leadership to searching for new promising areas of cooperation. I am convinced that the common aspiration to further develop our bilateral relations will help to achieve significant results at the upcoming Indian-Russian Summit.
We look forward to discussing specific steps aimed at strengthening the privileged strategic partnership between Russia and India. We will devote particular attention to expanding trade and economic links and boosting mutual investments. Serious preparatory work has been done during the past sessions of the Inter-Governmental Commission on Trade, Economic, Scientific, Technological and Cultural Cooperation and the Indo-Russian Forum on Trade and Investment (New Delhi, November 5, 2014). Joint strategic projects include the construction of new units for Indian nuclear power plants, promotion of Russian Sukhoi Superjet-100 and MS-21 aircraft to the Indian market, introduction of the GLONASS system in the sectors of the Indian economy. Our priorities include building a butyl rubber plant, helicopter manufacturing, creating ”a smart city“ on the basis of Russian technologies, organizing assembly of industrial tractors.
We attach particular importance to the development of military and technical cooperation that is one of the main components of our strategic partnership. We will discuss in detail the current projects in this most important sphere related not only to the export of ready-made equipment but to close technological and industrial cooperation as well.
Furthermore, we will exchange views on current international and regional issues and on deepening foreign policy coordination in order to further strengthen security and stability in Eurasia and in the whole world.
Of course, we will discuss in substance how to give a new impetus to the bilateral ties in the humanitarian sphere, increase contacts between the citizens of our countries.
Question: India has traditionally regarded Russia, and the USSR in the past, as a reliable ”friend for all times.“ However, lately in India concerns have been raised about a sort of intensification of military and technical cooperation between Russia and Pakistan. In this light, do you think it would be appropriate to say that military and technical cooperation between Russia and India can be transformed?
Vladimir Putin: Our countries have been maintaining military and technical cooperation for many decades. Moreover, I would like to emphasize that India is a reliable and time-tested partner.
If some transformations take place, it would be a completely different kind of transformations. As I have already noted, the high level of bilateral cooperation and trust allows us to start a gradual transition from the traditional producer‑consumer model to joint development and production of advanced weapons systems. We already have examples of such effective cooperation, by which I mean the production of high-precision up-to-date BrahMos missiles and creation of a multifunctional fifth-generation fighter aircraft.
As for Pakistan, we have held talks on Russia's possible assistance aimed at improving effectiveness of counter-terrorism and antidrug operations. In my view, this kind of cooperation serves the long-term interests of all countries of the region, including India.
Question: Russia and India are successfully cooperating in the field of energy. India is planning to expand this cooperation, including through participation in the development of oil and gas deposits in the Eastern Siberia. What is Russia’s position on this matter? What would it be realistic for India to expect? In your opinion, what are the prospects of supplying Russian natural gas to India through a pipeline?
Vladimir Putin: Historically, Russia has exported most of its hydrocarbons to the West. However, European consumption is increasing too slowly, while political, regulatory and transit risks are on the rise. At the same time, the economies of Asian countries are growing rapidly. Thus, we are naturally interested in diversifying the destinations of our energy deliveries.
We expect to secure ourselves a role of a reliable energy supplier to the Asian markets. At the same time, we intend to boost economic growth in Russia’s Eastern Siberia and Far East regions and build new infrastructure there.
In view of the fact that Russia currently implements large-scale energy projects, we are interested in attracting new investments and technologies, including from India. As a good example of our mutually beneficial cooperation with Indian partners I could cite, in particular, the Sakhalin 1 project. A government oil and natural gas corporation ONGC is participating in it through its subsidiary, the ONGC Videsh Limited (OVL), which is a major Indian investor in Russia. Under the Sakhalin −1 project, over one million tons of oil is supplied to India annually.
The issue of participation by the OVL in hydrocarbons exploration in the Arctic is being actively discussed. This May, at the Saint Petersburg International Economic Forum, a memorandum of understanding was signed between Rosneft and OVL relating to cooperation on Russia's Arctic shelf within an international consortium. Gazpromneft is also interested in networking with Indian oil and gas companies with a view to implementing Arctic projects.
As far as Russia's natural gas supplies to India are concerned, that issue needs thorough consideration. A preliminary analysis has shown that the cost of pipeline transportation may significantly exceed that of liquefied natural gas supplies. So this is largely the question of commercial feasibility.
For the time being, Russian liquefied natural gas transportation seems the best choice. Let me remind you that last year the Gazprom Marketing and Trading Company already delivered to India two LNG shipments totaling 0.11 million tons in all. A long-term agreement on LNG supplies signed between the Gazprom Group and India's GAIL in 2012 entered into force in June 2014: it provides for the delivery of 2.5 million tons a year for the period of 20 years. India will start receiving LNG shipments as early as in 2017, or, in case the deadlines are shifted, by all means no later than in 2021.
We hope that our increased cooperation in the energy sector will contribute to India's sustainable and progressive social and economic development and help improve the quality of life of Indian people.
Question: Russia is a long-standing partner of India in the domain of peaceful nuclear energy. What specific agreements are you planning to implement in the short term? What problems arise in this regard?
Vladimir Putin: Nuclear energy cooperation is one of the pillars of our strategic partnership. We concluded two inter-governmental agreements in this field in 2008 and in 2010. The Road Map for the Serial Construction of the Russian designed Nuclear Power Plants in the Republic of India, which was signed in 2010, is currently being implemented.
The work on two energy units of the NPP ”Kudankulam“ is proceeding as scheduled. In October 2013, the first energy unit of that NPP was connected to the Indian power grid, and this June that unit reached its full capacity. The second energy unit is being prepared for commissioning.
Documentation to start construction of the second stage of that NPP has been nearly finalized. A general framework agreement for building the third and fourth energy units was signed in Mumbai this April.
I must stress that today NPP ”Kudankulam“ is the world's only nuclear power plant which meets all the ”post-Fukushima“ safety requirements.
Apart from building new energy units of the NPP ”Kudankulam“, we await the decision of the Indian government to allot a site for construction of a new Russian-designed nuclear power plant.
Our resources enable us to build up to 25 energy units in India. According to experts, however, even these units may not meet the needs of dynamically developing economy of India. This is why we intend to discuss the prospects for further development of our cooperation in the domain of nuclear energy during the upcoming meeting with Indian Prime Minister Mr. Narendra Modi. The policy document ”Strategic Vision of the Strengthening Russian-Indian Cooperation in the Field of Peaceful Uses of the Atomic Energy“ is also being prepared to be signed. Alongside with new energy units' construction, it provides for the exchange of the results of activities in the field of science, technology and innovation.
Question: Russia and India are planning to increase their trade turnover. What can be said about the prospects of establishing a free-trade regime between our countries?
Vladimir Putin: Russia and India have a huge potential of bilateral trade and economic cooperation. Alongside with that we have recently noted some decrease in bilateral trade due to unfavorable macroeconomic situation in the world. Last year's trade turnover amounted to 10 billion dollars, which is one billion less than during the previous year. It is important to reverse this trend.
A particular emphasis should be made on the development of high-technology areas of cooperation, namely nuclear energy, military and technical cooperation, space research, aircraft and automobile production, pharmaceuticals industry, chemical industry, information technologies and nanotechnologies.
We place great hopes in the Joint Working Groups on Strategic Cooperation and on Priority Investment Projects, being the new mechanisms established during the meeting of the Inter-Governmental Commission in November.
India expressed an interest in concluding a free-trade agreement with the Customs Union of Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan. The experts of the joint group, which is being formed under the Eurasian Economic Commission, will decide what steps should be taken and identify categories of goods for which the markets may be opened and those for which it would be still too early.
Obviously, not everything depends on a trade regime. There are some areas to be improved, I mean logistics and securing favorable financial conditions for implementing deals. The issue of a possible transition to payments in national currencies is also quite relevant.
Question: Has the change of government in India this May influenced the progress of the Russian-Indian special and privileged strategic partnership?
Vladimir Putin: Relations between Russia and India have never been susceptible to momentary developments. At all historic times, regardless of political and public leaders, our countries remained reliable partners in deepening our multifaceted bilateral cooperation.
For example, we signed the above-mentioned Declaration on Strategic Partnership 14 years ago with Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, who led the government headed by Bharatiya Janata Party. A great role in elevating our relations to the level of special and privileged strategic partnership was played by the previous government formed by the Indian National Congress.
I am convinced that we will continue this fruitful work together with the new government in order to expand our multifaceted and mutually beneficial contacts, especially given the fact that as far back as he was the Chief Minister of Gujarat state Mr. Narendra Modi visited several times the Astrakhan Region, which has since established fraternal relations with that Indian state. Thus, today, we are happy to see friendly India to be led by a reputable political leader, who has already made a significant personal contribution to the promotion of the Russian-Indian cooperation.
Geography
India
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 9, 2014, 21:30
Text version