Events
Official lunch hosted by President of Argentina Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner
An official lunch hosted by President of Argentina Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner in honour of Russian President Vladimir Putin was held in Buenos Aires.
July 13, 2014
05:00
Buenos Aires
See also
Russian-Argentinian talks
July 12, 2014
President Jose Mujica of Uruguay also attended the official lunch.
The Russian President is in Argentina on an official visit at the invitation of Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner
. Bilateral Russian-Argentinean talks were held earlier and resulted in the signing of a package of documents on cooperation.
* * *
Remarks at the official lunch hosted by President of Argentina Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner
President of Russia VLADIMIR PUTIN: Esteemed friends, distinguished Madam President, ladies and gentlemen,
I am very glad to be here in the capital of your beautiful country. First of all, I would like to thank the President of Argentina, Ms. Cristina Fernandez, for the warm welcome that has been extended to the Russian delegation.
I am also pleased to note that today’s talks were held in an atmosphere of complete mutual understanding. Openness, sincerity and trust are the distinctive features of our multifaceted relations. I am confident that this is a solid foundation for further successful cooperation between our countries and peoples.
The first Russian envoy to Buenos Aires, Mr. Ionin, wrote back in 1885 that our countries “can extend their hands to each other and become allies.” Following this advice, we have often supported each other over the 130 years of our diplomatic relations.
”Today, Argentina is one of Russia's leading partners in Latin America. Our countries share positions on key international issues and jointly uphold the principles of a multipolar world based on equality, mutual respect, and indivisibility of security.“
Argentina has become the second home for hundreds of thousands of immigrants from Russia. South America’s largest Russian diaspora resides here in Argentina, including the descendants of our illustrious dynasties: artists, politicians and military leaders. Many of them maintain a spiritual bond with Russia, its history and culture, and make a positive contribution to strengthening mutual understanding between our nations.
Today, Argentina is one of Russia's leading partners in Latin America. Our countries share positions on key international issues and jointly uphold the principles of a multipolar world based on equality, mutual respect, and indivisibility of security.
Russia, for its part, has invariably stood for resolving the dispute over the sovereignty of the Malvinas Islands by way of direct negotiations between Argentina and the United Kingdom. In this context, I can’t help but bring to your attention the last statement by Madam President regarding certain double standards in international affairs.
We work closely within the UN, the Group of Twenty, and other associations and forums.
I am confident that today’s talks will open up new opportunities for building strategic partnerships between our two countries, strengthen our business and cultural contacts and serve to promote cooperation between our countries on the international arena, including the improvement of the international financial system.
Dear friends, allow me to propose a toast: to friendship and fruitful cooperation between Argentina and Russia, the prosperity of our countries and peoples and the health of the President of Argentina – which is so important for her, and for all of us.
Additional
All news about the visit to Argentina
July 12 − 13, 2014
Geography
Argentina
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Fernandez de Kirchner Cristina
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 13, 2014, 05:00
Text version