Events
Victory Day parade on Red Square
Vladimir Putin attended the military parade marking the 69th anniversary of Victory in the 1941–1945 Great Patriotic War.
May 9, 2014
11:00
Moscow
11 of 41
Parade of Victory in the Great Patriotic War. Photo: RIA Novosti
In keeping with tradition, drummers from the Moscow Military Music School opened the parade. They were followed by officers, sergeants and soldiers from various units marching in formation, including an honour guard from the three main branches of the armed forces, a ground forces regiment, an air force battalion, a naval battalion, battalions from the Strategic Nuclear Forces and Aerospace Defence Forces, and a paratroopers’ regiment. Other formations included students from the military academies and a cavalry honour escort from the Federal Guards Service’s Presidential Regiment. Around 11,000 service personnel took part in the parade. 
Military hardware taking part in the parade included Tigr light armoured vehicles, BTR-82A and BTR-80 armoured personnel carriers (Black Sea Marines brigade), T-90A tanks, Msta-S self-propelled howitzers, Buk-M2, Pantsir-S1 and S-400 air defence missile systems, and Topol-M missile systems – a total of 151 items of military hardware in all. The latest air defence missile system Top-M2U, Khrizantema-S anti-tank missile system, and Taifun mine-resistant vehicle also took part in the parade for the first time.
A total of 69 aircraft took part in the parade, including Su-27 and Su-34 fighter jets, An-124–100 Ruslan and Il-76 transport planes, A-50 airborne early warning aircraft, Tu-22M3, Tu-95 and Tu-160 strategic bombers, and Mi-8, Mi-26, Mi-28 and Ka-52 helicopters.
The Moscow Garrison Military Orchestra provided the musical accompaniment for the parade.
* * *
Speech at military parade marking the 69th anniversary of Victory in the 1941–1945 Great Patriotic War
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Citizens of Russia, veterans,
Soldiers and sailors, sergeants and warrant officers, corporals and midshipmen, officers, generals and admirals, I congratulate you on Victory Day!
Sixty-nine years have gone by since the Great Patriotic War ended, but May 9 was and still is our biggest holiday. It is the day of our national triumph and our people’s pride, and also the day of sorrow and eternal memory. 
On this day we see the overwhelming strength of patriotism and feel especially acutely what it means to be loyal to our homeland and how important it is to defend our country’s interests.
We must remain worthy of our forebears’ deeds. They fought to the death with the enemy, defending their native land, and they vanquished Nazism.
“May 9 was and still is our biggest holiday. It is the day of our national triumph and our people’s pride, and also the day of sorrow and eternal memory. On this day we see the overwhelming strength of patriotism and feel especially acutely what it means to be loyal to our homeland and how important it is to defend our country’s interests.”
This victory was forged on the frontlines and on the home front, in partisan detachments and in the underground. The courage of blockaded Leningrad brought it closer, as did the bravery of Sevastopol’s defenders and the valour of thousands of soldiers who held their lines firm.
The fierce battles for Moscow and Stalingrad, Kursk and the Dnieper determined the outcome of the whole of World War II. The Soviet people’s iron will, fearlessness and steadfast courage saved Europe from enslavement.
It was our country that pursued the Nazis right back into their dens, dealt them the full and final blow, and achieved victory at a cost of millions of lives lost and terrible trials endured.
We must always preserve this sacred and unfading truth and not allow others to betray or forget these heroes who sacrificed everything for the sake of preserving peace in our world.
Friends, today we bow our heads in memory of those who are not with us any longer. Every family honours their devotion to their Fatherland.
The unbroken link between generations is our immense national treasure and it is here that Russia’s strength and dignity lies. We thank our veterans. We are proud of you.
There is no one dearer and closer to us than you on this day. On this day we honour you with flowers, fireworks and military parades, but most important of all, we give you the warmth of our hearts.
You not only traversed the tumultuous war years with honour, but also rebuilt the country and worked for the common good, knew the meaning of friendship, knew how to find joy in life, and this is the lofty legacy you handed on to us – this summit of creation, unity, and love for our Motherland.
We will never let you down. We will look after Russia and its glorious history and will make service to our country the highest value, as it always was throughout our history. I am sure it will always be so in the future too.
Glory to the victorious people!
Happy holiday to everyone!
Happy Victory Day!
Hurrah!
See also
Reception in honour of Victory Day
May 8, 2014
Topics
Armed Forces
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 9, 2014, 11:00
Text versionEvents
Speech at naval parade
May 9, 2014
16:30
Sevastopol
Speech at naval parade.
See also
Celebrating Victory Day and the 70th anniversary of Sevastopol’s liberation
May 9, 2014
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: People of Crimea and Sevastopol, veterans, soldiers and sailors, sergeants and warrant officers, corporals and midshipmen, officers, generals and admirals,
I congratulate you from all my heart on Victory Day!
It is a great pleasure to be here in heroic Sevastopol on this sacred day and celebrate our country’s biggest holiday together with you. The deeds of the generation that vanquished Nazism will always stand as an example of courage, valour, unbending will and selfless service of the Motherland. 
Veterans, you set the example for us all, and you have made a tremendous moral contribution to the return of Crimea and Sevastopol to their native land. You have handed down to us the great values of unity, justice and togetherness and have taught us to act according to our conscience. The generations who grew up here in Crimea and Sevastopol have always made these values their base and always remained true to the memory of those who built and developed this region and this beautiful city and who at various times fought on this soil, fought in Russia’s defence. 
Today Sevastopol, the Russian Black Sea Fleet’s main base, is marking a double celebration. Exactly 70 years ago, the city was liberated from the Nazis. This liberation came after 250 days of bombing from the sea and air and a storm of flame from heavy artillery. Enduring thirst and hunger, the soldiers fought on their frontlines and the city residents battled in the factories for their native Sevastopol. 
Even when our forces temporarily left the city, Sevastopol did not surrender. The city’s defenders established a strong partisan movement and continued to fight. Sevastopol showed the whole world that when people are determined to fight for their native land, dignity and freedom, the enemy cannot pass.
This year is especially significant for this hero city. It is full of exceptional historic events. 230 years ago, in February 1784, the city was given its proud name by decree of Catherine the Great. In September, we will mark the 160th anniversary of Sevastopol’s heroic defence during the Crimean War.
I am sure that 2014 will also become part of the city’s chronicle and of that of our entire country, as the year in which the peoples here expressed their firm desire to be together with Russia. In this decision they have shown that they remain true to the historic truth and our forefathers’ memory.
We have many difficulties ahead, but we will overcome these difficulties because we are together, and this makes us even stronger.
Happy Victory Day! Congratulations!
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 9, 2014, 16:30
Text versionEvents
Speech at gala concert to mark the 69th anniversary of Victory in the Great Patriotic War and 70th anniversary of the liberation of Sevastopol from Nazis
May 9, 2014
19:15
Sevastopol
Gala concert to mark the 69th anniversary of Victory in the Great Patriotic War and 70th anniversary of the liberation of Sevastopol from Nazis.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends, residents of Sevastopol and Crimea,
Happy Victory Day!
This year, the celebration is special: it marks exactly 70 years since Crimea was liberated from Nazi invaders. And we are holding the celebration during an absolutely historical event: the reunification of Crimea and Sevastopol with Russia.
We are proud of your courage and bravery, and we respect the way you have kept your love of the Fatherland through the years and generations. And now, the Fatherland is embracing you once again as family, as daughters and sons.
We have great respect for all nations and all peoples. We respect their lawful rights and interests, but we ask for others to have the same respect for our lawful interests, including the restoration of historic justice and the right to self-determination.
Friends, we have done a great deal, but even more remains to be done. During non-celebratory, work days, we will need to revive the economy, improve people’s living standards, and do a great deal of other useful and necessary things. This is a difficult challenge, but I am sure we will do all this, because we are together.
My friends, I embrace you. Happy Victory Day!
See also
Celebrating Victory Day and the 70th anniversary of Sevastopol’s liberation
May 9, 2014
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 9, 2014, 19:15
Text version