We will look at several issues today. We will hear from Minister of Construction and Housing and Utilities Mikhail Men on the priorities for carrying out housing programmes. As you know, this was something we examined in considerable detail at the last State Council meeting.
I would also like Finance Minister Anton Siluanov to brief us on preparations for executing the 2014–2016 budget. I know the Ministry has worked hard to get a solid budget ready on time, but we also know the problems, namely that financing either arrives too late, or ministries and agencies delay things, to put it mildly, instead of getting on with implementing the plans they themselves fought for and defended during the difficult and involved Government discussions. They defend their priorities and then we discover later that they are ready to carry out the actual work only in the second half of the year, or not even until October or November. This practice must end.
In this respect, I would also like to hear from Mr Ulyukayev [Economic Development Minister] on the measures for making budget investment produce greater results. Of course, budget investment is not a cure-all for every economic woe, but we do have 6–7 trillion roubles in investment, and this has a big impact on the economy in general. Therefore, given that we are now transitioning to a new way of working in this area – the federal contract system – I would like to hear today about how prepared the Ministry is for this work.
I did not get the chance to talk with everyone during that New Year meeting, but the overall range of problems is clear. I therefore want to ask Mr Trutnev [Deputy Prime Minister and Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoy to the Far Eastern Federal District] to give us more details on this matter. I want to say right away however that we have come to a preliminary agreement that all of the housing would be built by no later than September this year, and the Government and the regional authorities must make a combined effort to ensure that this is done.
That is what I wanted to say for now. But since we are looking at the Far East, I want to ask the Transport Minister, Mr Sokolov, to speak. You know that one of the problems in that region concerns transport. Many people cannot afford not only to travel from the Far East regions to European Russia, but cannot even travel between towns in the Far East itself. I know that the Government has decided to make changes to the subsidy procedures. I would like to hear about what these changes involve and what the first results are so far. 