Events
President’s prizes for young culture professionals and for writing and art for children awarded
A ceremony awarding the 2013 President’s Prize for young culture professionals and the 2013 President’s prize for writing and art for children and young people took place in the Kremlin.
March 25, 2014
14:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 8
Ceremony awarding the 2013 President's Prize for young culture professionals and President's prize for writing and art for children and young people.
See also
Winners of the 2013 President’s Prize for Young Culture Professionals
March 25, 2014
Winners of the 2013 President’s Prize for literature and art for children and young people
March 25, 2014
Vladimir Putin awarded the President’s Prize for young culture professionals and the President’s prize for writing and art for children and young people. The latter was introduced last December and is being awarded for the first time.
The winners of the 2013 President’s Prize for young culture professionals are:
Anna Aglatova, singer – for her contribution to developing national musical art;
Anton Ivanov, deputy chairman of the council of St Petersburg city branch of the National public organisation Russian Society for the Preservation of Historical and Cultural Monuments – for his input into the preservation and restoration of historical and cultural monuments;
Pavel Matviyets, director of the Lipetsk Regional Art Museum – for his contribution to the development of national museums.
The first winners of the President’s prize for writing and art for children and young people are:
Vladislav Krapivin, writer – for his input into Russian literature for children and for instilling patriotism among the younger generation;
Eduard Nazarov, an animation director – for his input into the development of animated films;
Alexander Traugot, artist – for his input into the development of the art of children’s and young people’s book illustration.
* * *
Speech at ceremony awarding the President’s Prize for young culture professionals and the President’s prize for writing and art for children and young people
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends, prize winners,
I would like to begin by congratulating all culture professionals on their professional holiday: people of the arts and literature, those working in museums, libraries, city and village clubs. All of you give your energy, knowledge, time and talent to your profession, to your calling.
This year, which has been declared the Year of Culture in Russia, you obviously have more work and new targets. We are holding new events related to exhibitions and promoting our cultural values. There are quite a few such events held nationwide.
It is very important today to create conditions for unlocking the Russian culture’s enormous potential and to more efficiently and fruitfully resolve issues in this area. Cultural facilities should become more accessible, so that Russian citizens can see the results of our joint efforts.
We need to create such cultural environment and such values in Russian society that would rest on our history and traditions, unite time and generations, and help consolidate the nation. Moreover, they should definitely open up opportunities for the creation of a new modern cultural environment where the individual can live, develop and realise one’s potential. Moreover, we have been and remain a part of world culture.
It is exactly such an individual, a citizen of this country with a constructive potential, who can think creatively that is the main target of the national cultural policy. These goals are not designed for one year. We need to move forward and act to maintain the priority of culture in all spheres of social development.
I am speaking of culture in its broadest sense: from high art and creativity to the culture of everyday life and human relations. This is why we are now drafting a very important document that we have already discussed with some of our colleagues, the Basic Principles of State Policy in Culture.
Taking part in drafting and discussing this document are culture, the arts and literature professionals, representative of educational and business community, of various parties and public organisations. This should become a document of broad public appeal because culture belongs to the entire nation and to every person; it is created through the work, inspiration, intellect and creative search of various people. It is these very people, talented and concerned that I see here in this hall.
Friends,
For the first time the President’s prizes will be awarded today to those who create for children and young people. This award is a sign of the recognition of their significant input into the civic, spiritual and esthetic education of the younger generation.
Among the winners is a well-known artist from St Petersburg Alexander Traugot. A member of a talented dynasty of masters of book graphics, he illustrated over 200 works of Russian and world classical literature. 
Our beloved city of St Petersburg occupies a special place in the works of Mr Traugot. Even having survived the blockade of the city [during WWII], he retained a romantic outlook. All his works dedicated to St Petersburg are filled with admiration, memory and historical truth.
Literature for children should inspire these very feelings of love for one’s family, one’s age mates, one’s land and greater Motherland; it should help raise true citizens and develop their mind and their emotions.
The duty of the older generation here is to influence the development of a child’s world view and character with patience and creativity. This is exactly how writer Vladislav Krapivin approaches his work. He authored over 350 works of literature. The most popular ones, loved by children and adults alike, have been adapted for the screen. A very active and energetic person, Mr Krapivin organised the Caravella children’s group, where thousands of boys and girls received a patriotic education, learned about friendship and mutual support in the 53 years of its existence.
Eduard Nazarov, an outstanding animation, production and art director and scriptwriter, was awarded the prize for his contribution to the development of animated films. He has created a whole world of characters, loved by many generations of viewers of all ages. His films are unique works of art that promote happiness and joy, optimism and humour, and, importantly, a simple wisdom that even a child can comprehend. A renowned master, Mr Nazarov established a school, whose graduates form the vanguard of national animated filmmaking.
Friends,
It has become a tradition to award prizes to young culture professionals on their professional holiday. Today’s winners represent various artistic and cultural professions.
Anna Aglatova is one of the youngest soloists of the Bolshoi Theatre of Russia. Winner of a number of international competitions, she is a worthy representative of the Russian school of singing, frequently gives concerts and is actively involved in charity activities.
Famous restorer Anton Ivanov, deputy chairman of the council of the St Petersburg city branch of the National Society for the Preservation of Historical and Cultural Monuments is a true enthusiast. As a student, he was actively involved in efforts to restore the Constantine Palace and Peterhof and now heads his own restoration company, holds festivals of amateur films dedicated to Russia’s cultural heritage, and promotes the educational activities for connoisseurs of St Petersburg’s cultural heritage.
The number of such responsible young people, who are not indifferent to the future of national culture, who wish to retain its outstanding traditions, is growing in this country.
Pavel Matviyets is the Director of the Lipetsk Regional Art Museum. Only a few years ago this was a picture gallery, while now, due to the enthusiasm of Mr Matviyets the museum has turned into a cultural and archival centre of the region. The museum is actively reviving the tradition of contacts among various museums in the region and the whole country and has numerous publications.
I would like to thank all the winners for their work and for their ability to make our world kinder and better. I congratulate you from all my heart and wish you every success.
Thank you very much.
<…>
Friends, prize winners, my congratulations once again!
In my line of duty, I meet with all sorts of people, primarily government officials, the military, diplomats and parliamentarians. They are all very interesting and well-educated people.
Even such a short meeting as this one is very important for me personally – as if I have been to a lecture, or read a good book. I am grateful to you for this. Besides, I would like to thank you on behalf of your readers, viewers, your public, and I am certain that you will do even more for this country and its people.
Thank you very much.
Topics
Culture
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 25, 2014, 14:00
Text version