1 of 3
Meeting with members of the Russian Direct Investment Fund international expert council and international investors.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: God afternoon, friends. I am very happy to see you.
We regularly meet with our colleagues, partners, investors, and we met here at the forum last year. I am very happy to see you again, to know that you are interested in developing our relations.
See also
All news about trip to St Petersburg
May 23 − 24, 2014
I am sure you have noticed the professionalism demonstrated by our Direct Investment Fund under the leadership of Mr Dmitriyev. It has already attracted over $10 billion, and we, in turn, are allocating funds for priority projects that are of interest to us.
We are now attracting funding from the National Welfare Fund for a number of promising projects, including high technology ones. I spoke about this at the plenary session today.
One such project is to bring high-speed internet to small and remote residential areas of Russia. Another one is to enhance the infrastructural capacity of our power grids. We have many other interesting areas of cooperation as well.
I will not make any lengthy speeches. Today we can speak informally of the issues you find worth discussing.
I would like to ask Mr Dmitriev to say a few words.
Russian Direct Invetsment Fund Ceo Kirill Dmitriev: Mr President, colleagues, thank you.
I wanted very briefly to tell you that here today we have heads of the world’s leading funds managing more than $3.6 trillion. This is a trillion more than we had last year.
Practically all the major sovereign funds of the world are represented here. I believe it is very significant that they believe in the prospects of the Russian economy and have come to Russia in these complicated geopolitical times.
The President has mentioned a number of deals. True, yesterday the RDIF Supervisory Board approved investment from the National Welfare Fund, and a number of our co-investors are taking part in these projects, which are of great significance for Russia.
In addition, this week we approved a deal to invest $700 million into the Sibur liquefied natural gas terminal, and investment into agriculture jointly with Arab, Chinese and European investors.
During the visit to China, we announced three new deals of the Russian-Chinese fund: investment into logistics, tourism and the construction of the first bridge between Russia and China. Thus, within only one week the Fund closed a series of very important deals.
Our rate of return is rather good: our first deals were the acquisition of a small stake in the Moscow Exchange, which brings in 20% annual interest, and a deal with Rostelecom, where we have made over 30%.With Prime Minister of Mongolia Norovyn Altankhuyag.
See also
All news about trip to St Petersburg
May 23 − 24, 2014
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: I met with the President of Mongolia while in Shanghai and we discussed our joint plans, big projects, and looked at the problems and prospects.
I am very happy that you have come to St Petersburg for the International Economic Forum, where we have the possibility of coming back to these problems and you will have the opportunity to discuss issues in more detail with your colleagues from the Russian Government. 
Prime Minister of Mongolia Norovyn Altankhuyag (retranslated): I am very pleased to have this chance to meet, Mr Putin.
First of all, I want to express our thanks to you for inviting us to take part in the St Petersburg International Economic Forum. The Forum is very interesting and productive. We think it is a big event in Russia’s economic life and in global economic life. 
Developing our traditionally friendly ties with the Russian Federation is one of Mongolia’s foreign policy priorities. We think we should put together a medium-term programme for developing the strategic partnership between Mongolia and Russia and in this way lay the foundation and draft the roadmap for taking our relations further. 
Our delegation has been taking part in the Forum and we have also had a number of bilateral meetings. We met this morning with Mr Yakunin [Russian Railways CEO] to discuss our bilateral issues in the railways sector. Later, we met with Russian representatives to discuss our joint ventures’ continued work. We met just recently with Mr Kiriyenko [CEO of Rosatom State Atomic Energy Corporation] and discussed issues related to uranium. We also met with Mr Sechin [Rosneft CEO] when he visited Mongolia.
<…>Events
St Petersburg International Economic Forum
Vladimir Putin took part in the plenary session of the 18th St Petersburg International Economic Forum. The Forum is taking place this year under the theme of Sustaining Confidence in a World Undergoing Transformation.
May 23, 2014
16:45
St Petersburg
The Forum, which has been an annual event since 1997, brings together heads of state and political leaders, Russian and foreign business leaders, members of the science and academic communities, the media and civil society representatives.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you to the International Economic Forum in St Petersburg.
I am pleased to welcome here today our traditional old friends and new guests too, the heads of major Russian and foreign companies, representatives of leading international business associations, everyone who has long-term, strategic priorities with Russia and who shares the idea of partnership in the interest of global development.
We value highly this desire for cooperation and dialogue. We value your independent and responsible position that is free from short-term considerations of the moment.
Consistency and openness are always met with reciprocal steps and mutual trust. Trust is above all about finding compromises, mutually acceptable solutions, and working and acting together. This idea is the main theme of this year’s Forum – Sustaining Confidence in a World Undergoing Transformation.
The world is indeed changing very fast. We are witnessing colossal geopolitical, technological and structural shifts. The unipolar model of a world order failed, and this is clear to everyone today, even to those who still try to operate within the familiar reference system, try to maintain their monopoly, dictate their rules in politics, trade, and finance, and impose their cultural and behavioural standards.
The global economic upheavals of 2008 were a vivid example of the profound crisis in a development model built on unification and domination, or attempts to dominate in any case. This should serve as a serious lesson to make us see and understand the world in all its diversity and make a sober assessment of the new reality and full complexity of relations as they are emerging today.
See also
Meeting with participants in the CEO Global Summit
May 23, 2014
But instead, we often come up against an unwillingness to listen to new global development leaders, take alternative points of view into account, and not just in word but in essence change the working principles of the key international financial institutions in accordance with the changing situation in the world. Reform of the IMF is at a standstill and the Doha round, which was supposed to set modern new and fair rules for world trade, is practically going nowhere. 
Ladies and gentlemen, this is an economic forum but there is no avoiding a few words on politics. Politics influences economic processes, and in this respect I note that inability to find compromises, unwillingness to take into account partners’ lawful interests, and blunt use of pressure only add to chaos and instability and create new risks for the international community’s continued development.
Does anyone gain from disruption to regular cooperation between Russia and the European Union? Does anyone gain from the seeing our joint work on important issues for everyone such as nuclear safety, fighting terrorism, trans-border crime and drug trafficking, and other priority issues come to a standstill? Will this make the world any more stable and predictable? Probably not.
Surely it is clear that in today’s interdependent world economic sanctions used as an instrument of political pressure have a boomerang effect that ultimately has consequences for business and the economy in the countries that impose them.
I understand very well the concerns of foreign businesspeople who have invested billions of dollars in Russia, earned an excellent reputation here and are doing successful business in our country. I understand the representatives of engineering and machine-building companies for which Russian contracts have become a big growth source, or the European tourism industry, which to a large extent has been focusing on Russian consumers.
And now, for the sake of a failing political course, successful businesses have to suffer losses and relinquish to competitors this huge market and the positions they had built up?
We cannot change the logic of global political and economic development. As I said, the world is multipolar. People want to decide their own futures and preserve their own cultural, historical and civilizational identity.
At the same time, the geo-economic map of the world is changing. New economic growth centres are emerging, new trade and investment routes are forming, new integration organisations are developing and strengthening, and there is greater demand for collective leadership that can draw up common decisions, not imposed by any one party, but decisions reached through consensus and agreement. 
The desire of many major economies and regional associations to expand interaction and establish new cooperation ties, including within BRICS, the G20 and the SCO, is also there for everyone to see.
Russia and its neighbours are implementing a large-scale Eurasian integration project. The focal event for the member states of the Customs Union and the Common Economic Space this year will certainly be the signing of the Treaty on the Creation of the Eurasian Economic Union in Astana on May 29.
The treaty will take force on January 1, 2015. The goal is to create a common market between three countries with a total population of over 170 million, with free movement of capital, goods, services and labour.
Conditions will be greatly improved for business, for joint investment and cooperation projects, and for a coordinated macroeconomic policy and operation in foreign markets.
Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen,
I am sure that our foreign partners will find it easier to work in our common market, in particular, because this integration model is based on WTO principles.
We hope that, given the cooperation of our partners, we will complete the involvement of Armenia in this integration association soon. We are also working on the integration of Kyrgyzstan. We believe that there is a good outlook for cooperation between the Eurasian Economic Union and the EU. Until recently, our colleagues refused to deal with the Customs Union, arguing that the EU is ready to cooperate with each individual member state but not with their association. This is strange logic, because we are willing to work, and we are working with individual EU countries and with the EU as an association. I don’t understand why our approaches should be different.
I’m happy to see many businesspeople from Europe in this hall who are willing to work with Russia. I’d like to emphasise that we value this pragmatic and mature approach on the part of European business leaders.
Europe has traditionally been Russia’s major trade and economic partner. We sincerely hope that it will remain so in the future, with new opportunities emerging for business cooperation and the removal of obstacles to trade and investment.
This is why we are urging the EU and European countries to work consistently towards a new basic partnership and cooperation agreement between Russia and the EU. We believe that this document should include a large and maximally concrete chapter on trade and economic relations.
Of course, we should also strengthen stability and ensure predictability in such strategic sphere as energy security. Russia has always been proud of its reputation as Europe’s reliable energy supplier. Current gas supply risks, which we can see, cannot be blamed on Russia. Everyone here knows that the blame rests with the transit country, Ukraine, which is abusing its status as the transit country for Russian gas supplies to Europe.
This is a paradoxical situation. Ukraine says it recognises the provisions of the gas contract signed in 2009. By the way, that contract was signed by people who still hold the same positions in the Ukrainian government. After signing that contract, Ukraine honoured it for a few years, but now it has refused to pay and demands a discount that is not stipulated in the contract. They cite a difficult economic situation. We are aware of this. Moreover, we are acting like good partners, offering help. You know that last year we issued a huge loan to Ukraine, $3 billion, and also a discount for the first quarter of this year on the condition – I want to emphasise this – that Ukraine will repay all its debts and provide current payments.
Ukraine has not repaid its debts, which have grown, and has stopped making current payments, even with a discount. I say again – they aren't even paying the discount price.
So, the question is: Where is our money? How was the multibillion aid spent?
Since the conditions were not met, Gazprom reverted to the full-payment system as stipulated by the contract, so this is nothing new. We did everything according to the agreements reached when the aid and discounts were provided.
Yes, there are problems, but I believe that they are solvable. All we need is a constructive dialogue. This was my vision that I presented in my address to European leaders.
Unfortunately, we have not received a clear response so far. However, we expect an adequate and balanced reaction from our counterparts, which would line up with our common interests – the interests of Russia, Ukraine and European countries.
Businesspeople make up nearly 100 percent of the audience here. You know, I’m not talking about the debt (which has grown to $3.5 billion by now). But, in fact, we have provided Ukraine with almost 10 billion cubic metres of gas free of charge. This is our annual supply to Poland. How many of you would deliver the same amount of goods for the same amount of time for no money? It is ridiculous. There must be boundaries that we just can’t cross. I will repeat once again: I hope that we can reach an agreement on friendly terms as neighbours. They want discounts. We ask them to repay the debt at least for the discount period. But they refuse to repay even this amount. What are we supposed to do?
At the same time, we intend to expand the horizons of our development and open new promising markets. This concerns energy, investment, industrial collaboration and non-energy exports.
For Russia, as a Eurasian country, it is natural to be highly interested in the Asia-Pacific region. It is both a huge market and an important source of growth for Russia’s Far East and Eastern Siberia.
Just the other day, top-level talks between Russia and China ended. We kicked off a new stage of our comprehensive partnership and strategic collaboration. Our economic relations are also moving forward. In the course of my visit, we signed over 50 agreements concerning both our governments and businesses. Their total value is in the tens of billions of dollars.
By 2020, we plan to double our mutual sales turnover and reach $200 billion. Currently, in the country ranking, China is our top economic partner with a turnover of around $90 billion.
We intend to gradually increase the share of settlements in our national currencies, rubles and yuans, and to form integrated investment and banking institutions. Such a network would provide funding to major global projects in infrastructure, mineral deposit production and processing, machine and aircraft engineering, and knowledge-intensive production. We are also moving towards building a strategic Russian-Chinese energy alliance that would serve as the main framework for guaranteeing the energy security of the entire Asia-Pacific region.
We understand pretty well that this economic partnership could be a powerful incentive to the development of both countries. Taking into account the scale of the Russian and Chinese economies, this could also be a significant factor of global growth.
Let me stress that during my visit to China we agreed on natural gas supplies from Russia for an impressive $400 billion. We calculated the gas price according to a standard formula that is based on the market price of oil and petrochemicals.
Two newly discovered gas fields, Kovykta and Chayanda in eastern Russia, will provide resource potential for these supplies. The confirmed extractable reserves of each of these fields are 1.5 trillion cubic metres of gas, which is 3 trillion in total. We agreed on supplies for 30 years but, in fact, there is enough gas for 50 years. We will also be able to improve the provision of gas supply in Russia, of course.
It is not final, but over four to six years Russia will invest some $55 billion. We will build helium-processing plants and plants for the chemical utilisation of natural gas. We will also build new infrastructure – not only gas, but also road and energy facilities. We plan to create thousands of modern, technology-intensive jobs. Colleagues, I would like to stress that this will be the largest construction project in the world – no exaggeration. China, on its part, plans to invest $20-$22 billion in their infrastructure.
The mining and metals industry – such as pipe production – will also receive a new impetus as will the domestic provision of gas supply, which is very important to us. It is a chain. Pipes are required for building gas facilities. Pipe production will support the metals industry, while metal production serves as a stimulus for miners.
The next stage would be our collaborative work on the western corridor of supplies with Chinese partners. These are supplies from the reserves of Western Siberia. As a result, we will have an opportunity to connect eastern and western gas infrastructure.
In the country ranking, China, along with Germany, is becoming a major consumer of Russia’s natural gas. Once the western corridor project is realised, China will surely become our number one consumer. I know that one of our Chinese colleagues’ motives is environmental improvement in big cities. We know well that using gas in big cities is environmentally much more beneficial.
Ladies and gentlemen,
Russia is changing. The quality of life is improving. Things are getting better, from social issues to healthcare and education. Just now, at a meeting with leaders of global businesses, we discussed some of the problems. Our colleagues pointed out that in the modern world, things like education and healthcare are important aspects of productivity and efficiency. I will remind you that experts and business analysts that assessed the long-term prospects of our economy, including our labour market, argued not long ago that the negative demographic trends in Russia would only get worse, resulting in serious problems. So what have we achieved?
Despite existing challenges, we have the figures to prove that Russia managed to overcome this problem, to make progress in resolving this historical challenge and ultimately to find a way out of the demographic trap, as experts called it.
Last year, for the first time since 1991, there was natural population growth in Russia. The increase is small so far, but we can see a positive trend. For the first time, the average life expectancy in our country reached 71 years. True, it is not the best figure in Europe, but it is a positive development.
Mortality is gradually decreasing, including cardiovascular mortality. I’d like to stress that we currently have the lowest maternal mortality rate in the entire history of our country, including the entire Soviet period and modern Russia.
We have reached a qualitatively new level on many living standards – for example, average income. These demographic and social development changes were achieved in a very short period, while many other countries take decades.
We know that there are still many unresolved issues. The economic situation, for example, is ambiguous.
Of course, we can show results. I’ll give you a few examples. Last year, over 70 million square metres of housing were built in Russia, which is the highest figure for the past two decades. The construction industry, as we all know, is the driving force in any economy.
And the Russian construction industry continues to demonstrate pretty good results. As of the end of February 2014, some 8.7 million square metres of housing were commissioned, which is 33% higher year-on-year.
Growth in the consumer market has been good, up 3.2% since the beginning of the year.
Many industries, including non-energy ones, have attracted sizable investments. For example, last year, investment in vehicle production grew by 26.6%, while machinery and equipment production received 21.6% more investments, and electrical equipment — 17.2% more investments.
In 2013, Russia received almost $64 billion in direct investments, or almost $80 billion if we count the Rosneft and TNK-BP deal, which speaks for itself. It is the best result over the past five years. Foreign rankings place Russia in the third place in the world in terms of direct foreign investment. The role of the Russian Direct Investment Fund in building strategic alliances with foreign investors should not go unnoticed.
Also, I would like to mention the growing volume and better quality and structure of Russian exports. For instance, last year, exports of Russia-produced machinery to the EU grew by over 20%. The absolute figure is still modest, but we can see a positive trend.
At the same time, economic growth slowed in Russia on the back of both external and, to be honest, domestic factors such as systemic imbalances, the build-up of economic inefficiencies and lopsided economic development.
This slowdown, with growth rates below global GDP growth, is a very serious issue for Russia. We must certainly confront this challenge.
We have outlined this course of action, this strategy, and some of these measures are already being implemented. Today, I will also announce a number of additional initiatives.
The gist and logic of our actions are to facilitate major breakthroughs in the national economy.
What is this all about?
The structure of exports must be completely and swiftly overhauled. Our goal is to ensure that annual growth of non-oil and gas exports exceeds 6 percent. To get there, we will introduce new tools for supporting Russia’s non-energy companies on global markets.
At the same time, we will be proactive in promoting import substitution in accordance with WTO rules and our commitments within the framework of the Eurasian Economic Union, which is currently being created. It goes without saying that we will promote import substitution only in promising segments where we can and should be competitive.
The next element is facilitating investment, above all in technological and industrial upgrades.
We intend to focus on modernising professional training and promoting quality growth on the labour market. By 2020, highly skilled workers should account for at least one third of the country’s workforce.
The National Council for Professional Qualifications has been established with input from Russian businesses. In the next two years, this council is expected to devise over 800 new professional standards in line with the needs of the present-day economy. Of this total, 400 standards are expected to be approved in 2014, which is a major effort. I would like to reiterate my call to our business colleagues not to slow down. These standards will be used to prepare new professional training programmes and qualification requirements.
Professional standards will be mandatory for state agencies and state-owned companies. The Government has already drafted amendments to the Labour Code to this effect and is expected to submit them to the State Duma by June 1, 2014.
We will soon hold a special meeting with Government Cabinet members to discuss the important issue of improving labour mobility so that people can move to another place to take up a job, including help with renting an apartment.
This is a matter of principle, and without addressing it we will hardly see any state-of-the-art production facilities emerge in the near future in new industrial zones and promising regions.
Now I’d like to speak in more detail about our measures to improve the business climate and encourage investment. We’ve already made substantial progress in simplifying the registration of property and companies as well as customs and taxation procedures. The Government has established an exhaustive list of permits for construction and considerably reduced the number of approvals. Although there are still many problems in this area, and those involved in construction know all about it, progress has still been made.
All in all, the roadmaps on the National Business Initiative (NBI) provided for the elaboration of about 160 draft laws aimed at improving Russia’s business climate. The plan was for these drafts to be adopted before 2018.
Then we adjusted the schedule and set the task of completing this work before the end of 2015, although I think even this substantial change is plainly inadequate. An investor shouldn’t have to wait and needs the best business conditions now, not sometime in the future. Given the need for higher growth, I believe it is necessary to submit to the State Duma the whole package before the year expires, and I will ask MPs to review them as soon as possible.
Improvement of the business climate directly depends on the regions and municipalities where investors take their projects. The introduction of regional business standards has already improved law-enforcement practice and largely changed the motivation of regional management teams by orienting them towards dialogue with business.
Now we’ll take yet another step forward by launching national ratings of the investment climate in the regions. In effect, this is a mechanism for assessing the NBI’s implementation and standards in every region based on the opinion of the entrepreneurs working there. But national ratings are not just an evaluation system; they should become an effective instrument for making systemic changes at both the federal and regional level and for promoting the best managerial practices.
The results of the first pilot ratings in which 21 regions took part have just been released to the public (I think you know this already). I’d like to congratulate the winners – the Kaluga, Ulyanovsk and Kostroma regions, the Republic of Tatarstan and the Krasnoyarsk Territory.
Starting next year, all regions will take part in these ratings, which will give us an overall picture of the business climate at the regional level.
At the same time, I think it is necessary to develop measures to encourage the regions to improve the investment climate, and I’d like to ask the Government to offer relevant proposals.
Friends,
The experience of our leading regions shows that competent work with investors and support for industrial and high-tech projects has allowed them not only to ensure high growth rates but also to substantially upgrade their production base and enhance labour productivity. In the last few years our carmakers, food industry and metallurgy have been considerably modernised.
Large amounts are currently being invested to re-equip the defence industry, which is producing not only military hardware but also a big range of civilian products. We do understand that even major projects won’t lead to consistently high growth rates. Russia needs a genuine technological revolution, serious technological modernisation. We must carry out the largest technological upgrade of our enterprises in the past half century.
What are we going to do to make this happen? First, we’ll expand access to cheap investment resources. This is easier said than done, but it is still one of our main goals. To achieve this we’ll actively introduce the mechanism of project financing, first of all in industry. It will allow us to grant investors long-term loans on easy and flexible terms. The final cost of such loans should not be above the inflation rate plus one percent. The Government and the Central Bank know about this and have received instructions. They should submit relevant proposals in the next few days.
All legal acts required to launch project financing should be adopted before the end of this year.
Second, it is essential to create convenient conditions for opening new businesses, those that start from scratch on new sites. These so-called greenfields will enjoy tax breaks based on their total capital investment. The math is simple – there are no shortfalls in budget revenues, since the enterprises do not yet exist, but when they mature and start working in real earnest, the tax base will expand and new jobs will appear.
Third, the capitalisation of systemically important Russian banking and financial institutions will be increased, partly by converting subordinated loans into preferred shares. This will allow banks to grant more loans and reduce interest.
Fourth, the procedures for selecting investment projects and granting state guarantees will be substantially simplified and the time for relevant decision-making reduced.
Fifth, I’ve already spoken today about import substitution. I’m confident that by upgrading industry, building new enterprises and localising competitive production in Russia we’ll be able to considerably reduce imports of many goods and return our market to our national producers. I’d like to emphasise that we’ll do this without violating standards of international trade or imposing any restrictions or barriers. I’m referring to software, radio-electronic equipment, the textile industry and, of course, food industry.
I believe it’s necessary to promptly analyse opportunities for competitive import substitution in industry and agriculture. By next autumn, we will be able to see which goods can be purchased for government and public purposes solely or preferably from Russian producers and companies from the Customs Union member states. When I say “Russian producers” I also mean companies with foreign participation but operating in Russia and in compliance with Russian laws.
We will develop a whole set of measures to support domestic companies that can make competitive products. One of the measures is to establish a special fund for the development of Russian industry.
Sixth, we will develop a strategy to support companies that use the best available, environmentally friendly and safe technology. I also believe it is necessary to localise production of equipment in Russia based on the best existing technology. My task for the Government is to submit their proposals shortly.
Seventh, we must make sure that the outdated equipment and so-called “dirty” technologies are retired. We have to make it economically imprudent and unprofitable to use them.
In 2015, we will re-evaluate all production facilities. Also in 2015 and 2016, we will assess workplaces at industrial enterprises, transportation and communications companies. The purpose is to identify facilities that use outdated equipment, have dangerous or unsafe working conditions, or pose potential environmental hazards and risks. We will impose additional taxes on outdated production facilities. Even though this is a difficult and unpleasant measure, it has to be done. Another task for the Government is to develop resolutions on financial incentives for production upgrades by the end of the year.
We will also accelerate the introduction of modern environmental standards that will directly influence and motivate companies to adopt modern eco-friendly technology.
Eighth, all the measures aimed at providing a technological upgrade to the economy must be fully funded. I am requesting that the Government allocate the necessary resources when drafting the federal budget for 2015 and the 2016–2017 planning period. This work must start well in advance, even now, because we have already begun the budgeting process.
Next, infrastructure and, in particular, lifting infrastructure restrictions for regions and entire industries is our biggest priority. As you remember, at the previous forum we declared our intention to invest some of the money from the National Welfare Fund in infrastructure projects that also involve private investments and resources.
Reconstruction of the Baikal-Amur Mainline and the Trans-Siberian Railway will begin this summer as well as construction of the first leg of the Central Ring Road that will run through the Moscow Region and the newly incorporated areas of Moscow.
Both projects underwent a public technology and pricing audit that involved leading global experts. They will require massive investments and are potentially huge construction projects. Currently, the railway carries around 58 million tonnes of mineral resources a year from the major fields of the eastern range. Experts estimate that this amount will double once the capacities of the Baikal-Amur Mainline and the Trans-Siberian Railway have been enlarged. This project will receive around $16.5 billion.
The first section of the new ring road, the Central Ring Road around Moscow, will be around 50 kilometres long. The total length will be around 340 km. This project will cost some $9 billion.
We plan to significantly increase the scope of work in energy, railway, car and telecommunications infrastructure. Our immediate goal is to double the construction and upgrading of federal and regional motorways. I would like to remind the Government of the need to keep to this goal, which could require public-private partnership and extra-budgetary investments in infrastructure.
Our country has repeatedly demonstrated its ability to tackle large-scale projects. Successful initiatives have inspired the nation to work even harder. We are now united by an ambition to build a dynamic, prosperous and wealthy country that is respected in the world and open to an equal and constructive dialogue.
The Russia that we dream of is being created right in front of our eyes. I believe that the civic energy and solidarity inspired by a shared goal will help us solve the tasks we’ve set for ourselves. We will surely accomplish what we have set out to do. We value partnership and sincere friendship. We are willing to collaborate and continue working together.
Thank you very much.
Cnbc Anchor Geoff Cutmore: Mr President, thank you very much for your address, and I think there was a lot in there that we can come back to on the economy. But I think it would be useful at this point for me to ask you a few questions about Ukraine.
Obviously, Ukraine is going into presidential elections at the weekend. An awful lot has been written and an awful lot has been said about your position on Ukraine, but let's be honest, most of it not by you. A lot of those who have written have said you are nostalgic for a Russia of the past. President Obama said you are on the wrong side of history. Those who have written and spoken widely talk about you rebuilding the past and wanting to create a buffer state between NATO and the EU, and yourself.
Can I ask you, what has motivated your actions through this crisis?
Vladimir Putin: I was expecting us to focus on economic issues, but let's talk about this as well, if that′s what you want.
Here′s what happened. I’ll break it down for you briefly.
Ukraine was supposed to sign an association agreement with the EU. Using absolutely modern diplomatic tools, we proved that the proposed document is at least inconsistent with Russian interests since the Russian and the Ukrainian economies are closely intertwined. We have 245 Ukrainian enterprises working for us in the defence industry alone.
Imagine that we stop taking products from them tomorrow. What will happen to their enterprises? Most of them will just stop working. You can′t buy Mi-8 engines in the West. They just don′t make them there. Or, similarly, you won′t be buying engines for vessels, as they are not used in the Western industry. On top of this, it′s next to impossible to make it into the Western market. You know it and I know it. There are many other elements, so I won′t take your time listing them. We used our numbers to prove that this document will cause a lot of damage. We proposed – I want to emphasise this and I want you to hear me – holding a discussion with us on these issues and trying to find solutions in an absolutely civil manner.
What did we get in response?
They told us to mind our own business. Excuse me, I don′t want to hurt anyone′s feelings, but it′s been a while since I heard anything that snobbish. They just slammed the door in our face telling us to mind our own business.
Well, then, if it is none of our business, we tried to convince our Ukrainian partners to take a look at the possible outcome. President Yanukovych decided to postpone the signing and hold additional talks. What came next? A coup d’état. No matter what you choose to call it, a revolution or something else. It’s a coup d’état with the use of violence and militant forces. Who′s on whose side now? Who is using which tools from the past or the future?
It′s imperative to be very careful with regard to public institutions of emerging nations because if you are not things may slide into chaos, which is exactly what happened in Ukraine. The civil war and chaos are there already. Who benefits from it? Why would they do it, if Yanukovych agreed to everything? They had to go to the voting stations instead, and the same people would be in power now, only legally. We, like idiots, would be paying them the $15 billion that we promised, keeping gas prices low for them and continuing to subsidise their economy…
Let's face it. We are all adults here, right? Intelligent and educated people. The West supported the unconstitutional coup d’état. It did in fact, didn′t it? Not only by way of the infamous cakes, but through informational and political support and what not. Why did it do so?
All right. And now you think that it′s all our fault? We proposed a dialogue and were denied it. What's next? The last time I was in Brussels we agreed to keep this dialogue alive. That was before the coup. Mr Ulyukayev (he is sitting there across from me), a man of respect, speaks decent English, has absolutely market-driven brains, one of our top specialists in the economy, went for consultations. Ask him about it after the session is over. I won′t dwell on it now. But there were no consultations. Nothing but slogans.
What's next? They made a coup and don′t want to speak with us. What are we supposed to think? The next step will take Ukraine into NATO. They never ask us about our opinion, and we have found out over the past two decades that there′s never any dialogue on this issue. All that they ever tell us is, ″It′s none of your business, none of your concern.″ We tell them, ″A military infrastructure is approaching our borders.″ ″Don′t worry, it's not aimed against you.″ So, tomorrow Ukraine may end up being a NATO member, and the next thing you know, it will have a US missile defence complex stationed on its territory. No one ever talks to us on this subject, either. They just tell us, ″It′s not against you, and it′s none of your concern.″ You see, we are tired of this kind of discussions where nothing gets discussed. We start having concerns regarding economic and security issues. What are we supposed to do in this situation?
The people in southeastern Ukraine, including Crimea, were scared by such developments, and Crimean residents expressed the desire to hold a referendum on possible accession to Russia. What have we done in this situation? We have just secured their freedom of expression. And I′m here to guarantee you (this time, I believe, you will agree with me, and the vast majority of the people in this auditorium will agree as well, and people all over the world understand what it′s all about, there are no fools, actually) that if we did not do what we did in Crimea, Crimea would have it much worse than Odessa where people were burned alive. And there are no explanations, no real condemnations by anyone. It′s still not even clear who did it, I mean the tragedy in Odessa. Now you tell me: who is acting in the old way, and who is acting based on current realities?...
Geoff Cutmore: Mr President, I think we've all been astonished at how quickly relations between apparent former friends have broken down as this crisis has escalated. There is an opportunity here for statesmanship. There is an opportunity for you to step up and say something. Is there something you can do at this stage, or at this point, to encourage pro-Russian groups in Ukraine now to reduce the level of tension and the violence, to allow the democratic process to go ahead on Sunday, and perhaps come back to a settlement or a resolution that would be acceptable to you?
Vladimir Putin: You know, we believe, have always believed, and I′m absolutely convinced that all conflicts (we have said this many times and keep repeating this formula) end with negotiations, and the sooner they start, the better. Thus, we always encouraged opposing sides to start direct contacts soon. The first contacts took place, including with our direct participation. Unfortunately, the situation is further exacerbated by the fact that the Kiev authorities continue their punitive operation in southeastern Ukraine. The fighting is still on. Look, they are already using artillery, armoured vehicles, and tanks. Shells hit houses and kill peaceful people, people without weapons in their hands. Of course, we hope that these direct contacts will bring positive results. I'm counting on it.
But, without a doubt, the violence must be stopped no matter where it comes from before such results can be achieved.
Geoff Cutmore: You have said we are a room full of adults, so let's have an adult conversation. President Obama has accused you, as you know, of untruths when it comes to supporting some of the separatist groups in Ukraine…
Vladimir Putin: Who made him a judge? He′s not a judge. Why doesn′t he get a job in the judicial system then and work there?
I think that your wording was a bit off. I don′t think Mr Obama is accusing me of anything. He has his own perspective on certain processes, I have mine.
So what exactly you are interested in regarding his stance?
Geoff Cutmore: President Putin, you appear to now accept that the election will take place on Sunday – at least, this is what I read, but as I said to you at the beginning, I read an awful lot about what you think, but I don't hear it from you necessarily directly. Can I ask you, just to put this on the record for your audience here: Do you accept the legitimacy of the election that is going to take place on Sunday in Ukraine?
Vladimir Putin: There you go again! Time and again. Who found this guy and brought him here? You know, we realise that people in Ukraine want their country to get this drawn-out crisis over and done with, and, without any doubt, we will respect the choice of the Ukrainian people. Of course, we will keep track of the events.
You know, it would be much wiser to do as President Yanukovych and the opposition agreed in Kiev on February 21. They agreed to hold a referendum, to adopt a new constitution and, based on the new constitution, to form administrative and public bodies of authority, including a parliament and president. Presidential elections will be held in Ukraine soon. I′m not sure if you′re aware of it, but, strictly speaking, no presidential elections can be held under the current constitution, as President Yanukovych hasn′t left presidential office in a constitutional manner. There are only four ways to bring a president down under their constitution: death, and I believe that they wanted to destroy him; a disease that precludes him from performing his duties; impeachment (impeachment was not conducted in accordance with the constitution); and personal resignation, which the president must submit to parliament in person. None of this has been done, and, strictly speaking, he′s still president under the constitution.
Why create new problems that may lead some to think that future elections in Ukraine are illegitimate? Wouldn′t it be easier to hold a referendum, ensure human rights in the east and south of Ukraine, explain how these rights will be guaranteed, enshrine it in the constitution, hold elections and feel good and confident about themselves with the mandate to rule the country issued by the nation? But those who are in power in Kiev today have chosen a different path. I want to make it clear that we also want things to calm down eventually, and we will respect the choice of the Ukrainian people.
Geoff Cutmore: The frontrunner at the moment in the voting I'm told is Mr Poroshenko. He has told CNBC that he would happily engage with Russia if elected. Is he a man that you could do business with despite his desire for stronger ties to Western Europe?
Vladimir Putin: This is a business forum, right? Let’s not mince words. They owe us $3.5 billion. If they want better terms, they should first pay back the money. Only then we will start talking.
Geoff Cutmore: You'll forgive me, Mr President, if I have one more go on this before I move you on. I'm not quite clear whether I heard you say that you will accept and work with the outcome of the election.
Vladimir Putin: I told you. I’m not kidding or being ironic. We want peace and reconciliation in Ukraine. We want the country to finally overcome this crisis. We are sincerely interested, without any irony, in peace and order across our western borders in the fraternal nation of Ukraine. Even now, we are cooperating with the people holding power. We will by all means cooperate with the newly elected institutions after the election.
You know, just to be clear: I hope that after the election, all military action will immediately stop and be replaced with negotiations. Can you imagine us sitting around a table and talking while civilians are being attacked?
They must make at least some progress. You have heard about the arrests of journalists. They arrested our journalists and have been keeping them within those “Gestapo walls” for three days now. We don’t know what is happening with them now. All access to them is blocked. What kind of election rules do they have? We can see that it goes against all modern standards. Well, any election is better than nothing at this point.
Geoff Cutmore: Mr President, can I move you on to the international reaction? I think in 2009, we were all very excited to see the reset in relations with the United States. Today that reset lies in tatters. What went wrong?
Vladimir Putin: You know, it is the result of unilateral action. Some of the United States’ allies agree to play by the ′either you're with us or against us′ rule. First, the US goes ahead and does something and then uses these allies to create a coalition to put a good face on things. Russia doesn't work that way. Agreements must be made well in advance, in strict compliance with international law and with consideration for each other’s interests. Only in this case can we promise a reliable partnership.
Geoff Cutmore: So given the level of hostility at least that seems to be played out in the international media, is there a road back in the relationship with President Obama and this current administration?
Vladimir Putin: First, we did not ruin this relationship. Second, despite the tension and perhaps diametrically opposed approaches to some critical situations, we still continue this collaboration.
For example, our American partners announced they would suspend military cooperation. Really? And where exactly did we cooperate before? Well, maybe in anti-piracy patrols. We are ready to continue. Do you think nobody needs us? Of course, they need us.
The US is interested in continuing military transit to Afghanistan. They say they will suspend military cooperation but they did not suspend transit of their military cargo via our territory to Afghanistan and back because they can’t do without it.
By the way, we did not refuse to cooperate. We are still working together on the Iranian nuclear programme. Only recently, I met with the President of Iran in Beijing at a well-known international event. We spoke of the possibility of further joint action that would involve Iran but take into account the US approach to the Iranian nuclear issue.
Syria is another pressing and unresolved issue. We see this issue in a different light, but we still cooperate and we hope to find some points of contact here.
As I said in my speech earlier, nobody is forgetting about the counter-terrorism agenda we share. We continue to work on this. There are many overlapping areas of partnership beneficial for both the United States and Russia.
We are not going to isolate ourselves, but we can’t make people like us. Still, we hope that common sense and an understanding of their own interests will encourage our partners in Europe and the United States to continue working with Russia.
Geoff Cutmore: If I could just ask one more question on this situation now with Washington: Did President Obama misunderstand the depth of feeling in Russia about Ukraine and the situation there, or was the relationship already breaking down over things like the Snowden affair?
Vladimir Putin: Speaking of Snowden, I said it before many times. Technically, we have nothing to do with this. He happened to end up in Russia due, in my opinion, to the lack of professionalism of the US officials that tried to apprehend him. I know because I used to work for the security services.
Why did they have to scare the entire world? If they were willing to force planes with presidents on board to land, they could have forced the plane with Mr Snowden to land anywhere. They scared the whole world. The plane arrived in our transit area and then nobody wanted to accept it.
If the US security services had not scared everyone, the plane would have taken off and flown to any country. They would have forced it to land and Snowden would be sitting in a zindan or some other prison. But they scared everyone and he stayed in our transit area. What were we supposed to do? Russia is not a country that extradites fighters for human rights. (Applause)
Thank you for this response. It’s true, I’m not being ironic. Mr Snowden believes he is fighting for human rights and he has devoted his life to this. He is very young. I don’t know how he is going to live. I’m not kidding. How is he going to live? For now, he is in Russia. But then what? He chose this fate himself, you see? We only gave him asylum. He is not our agent. He did not give away any secrets, although the rascal really should have given us something – we gave him asylum after all. But he won’t tell us anything. He uses channels that only he knows of and makes statements when he thinks it’s necessary, and that’s it.
Returning to Ukraine, you know what the problem is? For us it is an issue of vital importance while the US only dealt with Ukraine only superficially. I was personally involved and many of the top officials present in this auditorium were personally involved, because it is vitally important to us. I don’t think it is for the States.
But in the long run, we should rebuild mutual trust and be attentive to each other’s interests. I’m not just saying that. You know it yourself if you specialise in international affairs. It is in the news every day. We constantly expressed concern over the enlargement of NATO but our concerns were ignored. They just said, “Every nation has the right to choose how best to protect itself.”
Of course, every nation has the right. Why don’t we have the right to evaluate events from the standpoint of our security? There are many ways to protect yourself. For example, the United States could have just signed a bilateral treaty on friendship and collaboration, including military collaboration. How is this treaty different from a country’s accession to NATO? There is no fundamental difference. The only responsibility they can impose on the alliance members is to contribute money to the joint military budget, which they don’t do anyway. Do you know that the spending of the alliance members is far less than that of the United States? The US always pushes them but with little success.
The same is happening with the missile defence system. They keep saying it is not directed against us.
President Medvedev, who did very much to advance relations with the United States (it was his initiative after all), said: “Well, let’s sign some document, even a trifling legal document saying this is not directed against us. Just write on this paper what you are saying verbally.” No, they refused pointblank. So, what kind of dialogue is that? Just generalities. If we have the guts to talk with each other openly and honestly and to consider each other’s lawful interests, our relations will certainly change for the better. But I’m an optimist and I’m still confident that the situation in Ukraine will settle down in some way and we’ll find the strength to normalise our relations.
Geoff Cutmore: Mr President, I'd like to move on to the economy, and I'd like to talk a bit about the business conditions in Russia, and how some of the sanctions that have been imposed from the West may be having an impact. And I'm pleased that we have with us a panel of international businesspeople who work very closely with Russian companies and have their own investments here. So I'd like to involve them, and I'd like them to feel comfortable also asking questions of you. Perhaps you can offer some guidance to them as to how they work here in Russia.
Last year, Angela Merkel sat on this stage with you. She appeared to be a bulwark against sanctions driven mainly from Washington, and yet ultimately, the sanctions were imposed. Today, many companies are wondering how they're going to get funding, what implications it has for the extension of credit from foreign banks. Can I just ask you very briefly, just to give us your thoughts on what the immediate impact has been so far of the sanctions that have taken place on the economy?
Vladimir Putin: I’ve expressed my view on what’s been happening in Ukraine. I think to a large extent responsibility for everything that took place there lies with our European and American partners. They supported this coup d’état and plunged the country into chaos, and now they want to shift the blame to us and make us clean up the mess they made. This is what the sanctions are for.
But for the time being all the sanctions target my friends, people who are close to me personally. These sanctions are designed to bust them, as our intellectuals say, to punish them for God knows what. If I were in such a position I would have taken the matter to court a long time ago because they have nothing to do with the events in Ukraine or Crimea. And whom have they selected? Two Jews and one Ukrainian, can you imagine? Are they kidding?
Yes, these people are my friends and I’m proud to have such friends. They are true patriots and their business is oriented towards Russia. Have these sanctions done damage to them? Yes, they have. If I’m being honest, they have. But they are seasoned entrepreneurs and brought all their money back to Russia, so don’t worry about them too much. But still, they have sustained some losses.
I think this is unfair and illegal, which is the main point, because sanctions may be imposed on a country only by decision of the UN Security Council and it has not taken any decisions on this score. In this context these sanctions are absolutely illegal and certainly deteriorate relations between our countries. We are being told now that there might be a third round of sanctions, and I have to wonder what for. 
Okay, our partners didn’t like something about how the crisis was unfolding, including Crimea, and so they imposed sanctions. Now we are being blamed for something else and told that second and third instalments will follow. I don’t quite understand – in connection with what? Quite recently there was an earthquake in Thailand that resulted in loss of life. Maybe we are to blame for that as well? Civil war is breaking out in Ukraine, but what do we have to do with it?
Understand that these are improper means and they are certainly destabilising our economic relations with the United States and Europe. While our trade with the United States is $27.8 billion, it is $440 billion with Europe. The difference is huge, as we can see. I even suspect that our American friends (and they are smart guys, aren’t they?) pushed for sanctions to gain some competitive advantages in trade and economic ties with Europe. I don’t see any other serious motives. I simply don’t understand this but hope that common sense will prevail and there will be no damage to our trade and economic ties. After all, we are doing everything we are supposed to do on our side.
Has there been real damage? There has. What damage has been done to the economy? Well, our companies no longer have access to resources they had before and some systemic things have deteriorated. But for the time being this is not having a serious, systemic negative influence on our economy, and I hope it won’t in the future.
Geoff Cutmore: If I could ask our panellists to join us in this conversation – Khaldoon, maybe I can start with you, from your perspective. You run effectively an investment business. What are the challenges now coming to the Russian market, not only because of some of the near-term sanction issues, but maybe some of the longer-term structural challenges as well?
CEO and Managing Director of Mubadala Development Company Pjsc Khaldoon Khalifa Al Mubarak: Well first of all, I'd like to thank President Putin for his kind invitation. It's a pleasure to be here. Thank you for organising this forum. It's really wonderful to be in St Petersburg in May.
Russia is a very important market. And for us, it is a market that is very promising. We look at markets around the world. We look at areas and countries where we can invest sustainably for the long run. Today, we have a focus on Russia. Why? Because we believe in the fundamentals here. We have a great partnership that we've established here in Russia through RDIF. Any country, any market we enter, we like to find partners that match our skill set, that match our view in terms of how to operate, how to run businesses, how to invest. And we found that in RDIF. We found an institution that has good governance, a good management team, a supervisory board, an advisory board that runs very well, a high level of professionalism. We found a set of partners from around the world, from China to Korea to Japan, Europe, the Middle East, that also share with us the same set of values. There is an integrity in the way this business is run, there's a belief in the opportunities in Russia. And more importantly, we invest together dollar for dollar. And that's a very important thing for an institution such as ourselves. We look at investments from a risk-adjusted perspective. We have a premise in terms of having downside protection, in terms of any investing we look at. These are all very attractive fundamentals for us, and accordingly, Russia and our partnership with RDIF present an attractive proposition to someone like Mubadala.
Geoff Cutmore: Can I – Shiv – bring you into this conversation? SUN Group has been in Russia, what, since 1958? It's a 112-year-old family business. You have assets in Russia at this moment. But the tightening in liquidity that we've seen partly as a result of sanctions, but partly also I think as a longer-term structural issue of funding through the banking system here. To what extent is that hindering your ability to expand your operations, or indeed, perhaps to sell assets that at this point in time don't fit your business mix?
Vice-chairman and CEO of Sun Group Shiv Vikram Khemka: Thank you. I'd also like to thank President Putin for having me here. It's wonderful to be in St Petersburg. I am proud to say, I was here for the first forum 18 years ago. It's really a wonderful thing to see how it's grown and developed into a major global platform for discussion about a global agenda.
In terms of our own business, we've been here since 1959. I moved to Russia to live here in 1990. My father sent me here. I spent 22 years here, I have many friends here, and I'm very pleased, I feel partly Russian. We have a business here, we've done various things over the years in various sectors. We have a mining business at the moment in Chita, in Chitinsky Oblast . Unfortunately the current tightening in the global markets means that any financing that was going to come in from the West, or from global investment sources, has taken a much more cautious approach – not because of sanctions, but because, I think, of the threat of sanctions. So there's a certain nervousness for people to enter this market. However I think there are institutions in Russia – Sberbank, VTB, VEB – great institutions that have been created in the last 15 years or so. And we believe that we will find solutions within the domestic context to continue with our financings and to continue to build a business.
Geoff Cutmore: Thank you. Fredrik, Telenor is investing in a telecom partnership effectively here. You have been, again, in Russia for many years. The company has a long experience of this marketplace. But again, I have to raise the question with you: If you were to put money today into Russia as a foreign businessman, to what extent would that threat of sanctions issue be a deterrent, or is it something else about the flow of capital out of the economy at the moment that would deter you? Or would indeed you feel happy to rush in?
President and CEO of Telenor Group Jon Fredrik Baksaas: Also from me, thank you for the opportunity, and also thank you for the frank speech from Mr Putin on this occasion. And there have been other occasions as well that there have been issues to address. But Telenor has a long-standing relationship to Russia, and we are neighbours in geography, so it came naturally when things started to happen here in the beginning of the 1990s. We did our first investment in 1992, and today we hold roughly a third, a little bit more, in VympelCom. And it's been a tremendous development in the economy over those 20 years-plus, no doubt about that.
But how do we move from here? And of course, without this experience right now, would we have done the same under these conditions? Maybe, because we are neighbours, but also maybe not, because of the underlying issues that were so well-described by my colleague. So I think it's a more difficult situation for newcomers. We are here, we have been here for many years, we are naturally taking business interest on how do we move from here. And my question to both the Government and President Putin would be elements to which you referred in your speech, namely, how to put the economy back in growth. How can the technology be used for that purpose? The digital economy is coming up at great speed. There are plenty of issues, but there are also plenty of potentials, both for reforms to the economy, and to put greater productivity into the economy. And aspects of that will of course be important to listen to.
But we also have to be frank and understand that the situation in Ukraine does need a negotiated dialogue solution, and I hope that platform will be established as soon as possible, that we can move forward in that direction and be optimistic in that direction.
Geoff Cutmore: Okay, thank you very much for your comments. Mr President, I'll come back to this if I might, because I'd just like to get Patrick to talk a little bit about the infrastructure side of what's going on. You referenced it many times in your presentation to us – Patrick Kron, of course, from Alstom, a major engineering business in power and transport.
Chairman and Ceo of Alstom Patrick Kron: Thank you, Mr President, and thank you for the invitation, both to the panel as well as for the participation in this great forum. I'm a regular participant, and I find it year after year extremely fruitful.
Yes, our company is involved in infrastructure, power generation and transmission, and rail transportation. And we are active in Russia through localisation, plants, and through partnerships with great partners.
I'll come back to what has just been said. For me, there is a key element, obviously, which is economic growth. We see currently – it's not Russian-specific – a slowdown in economic growth. And in this context, usually, unfortunately, investments are cut, or harmed. In your speech, you mentioned a number of large projects, and I would like to get your views on what will be the policy in infrastructure in general. This is a heavy industry, and for economic actors to move, you need strong signals and some visibility. So I'd be happy to hear what will be, in spite of the constraints on budgets and spendings, the policy in preparing the future.
Geoff Cutmore: So if I could wrap those two questions together, Mr President, and ask you just to comment.
Vladimir Putin: I have already listed these measures and wouldn’t wish to come back to them. I’d like to make the point that we are facing several problems and at least two of them are very serious – we must ensure the necessary economic growth rates and change the structure of our economy. We talk about these problems all the time. It is clear at the expert level, as we’ve said many times, that we cannot provide the required economic growth just by expanding the production of hydrocarbons – this is no longer enough because there are no customers. Gazprom, for one, has produced 460 billion cubic metres of gas and can well produce 660 billion. But we can no longer ensure the required growth rates in this way alone because we cannot continuously step up the pace as we did in the early 2000s.
The price [of oil] has reached a certain level – about $108-$109 per barrel – and it is maintaining that level, but we cannot produce the necessary growth rates by increasing sales because we need structural changes, as we are well aware.
Everything I’ve talked about today, all eight or nine points I made, is about making sure these structural changes happen. There is probably no need to repeat this now, and we may return to this later, but we’ve established a very good dialogue with our business community to keep abreast of all problems. We don’t just meet for tea – both the former and the current governments have established mechanisms of regular contact whereby representatives of our business community take a direct part in drafting decisions both on laws and bylaws.
The business initiative I spoke about is essentially a package of measures aimed at ridding the economy of red tape, adopting more effective and balanced decisions in the economy and the training of personnel (this is a joint effort with the business community, and business agencies are now drafting proposals for us on qualifications – I’ve spoken about this as well). A whole package of measures is aimed at this goal, and I hope we’ll carry them out with your cooperation.
Geoff Cutmore: Thank you very much for your answer. Of course, we all know that you have just come back from a trip to Shanghai, and you have signed, while you were there, a significant gas contract with the Chinese government. So at this point I'd like to invite on the stage Mr Li Yuanchao, the Vice-President of the People's Republic of China. He is to come and address us. So, if I could ask you please to come up on stage. If you could move to the end?
This of course is a significant deal that runs over 30 years, and has been, what, a decade in the negotiations.
Thank you very much. Please.
Vice President of the People’S Republic of China Li Yuanchao (retranslated): Mr Putin, participants of the forum, ladies and gentlemen. It is a great pleasure for me to be in Russia, its northern capital and attend the 18th St Petersburg International Economic Forum upon the instructions of the President of the People's Republic of China Xi Jinping. On behalf of the Chinese Government, I would like to congratulate you on this successful forum.
China commends the St Petersburg International Economic Forum, which became an important platform bringing together international elites to discuss global economic issues. It is evident that the primary purpose of the forum is to promote mutual understanding and facilitate joint development efforts. Mr Putin has just delivered a remarkable speech. The way you have addressed relevant issues was profoundly touching for us. China values this forum highly.
The global economy is currently undergoing fundamental changes. Swift economic recovery is not around the corner. On this backdrop, the topic of this forum, Sustaining Confidence in a World Undergoing Transformation, is even more relevant.
I’m deeply honoured to share with you some considerations as to how we can work together to overcome the challenges of change and bring about development for all.
First, we must reinforce trust in the spirit of openness and promote openness in the spirit of trust. With globalisation rapidly moving forward, openness is the only way towards prosperity and development, while trust is an important prerequisite for cooperation. In the aftermath of the Second World War, 13 national economies demonstrated aggressive growth during the following 20 years by choosing to open themselves up to the outside world.
Life teaches us that protectionism is the biggest obstacle to a global recovery. Initiatives by President Xi Jinping to promote international efforts in protecting and developing an open global economy are in tune with present-day needs. It is high time that we open ourselves to each other to bring about global development, join efforts in fighting protectionism and enhance economic cooperation by building a single global market and creating a free, open and just economic environment.
Second, we need reforms to promote innovations. Promoting reforms is about innovations. Thirty years of reforms in China taught us that reform leads to innovation, since it stimulates creativity and bold decisions. Today’s innovations, ideas and approaches, new science, technology and institutions provide an additional impetus and set new requirements. It is no accident that reforms were key to economic recovery and prosperity during the latest international financial crisis, while innovations in research and development were crucial in improving economic competitiveness. Although some progress has been achieved in the global economy, remaining focused on reforms and innovations is still relevant. It is time for us to step up efforts to coordinate macroeconomic policies, accompanying domestic reforms with efforts to reform global economic governance to bring about a new economic world order that would be fair, rational, stable and civilised, balancing the interests of all countries.
Third, we must all win from cooperation, and therefore develop cooperation in the spirit of mutual benefit. All countries across the world are opting for cooperation in the face of global challenges. The purpose of any cooperation effort is to benefit everyone. This is the only way to ensure long-term sustainable growth. The global economy has now become so intertwined that success or failure of one are bound to affect everyone. This means that we are bound by common interests, that we must promote mutually beneficial cooperation in the long run and pursue common interests. China’s initiatives to create the Silk Road economic belt and Silk Road on the Sea in the 21st century are aimed at expanding cooperation between countries along these routes and bringing it to a new level in the spirit of mutual gain and benefit.
Fourth, we must strengthen peace through development, and use peace to protect development. This year is marked by commemorations of 100years since the start of the First World War and 75years since the start of the Second World War. History teaches us that development is a foundation for peace, and peace is a prerequisite for development. Ensuring peace means promoting development and the happiness of the people. Development should be viewed as a national priority by all countries of the world. Global economic development should be interconnected, balanced, inclusive, and sustainable. We must work out a new security concept based on mutual trust, mutual benefit, and equal cooperation. We must overcome disputes and join efforts in creating an environment conducive to peaceful development.
As President Putin said, economic cooperation between China and Russia is an important factor for sustainable and stable economic growth. Several days ago, President Putin and President Xi Jinping held a successful meeting in Shanghai and reached important agreements on the comprehensive expansion and strengthening of bilateral cooperation, thereby bringing strategic cooperation and partnership between China and Russia to a new level.
I think that both countries should move forward along the lines traced by their heads of state, strengthen strategic and economic cooperation and promote bilateral relations in the spirit of equality, trust, mutual support for mutual prosperity and eternal friendship. This would serve the peace cause around the world.
Friends,
China views deeper reforms as a key factor of global economic growth and sustainable development. In 2013, China’s economy grew by 7.7 percent, and added 7.4 percent in the first quarter of 2014. The situation is stable and keeps improving. Reform and development in China create opportunities for the whole world. By actively standing up for peace, cooperation and mutual benefit, China is committed to mutually beneficial openness. We will join efforts with all countries in responding to the challenges of change in the pursuit of prosperity and global economic development. Thank you for your attention.
Vladimir Putin: If I may – you know, I would like to add to the speech of our colleague. As both President and Prime Minister, I have signed and attended the signing of many documents but, honestly, I don’t remember – even during my time – so many powerful documents signed in the course of just one visit. I will agree with our Chinese colleague who said that even with the advanced level of Russia-China relations we had before, with the signing of these documents and the agreements we reached during this visit, our relations with China are indeed entering a higher and qualitatively different stage. Of course, we are thankful to our Chinese partners and President of China Xi Jinping for his personal contribution to these issues.
Geoff Cutmore: Patrick, this again figures in your part of the world, it's an energy deal involving a great deal of infrastructure. China is an economy that also has, if the Vice-President will forgive me for saying so, some challenges at times with capital and allocating capital in the right places, and creating the right opportunities for international businesspeople to come and engage in operations. Could you just say a few words, perhaps, on how you see now the relationship between Russia and China, and maybe some of the benefits for international businesspeople like yourself who work in this sector?
Patrick Kron: I try to exercise our modest talents downstream, not really in this field. But you mentioned China, we are very active in China, and we try to be active in Russia as well. You know, sometimes, it is easy to do business? Actually, the conclusion is, the only countries where it's easy to do business are the countries in which you are not in – every one, everywhere, it's difficult to do business, you have to adapt to the reality. We have strong challenges, strong competition, et cetera. I agree with what was said in terms of protectionism. I think open markets are a must for the way we do business. We look for open markets. At the same time, we look for fair treatment. Mr President mentioned that in the development of infrastructure of Russia, companies are welcome, whether they are foreign equity-owned or whether they are domestic players. We are very happy to hear that, and we try to do that, both in Russia and in China. But I hope that in spite of the high level of commitments taken in this visit, there will still be some opportunities for us, Mr President.
Vladimir Putin: You see, these infrastructure plans and projects… My colleague on the right said when I cited some figures – quite impressive figures, investments of $16.5 and $10 billion. Of course, both the technology and experience of our partners will be in demand. Russia is a good market for our partners to put their capacities to use.
Speaking of our plans with China – and I’m not mentioning gas although, as I said, it will be the largest construction site in the world, with $55 billion invested by Gazprom alone – these include construction of a helium plant, a plant for the chemical utilisation of natural gas and infrastructure. Of course, at this scale our partners will definitely have a chance to use their resources and assets to gain profit.
Geoff Cutmore: You talked a lot in your presentation about opportunity and engagement, I think, in Asia, and I want to continue this theme just a little bit more as we run down the group. Gentlemen, very quickly, because we're very close to wrapping up. But if I can start here, and just get perhaps a few thoughts on India, with the new government, the Asia opportunity, as it comes to Europe, in essence, and things change there, and maybe just run down the group and get a few comments.
Shiv Vikram Khemka: Thank you. Well, first of all, I'd like to say, about China, it's a great country, but mostly it's a great civilisation. And I believe that China's growth is something that India very much admires. And I find that Russia, China and India have a destiny, a common destiny together, in Asia. However, I feel that, unfortunately, although we have a very strong political relationship between India and Russia, a very strong strategic relationship between Russia and India, unfortunately our trade relationship and our investment relationship, don't match up to what it should. Our relationship, just to give you an example, between India and China today is $80 billion of two-way trade; with Russia, it's less than $10 billion. That shouldn't be the case. We need a reset. And I think this is a great moment to do that.
Mr Modi, our new prime minister, first of all got a landslide mandate in India. And I think 551 million people voted out of 800 million voters, and asked for change, asked for growth, economic growth in our country. We still have 600 million people that are functionally illiterate, we have huge issues with water, with housing, all kinds of other issues. Every year we add 20 million people to our country. Every seven years we create Russia in our country, in terms of population. We need help, we need support, and we need to integrate globally, in that. And I think Russia can play a very important role in that connection.
How can we do that? I think we need to restructure, and rethink about our engagement. Because evolution is not going to get us there. To go from 10 billion to 12 billion is not the solution. We need to find a way to go from 10 billion to 30 billion, and from 30 billion to 100 billion over the next 10 years. And the question is, how do we do that? And I think that needs a reset.
Geoff Cutmore: Thank you very much. Gentlemen, I apologise, but just can I get very few words from you? If I could start with you, Jon Fredrik.
Jon Fredrik Baksaas: You can get a short one on India, I'm not a specialist on India. But we do have $3 billion played into telecoms in India as well, and that's more or less the size of the exposure to the Russian economy. And I think that Mr Modi's coming has created great expectations as to his ability to run through economic reforms, which are highly needed in the direction that was just mentioned. And the potential there is just phenomenal, under the right structures and the right means.
Geoff Cutmore: Thank you very much indeed for keeping it brief. And Khaldoon.
Khaldoon Khalifa Al Mubarak: The Silk Road, historically, has always been a route that kept us close to countries like China and India – historically. Today as a trade relationship, the UAE has a very strong relationship, trade-wise, with both India and China. Of course, we'd like to strengthen these ties from a trade perspective with Russia too.
From an investment perspective, we have been traditionally conservative. We look at investment platforms in countries where we can see a growth story, but also a risk-adjusted return, I repeat that again.
We are trying hard in China. I think it'll be an area of growth for us, an area of a lot of potential in the future. If you look at the next 20, 30, 40 years, especially for investors like us, long-term investors, we have to be in China, we have to be in India and we have to be in Russia.
India is a little bit more complicated, because the investment platform there, the investment environment there, is a bit more complicated. But we will keep trying, and hopefully with partners like Shiv over here and others, we will be successful.
Geoff Cutmore: Sir, thank you very much indeed for that.
So what I'd like to do here, I think traditional for us, to throw forward and be optimistic about the future, and just talk about some of the larger themes. So if we can wrap with that, Mr President. When I was in Moscow in April speaking with Mr Ulyukayev in the front row here, I also met with some young entrepreneurs, some young Russian business people, who've been very excited about the last two decades of engagement with the global economy. And I have to say that they were a little down of heart, and they saw what they thought was some of the unwinding of that interconnectedness that has taken place over the last two decades. I wonder if I could ask you, how does that damage get repaired, if it is indeed damage? How do we prevent the rollback of what's perceived by the young businesspeople in this room to be the engagement that now is rather stunted?
Vladimir Putin: We need to work together to build trust. This is basically why we are all here today. The motto of this forum is building trust, which is only possible through negotiations that take into account the legitimate interests of all parties. This is exactly what Russia intends to do. We hope for a positive response from all our partners.
Geoff Cutmore: The young people, of course, inherit what we leave. And my sense is, from the ones that I've talked to here, they aspire to the safety of a just legal system, they want to have the freedom to criticise the Government without retaliation, and if that means the use of social media, they also would like to use Facebook and Twitter and all these other things. Do you share these goals and ambitions for the young people of Russia?
Vladimir Putin: I believe it is not just a goal but a key priority. I understand what you are implying. You are talking about possible restrictions in online activity. We don’t have any restrictions when it comes to expressing oneself or using modern technology for one’s own development or for business development.
I would like to stress this. We do listen to any criticism regarding recent legislative decisions. We have strong experience in implementing these laws.
What am I talking about? Did we impose restrictions? We did. What are their objectives? Their objectives are to ban propaganda of paedophilia, child pornography, promotion of suicide. Excuse me, but first of all, there are plenty of restrictions of this kind in legal systems of many countries, including Europe and the United States. Moreover, in certain cases these restrictions are even tougher than in the Russian law. Our restrictions are far more liberal.
And also, excuse me, but what kind of society is it that cannot protect its children? I think a society like this would simply die out. We will not go down this path.
But this doesn’t mean that we are going to seriously restrict the exchange of information or do anything that goes against the modern development trends. We will make sure this doesn’t happen. By the way, we are working on this right now. The Government is developing measures to fund broadband internet across the country, up to every single village in the most remote regions. I would like to stress that our practical steps are aimed at fully employing modern technology.
Geoff Cutmore: You'll forgive me just for asking one more on this, because we have obviously seen – and this is what our panel is ultimately about – how we steer a path through what has been a troubled period of time for the planet. And we have seen in many occasions, where there have been difficulties, social networks getting closed down, or banned. And they have become, like, I suppose, the telephone was for my generation, the way that people communicate today. So no ban on Facebook, no ban on Twitter, no ban on the Russian equivalents, regardless of what's on them.
Vladimir Putin: Firstly, we are not going to ban anything. Secondly, we have no right to criticise those who do that. Every country’s case has its particularities and we are not here to judge. We are not planning anything like this. We plan to develop modern communications and I hope that we will never come back to the times when the Kalashnikov was the only means of communication.
Geoff Cutmore: Mr President, can I ask you then just to share with us your global view, if you like, how you see the world as it stands currently – the trends, the opportunities, the challenges?
Vladimir Putin: You mean in terms of industry? Our Minister of Communications is here. He can answer this question better than me. The higher up you are, the less you need to know. (Laughter.)
But if you are talking about qualifying bloggers as mass media… Is it what you are talking about? Be direct. Our people are straightforward. You can say exactly what you want to say. This practice exists in some European countries, in the UK, in Germany and the United States. It is nothing unusual, but until now there has been a gap in our legislation and now we are closing it. These regulations do not contradict any global trends. Everything is absolutely reasonable.
Geoff Cutmore: I should rephrase my question, it really wasn't a question about technology at all. In fact, what I'm asking, as we come to the close, really, of this session, is just to give us a statesman's view of how you see the world developing from here.
You talked a lot in your speech about the tensions between the old world order, the new world order, the connection with Asia and other G20 economies, the challenge of what was a G8 now being a G7 – and I don't know where Russia… whether Russia attends the next meeting coming up… But there are so many big issues that I think it would be useful to get your world view on, if you just share with us.
Vladimir Putin: This is a difficult task. It could be a topic for another forum, for roundtables and panel discussions. But generally, I hope, despite occasional problems, that humankind will have enough common sense, and that experience of the past decades and even centuries, including tragic experience (our colleague from China mentioned that we are approaching the 70th anniversary of the Second World War and the anniversary of the First World War), will eventually encourage the world to resolve any disputes through negotiations that would take into account interest of the parties.
Geoff Cutmore: So let me wrap up here – thanking you once again for having us here, inviting us to be your guests. And if you could just leave our business community with a message before we wrap things up.
Vladimir Putin: My message would be very simple. Think about the benefits and possible dividends you would derive from working in Russia. Don’t let the pressure and blackmailing prevent you from going your way, and you will succeed. And we will help you with that.
I would like to say thank you to our moderator. I don’t know what you do for living but, on the one hand, you are a frightful person. (Laughter.) On the other hand, you are very talented. You managed to create a to-the-point, while at the same time, very interesting atmosphere for discussion.
Thank you very much.
Additional
All news about trip to St Petersburg
May 23 − 24, 2014
Geography
Saint Petersburg
Topics
Economy and finance
Industry
Investment
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 23, 2014, 16:45
Text versionEvents
Meeting with participants in the CEO Global Summit
Vladimir Putin met with heads of major Russian and foreign companies and business associations at the CEO Global Summit, which is part of the St Petersburg International Economic Forum.
May 23, 2014
14:30
St Petersburg
The summit of global business leaders was organised by the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon,
To start, I believe Mr Shokhin will say a few words.
President of the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs Alexander Shokhin: First, thank you Mr President for finding the time in your busy schedule to meet with the heads of global companies.
We have called this event the Global CEO Summit at the St Petersburg International Economic Forum (SPIEF). This is already a continuation of a certain tradition. Last year we held the B20 Business Summit on the forum’s sidelines, and you met with leading Russian and world entrepreneurs to discuss recommendations for you as the G20 President, and for your G20 colleagues.
Last September we had an opportunity to bring these recommendations to the G20 leaders. We’ve decided to continue this tradition and this year we convened this Global CEO Summit to continue discussing the world’s economic agenda.
The global economy remains fragile and many measures, including those adopted in St Petersburg, are still being elaborated and their implementation is fairly complicated. This is why business should continuously renew this discussion to make adjustments and provide new recommendations.
The second area we’ve discussed is conducting business in Russia, primarily systemic issues of improving the investment and business climate.
See also
All news about trip to St Petersburg
May 23 − 24, 2014
Obviously, we couldn’t discuss all questions at our panel sessions, but the St Petersburg Forum has many other options for panel discussions, so more specific issues will be reviewed (and some have already been reviewed) today and tomorrow.
In addition, on the forum’s sidelines we held many bilateral business meetings with our partners, bilateral business councils and Russia-based foreign business associations.
We didn’t just discuss problems, but tried to determine some priorities, conducted interactive voting and determined what key issues could help improve the economy (in the opinion of Russian and foreign business).
Traditional areas are represented by investment, infrastructure, financial regulation, trade, employment, social investment in human capital, transparency of government management, anti-corruption efforts and some other issues. I’d like to ask my colleagues to report on the discussion of these issues.
But before they do this, I’d like to make the point that the development of public-private partnership has been described as the main issue in infrastructure investment. As for energy security…
Incidentally, we brought this item back to the agenda in 2006. Energy security was the main issue during the G8 summit in St Petersburg. For some reason it left the agenda of these forums but we believe it’s time to bring it back.
So, for energy security it is essential to regulate the power industry based on the real-life risk assessment and return on investment. In other words, economic policy should be built not on some hypothetical assumptions but on real risk assessment.
The main priority in financial regulations – as it was a year ago when we discussed it – is to prevent the adverse impact of financial reforms on long-term investment. We don’t need more regulation but we must make it more efficient and conducive to economic growth. As for employment, first and foremost it is necessary to pursue macro-economic policy that stimulates the creation of productive jobs. In international trade, struggle against protectionism continues to be at the top of the list.
During the last six years of the G20’s existence, this has been the number one priority, but the fact that it remains on the agenda means that far from all has been done in this area, even compared to our expectations. In particular, I’m referring to the implementation of the WTO agreement signed in Bali in the end of the past year.
Equal access to government and municipal purchases is the main goal of the efforts to achieve transparency and counter corruption. Indicatively, this is a topical issue not only for Russia but also our foreign colleagues.
As for Russia’s priorities in creating a favourable climate at home, the most important priority is the development of small and medium-sized business. The main task here is to remove the barriers for small companies by simplifying registration and improving regulation. Incidentally, today we presented the national rating of investment climate in various regions, and this issue was also discussed in detail there.
The second priority in improving the investment and business climate in Russia is to reduce regulation. Above all, it is necessary to get rid of redundant procedures and check-ups by monitoring and supervisory bodies and ensure their transparency.
With this, I’ll finish my account of our activities. As hospitable hosts we’d like to give the floor to our foreign guests. I’d like them to continue our discussion. First of all, I’d like to give the floor to our guest from India – the elected President of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII).
President Designate of the Confederation of Indian Industry Sumit Mazumder: Thank you, honourable presidents.
I am going to talk about infrastructure, as he told you. Among the G20 countries, the emerging markets are still struggling, and they haven’t quite recovered. For the G20 countries as a group to prosper, it is important that even the emerging countries prosper so that as a group we prosper. And it needs inclusive prosperity.
So I have one suggestion, which is that if some sort of a robust multilateral investment framework can be built, and the governments extend special cooperation, and a proper mitigation process for losses be drawn up, then the required funding for these emerging markets would come, and it would really help the G20 countries to be prosperous in the long run. Yes, he talked about private-public partnership – that is working quite well in India. But there are other issues that require looking into. This is one suggestion.
The second point I’d like to make is that by 2020, there will be more people retiring from the job market than entering the job market, whereas India will have an excess of working-age people. I believe 65 percent of the population in India at that time would be the working population. And it is estimated that by 2026 the shortage in the world market would be about 45 million people, whereas India will have an excess of 56 million people, so it is very important that these people are properly trained and made ready for this opening. And this will happen once the infrastructure is at the same level as the mature markets. And this is important for the entire group of the countries, for their own good, because India could also be the manufacturing base for a lot of the countries.
These are the two suggestions that I have, Mr President. Thank you. 
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: I want to start by once again welcoming the global business leaders. I think, as Mr Shokhin [President of the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs] mentioned, this is the first time such a summit is taking place as part of the Forum.
We have many common problems. When I say ‘we’, I mean the global economy and its impact on the world, including on the Russian economy.
Our colleague from India spoke just now about some problems that are purely global in nature. Let me take advantage of the fact that the floor was given first to a representative of Indian business, and to note the longstanding friendship between Russia and India. 
I just had the pleasure of speaking with the leader of the party that won the election, with the man who will be Prime Minister very soon. We agreed to press on with our undertakings and plans already underway, already in progress, and create new opportunities for work together too. We will discuss all of this at a meeting very soon. 
In this context, we should note that India has very large labour force and many people looking for work. This does create a big problem of course. Young people make up more than half of India’s population. How many voters do you have? I think it is close to half-a-billion people. Such figures are impressive. Our country is not exactly small, but when you hear figures like this you cannot help but be impressed.
What you talked about is linked to open borders of course, visa-free travel and the right to employment. We have long since been discussing these issues with our Indian friends. I think that the existence of some restrictions is understandable. They are linked to the need to protect our own labour market. 
But we are moving in this direction all the same. We are making it easier to enter our country and will continue to do so on a parity basis. We have an increasing number of joint projects, including in hi-tech sectors such as nuclear energy, as we all know, and in this situation exchanges of highly skilled people obviously make particular sense and become more important. 
I think you would agree though, that this is a rather narrow sector. People working in nuclear energy know that in order to develop the sector and ensure reliable safety of the projects we carry out, we need to use top-class specialists, at the initial stage at least.
What the Russian Federation does when it undertakes these kinds of projects is to not just provide the power units or build production facilities, but establish the whole sector, and this includes training local personnel.
This is just the clearest example, but we work in similar fashion in other sectors too, in the military technical cooperation sector, for example. We are working with you to develop advanced military technology such as the well-known BrahMos missile that India’s armed forces use.
In this case, we do not limit ourselves to simply delivering a good. The missile is a joint product and is our joint intellectual property. The project also involves personnel training. We have organised this kind of work with our Indian friends in this sector and will continue to do so.
As for hiring labour on a mass scale, this is possible too in certain areas and in the case of big projects, including joint projects such as the infrastructure projects that you mentioned. 
We have a large number of infrastructure projects in the pipeline. For the projects in which we plan to invest money from the reserve funds – these are above all infrastructure projects – we do not rule out the possibility of using foreign labour.
Alexander Shokhin: I’d like to give the floor to our Canadian colleague, CEO of Kinross Gold Corporation Paul Rollinson.
Kinross Gold Corporation Ceo Paul Rollinson: Hello. Thank you, Mr President. I’ve been asked to speak on the theme of investments. And we’re a mining company, so I’ll make my comments relative to the mining industry.
I would say we’re proud. We have been active in Russia for almost 20 years now, and we are the largest foreign investor in mining thus far. We’ve recently invested over $3 billion in the mining sector. 
Our two mines are located the Far East, Chukotka. And our experience has been a very positive one, and there’s been a lot of cooperation with the government and improvement in the regulation. But we think there is more that can be done to attract more foreign investment in mining.
And the benefits of that, of course, are that it would provide addition jobs, train human talent, and of course provide additional revenue for governments.
We have three specific recommendations in that regard. Number one, please consider the strategic limit for minerals, the size or the elimination.
We also think there may be a possibility to simplify the claim-staking process. There’s a pilot project currently underway, but it hasn’t been rolled out in all regions. And lastly, there are ways to facilitate the process to move from exploration to mining.
I would further suggest that, we would think that a way to come at this would be on a pilot basis – to pick one region or a couple of regions where there is good mining prospectivity, such as the Far East Federal District, and roll out these suggestions on a pilot project.
And if we were to do that, we see four potential benefits. First of all, it would reinforce the government’s strategic focus on economic and social development in the Far East. It would attract, we think, more mining investment into the Far East. The government would still retain control over its subsurface resource. And lastly, we think this can be done with very little to no cost to the government. Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: We’d be very grateful to you if you could formulate these proposals concretely. In cooperation with our business community and various business entities, we’ve been working on this particular agenda and on ways to simplify various administrative procedures. Many decisions have been made in the area of customs regulation, incorporation of companies and regional administrative practices.
Of course, this is probably not enough, and we’ll continue working on it. Your recommendations will be most useful to us. I say this without any exaggeration or irony. We’re working on these proposals in conjunction with our business community. Some of them are being drafted, others have been adopted and still others are being formulated.
We can discuss simplifying access or application filing procedures as well. We believe we have a fairly liberal approach to these issues. We don’t have any bans whatsoever, as I′m sure you know. We allow everything, if I may put it this way – we don′t have any subjects that are off-limits in cooperation with our foreign partners.
There are certain rules on so-called national resources or national mineral deposits. This doesn’t mean that access to them is banned to foreign investors. It merely means that decisions on this issue should be approved by the government commission.
Working in Russia, you must be aware of these issues. So, if you believe there are any problems, we have government members here, top Russian leadership, so please tell us what exactly is making things difficult for you. There are deadlines for reviewing such applications and they are being observed, just like yours, but we′re ready to give more thought to this question.
Regarding simplified procedures on prospecting and production after a permit is issued, these decisions are usually interlinked. If we issue a permit for prospecting, we proceed based on the premise that the company that invests resources and money into this phase of work should receive a production license as well, although current Russian legislation does not explicitly provide for this.
This concerns the need to ensure the public interests with regard to future investment. We want to prevent a situation whereby a company that has invested relatively small funds into prospecting will in effect start dealing in its licensing options.
Still, the licensing power should belong to the Russian Government. As you have said, the Government should monitor this process. But maybe we have overlooked something. Please formulate your ideas in more detail, and we will be happy to consider them.
Alexander Shokhin: Thank you.
I’d like to give the floor to Mr Jean-Pascal Tricoire, Chairman and CEO of Schneider Electric, France.
chairman and CEO of Schneider Electric Jean-Pascal Tricoire: Mr President, good afternoon. Thank you very much for meeting us this afternoon. My company Schneider Electric is specialised in systems, in equipment and software for energy management and energy efficiency.
Under the guidance and with the support of your teams, we have invested a lot in Russia. We employ now 12,000 people in your country, developing manufacturing technology here in the country.
So after so much investment, my question goes naturally to your energy plans. I would like to ask you if you could explain to us where you see your priorities in the field of energy – which sector, which installation, in which geography.
I would like to know if you could give us some colour about this agreement that you signed this week between Russia and China. And as it is one of specialities of my company, if you could tell what is the specific place of energy efficiency in your energy vision for Russia. Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Energy efficiency should be our primary concern, not only in Russia but also for any company in any other country. It is one of the key elements of success in any sphere, in any business or project.
Of course, we will try to ensure maximum efficiency in accordance with modern standards in all areas of work concerning energy. What should we focus on?
We are certainly considering such promising energy sources as renewable energy, hydrogen energy and solar energy. We are working on these projects. Our companies allocate funds for this and also receive government support for such projects.
At the same time – as an energy expert, you should know this – everyone understands that energy consumption will be growing in the next 30 years, while the structure of primary sources of energy will not change. Therefore, we will focus on the production of hydrocarbons and the development of nuclear generation.
Nuclear energy currently accounts for 16% of the Russian energy balance. If my memory serves me correctly, the figure is over 80% in France. So there is still room for improvement, and we have a comprehensive development plan.
We intend to increase the share of nuclear energy to at least 25% of the total energy balance. This will require us to work hard to build new capacities. We plan to build around 20–25 large power units, or as many as were built in the entire history of Soviet nuclear generation.
Of course, we – I am referring to Russia and France – are both partners and rivals, but in a positive sense. The issue concerns the production of generating equipment and the supply of nuclear fuel to the global market.
I believe that we have certain advantages, because we offer full-cycle services, including the removal and recycling of fuel waste. Our capabilities in this area are considerable, and we can offer its services both to our companies and to our foreign partners. Our nuclear companies have a big portfolio of contracts for decades ahead.
As I have said, we not only supply and sell nuclear generating equipment, but we are also building a whole new industry, which includes research and personnel training. We intend to continue improving our nuclear sector as a science. We take part in international projects. We intend to build the best and safest modern nuclear power stations.
As for hydrocarbons, their prices will not decrease. I think this is obvious, because what’s left is difficult to access or is located in areas that lack the proper infrastructure. This is the situation in Russia and also elsewhere, as you are aware.
So there are downsides, but there are advantages as well which lie in the fact that this area of business is a fairly safe investment.
Where are the most promising and significant opportunities? Of course, they are on the shelf of the Arctic seas. The amount of reserves there is colossal, just planetary. I′m referring to Yamal Peninsula and the Arctic. As you may be aware, some of the projects are already underway. The first ever gas was produced on the Arctic shelf. This successful project is operated by Gazprom.
We will by all means develop all our eastern provinces and work on the shelf. I′d like to point out that our companies use the latest environmentally friendly technology. I always cite this example (we are now trying to replicate it). The head of LUKOIL is present in this auditorium, I visited their platforms on several occasions and I saw them work.
Not a single speck of waste is dumped into the sea. All waste is processed: packed up, taken to the shore and processed there, you see. It's so impressive. Almost all our companies work on the shelf like that. I am proud to note that in this regard Russian companies are ahead of their foreign counterparts. Perhaps, only a half step ahead, but still ahead.
Regarding the deal which you just mentioned between Gazprom and its Chinese partners, it′s a major deal, and you're probably already familiar with the numbers. It is designed for 30 years, although there are enough reserves for, I believe, 50 years. They′ve been underestimated. The recoverable reserves in two fields that we are about to commission — Kovykta and Chayanda — are 1.5 trillion cubic metres of gas per field, so 3 trillion combined. I will speak about this during the session.
And in fact, as I’ve mentioned, there's even more there. The contract was signed for 30 years, but I believe that the production may last at least 50 years. Gas will be supplied to the People′s Republic of China and to domestic consumers as well. This is important to us.
This is a multi-faceted project, because it gives us an opportunity, with a market as large as China and with supplies in the amount of 38 billion cubic metres of gas annually … This makes the project commercially viable and thus gives us an opportunity to develop our eastern provinces, build an extensive gas supply network for neighbouring regions, and later move on to the second phase.
This is what we refer to as the Eastern Route from Eastern Siberia, but we agreed with our Chinese friends that the Western Route with the resource base in Western Siberia will be the focus of our next phase. The infrastructure development in both parts of Siberia will give us an opportunity to link the Russian Far East with Eastern Siberia, and Western Siberia with European Russia.
We will then have a single gas supply system in Russia which will vitally improve gas supplies across Russia and give us an opportunity to diversify gas supplies westward when there’s need for that, or eastward as the global market dictates.
Remark: Colleagues, since Mr Putin provides very detailed comments, please ask fewer questions in your remarks, otherwise many participants won′t get the chance to speak.
Vladimir Putin: That′s quite a subtle message directed at me. I hear you.
Remark: I'm afraid my colleagues might rough me up for doing so. No, Russians won′t do that, they are well-mannered, but I′m not sure about our Western colleagues. I′d like to turn it over to Chairman of Boston Consulting Group Hans-Paul Buerkner, on the subject of financial regulations.
chairman of the Boston Consulting Group Dr Hans-Paul Buerkner: Mr President, Russia has made enormous progress, and the Russian economy has made enormous progress during the first decade of the new millennium, and has become a strong member of the global economy. Now is the time to move Russia and the Russian economy to the next level, and there are enormous opportunities, but also there are strong challenges.
The key levers for really moving the economy to the next level are: continuing openness; secondly, increase competition; and thirdly, the strengthening of institutions to ensure the rule of law. And by really providing a level playing field for many players – start-up companies, small and mid-sized companies, large corporates – they will have opportunities to bring a lot more innovation, more productivity, higher efficiency, not only to the economy overall, but to the different industries.
And it will mean that there will be both domestic, and of course, foreign players, to really help ensure that there is strong growth over the next decade and more. This is of course also true for financial services. Obviously, financial services play a very important role, not just in mobilising savings, creating strong capital markets, but also, I think, providing funding for start-ups, for small and mid-size companies, and for the large corporates.
And in order to ensure that the financial sector plays a strong role, it's important to have quite a number of large players; not just two, or a couple of national champions, but to have a broad sector, and a broad range of institutions that really can play that role, the mobilisation of funds in capital market creation, and also in the funding of different companies of different sizes.
Now, the central bank is doing a very good job in trying to clean up the banking sector, really closing down those institutions that are destroying trust and destroying values. So that's one part. But I think it's important to have a broad range of institutions. Secondly, I think it's also important to ensure that pension reform is being accelerated, so that there are funds for long-term projects.
The second element in the financial service sector is to ensure the application of global standards. So it's very good to see that Russia is applying Basel III going forward, so that we all have the same playing field. And we should also make sure that we do apply the same standards.
And thirdly, financial services, like every other industry, like every other sector, will have to change fundamentally, because of digitisation. And there's a huge opportunity, for Russian institutions, but also institutions in general, to really move financial services to a different level of quality, efficiency, productivity, by having digital payments, digital banking, digital financial services overall. And here, Russia can really jump to the forefront – Russian institutions – and play a very strong role.
So overall, we, at BCG, and I'm personally very confident, that with increased and continuing openness, increased competition, and the strengthening of the institutions to ensure the rule of law, Russia will indeed, over the next 10 years, move to a completely new level of performance, and really build on what it has achieved over the first 10 years of the century. Thank you very much.
Vladimir Putin: As I understand, this is not a question but an opinion, a recommendation. I’d like to point out that we’re working in all these areas – support for start-ups, and expansion and consolidation of the financial system as a whole.
You’ve mentioned yourself the uneasy efforts of our Central Bank – let’s put it straight – on the reorganisation of our banking system. We all understand how painful it is to reduce the number of financial institutions that are ineffective or even dangerous for their clients because they are unable to honour their commitments to these clients.
This is a difficult job – both socially and politically, and it puts certain pressure on the budget, because when the Central Bank makes such decisions we compensate clients' losses from the budget. We had to draft relevant legislation for this, and we’ve done this. We had to develop the practice of applying such laws and finally start this heavy job of bank resolution.
We had to do this to make our financial system viable and efficient. You know that we have about a thousand banks. Now probably the figure is a bit lower – 950, I think. On the one hand, this is a good thing. As a financier you are well aware that this is not a prerequisite for efficient performance. So we’ll continue this work and, of course, we are open to cooperation with companies like yours.
As for attracting finances, including foreign funds, I’d like to point out… One of our colleagues has already spoken here about attracting investment. Last year our country was ranked third in terms of attracting foreign direct investment. I’m going to speak about this issue at the plenary session and I will cite some specific figures. But it goes without saying that we cannot and should not stop at that, and we will continue to move forward.
In this context, support of our efforts, including the work of the Direct Investment Fund that we established a few years ago and that is doing fairly well… We’re cooperating with practically all major global funds and will continue this practice. In this context, the work of such agencies as yours is much in demand. Naturally, it is necessary to come to terms and find partners at the corporate level, and we’ll always welcome this. Thank you very much.
Alexander Shokhin: Now I’d like to ask our Turkish colleague Erol Kiresepi, Santa Farma President and CEO, to speak about employment and social issues.
But I’d like to remind you, colleagues, that the official start time of our plenary session is 2.30 pm. Several thousand people will criticise us if we delay. So, please mind the time.
Vladimir Putin: You won’t be criticised but I will, because nobody will know why I didn't arrive on time.
Chairman and Ceo of Santa Farma Erol Kiresepi: Mr President, looking to the priorities in the area of employment and labour mobility, the votes, which have been given to you, came not so distant between the first and the third priority on the list, with only a little less importance on the second. This doesn't mean that the second is much less important.
The first priority was to introduce macroeconomic policies that promote employment and creation of more productive jobs. The flexible labour markets that offer a diversity of work contracts are an essential part of an enabling environment. A diversity of work contracts allows our companies to react rapidly to market changes and quickly create jobs. Flexibility is a necessary element for competitiveness. It's clear that the government's main responsibility is to support business, to create new jobs, with the adoption of new dynamic and flexible policies. The right policies will encourage the private sector to increase their employment capacities. It is important for the government to be in touch with the market in order to analyse its needs.
The second priority, which took less of the votes, Mr President, was to ensure trans-border labour mobility in response to the business and labour market needs. Governments should adapt immigration policies in line with labour market needs. Labour mobility is becoming a main challenge for the business community.
The labour market welcomes immigration according to their needs. However, in this process, the adaptation of immigrants to the host country, language problems and social benefit issues should be taken into account by the governments. Well-organised labour mobility will be beneficial not only for the host country, but also for the global labour market.
Mr President, to reach our goals in both priorities, we should also make employability a top priority in national education and training systems. Skills and competencies are the key determinants of an individual's place and mobility in the labour market. That is the reason why we must make employability a top priority in national education and training systems. I should also add that strategies to increase employability have to focus also on lifelong learning, which is a shared responsibility.
We must consider increasing growth and employment by creating an economy based on knowledge and innovation. In the recent terminology, they call this ”smart growth.“ This requires improving the quality of education, strengthening research performance, promoting innovation and knowledge transfer throughout the world, making full use of information and communication technologies, and ensuring that innovative ideas can be turned into new products and services that create growth and quality of jobs.
Now, coming to the SMBs, I will not tackle the subject, I will leave my colleague, Mr Koch, to tackle it within his subject. Thank you, Mr President.
Alexander Shokhin: Mr Koch, Chairman of the Board and CEO of Metro Group, Germany, will speak about the development of small and medium-sized business and trade.
Management Board Olaf Koch: Good afternoon, Mr President. Small and medium-sized enterprises typically are the backbones of large industries, and they create a lot of value. In the Russian Federation, they are up to 90 percent, as I know. In our business in METRO, we are supporting independent business people. They are the small guys running produkty stores, restaurants, hotels. And we very much appreciate the effort that is now on the political agenda, because we believe this is not only value creation for those small, independent business people; actually, it is quality of life that can be increased.
So actually, therefore, my question to you would be, what's your personal view on what can be done on top of it? For example, less bureaucracy, less regulation. And more support, so that these people can really grow. We are serving millions of them today; we just invited 14,000 to the METRO expo last month, and shared with them the experiences. And I can tell you, I think there's huge momentum, and huge potential, in the Russian Federation for that.
And that brings me to the other subject – and I just want to share that with you – we have been on a capital market transaction, preparing it since September of last year, where we shared our equity story, and our conviction about the value that can be generated in Russia. Until February this year, we were actually on a road show, and telling people… And I can tell you that the demand, and the excitement, about what can be done in Russia, is completely shared by a lot of people. So we have been promoting that.
But one of the concerns that I need to tell you about – because I think it would not be right not to do so – since March and April, since Crimea and Ukraine, there has been a lot of concern, frustration and lack of trust. So one of the concerns is really, how can trust be re-established? Thank you very much.
Vladimir Putin: This is truly the most important question. The main motto of this economic forum is restoring trust. As for the burning issues you mentioned regarding Ukraine and Crimea, it was this very lack of trust that caused them.
Where did the Ukrainian crisis come from? What caused it? This crisis emerged after President Yanukovych postponed the signing of an association agreement with the EU. What followed? A government coup backed by our US and European partners. What next? Chaos, and now we’re witnessing a full-fledged civil war.
All initiatives taken in the post-Soviet space and generally around the world, and in the former Soviet Union in particular, should be very cautious. We must exercise extreme care when dealing with the foundations of the state. Otherwise, as I said, it leads to chaos and political instability followed by economic turmoil.
Regarding Crimea, we are absolutely open in this respect. We have nothing to hide. We really ensured that Crimea's residents can freely express their will. They came to the polls and voted for their future. You can’t force 80 percent, in fact almost 90 percent, of voters to cast ballots, right? They could have refused to come, but they didn’t, and 96 percent opted for a “yes” vote.
This is just the objective truth. If we hadn’t done it, a tragedy would have occurred far worse than what we are currently witnessing in certain cities of Ukraine, in Odessa, where unarmed people were forced inside a building and burned alive. Almost 50 people perished in flames and another 50 went missing. Where are they? They were actually also killed. We prevented this from happening in Crimea, and I think that it was the right thing to do. What we are asking from you is an unbiased, impartial perspective on these developments.
How can trust be restored? By working together and engaging in dialogue. For instance, up until now Russia has been unable to work out a comprehensive partnership agreement with the European Union, stumbling into one issue after another. At the end of the day, we were offered to join consultations on Ukraine’s association with the EU, but we haven’t seen any consultations so far.
Russia’s Economic Development Minister Alexei Ulyukayev went there. He is liberal and pro-market in every sense of the word, in a good sense that is, but he came back empty-handed, bringing only slogans.
We really hope that a substantive, as diplomats say, dialogue will start at a certain point. Engaging in direct talks and finding mutually acceptable compromises while respecting each other’s legitimate interests is the only way to create a trusting environment.
As for small and medium-sized businesses, this is also a priority for us. I must acknowledge that, although we have done a great deal in recent years, it is still not enough. The development of SMEs in Russia still falls short of our needs. I won’t cite any figures in this respect.
We have developed a system for supporting SMEs on the regional and federal levels. When allocating funding from the federal budget, we channel it into the regions since SMEs operate locally, so regional authorities have a better understanding of whom to support and how.
What else should be done? Of course, cutting red tape is essential, and we have done a lot in this respect, albeit not enough. What have we done? We streamlined business registration procedures, access to utilities and other networks, and, as I already said, reduced the burden on companies operating on foreign markets from customs bodies.
These initiatives concerned banning companies established by customs services from operating in this segment. We also took many other decisions. What else is there to do? Ensuring access to cheap funding, low-interest loans, is essential. This is perhaps the most challenging objective, but addressing it is the only way to ensure fast and efficient growth for our SMEs.
Alexander Shokhin: Mr Putin, we have quite a few people who wanted to say something or ask a question, including President of Indonesia’s Chamber of Commerce and Industry Suryo Bambang Sulisto, Chairman of the Confederation of Finnish Industries (EK) Ilpo Kokkila, Carlsberg Group President and CEO Jorgen Rasmussen, who co-chairs the EU-Russia Industrialists' Round Table, Chairman of Global Counsel Lord Peter Mandelson, who served as the European Commissioner for Trade for many years, and many other colleagues. That said, your protocol service is telling us that it’s time for you to leave for the next event.
I would like to thank you, Mr Putin, for your detailed answers and comments. We understood that you intend to elaborate on many issues during your speech at the plenary session.
Colleagues, everyone who wanted but was unable take the floor are invited to come to SPIEF’s media centre after the plenary session where you will have an opportunity to share your views with the world.
Thank you, Mr President. I would like to return to my initial statement. I hope that this forum will become a permanent part of the St Petersburg International Economic Forum.
Vladimir Putin: With great pleasure. Thank you very much to everyone for coming here and joining our discussion on Russian and global issues. I think that this discussion will benefit all of us. In any case, this is a very positive signal for enhancing cooperation with Russia.
As for the questions that were not raised or were not answered, such as the question on the labour market, I will address some of them in my remarks. I will share, among other things, Russia’s plans for the near future regarding measures to develop the national economy.
Thank you very much!
Geography
Saint Petersburg
Topics
Industry
Investment
Persons
Shokhin Alexander
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 23, 2014, 14:30
Text version