Events
Meeting on healthcare development
Vladimir Putin held a meeting to discuss healthcare development and the implementation of the Presidential Executive Orders signed in May 2012.
January 21, 2014
16:15
1 of 4
Meeting on healthcare development.
Special attention was given to the need to reduce inefficient spending in healthcare and improve the efficiency of medical institutions, as well as issues pertaining to wages in the healthcare sector.
***
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
At the meeting of the State Council in December of last year, we heard a report from the Ministry of Education and Science on the development of education, and one from the Ministry of Construction, Housing and Utilities on the housing market. We will continue discussing our plans, including those set out in the executive orders of May 2012 and at meetings with Government members. This is the way we agreed to proceed earlier on.
Today we will discuss the state of affairs in healthcare. We have managed to get a few things done in this area last year, and this some of them were quite significant and deserve praise. Thus, mortality has gone down in general, and due to cardiac ailments in particular. Why do I separate the two? Because in the first 11 months of last year overall mortality went down by 1.5% compared to the same period in 2012, while mortality due to cardiac ailments went down by 4%. This is impressive.
“In the first 11 months of last year overall mortality went down by 1.5% compared to the same period in 2012, while mortality due to cardiac ailments went down by 4%.”
In line with the set targets, the salaries of doctors and paramedics are going up. Nationwide doctors’ salaries make up 136% of the average for the economy, which was roughly 29,000 rubles a month last year, while doctors were paid an average of 39,500 rubles.
Paramedics’ salaries went up by 78%, while those of medical attendants – by 45%. Our targets, incidentally, were somewhat lower: 29.7% for doctors and 75.6% for paramedics. As I have said, the increase was a bit higher here, while we failed to meet the target for medical attendants, which was 50.1%, while the actual figure is 45%.
I would also like to note that in 2013 we have completed the healthcare modernisation programme, which was launched in 2010 and completed in 2013. We have significantly upgraded the materials and equipment in hospitals and outpatient clinics in a number of regions and we created conditions for the introduction of medical care standards. However, I would like to single out the fact that at some clinics the medical equipment has not been made operational yet due to the absence of qualified staff and materials.
Undoubtedly, we must continue our efforts to develop healthcare. This is one of the most sensitive areas of life. Primarily we should continue the structural reform in order to do away with inefficient spending, to optimise the network of hospitals and outpatient clinics. This, in turn, can serve as a basis for further growth of salaries and, most importantly, of the quality of medical care.
A particularly sensitive area is optimising the network of state financed medical facilities. We know well what can happen if a purely superficial, formalistic, bureaucratic approach is applied. Remember the reaction of the public to the closure of hospitals and maternity homes in small towns and villages where these were the only medical facilities available. Such restructuring measures are inadmissible, of course.
I would like to reiterate that we need considered and justified solutions, we need to maintain a constant open dialogue with the public, but the analysis must be reasonable. What is also required is firm control on the part of federal and regional authorities. With this in mind, we should create understandable and efficient mechanisms for managing structural change in the healthcare sector.
We will come back to this today. I have spoken of the problems, of the possible pitfalls, as they say, but we cannot do without clear, justified and appropriate actions either. We have to bear this is mind and we should develop corresponding plans in this area.
Next. The transition to funding healthcare through the system of Mandatory Medical Insurance (MMI) should be carefully analysed, specifically the funding of capital repair and construction of medical facilities. So far, the Mandatory Medical Insurance rates only cover maintenance costs, not those of repair and construction. However, the new quality of medicine envisages further improvement of medical facilities’ material and equipment supply and the creation of modern hospitals and outpatient clinics.
Obviously, simply adding investment costs to the MMI tariff is risky and complicated. This could increase the burden on business and the public. However, financing the development of the medical infrastructure only through state funds is also quite complicated, inefficient, and costly, and in some cases, this is purely a waste. Therefore, we need to search for a solution in various types of partnerships between the state and private companies, to create attractive conditions for business. I suggest we discuss possible solutions today as well. However, I would like to point out: all the potential risks connected with the measures to be taken should be carefully considered.
There is another important topic I would like to touch upon today: the ‘submersion’ of high technology medicine into the MMI system. To date, all 12 high-tech medical centres are in operation. Very good, excellent teams have been formed: experts were scouted for across the country, even brought back from abroad. Last year alone they conducted over 50,000 high-tech surgeries. Overall, more than 505,000 such operations were conducted nationwide. In comparison, in 2005 the number was almost 10 times lower. Each of these high-tech medical centres can service 20–25 regions, and in some cases over 50 regions, like in Tyumen.
The funding for high technology surgeries from the federal budget has grown since 2006, as I have already mentioned. Thus, in 2006 it amounted to 9.9 billion rubles, while in 2013 the figure was 55.6 billion.
“All 12 high-tech medical centres are in operation. Last year alone they conducted over 50,000 high-tech surgeries. Overall, more than 505,000 such operations were conducted nationwide.”
At the same time, despite all the achievements, high technology medicine has to continue growing. In the next three years, we expect to increase the scope of such medical aid by at least 50% compared to 2013. This should guide us in all our decisions on funding. This also goes for the transfer of federal healthcare centres providing specialised advanced medical assistance to the regions. These issues come up regularly and we discuss them.
Here I would like to draw your attention to the fact that federal healthcare centres have good material and technical resources, qualified staff and good research potential. They were created to provide medical assistance to all people in this country regardless of their location. Therefore, we can only speak of transferring federal clinics to the regions if the latter are ready to undertake the costs related to the upkeep of such centres, to maintain the quality of services provided both for local residents and for those coming from other Russian regions. We should have a clear understanding here, specifically on the part of the governors.
Many want to have these clinics moved to their regions. However, in that case are you prepared to receive patients from 25, 30 or even 50 regions of the Russian Federation, like Tyumen does? Are you prepared to provide appropriate funding and maintenance of the clinics? They should definitely not be turned into regular hospitals or outpatient clinics.
Obviously, regular hospitals and outpatient clinics should operate at a high level as well. However, specialised centres, called upon to provide advanced medical care should enjoy special treatment. Huge funds have been invested, top experts have been brought to work there, and this level should be maintained. Therefore let us all carefully consider all the issues put forth for discussion today. If there are any other topics you would like to raise, please do so. We will discuss anything you think is of importance for this meeting.
 <…>
Topics
Healthcare
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 21, 2014, 16:15
Text versionEvents
Working meeting with Mayor of Moscow Sergei Sobyanin
Sergei Sobyanin briefed the President on the state and development prospects of Moscow’s healthcare system and transport infrastructure.
January 21, 2014
19:00
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
With Mayor of Moscow Sergei Sobyanin.
  President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Sobyanin, we have just discussed healthcare development in the entire country. As I said, there are certain positive trends that we highlighted during today’s meeting, although there are some problems as well.
First of all, the increase in salaries for doctors and medical personnel at various levels has varied from region to region. Overall, it looks good throughout the nation, but it differs depending on the region. Second, the growth for different categories of medical professionals also varies, and here, we have certain issues that need to be resolved.
There are some questions pertaining to financing federal medical centres. I hope that after today’s meeting, these issues will be resolved. But Moscow ultimately holds a special place. I know that you devote a lot of time to developing healthcare. We have even worked on it together in taking measures to provide financing to regions within the framework of the three-year programme.
I would like to hear directly from you how healthcare is developing in the capital – what has been done recently, what has not been done and why, and what you are planning to do in the near future.
The major centres are functioning well and looking excellent but, the strange truth is, many city residents, average Muscovites, go to regular clinics, use regular, average hospitals, where things are not always as nice as they seem on the surface. That is the first issue I would like to discuss today.
And second, we have addressed transport infrastructure development issues many times – the Third Ring Road and everything related to it, including railway service that was slated for development in Moscow, and creating additional opportunities for people living here to resolve these fairly difficult problems that exist in the capital.
Please, Mr Sobyanin, go ahead.
Mayor of Moscow Sergei Sobyanin
: Mr President, in 2010, when you were still working in the Cabinet, a modernisation programme was adopted, and a good amount of funding was channelled toward it. I made the decision to supplement this funding fifty-fifty – in other words, one ruble of regional funding per ruble of federal funding provided. Overall, the programme turned out well.
It allowed us to fully refit not only the leading clinics (they were already in fairly good condition, as you rightly said), but also regular clinics and hospitals that serve the majority of the population.
Today, ambulatory centres and hospitals in Moscow are equipped at the same level as in European nations – at the level of Great Britain or France; a little worse than Germany, but this is already the European level. And we are talking about functioning equipment. And this equipment allowed us to significantly improve the quality of services we offer to the public.
At the meeting today, you spoke about positive trends in our nation. Moscow is no exception, and we are even moving somewhat more quickly. Mortality among the working population has decreased by 15% in the last three years, while mortality from circulatory diseases, cancer, accidents and respiratory illnesses has decreased 10–30%.
Vladimir Putin: It decreased?
Sergei Sobyanin: Yes, mortality decreased. This is a good indicator. At the same time, in addition to the modernisation programme, we used the money saved to purchase more equipment. New products have been released, such as the da Vinci Surgical System, and we purchased it at less than half its regular price. In Moscow, we have four such systems operating. These are unique systems of a new generation.
But not all hospitals are in proper shape. A significant number of Moscow hospitals are located in historical buildings, and it is practically impossible or very expensive to conduct renovations there. So we have made the decision to build not only clinics, but also major hospital centres. For example, the Morozov Children’s Hospital – the design has been completed, a contract has been signed, and we will begin construction very soon. And we are funding it in the same way: fifty-fifty with the federal government. This will be one of the best clinics in Europe, designed in accordance with European standards. It will essentially replace two major clinics.
Of course, in addition to equipping medical facilities, we need to seriously reorganise and optimise the structure of healthcare, and we need to train staff. This is difficult, mundane work; it is not always popular and can feel thankless. But it is necessary in order for healthcare to work effectively. We are consistently engaged in this work.
As for the Moscow transportation hub, I am very grateful that at an earlier meeting, you identified it as one of the national transport policy priorities, because the transport hub processes 60 to 80% of the nation’s passengers going in various directions. This is not just Moscow’s problem, but rather, a problem for the entire nation, for the nation’s economy.
I think we have made good progress in such areas as metro construction and rebuilding suburban commuter railways. Last year, we have built 12 kilometres of metro lines. I think that this momentum will increase with every year. We have already begun implementing construction of new main tracks along the railway radial lines and the Little Ring Railway. We already have two million passengers per day using these routes. After construction, this number should increase to three million – in other words, this is an enormous passenger flow that needs to have access to adequate transport.
By 2015, if we combine metro and railroad construction (this is combined and called rail transport all around the world), Moscow will be in the first place among the world cities in terms of volumes of construction and commissioning of rail transport and radial lines, as well as metro lines. So this construction is developing well.
We occasionally monitor it at the government level and hold meetings. Naturally, we want the momentum to be even stronger and we want these projects to be financed more quickly, but even if we simply maintain today’s pace, that is already good. So I feel that thanks to your decisions, we are moving forward in this direction.
Vladimir Putin: How much did Moscow ultimately receive from the federal budget to modernise healthcare under this programme?
Sergei Sobyanin: Around 60 billion rubles. And the same amount, or even slightly more, was invested from the regional budget. And if we consider this amount in terms of equipment, Moscow was supposed to receive 40,000 units of equipment. These could include resonance imaging equipment, ultrasounds machines, X-ray machines, etc. Thanks to the money saved, we purchased 65,000 units – in other words, 25,000 more. I think that both the large-scale purchase and price reductions have influenced Russia’s overall market. Russia was considered a second-rate nation; you could sell to Europe for one price, but come to Russia and trade using entirely different prices. We have eliminated many intermediaries and significantly reduced that price, and this has had an overall positive influence on the medical equipment market.
Vladimir Putin: We have been planning to use resources from the reserve fund, the National Welfare Fund, for developing the Moscow transport hub. In order for this to happen, we need to take several steps at the federal level. How is that work progressing currently?
Sergei Sobyanin: I feel that we are making progress.
Vladimir Putin: And how is your cooperation with the Government Cabinet going?
Sergei Sobyanin: This project is related to the so-called Central Ring Road. A small part of it – no more than 10–12 kilometres – passes through Moscow, and first and foremost, it is being financed 100% via public funding.
But, of course, we need additional resources for the entire ring road, including through the National Welfare Fund. And as far as I know, the Government is already prepared to make a decision to provide financing for this project. Construction should begin this year.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, but in order for this to happen, we need the projects to be ready. Are you monitoring this preparation for financing?
Sergei Sobyanin: Project documentation for the first stage is almost complete.
Vladimir Putin: Very well.
<…>
Geography
Moscow
Topics
Healthcare
Transport
Persons
Sobyanin Sergei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 21, 2014, 19:00
Text version