Events
Meeting on ensuring law and order in Crimea
Vladimir Putin held a meeting in Sevastopol on ensuring law and order in the Crimean Federal District.
August 19, 2015
17:10
Sevastopol
1 of 5
Meeting on ensuring law and order in Crimea.
The meeting focused particularly on organising cooperation between the federal law enforcement agencies and the executive authorities in Crimea and Sevastopol.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues. I propose that we discuss today the range of matters concerning law and order in the Crimean Federal District.
We will look at how the federal law enforcement agencies and the executive authorities in Crimea and Sevastopol are working together, and what other steps and measures are needed here.
Let me say right away that overall, the crime rate in the region is under control. This is in part the direct result of decisions taken over the last 18 months to integrate Crimea and Sevastopol into Russia’s common legal and administrative space and strengthen the law enforcement agencies in the region, and it is also the result of the considerable help that the federal agencies are providing to their colleagues here in Crimea.
At the same time, the current situation requires maximum attention and vigilance, and effective preventive work in a range of areas.
First, we see clearly the continued threat that external forces could act in one way or another to destabilise the situation in the region. This could include attempts to play the nationalism card, or to take advantages of mistakes, oversights, or ineffective action on the part of the authorities and channel people’s just concerns onto a destructive path.
People talk frankly of these things in some capitals and speak of the need for subversive action. They are putting together the needed organisation, recruiting and training people to carry out acts of sabotage and diversion and spread radical propaganda. The aim is clear – to destabilise the situation and hinder people’s normal lives and the region’s socioeconomic development.
We need to take these risks into account and respond accordingly, at federal and local level. We must not exaggerate anything or stir up needless fears, but at the same time, we need to be aware of the situation and must be prepared and ready for a swift response.
Second, we have yet to see a drop in the level of corruption-related and economic crime. In 2014–2015, the law enforcement agencies registered more than 1,500 such crimes, of which more than 20 percent were corruption-related.
More than 60 senior officials have been fired recently because of corruption-related activity in Crimea. I ask you to make a much greater effort to rid state bodies and agencies of people involved in corruption and people who have compromised themselves with dubious connections. You must pay particular attention to putting an end to criminal schemes in the management of state and municipal property, spending of budget money, and public procurement.
Of course, decisions by the local authorities to allocate or appropriate land are very sensitive. We know that there are people who want to bypass the law and use corruption schemes to get their hands on a good bit of real estate. This is nothing new. Unfortunately, this sort of thing goes on not just in the Crimean Federal District but in other parts of Russia too. We fight this everywhere, and we must fight it consistently here too. You must not lose time in setting up a thorough and transparent regional database of real estate objects.
Finally, I ask you to take measures to bolster customs and other types of control at checkpoints in order to prevent drug trafficking and attempts to import potentially harmful or prohibited goods into Crimea. You must also pay greater attention to ensuring compliance with the law in passenger and freight transport.
Let us now begin the discussion. We have our agenda. Let’s begin.
<…>
See also
Trip to Crimean Federal District
August 17 − 19, 2015
Geography
Republic of Crimea
Sevastopol
Topics
Fight against crime
Law enforcement agencies
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 19, 2015, 17:10
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Roy Jones
Vladimir Putin met with American professional boxer and four division world champion Roy Jones.
August 19, 2015
19:30
Sevastopol
The boxer is also known for his music and acting career. In Crimea, Roy Jones will participate in the Battle of Mount Gasfort boxing show as a singer.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Jones, I am very happy to see you.
Roy Jones: I am pretty glad to be here, Mr President.
Vladimir Putin: How did you find yourself in Crimea?
Roy Jones: We do a lot of boxing business.
Vladimir Putin: Naturally, I am very happy to meet you. I am a big fan of sports, especially martial arts and boxing.
You were highly successful in boxing – like no one else. You were a world champion in the middleweight, super middleweight, light heavyweight and heavyweight divisions. I don’t think there have been any others like you in the world. At least, not in boxing.
Roy Jones: No, not from middleweight to heavyweight.
Vladimir Putin: Indeed.
Roy Jones: What age were you in when you got into combat sports?
Vladimir Putin: I was 14.
Roy Jones: What got you in?
Vladimir Putin: I liked wrestling. I began with the Russian martial art, Sambo; and then I moved on to Judo. Unfortunately, I did not have your level of athletic success.
Roy Jones: But it’s not about the achievements; it’s about the personality you get from it.
Vladimir Putin: That’s true. It really helps to develop your character. I know you are doing well in many other areas. You are a singer, musician and actor.
Roy Jones: Well, because when God blesses you with a gift, you have to try to use it to the fullest.
Vladimir Putin: You are doing it well. I hope you will succeed in business here in Russia as well.
Roy Jones: That’s why I want to come here. That’s why I’m also here. Because I want to ask you about maybe having a passport to go back and forth so that I can do business here. Because all the people here seem to love Roy Jones Jr. And I love when people love me.
Vladimir Putin: Your name is very well known among sports and boxing fans in Russia. If you plan to spend a significant part of your life working in Russia, we would certainly be happy to fulfil your request to receive a Russian passport, Russian citizenship.
Roy Jones: Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: I think Russian boxing fans would be very happy.
Roy Jones: Oh, they will.
Vladimir Putin: I wish you success in all your work in Russia.
Roy Jones: Thank you, sir. And also, I think, sports-wise, it would help build a bridge between the two countries.
Vladimir Putin: We had different kinds of relations at different times, but whenever America and Russia’s higher interest demanded it, we always found the strength to build relations in the best possible way. And if people like you can provide additional opportunities to build relations not only at the state level, but also at the human level, that will create the necessary conditions.
Roy Jones: That’s what I plan to do.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much.
Roy Jones: Thank you.
<…>
See also
Trip to Crimean Federal District
August 17 − 19, 2015
Geography
Sevastopol
Republic of Crimea
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 19, 2015, 19:30
Text version