Events
Meeting with WorldSkills Russian national team
Vladimir Putin met with the WorldSkills professional skills competition’s Russian national team, which won six medals at the 2015 WorldSkills Competition world championship in Brazil, in mechatronics, electrical installations, hairdressing, cooking, restaurant service, and IT network systems administration.
September 1, 2015
19:10
Sochi
1 of 2
Meeting with WorldSkills professional skills competition’s Russian national team.
The WorldSkills international non-profit movement was created to promote blue-collar professions and the development of vocational education by organising and holding professional skills competitions. Russia joined the movement in May 2012.
In 2019, the WorldSkills Competition world championship will be held in Kazan. This decision was made at the movement’s general assembly in Sao Paolo. Paris and Charleroi, Belgium also competed for the right to host the championships.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: I know you have moved 27 positions up compared to our last performance, taking into account that this is only the second time our national team is taking part in this competition. This is a good result, thanks to your professionalism. I’m not going to say now how important it is, but you know that we have set a goal for at least half of Russian vocational schools to train professionals according to the highest global standards by 2020. I hope that if we move forward just as you demonstrated, then this objective will not only be met, but also surpassed.
You know that in 2019, the WorldSkills world championship for professional skills and engineering professions will be held in Russia. It would be great if we perform well at the championship we host. I think we have all the prerequisites for it. And I very much hope that you will not give up this work, but on the contrary, will inspire others through your example.
<…>
See also
Vladimir Putin visited Sirius educational centre on Knowledge Day
September 1, 2015
Geography
Krasnodar Territory
Topics
Professional training
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 1, 2015, 19:10
Text versionEvents
Interview to TASS and Xinhua news agencies
Ahead of his visit to the People’s Republic of China to attend celebrations of the 70th anniversary of China’s victory in the War of Resistance Against Japan and the end of World War II, Vladimir Putin gave an interview to the Russian news agency TASS and the Chinese news agency Xinhua.
September 1, 2015
14:00
Question: This year marks 70 years since the victory over Nazism in World War II. Both your father and the father of China’s President Xi Jinping
fought in that war. Your memories of the war are both your personal, family memories and the memories of the whole nation. After Xi Jinping’s spring visit to Moscow to attend the events commemorating the 70th anniversary of Victory in the Great Patriotic War
, you will make a visit to Beijing to attend the grand military parade marking the victory in the War of Resistance against the Japanese invaders. What do you think is the importance today of commemorating the victory in WWII and those historic events? What is your assessment of the contribution of the Chinese people’s War of Resistance against the Japanese invaders to the overall victory against Nazism?
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: True, for Russia and China this Victory anniversary has a special significance. The Soviet Union achieved it through enormous sacrifice. The people of China also bore great losses. We will never forget heroism, courage and spiritual strength of the generation of victors. We will forever remember the fallen and honour the veterans.
Our two countries were allies in the fight against Nazism and Japanese militarism and bore the brunt of the aggression, and they not only withstood this battle, but won it, liberating enslaved peoples and bringing peace to the planet.
Such mutual support between the Soviet and the Chinese people in those years of trial, our common historical memory serve as a strong foundation for present-day relations between Russia and China.
Today, both in Europe and in Asia, we witness the attempts to falsify the history of World War II, to promote loose and distorted interpretations of the events that are not based on facts, particularly events of the pre-war and post-war periods. Efforts by certain countries to glorify and exonerate war criminals and their henchmen are an outrageous flouting of the Nuremberg and Tokyo trials. This is an outright insult to the memory of millions who fell in the war. The goal of such historical speculations is obvious: they are used in shady geopolitical games with the purpose of sowing feud between countries and peoples.
Russia and China maintain similar views on the causes, history and results of World War II. For our peoples its memory and its lessons are sacred. This tragic past is an appeal to our common responsibility for the fate of the world, to the realisation of the terrible consequences a destructive ideology of personal exclusiveness and all-permissiveness could lead to. These are the ideas that Nazism and militarism thrived on. It is our duty to prevent their revival and spreading.
Therefore, it is extremely important that our two countries are united in their striving to further preserve historical truth and defend our common Victory. Our joint celebrations of the 70th anniversary of Victory in World War II clearly illustrate this commitment of ours.
Question: In the past years, the situation in the world has been full of dramatic developments and changes, certain tendencies being rather alarming. How do you see relations between Moscow and Beijing in the current international situation? Can Russia and China assist in building a new world order and if so, what should it be based on, in your view?
Vladimir Putin: Unfortunately, the international situation is growing increasingly unpredictable. The creation of a new polycentric model is accompanied by growing regional and global instability. The main reason for such a tense and complicated situation is the deficit of attempts to reach compromise.
Inter-civilizational and inter-religious controversies fail to reach a stable solution. The global economy is yet to enter the stage of its stable development. Among the endemic problems is the persistent desire of certain states to retain their dominance in global affairs at any cost. While declaring norms of democracy, supremacy of law and human rights in their own countries, they ignore the same on the international arena, actually denouncing the principle of sovereign equality of all states laid down in the UN Charter.
In these complicated conditions, Russian-Chinese cooperation takes on a new meaning in terms of maintaining and strengthening global and regional stability and security and finding effective response to global challenges.
Russian-Chinese ties have now probably reached a peak in their entire history and continue developing. The partnership between Russia and China is based on sincere friendship and sympathy between our peoples, on deep respect and trust, consideration for each other’s key interests and commitment to make our countries flourish.
It is in this vein that we work together in the UN, the G20, as well as within BRICS
and the SCO
, which have successfully held their summits in Ufa this July. The Russia-China connection played an important part in resolving such acute issues as the withdrawal of chemical weapons from Syria and an agreement on Iran’s nuclear programme.
Russia and China are priority partners in promoting the principles of building an architecture based on inseparable security and cooperation in the Asia-Pacific region, in strengthening trust in space exploration and ensuring global information security.
Expansion of the Russian-Chinese partnership meets the interests and strategic goals of our two countries. This is what guided us when we adopted in May the current Joint Declaration on cooperation in coordinating development of the Eurasian Economic Union
and the Silk Road Economic Belt. This is the beginning of a process of coordinating our long-term development priorities to give a strong impetus to economic activity on the vast expanses of Eurasia.
Question: Trade and economic relations between Russia and China are generally on the rise, though Western anti-Russian sanctions negatively affect the bilateral trade. Can the countries achieve the target of doubling trade turnover they have set for themselves earlier? What areas do you consider most promising here?
Vladimir Putin: China is our key economic partner. In the past years, we have managed to make significant progress in all areas of economic and production cooperation.
I would not agree that the illegitimate restrictions imposed by certain Western countries against Russia have a negative impact on Russian-Chinese economic cooperation. On the contrary, this encourages our domestic business to develop stable business ties with China.
Since 2010, China has been Russia’s leading trade partner. In 2014, despite unfavourable trends in global economy, we managed to maintain our trade turnover, which reached around $88.4 billion.
Energy remains the key area here. Our countries are consistently moving towards the creation of a strategic energy alliance that, I am sure, will play a significant role in international economic relations.
In 2014, we made a real breakthrough in gas industry. In May of last year, during my visit to China, we signed a contract for annual supplies to China of 38 billion cubic meters of natural gas. It will be shipped via the ‘eastern’ route for 30 years. To implement the project, we have already launched the construction of the Power of Siberia gas pipeline. In May of this year, we reached initial agreement on the ‘western’ route, with anticipated exports of 30 billion cubic meters a year. The implementation of these large-scale projects is our absolute priority for the near future.
We are also making significant progress in other areas of energy cooperation. We have built and began operating an oil pipeline from Russia to China, we signed agreements to increase oil shipments, created joint ventures to explore and produce oil in this country. Chinese companies have joined gas projects on the Russian Arctic shelf and the Sakhalin shelf. There are good prospects for joint development of coalfields in the Far East.
Nuclear energy cooperation is also developing rapidly. The first and second power units of the Tianwan Nuclear Power Plant, built by Rosatom, are demonstrating the best efficiency and security among all the nuclear power plants in China. We are currently involved in the construction of the third and fourth power units of the station, to be commissioned in 2018. As you can see, Russian-Chinese energy cooperation has great potential.
I consider the development of high-speed railway transport one of the most promising areas. We have already agreed on the parameters of joint funding for the construction of a high-speed route between Moscow and Kazan, and the amount of investment to be provided by our Chinese partners and us will exceed 1 trillion rubles. We expect to have the new route running by 2020, for it to become a model project of Russian-Chinese transport and infrastructure cooperation.
Cooperation in aerospace and space rocket industries is of great significance for both our countries. We have already agreed on the joint creation of a wide-bodied long-range jumbo jet and a heavy helicopter, as well as on a number of other joint programmes.
China’s participation as a partner country in the INNOPROM 2015 International Industrial Fair in Yekaterinburg gave a new impetus to close cooperation in science, technology and production.
Both Moscow and Beijing are set to intensify our financial partnership, including mutual settlements in national currencies. We plan to expand interregional ties and cross-border cooperation, increasing their practical effect and improving cross-border transport infrastructure.
Question: Russia has taken a number of measures lately to boost the development of its regions in the Far East, including, in particular, the creation of a free port in Vladivostok. In Ufa in July, you also welcomed the participation of Chinese companies in the development of the Russian Far East. What do you think are the opportunities for Russian-Chinese cooperation here? How does Russia intend to attract Chinese investors?
Vladimir Putin: True, the development of Siberia and the Far East is our national priority for the entire 21st century. We have already made a number of significant steps to resolve this grand-scale task. We are actively implementing a programme of socioeconomic development of the Far East and the Baikal region, which includes dozens of major investment projects, including the construction of the Power of Siberia gas pipeline, Vostochny space launch centre, gas refining and gas chemical projects planned by Gazprom
and Sibur, modernisation and expansion of the Baikal-Amur and Trans-Siberian mainlines, and the Zvezda shipyards.
Of course, Russia is interested in attracting foreign, including Chinese investors to participate in the implementation of these projects. The Federal Law On Priority Development Areas in Russia has created a new instrument both for the country in general and for the Far Eastern regions, where we have already created 9 such areas.
Priority development areas, along with special economic zones, should become the ‘locomotives’ of economic transformation in the Far East, sort of clusters that attract and accumulate investment and technology. Major tax incentives and simplified business procedures help create on these territories favourable conditions for investment and business regardless of the country the capital comes from.
Resident companies will enjoy the following benefits: zero profit tax, property tax and land tax for the first 5 years; zero import and export customs duty; subsidies on loans, special rates on rent and simplified state and municipal control procedures. For 10 years after obtaining a Priority Development Area (PDA) resident status, businesses will make lower insurance payments (7.6 percent instead of 30). Value added tax on imports for refining will also be zero.
However, stimulation measures are not limited to this. National and foreign companies will enjoy mineral extraction tax holiday: reduction factor (between 0 and 0.8 percent) will be applied for 10 years. Administrative barriers will be minimised. Most importantly, the state undertakes to create the necessary infrastructure. The Russian Government estimates that total investment in the first three priority development areas alone will constitute over 50 billion rubles. The federal budget is also allocating significant funds for their development – about 7.5 billion rubles.
Just as large-scale changes are in store for investors in the south of Primorye Territory, where we are introducing a free port regime that would cover all the key ports from Nakhodka to Zarubino, including Vladivostok, of course. The law on free port will come into effect in October 2015. Here we intend to introduce significant tax preferences – up to zero rate on certain taxes. The business environment is being simplified to the maximum, including in capital construction, and we are actually introducing a visa-free regime for foreign citizens. A free customs zone procedure will also be in place on the territory of the free port, which actually means duty-free import of foreign goods.
I am convinced that these new opportunities will draw the interest of investors from China and a number of other Asian countries to the implementation of our plans. Moreover, a number of major companies have already put forth specific investment projects. Thus, our Chinese partners are ready to invest over 100 billion rubles into the construction of an oil refinery and a clinker plant in Amur Region, Nizhneleninskoye–Tongjiang and Blagoveshchensk–Heihe bridges, and a metallurgical plant and a brick factory in Yakutia.
Question: In May, you signed an Executive Order on the annual Eastern Economic Forum in Vladivostok. What do you expect from it? What did your regional partners think of this idea?
Vladimir Putin: The St Petersburg International Economic Forum
held in June demonstrated that, despite the sanctions imposed against Russia that hinder the development of quality economic cooperation, the interest in this country among foreign business circles has grown. More than 10,000 participants from 120 countries came to the forum. Therefore, we have no doubt that the first Eastern Economic Forum to be held in Vladivostok on September 3–5 will also attract our foreign partners, primarily those in the Asia-Pacific region.
The main purpose of the forum is to position Russia as an active participant in economic and integration processes in the Asia-Pacific region and to present specific projects to investors for joint implementation. Business circles in India, Vietnam, South Korea, Japan, Singapore and some other countries geographically not belonging to the region are already showing interest in the forum.
We highly value our Chinese partners’ intention to send a strong delegation that will include businessmen from over a hundred leading energy, mining, transport, agricultural, machine building and other companies, as well as representatives from major financial institutions, the central authorities and governors. We expect them to be especially active at the forum.
Question: You said earlier that you have special feelings for China. Since you were elected for your first term as President in 2000, you have now visited China as the Russian leader 13 times. What changes that you noticed during those visits impressed you most? What do you think about China’s development?
Vladimir Putin: As you have fairly noted, I was lucky to watch China ‘on the move’ over a number of years. With every visit, I noted that your country was growing more economically powerful, achieving new targets in building a modern infrastructure and in social development.
At the same time, China is showing great care for its cultural and historic traditions. Everyone who visits your wonderful country feels this practically everywhere. Cultural heritage sites are of special importance, reflecting the full measure of the ancient Chinese civilisation. My trip to the Shaolin monastery during my visit in 2006 was unforgettable.
The development road China has covered over these years is a path of successful economic reform and wise social policy. This experience is of great value for us. Therefore, even with all the differences between Russia and China, we are facing common development targets, such as changing the structure of the economy to favour high technology sectors. Russia and China also have very similar industrial priorities: these are nuclear energy, space exploration, new information technologies, environmental protection, energy saving, production of high technology medicines and medical equipment, and some other.
Our two countries have an enormous potential for closer business cooperation and active humanitarian ties. More importantly, we are prepared to make use of all these opportunities; we see mutual interest and trust between us grow and friendly ties become stronger. There is a lot we can achieve on this basis. And I am sure we will.
Geography
People's Republic of China
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 1, 2015, 14:00
Text versionEvents
Address at Knowledge Day celebrations with teachers and students of Sirius educational centre
September 1, 2015
15:00
At Knowledge Day celebrations with students and teachers of the Sirius educational centre for gifted children.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends.
I would like to begin by congratulating all of you, all school and university students of Russia and all teachers on the beginning of a new school year.
On September 1, we are here in Sochi, our Olympic dream city, city of hope and victory.
The Sochi Olympic heritage is already being used for the benefit of the nation, its development and its future. Apart from modern roads, power stations and hotels, social and, of course, sports facilities, we have created an educational centre for children here. We have named it Sirius – after the brightest star in the sky – because here we have and will continue receiving enthusiastic children, interested in what they are doing. These are children who have demonstrated skills in various fields: in mathematics, physics, chemistry, biology, ice-skating, music, painting or hockey. Their first success has been made possible by their own talents and the help of their teachers.
We are proud of our national recreation camps Artek, Orlyonok and Okean. However, Sirius is primarily an educational centre, although, as you may see, we have created wonderful leisure conditions here as well. There is no other such centre in the world where children interested in science, the arts and sport can study and train together.
The best teachers and coaches in Russia will be working at Sirius, outstanding scholars, university faculty members and school teachers will lecture here. Both the children and their teachers and mentors will have an opportunity to learn something new here.
Sirius is to become a key link in our national system of support for talented active children. It is to serve as a beacon for all the regions and set the standards for schools with an in-depth study of certain subjects, for educational establishments existing at leading universities, for ballet and art colleges, sports and music schools.
We hope that you will find like-minded people and make friends here. We want you to be proud of each other’s achievements in science, creative endeavours and sport, to expand your horizons by communicating with each other, sharing knowledge, skills, outlooks and opinions.
We expect Sirius alumni to stay in its field of vision for a long time. This applies to your further education and your practical activities, you future work.
I hope that when you return home you will retain the atmosphere of friendship obtained at Sirius and will reaffirm your striving towards your goal, achieving greater success in the name of your chosen field – be it science, sport or art, and in the name of our wonderful Motherland. I am certain that your vigorous search and your team spirit will attract your peers. I hope you will maintain close ties with each other and establish a Sirius community of true patriots and professionals, working for the benefit of this country.
Now I suggest we talk about what today’s school students can do for Russia, to help it move forward with confidence.
See also
Vladimir Putin visited Sirius educational centre on Knowledge Day
September 1, 2015
Friends, I propose we begin with the most complicated issue – your choice in life. It often takes a lot of effort to understand what you really want, what you are good at. The sooner you make this choice, the better, because you will have more time to achieve things. Any success, be it scientific discoveries, economic, cultural or sports achievements, is directly linked to talent, education, hard work and persistence.
This country has always staked on those who did not fear to take on responsibility. Many of such people were young, daring and independent. Such was Peter the Great and his like-minded friends, who set a new vector in Russia’s development. Peter was only 11 when he formed his so-called Toy Army. This seemed to be only a game. Then at the age of 16, he set up on Pleshcheyevo Lake what we would now call a shipbuilding laboratory. And just a few years later the Toy Army grew into the victorious and stalwart Russian guard, and the tiny fleet – into the Russian Navy. Peter’s young associates became army commanders, administrators and industrialists; they built plants and shipyards, developed science. Peter himself travelled all over Europe, sending talented young men there so they could see the world and return home filled with knowledge and impressions to build a new country, but one that would be their own rather than a copy of some other land.
Russia became stronger through the efforts of those who worked to move it forward and multiply their predecessors’ achievements. The development of science always merited special attention. In 1725, the Science Academy and the first University were set up in St Petersburg. Moscow University was founded 30 years later and it accepted all young people regardless of class, as long as they were talented and wanted to learn and to be of use to their country.
Mikhail Lomonosov played an enormous role in the development of education in Russia. He was not only a polymath scholar, a poet, historian and artist; he was also a devotee and creator of the foundations and traditions of Russian science.
A lot was done to strengthen our Fatherland during the reign of Catherine II. She conducted many progressive reforms, including the creation of the Russian system of school education, the opening of the first public libraries and 17 regional printing shops. Books, magazines and newspapers came to the provinces, playing a great role in the dissemination of knowledge. Historian Nikolai Karamzin wrote that there was hardly another country in the world where the number of people who loved to read grew as quickly as it did in Russia; even the poorest subscribed, while the illiterate wanted to know what was in the papers.
I am going into such detail about the educational traditions in Russia for a good reason. Science, education, culture, literature and our great Russian language create a solid foundation on which a truly strong state is built.
True, there were also tragic pages in this country’s history. The riots, revolutions and civil wars of the past teach us how destructive any division is for Russia. They prove that only unity of the people and public accord can lead to success and ensure independence, help rebuff any powerful and treacherous enemy.
The entire nation rose up whenever there was a need to defend this country. Wherever did the enormous spiritual strength and readiness to sacrifice come from? It all grew from a sincere love for this country that came from the heart. These patriotic feelings are passed on from generation to generation, and one feels this especially strongly when May 9 comes, the day of our Victory in the Great Patriotic War: we seem to hear the hearts of all beating as one. This is an unprecedented unity of veterans, their children, grandchildren and great grandchildren. This year the Immortal Regiment movement also united us all: tens of thousands of your peers came out with portraits of their loved ones who defended this country against Nazism.
Students of the Sirius educational centre for gifted children.
During the Great Patriotic War children and teenagers would study, work at plants and fight within partisan groups, they ran off to the frontlines, becoming ‘adopted’ by the units, they worked and fought for the victory alongside adults. And despite the terrible hardships, they dreamt of their future. Thus, as a youngster the great Russian singer Galina Vishnevskaya survived the siege of Leningrad. She recalled how she was swollen from starvation, but her dream of becoming an opera singer kept her alive. Many of you know what great heights this remarkable woman reached.
After the war, the country’s schools of higher learning were filled with people from the frontlines. They wanted to learn, to become experts and build a peaceful life. Among them was future Nobel Prize winner Nikolai Basov, whose name is familiar to those of you who like physics, just like the name of Academician Alexander Prokhorov, who had also gone through the war and became one of the founders of quantum electronics and laser physics. Today their discoveries are used in medicine, industry, biology, communication systems – just about everywhere. These were great world-scale achievements of our science, and only brave enthusiasts with deep knowledge could achieve such breakthroughs.
Sergei Korolev designed his first airplane when he was 17. Many of you here are 17. Then he got interested in jet propulsion and the ideas of the great Russian scientist Konstantin Tsiolkovsky – the founder of theoretical astronautics. Back then many found what he was doing flippant, unrealistic. He had to make his way past misunderstanding, mockery and scepticism of his aspirations and plans. However, in a matter of years Korolev became the head of our space programme and put together a unique team of researchers, designers, engineers and workers. Together they turned into reality the dream of all mankind – man’s first flight into space. This was an outstanding event, the whole world was rejoicing. My peers and I were only children then, but the joy and pride for our Motherland has remained with us to this day. When they asked Sergei Korolev how he managed to beat competition in the space race from other countries, who were also very talented people, he said, “How could I give up my dream?”
Breakthroughs in many areas were made possible by the strengths of our fundamental science. Teams of mathematicians and physicists generated ever new ideas and ran complicated calculations. Something that used to seem removed from reality and of little practical use would later lead to truly revolutionary technological change and breakthroughs. Incidentally, the success of our rocket and nuclear projects was referred to as the result of achievements by the three K’s – Academicians Keldysh, Kurchatov and Korolev. They were not only great scientists, but their outstanding scientific research was eventually linked to the solution of large-scale practical issues; they had scientific foresight and knew how to single out what was most important – often things situated at the junction of different sciences.
Thus, mathematician Mstislav Keldysh saw prospects for a major scientific discovery in semiconductor physics. A team led by the future Nobel Prize winner Zhores Alferov were conducting this research. Support by Mr Keldysh played a decisive role in his life, while Mr Alferov’s fundamental discoveries formed the basis of present-day mobile telephone communications and telecommunications. Mr Alferov will correct me if I am wrong, he should be here somewhere. Let us welcome him. (Applause)
Friends, every generation has its own priority targets. Your parents and the older generation in general were to take on a significant turning point in history – the establishment of a new Russia. I believe today you find it difficult to even imagine the complexity of the challenges and the drama of those times, though it was only a short while ago. The political organisation, social structure and economic and public life were all subject to change. These changes had to be accepted; one had to find the will and the strength to become actively involved in building a new life. Your parents and grandparents dealt with this mission honourably. Today many of them are still going strong, working to enhance the foundation that you will be always relying upon.
Now you are to achieve new milestones, solve ever more complex tasks and meet major challenges. You have to be ready for this. The strength and advantage your generation has is that you are open-minded, freethinking and can come up with nonstandard solutions.
I will only provide one example that gives us reason to be proud of our national defence industry – this is the creation of the latest Iskander missile system. Its most important control element was designed by young people under 30. They set up their own team, took on the responsibility, said they could handle the job. People believed in them, and they found an original solution that no so-called mature team was able to come up with.
The young are taking on complex jobs nowadays and are making significant progress in various fields: from unique biological research to breakthroughs in medicine. They implement social projects, set up their own businesses and work in production. It is very important that you too are trying to use your knowledge in practice: you are constructing robots, working on space technologies, creating technologies for the automobile and electronic industries; you conduct complex experiments in chemistry and physics.
It is very good that your generation knows the significance of sport in life. Sport is again popular among young people – this is great. Physical fitness makes your spirit stronger and helps you overcome difficulties. When our athletes at international competitions fight to the end, striving for victory, defending Russia’s honour – this unites the entire country, the people, all of society, and we admire their courage and feel proud for this country. There are many outstanding athletes here today, let us also welcome them. (Applause) This feeling we have for our Motherland, it is natural, it is warm, it is like a filial affection. It is a concentration of both a deeply personal feeling and the realisation of the enormous significance of certain events and achievements.
We are proud of the great contribution by Russian composers, musicians, writers and artists to the development of world civilisation and culture. There is no need to list their names now – we all know and revere them, and not only in this country, but also people around the world. Their creativity has made Russia famous, has influenced the minds and hearts of people and the formation of the national cultural and value-based environment. This is very important as only a society with clear moral values and a strong spiritual position and support is capable of creating and developing harmonious society, is capable of harmonious technological progress. Only such a society can use scientific achievements to the benefit of humanity rather than to its detriment.
Friends, I don’t know how often you have frank conversations with your parents and teachers, but I am convinced that such conversations are necessary. We, adults, also need your support and trust. It is very important to understand each other, including on matters that pertain to the current situation, to the country’s future. It is easier to resolve problems together, including those related to making moral choices. This is something we have to do all the time. Both in society and in friendships, people are judged not by their career, success or wealth, but by their deeds, their cultural level, their decency, their relations with their family, their children, parents and friends. Each of us chooses what to do, how to achieve the goals we set ourselves.
For my generation all this was of great importance, we also had what was called the street, the back yard, the apartment house we all grew up in. We spent a lot of time at these ‘informal’ locations, in todays’ terms. True, we had plenty of our own problems there, but this environment taught us friendship, mutual assistance, taught us how to tell good from evil. Treachery and betrayal were the worst, the most despised things. We argued, discussed the things that were going on at school, as well as films and characters from books.
Now life has changed cardinally, of course, but true values never change. These are honesty, patriotism, a sense of conscience, love, kindness, courage, honour, generosity, responsibility and a sense of duty. I am certain that they matter for you too, as much as how much benefit to our Fatherland your talent can bring and how well you can use the knowledge obtained.
Numerous achievements of your peers show the opportunities Russia offers to people with education, those who are goal-oriented and out-of-the-ordinary. Thus, a student team from the St Petersburg National Research University of Information Technologies, Mechanics and Optics has for several years now been winning world championships in software engineering. Moreover, university stars stay in Russia after graduation and find jobs at Russian high technology companies, create their own start-ups or teach at their university. This applies not only to those who apply their talents in technology or production, but also people of the arts: there are many gifted, talented young people working at Russian theatres, in the film industry and literature. They tour the world a lot, but they all have a common homeland – it is Russia.
Friends, people often ask: what will this country be like in 10–15 years? At least they ask me that all the time. I will say frankly that this primarily depends on you, on how you live your lives during those years. We do not see you as observers who will have everything ready for them. No, we see you as direct participants in building the future, the country you live in and your children will live in.
The world is changing rapidly, competition is growing. Using a sports metaphor, ever more states are ready to fight for the title of champion. The stakes in this historical marathon are very high: whether we would produce our own unique technologies and share our breakthrough knowledge with the world, whether we will be able to make the environment safer and more comfortable to live in, will we be proud of achievements in national art, of our sports records – or whether we will be jealous of others’ triumphs. Finally, whether we would be able to meet the global civilisational challenges and ensure the leading role and sovereignty of our nation. Answers to all these questions form your agenda, your action plan.
On many occasions Russia proved its leading role in science, the arts and sport, primarily because people set themselves ambitious targets, did the impossible and moved towards victory despite any difficulties. You have to dream, to make ambitious plans, to achieve more and do something nobody has ever done before. This is the most difficult part, but this is the essence of progress, of development.
Behind every victory, there are always doubts, mistakes and failures, which is natural. Here it is important not to step back, not to give up. The main success factor is faith in one’s own ability, in oneself. Each of you has to find who you are and what your place in life is. Then you will become a united team, the best in the world. I am certain that this is how it will be. Behind you are your parents, your teachers, mentors, and your homeland – Russia. We will be next to you, we will help and admire you, we will work for you and with you for Russia.
I believe in you, in the success of each one of you. You can, you must and you will win.
Topics
Children
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: September 1, 2015, 15:00
Text version