Events
Beginning of meeting with Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi
March 5, 2015
14:20
Meeting with Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister, colleagues,
I am happy to welcome you in Moscow. I know you have had a busy day – I hope you are not too tired to have this conversation.
Italy is undoubtedly one of our privileged partners in Europe and the world at large. Regardless of the situation, our trade and economic relations are doing quite well. There are some losses due to obvious reasons, but generally, we are doing fine: Italy ranks fourth among our partners in the world in terms of trade turnover.
We are working together in the power industry, in mechanical engineering, space exploration, nuclear power – I cannot think of an area where we do not cooperate.
Our political dialogue is also quite active. I am very happy for this opportunity to meet you in Russia to discuss all the issues of mutual interest.
Prime Minister of Italy Matteo Renzi
(retranslated): Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for receiving us. This is our third meeting in the past four months; however, I have to admit this is my first time in the Kremlin.
True, there is an entire range of issues I would like to discuss with you in detail. This primarily has to do with relations between the European Union and Russia, particularly within the context of the Ukrainian crisis. I would also like to discuss the situation in the Mediterranean – the complicated situation in Libya.
There are also a large number of issues pertaining to our bilateral cooperation. Without exaggeration, they range from space exploration, where we are very proud to say we now have an Italian female astronaut, to very ‘earthly’ things such as the agro-industrial complex and food production, which are also of great interest for both parties.
Vladimir Putin: We wish your compatriot a successful landing on May 11.
Matteo Renzi: This is the first Italian woman in orbit.
Vladimir Putin: She is representing Italian women with honour.
Matteo Renzi: True. Strictly speaking, we have quite a few women at all levels and in all spheres of activity. This includes Ms Mogherini, whom you had a chance to talk to when she was Foreign Minister. Now, as you may know, she is High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Policy, and Mr Lavrov has met with her on numerous occasions.
Actually, I believe there are many more issues we need to discuss and we welcome this opportunity.
Vladimir Putin: I agree.
<…>
See also
Meeting with Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi
March 5, 2015
Geography
Italy
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Renzi Matteo
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: March 5, 2015, 14:20
Text versionEvents
Press statement following talks with Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi
March 5, 2015
17:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 4
Press statements following talks with Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ladies and gentlemen,
Russian-Italian relations rest on the rich traditions of long-term friendship and mutual respect. Italy is one of Russia’s most important partners in European affairs and in resolving pressing international issues.
Today’s talks with Prime Minister Renzi took place in an atmosphere of goodwill and constructive dialogue, typical for Russian-Italian relations. Our conversation was very useful and timely, given the current situation in Europe and the world at large.
We discussed the state of our bilateral relations and of relations between Russia and the European Union. We spoke for their further development, which would meet the interests of Russia and the EU member states.
We, of course, exchanged views on the Ukrainian crisis. Mr Prime Minister expressed his position regarding this matter and made some valuable proposals regarding what could be done to achieve a settlement. The situation there, as we all know, remains complicated. At least combat action has been stopped, people are not dying and towns are not being destroyed.
We agreed that the conflicting parties should strictly abide by the agreements achieved in Minsk on February 12. I am certain that this opens up opportunities for an overall peaceful settlement and, of course, for establishing direct dialogue between Kiev, Donetsk and Lugansk.
Currently, the role of all responsible members of the international community is growing, especially of those who have a noticeable influence on the Ukrainian authorities. Here we also rely on our Italian partners, both as a nation and as a key member of the European Union.
We had a detailed discussion of the terrorist threat coming from the Middle East and North Africa, particularly the sharp deterioration of the situation in direct proximity to Italy – in Libya. Russia stands for a peaceful settlement of the Libyan crisis and supports the mediatory efforts of the UN in this direction.
As I have said, in the course of our talks we considered key issues of bilateral relations. We discussed an entire range of measures to step up our cooperation so we could not only maintain, but also enhance the positive trends and positive potential we have accumulated over the years, over many decades. Russia advocates the further operation of international cooperation mechanisms.
We, naturally, had an exchange of opinions on pressing issues of bilateral trade and economic relations. Incidentally, only recently, on March 2, a round table discussion involving CEOs of major Russian and Italian companies took place in Milan. Our Minister of Economic Development, Mr Ulyukayev, headed the Russian delegation.
Despite the 10 percent reduction in our trade turnover last year, caused by obvious reasons, Italy remains Russia’s leading foreign trade partner. Italian capital investment in Russia exceeds $1.1 billion, while Russian capital investment in Italy is over $2.3 billion. To further increase these figures, the Russian Direct Investment Fund together with their Italian partners is creating a joint fund worth $1 billion.
One of the most advanced spheres of our cooperation is the power industry. The Italian company Enel has made significant investments into Russian electrical energy facilities. Russia’s Rosneft and LUKOIL, in their turn, own assets in Italian oil refineries. It is important that we thus complement the traditional ‘seller-buyer’ relationship, as Italy is a major consumer of Russian natural gas.
We are also making progress in terms of mutual investment in such high technology industries as the aircraft industry, space exploration and nuclear technology. The Russian company Sukhoi and their Italian partners joined efforts to promote the Superjet-100 in the global market. About 150 craft have already been ordered.
Another promising project is the production at a facility outside Moscow of Agusta helicopters. Most of the orders come from Russia.
We gave a lot of attention to plans to build a joint thermonuclear experimental reactor, to develop civil rocket technology and satellite systems.
I am certain that contacts during the EXPO 2015 Milano would also help enhance business cooperation between Russia and Italy.
Our multi-faceted humanitarian contacts are also developing. They are based on mutual interest in culture and history and a large-scale tourist exchange. More than 900 thousand Russian citizens visited Italy last year. Incidentally, Russian tourists spend about $1 billion in Italy.
Both countries have successfully held reciprocal Years of Tourism. The itinerary included a tour of Italy by the Academic Maly Theatre, concerts by the Russian National Orchestra and many other events.
Overall, Mr Prime Minister and I have agreed that our countries have great opportunities for further expansion of mutually beneficial cooperation.
Once again, I would like to thank our Italian colleagues for this substantive and fruitful exchange.
Thank you very much, Mr Prime Minister.
See also
Meeting with Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi
March 5, 2015
Geography
Italy
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Renzi Matteo
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 5, 2015, 17:30
Text version