Events
Two new power units connected to Russia’s power grid
Vladimir Putin took part in a videoconference to connect two new power units to Russia’s national power grid.
December 22, 2015
16:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 3
Vladimir Putin took part in a videoconference to connect two new power units to the national power grid.
Vladimir Putin heard reports on the readiness of two new combined-cycle power units – at the TPP-20 in Moscow and the Serov Regional Power Station in the Urals Federal District, and on their connection to the Unified Energy System of Russia.
See also
Greetings to employees and veterans of Russia’s energy complex
December 22, 2015
The President congratulated all employees of the energy industry on their professional holiday, the Energy Industry Worker’s Day.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends, colleagues, good afternoon.
I would like to congratulate everyone in this hall and all employees of the energy industry on your professional holiday. I would like to thank you for your work and wish you all the best, further success and to wish you all a happy New Year.
Today we will commission new units, which is always an important event for those working in the energy industry, a milestone in the projects you are working on. Generally, I would like to highlight the importance of this branch of the economy for the entire country.
It is vital that in the current complicated conditions we have managed to ensure steady development of the energy sector. You are introducing new generating capacity: this year you have added 4.6 gigawatt. Last year the figure was greater, but 4.6 is also a very good result and I would like to congratulate you on this once again.
The Crimean energy bridge has become operational. I would like to thank the engineers and workers, all those who worked hard to implement this job ahead of schedule. By May of next year, before the summer season begins, power supply to Crimea will be doubled to reach 800 megawatt. This will fully cover all the needs of the peninsula.
We will continue enhancing this country’s energy potential, creating conditions for economic growth and the development of housing, the utilities and the social sphere.
I would like to ask Energy Minister Alexander Novak to report on the progress both in specific projects and generally.
Please, Mr Novak.
Energy Minister Alexander Novak
: Mr President, thank you very much for your support and your personal attention to the industry.
Today, on the 95th anniversary of the GOELRO Plan, Russia’s energy industry continues developing and implementing a broad-scale programme to build highly efficient generating capacity in the Russian Federation.
Over the past few years, we have already commissioned 22.7 gigawatt of capacity. As you have just said, this year the figure will be 4.6 gigawatt. This would allow for an almost 10 percent upgrade of our generating assets, which would lead to a significant improvement of the situation with emissions into the atmosphere and would cut our spending on fuel for power generation.
 Mr President, also this year we have for the first time moved to an early power take-off, which allows our companies to plan their long-term investment and modernise their main assets. We have commissioned some 30,000 kilometres of power lines, which has also made it possible to significantly improve the situation with reliable power supply and reduce our accident rate. This year alone we expect our accident rate to go down by 14 percent on the power grids and by 5 percent in the generating complex.
We are also improving the situation with connecting consumers to the grid: this year we moved up from the 141st to the 29th position in the world rating. This is very significant progress in terms of improving the situation. More than 200,000 users are connected to the grid every year.
In addition, Mr President, we are implementing a large-scale programme to introduce up-to-date renewable sources of energy. This year we have already commissioned more than 50 megawatt worth of capacity, and by 2024, we will have more than 6,000 megawatt produced by solar and wind power stations.
Today we are commissioning two ultra-modern combined cycle power units in Moscow and Sverdlovsk Region, which are to significantly raise the efficiency of the existing power stations and, as I have said, reduce atmospheric pollution and fuel consumption for power generation.
Mr President, allow me to join you in congratulating all energy industry employees on their professional holiday and wish them to move forward and implement the new tasks that the country’s leaders and the consumers put before us.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, congratulations to everyone once again on your professional holiday. Today, as the Minister has just said, we are launching modern combined cycle power units of 420 megawatt each at the TPP-20 in Moscow and the Serov Regional Power Station in Sverdlovsk Region.
I would like to note that the turbines were made by our partners in Germany, by Siemens, and by our company Siloviye Mashiny, or the Krasny Kotelshchik plant to be precise. This is a good example of cooperation that produces a positive effect both for us and for our partners.
The new power unit will allow TPP-20 to increase its power generating capacity by 50 percent and will add 10 percent to its heating capacity.
The new unit will raise the efficiency of heat and power supply to homes and offices in Moscow and will reduce the power deficit for the development of Moscow’s central and southwestern areas (about 1.5 million people live in these areas). I would like to congratulate Muscovites on this event as well.
A similar up-to-date combined cycle unit will be launched today at the Serov Power Station, almost doubling its energy capacity. Natural gas will replace coal as the main fuel for power generation, for which I would like to thank Gazprom. Mr Miller, my gratitude to you and your colleagues who worked on this project.
As Mr Novak said, emissions into the atmosphere will be reduced and water resources in the area of the power station will be used more rationally. The launch of the new power unit will raise the efficiency and reliability of the Serov Power Station. This is very good news.
A very important task that we all need to work on is to increase the use of natural gas for our own needs, for our people, our citizens, to develop our economy and address environmental issues.
Mr Miller, could you say a few words, please?
Gazprom CEO Alexei Miller
: Mr President, today is the first time we are commissioning two power units simultaneously: at the TPP-20 in Moscow and at the Serov Power Station, and the country will immediately receive an additional 840 megawatt of power.
I would like the shift supervisor at TPP-20 to report readiness for nominal power ascension.
Yevgeny Milovanov: No faults in the work of equipment, the power unit is ready for nominal power ascension. TPP-20 shift supervisor Yevgeny Milovanov.
Vladimir Putin: Begin, please.
Yevgeny Milovanov: The power unit has reached nominal capacity.
Alexei Miller: The Serov Power Station.
Pavel Savkin: No faults in the work of equipment, the power unit is ready for nominal power ascension. Shift supervisor Pavel Savkin.
Vladimir Putin: Fine, Pavel, begin.
Alexei Miller: Mr President, two power units have been commissioned.
Vladimir Putin: My congratulations to those working in the energy industry, and those who made the equipment (I would like to repeat that they have done a very important job), to all who took part in the reconstruction (the equipment was old, dating back to the 1950’s), to those who built the new facilities. Generally, to all who took part in this work – my congratulations on what we have done today, rather what you have done, while we only attended the final stage of this work.
Once again, my congratulations to all employees of the energy industry. I wish you all success and all the best.
 Thank you for your work. Thank you very much.
Topics
Energy
Regions
Persons
Miller Alexei
Novak Alexander
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 22, 2015, 16:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with leaders of round-table discussions at the First Russian Internet Economy Forum
December 22, 2015
15:20
Moscow
1 of 5
Meeting with leaders of round-table discussions at the First Russian Internet Economy Forum.
Excerpts from transcript of meeting with leaders of round-table discussions at First Russian Internet Economy Forum
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Overall, the Government views this sector very positively. At least, it tries. And everyone understands its significance. So we can agree with colleagues to even create some kind of special agency that will work on promoting these ideas, developing them. Apparently, we cannot implement everything immediately, today or tomorrow. So we need to do everything on time, so as not to slow down and lose something.
Just now, colleagues from Sberbank were saying that if they do not apply the appropriate instruments in a timely manner, they will lose up to 50% of their clients, because the competition, especially in the IT sector, in the use of opportunities offered by internet, is changing. And it is not changing in their favour, if they are slow to react. So let’s do this, I fully agree.
<…>
See also
First Russian Internet Economy Forum
December 22, 2015
Vladimir Putin (On the legal aspects of operating in the IT sector): We cannot and will not place any of our partners or competitors in conditions that are worse than our participants, Russian operators, Russian businesses working in this sector. But, of course, nobody should use the benefits and advantages that result from under-regulation in our nation. Here, I completely agree with you. But what our partners and competitors are doing, using the so-called loopholes in our legislation, is quite natural. That happens throughout the world; people take advantage of what we failed to properly regulate.
Here is the most recent example: our talks with the European Union and Ukraine on Ukraine’s accession, essentially, to the EU’s free trade zone. Yesterday, a sort of final talks were held in Brussels, although I hope they will not be final. It all comes down to several issues: we must (for some reason, we must) adopt the European system of phytosanitary control. This will mean – because we cannot do this in one go – that none of our agricultural products will be permitted in the Ukrainian market. At the same time, if zero customs fees remain in place between the EU and Ukraine and between us and Ukraine all European products will go to the Ukrainian market, replacing our products, and to our market. That’s it. We say, “How is that possible? This requires time and a negotiation process.” And they say, “No, that’s the only way.” That’s agriculture.
Manufacturing. We must adopt the European system of technical regulation and technical standards. We say, “Listen, in order to adopt your system of technical standards, we need to upgrade our equipment to produce goods of that quality. This takes time and hundreds of millions or billions of euros in investments. It requires time, although some of your standards are better. But we cannot close our companies today and throw their employees out on the street. Or lose that Ukrainian market.” They say, “Well, let’s think about it, but this is how it will be today.” There is a transition period for only two or three sectors, or even just one; and it’s not for 10 years, as we have requested, but rather, eighteen months, or even less.
The country of origin of goods is a highly important question. Large-scale assembly will occur in Ukraine and this entire flow will pour into our nation, in any sector. That is obvious. But we need to develop a system that will provide a clear understanding, an answer to the question of where the goods come from. And to do that, we need to have the customs agencies work properly. “No, if you are concerned about something, let us know and we will think about it.” When our negotiators raised the issue in an entirely concrete, fundamental way, what did our partners do? The head of the EU delegation said, “Game is over!” Then she got up and left. And they issued a press release today stating that the Russian delegation derailed negotiations. I think that this is not very European, it is not tolerant at all; but I think that we will return to this issue many more times. We want to establish relations with our partners on this matter – with Ukraine and the European Union.
And on the topic you touched on, we need to do things right, in a timely manner, transparently, and of course fully; everyone should be operating under equal conditions. Let’s do exactly that; I just ask that you state everything as you see it.
<…>
Vladimir Putin (On offering to declare 2016 or 2017 the Year of Information Technologies): It’s a good idea. We have many suggestions on how to designate the upcoming years, 2016 and 2017. It is certainly a good idea. I will ask my colleagues in the Presidential Executive Office and the Cabinet to think about it. This is certainly one of the leading trends.
Topics
Foreign policy
Information society
Science and innovation
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 22, 2015, 15:20
Text versionEvents
First Russian Internet Economy Forum
Vladimir Putin attended the First Russian Internet Economy Forum.
December 22, 2015
15:30
Moscow
10 of 11
Speaking at the First Russian Internet Economy Forum.
The First Russian Internet Economy Forum is taking place in Moscow on December 21–22. The plenary session, attended by representatives of the national IT industry and relevant ministries and agencies, is dedicated to initiatives for the long-term development programme of the Russian Internet segment and branches of the economy using internet technologies.
Prior to the plenary session, the President attended an exhibition of innovative projects, where was shown, in particular, developments in bank technologies, cyber- protection for industrial facilities and those directed at enhancing the accessibility of public services for the public.
Vladimir Putin also had a conversation with Forum participants.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends.
Together with your board, we have just had a detailed discussion of the issues you considered yesterday regarding specific branches of the economy. I found it interesting. I hope we have managed to agree on certain matters. I can see my aide Igor Shchegolev here, the former Minister and now my Presidential Aide. We agreed that if our colleagues decide to do so, then we will be happy to hand over the responsibility for everything you agreed on and proposed as necessary for joint efforts to promote your initiatives to one of your colleagues, whom I invited to work at the Presidential Executive Office with Mr Shchegolev. This will allow us to promote your ideas within the Presidential Executive Office as well, and also within the executive bodies in the Government and the regions of the Russian Federation, which is no less important.
See also
Meeting with leaders of round-table discussions at the First Russian Internet Economy Forum
December 22, 2015
Generally, in the past years the Internet has certainly become part of our daily lives. Moreover, it has become a separate industry practically all over the world, and you spoke about this yesterday. Russia is keeping abreast of things, of course. I may be saying very general things not intended for this audience, maybe for those who are standing there with the cameras, so that people in this country will find out more about this: Russia has the largest number of Internet users – in excess of 80 million people, with 62 million of them going online on a daily basis. As one of the board members said, people look at their phones about 300 times a day to see what is going on in the world, or in everyday life, things that interest people who use the Internet.
The number of commercial Internet users is also growing rapidly. The Internet market accounts for 16 percent of the GDP. Remote access technologies are extensively used to provide public and municipal services, which I am very happy to say, because just recently we were only beginning here. Generally, there has been good progress. In the previous year, more than a third of all public and municipal services became available online.
The significance and influence of the Internet are constantly growing. We need to use the Internet as a driver of modernisation for the entire country (this is an undisputed fact and nobody has any doubt about it, and we are ready to help and support you in your endeavours) to raise the quality of life, to create a new technological basis for the national economy and, of course, for the social spheres – education and healthcare.
The Internet Initiatives Development Fund has become one of the instruments available for resolving these tasks. We set it up two years ago and it seems to be doing well. It already has 6 billion rubles at its disposal. Over the 2.5 years of its work, the Fund has added over 170 projects to its portfolio designed to resolve specific issues facing both individuals and businesses.
We definitely need to develop a strategy for the long-term development of the Russian Internet, taking into consideration the overall development tendencies of the world wide web. I fully agree with you that, bearing in mind the overall tendencies and with great respect for our partners and competition, we must create common living and working conditions for all on this market. Nobody, primarily our national participants, should be put in a situation that would make you less competitive. I fully agree with those who referred to the decisions we are making in the real economy, in industry and agriculture, saying: we do offer certain benefits to Russian market players, to national producers, so why not do the same here. I agree: we are ready to consider this and do something, provided, of course, that it does not violate our WTO commitments. I am certain we can find appropriate solutions.
I would like to wish you success. Thank you very much.
Topics
Information society
Science and innovation
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 22, 2015, 15:30
Text version