Events
Meeting of the Military-Industrial Commission
Vladimir Putin held a meeting of the Military-Industrial Commission on implementation of the state defence procurement order and import replacement in the Russia’s defence industry.
April 17, 2015
16:15
The Kremlin, Moscow
4 of 7
Before the meeting of the Military-Industrial Commission. Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
At today’s meeting of the Military-Industrial Commission, we will discuss the most important issues concerning our country’s defence and security and will outline our defence industry’s development objectives.
Developing our defence industry and making it more efficient are among our basic national goals and priorities and are the guarantee of confident industrial growth and the foundation for our defence capability.
Last year’s results show that we achieved practically all of our planned objectives. This morning, we discussed the implementation of the defence procurement order over the first quarter and analysed the results achieved and the problems and issues that we still need to settle. Overall, the first quarter ended with positive results.
The task today is not simply to replace aging equipment and modernise our industry. It is crucial that we develop our own up-to-date models of military equipment to replace imported models.
Our country’s defence industry works to meet our armed forces’ needs, but in some areas, it is still dependent on suppliers abroad. Complications in the international situation can put these supplies’ reliability at risk. There is no need for further comment here, for we all understand the situation. What we therefore need to do is to reduce the risks this dependence and cooperation entail.
Let me make it clear that the entire development and production chain for strategically important materials, components and equipment, right through to delivery to the final consumer, should be located here in Russia.
Coming to another matter, import replacement in the defence industry is a big challenge that must be tackled by our managers, engineers, designers, businesspeople and scientists.
At the same time, this policy should provide the stimulus for new design developments and technological solutions and for bolstering human resources potential in the defence industry and entering civilian production sectors.
As you know, in January, I signed the executive order on a general designer for developing weapons, and military and special equipment. The people responsible for those areas will receive additional powers.
Over the past three months, candidates for this post of general designer have been selected. These are all very worthy people with proven records, experience and results. Today, we will examine the candidates and make the needed decisions.
In conclusion, let me remind you that Russia will host the Army 2015 International Military-Technical Forum in June. This is another opportunity and platform for dialogue and contacts with foreign partners and specialists. We have no intention of closing ourselves from anyone in this sector. It is also an opportunity for us to take a step forward in our defence sector cooperation with other countries.
The forum, as you know, will include a large military goods salon, where we will have the chance to demonstrate the capabilities of Russia’s arms and military equipment in action, so to speak.
Let’s begin work.
<…>
Topics
Armed Forces
Import replacement
Industry
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Commissions and Councils, Military-Industrial Commission of the Russian Federation
Publication date: April 17, 2015, 16:15
Text versionEvents
Visit to the National Defence Control Centre
Vladimir Putin visited the National Defence Control Centre of the Russian Federation (NDCC), where he oversaw the official commissioning of military goods on the Armed Forces’ common commissioning day.
April 17, 2015
12:55
Moscow
1 of 6
Vladimir Putin visited the National Defence Control Centre of the Russian Federation (NDCC), where he oversaw the official commissioning of military goods on the Armed Forces’ common commissioning day.
The President commended the Russian defence industry’s performance in 2014 and the first quarter of 2015, and noted that new weapons and equipment are being delivered to the Armed Forces in a steady and regular fashion.
Mr Putin visited the NDCC before holding a meeting of the Military-Industrial Commission.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, officers.
Colleagues, today, we will review the commissioning of military equipment in 2014 and the first quarter of 2015, and look at the defence industry’s performance and how well prepared the military units and the Defence Ministry were for commissioning new equipment.
The new procedure to commission equipment as part of long-term contracts over the course of the year has proven its effectiveness. The goods are being delivered in smooth and regular fashion and this allows the units to prepare for the deliveries on time and carry out the necessary training. It also makes for smoother work in the defence industry companies, which overall have demonstrated good pace and quality and keeping within the deadlines.
We see that the results for 2014 were entirely satisfactory: everything was delivered on time and met the quality demands. Of course, in practice, issues do come up, but I am sure that they will be settled rapidly.
Deliveries continued in the first quarter of 2015, including equipment for the Air Force, new motorboats, radar stations and armoured vehicles. Let’s discuss this in more detail now.
 <…>
Topics
Armed Forces
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 17, 2015, 12:55
Text version