Events
Meeting on emergency response in Siberian Federal District
Vladimir Putin held a meeting on emergency relief operations following wildfires on the territory of the Siberian federal district, focussing on rehabilitation of housing and aid to victims’ families.
April 21, 2015
08:00
Abakan
At a meeting on emergency response in Siberian Federal District.
The President set the task to urgently identify the resources required to continue eliminating the consequences of fires and restore housing and other infrastructure facilities. All work should be completed by September 1.
Vladimir Putin said it is necessary to analyse ways of adjusting federal legislation regarding prevention of emergency situations and charged the Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoy to the Siberian Federal District Nikolai Rogozhkin with supervising the implementation of the decisions made and coordinating the activities of federal and local authorities.
Fires in the Siberian Federal District destroyed almost 2,000 homes, with the disaster zone covering 39 populated localities.
Earlier that day Vladimir Putin visited the shelter for fire victims in Khakassia and spoke with the people staying there.
* * *
Speech at meeting on emergency relief operations in Siberian Federal District
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
Here in Siberia people have experienced a natural calamity. The consequences of the fire here in Khakassia and in the Trans-Baikal Territory are grave. We will see in the course of our meeting what is being done to help people and what additional measures need to be taken to fully rectify the situation.
As I have said, the consequences are grave. Preliminary figures indicate that some 2,000 homes were destroyed, leaving 2,000 families homeless. All this happened in 39 residential areas, affecting in total around 7,000 people.
See also
Trip to Khakassia
April 21, 2015
Emergency measures are already being taken. The Government has promptly allocated the resources required at this stage, which is 687 million rubles. This is obviously not enough to solve all the problems here. We will see today what needs to be done to make sure work proceeds at the required pace and with proper quality.
In the course of the meeting, I would like you to report how one-off financial assistance and compensations for the loss of property are being paid and how people who lost their houses are being accommodated in temporary shelters. I would like to once again stress that this aid is urgent.
At the same time, within the shortest time frame possible we need to carry out a detailed estimation of damages. Everyone here has plenty of experience and knows that this will determine how fast we can begin work to restore housing and infrastructure. Therefore, we should not waste any time.
The Emergency Situations Ministry, local and regional authorities should organise this work as soon as possible. They have to identify the resources needed, as I have said, to restore the transportation and social infrastructures and to construct new housing to replace what was has been destroyed by the fires.
I would like to repeat something I said during the Direct Line: reconstruction should be completed by September 1, so that by winter, people have a roof over their heads and children can go to school. I expect the deadlines to be met.
We need to provide jobs for the people, restore their jobs, and see what can be done to help agricultural enterprises. I have just spoken to the head of the Republic: these are mainly villages where people work their land. We have to help them restore their cattle and so forth. There is a lot of work involved.
At a meeting on emergency response in Siberian Federal District.
I would like the federal authorities to provide every assistance to the regions, including the timely allocation of funding for the elimination of the consequences of the fires.
Another thing I would like to focus on.
We constantly talk about preventive measures to avoid fires, floods and other emergency situations and minimise their consequences. However, an analysis of the situation in the affected areas has shown that the efficiency of fire-fighting and other preventive measures is still low.
One more thing we need to point out. The human factor is a frequent cause of fires, unfortunately: carelessness with fire, arson, burning of grass and so forth. This happens year after year. In this connection, we need to consider what needs to be done in terms of federal and local legislation.
Besides, I instruct the Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoy to the Siberian Federal District Mr Rogozhkin
to ensure control over the implementation of our resolutions, including those to be made today, and to coordinate the efforts of federal and regional authorities to eliminate the consequences of natural calamities.
Let us proceed to our work.
<…>
During his trip to Khakassia, Vladimir Putin met with a local resident Nadezhda Makarova, who asked the President during his live broadcast to help those affected by fires.
Let us agree on the following: we need some sort of centre, some integrator that would sum up the needs of each region and each individual affected, that will work out a single approach and keep it all under control.
I have already said that the Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoy will be responsible for overall coordination on the spot; however, we also need a similar coordinator within the Government. We will decide later and see how the work is to be organised. This is my first point.
The second is that Mr Zimin [Head of the Republic of Khakassia] has drafted a corresponding letter to the Trans-Baikal Territory and Krasnoyarsk Territory governors. We have to make sure we have a single approach to all the devastated areas.
I will not make any final decisions now on how this should be done in terms of budgeting, but it is obvious that, whatever way, the funding should be allocated for disaster clean-up operations, for providing specific aid to the people who were affected.
After this meeting, we will draft instructions and I will issue them within the next day or two.
I would like to thank you all and repeat what I have just said when meeting with the people. I will return in about a month or so to see how restoration work is proceeding.
Now I would like to ask Head of Khakassia’s regional Investigative Committee Mr Konevskikh to have a word with me.
Thank you.
Geography
Republic of Khakassia
Trans-Baikal Territory
Topics
Housing
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 21, 2015, 08:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with people affected by wildfires in Siberian Federal District
During his trip to Khakassia, Vladimir Putin visited a temporary shelter for those affected by wildfire, where he spoke to local residents.
April 21, 2015
07:40
Abakan
Visiting temporary shelter for fire victims.
Excerpts from transcript of meeting with people affected by wildfires in Siberian Federal District

President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Have they started clearing the fire locations?
Head of the Republic of Khakassia Viktor Zimin
: Yes, Mr President, clearing operations have started in about 70 percent of the villages. There is one thing, however – we cannot chlorinate fast enough everywhere, though it has to be done.
We have the necessary resources. The Emergency Situations Ministry has provided significant resources, and the Defence Ministry is building up its grouping in the area to help us.
See also
Meeting on emergency response in Siberian Federal District
April 21, 2015
Besides, practically all the construction workers are on their way – we will be meeting them later today. We are working under special economic conditions, so we do not need any formal contracts. Everybody understands that in this situation the most important thing is to go on site and get to work.
We would like to thank the whole country – we started receiving humanitarian aid from neighbouring areas in as little as about 4 hours.
We are grateful for this. This feeling of support was very important.
(The regional head went on to answer the President’s questions regarding support payments to wildfire victims and re-issue of documents. According to Mr Zimin, fires destroyed some 1,400 homes, with 90 percent of the victims being rural residents. One of the main tasks is to restore the cattle numbers and provide fodder. The conversation also touched upon the need to give children the opportunity to attend school classes.)
Vladimir Putin: Fine.
You know about the scope of aid, I spoke about it during the Direct Line. Here practically everyone lost all of their property; so there will be 50,000 rubles for partial loss of property, but since in your case it all burned down, the amount is 100,000 rubles. The houses will be rebuilt. Those who suffered bodily harm or injury will receive 200,000 or 400,000 rubles.
<…>
Visiting temporary shelter for fire victims.
Remark: Mr President, we are very grateful to you for being here with us. The situation is very complicated here, but we are together like family, in the warm atmosphere that we have found here.
I would like, on my own behalf and on behalf of all those affected to thank our authorities and all the people who helped us. Everybody is helping us. We are already receiving financial support from the federal authorities, as it was said before.
The most important thing for us now is that we are all alive, thank God. There is concern, of course, about when and how our homes will be rebuilt. However, we know for sure that it will be done.
We are warm and comfortable here, and they are taking good care of us. However, I heard from the village of Shira today that the chief of the fire brigade Viktor Zenkov was detained – this is very unpleasant news.
You know, and we all know how awful the fire was, it was not coming from a single place, it stretched out for kilometres. I believe that first we have to resolve the problems of the people rather than put the blame on any single person. We know it was impossible to prevent this because the fire was so powerful – homes burnt down in 15 minutes.
Visiting temporary shelter for fire victims.
Vladimir Putin: So we have to find out whether it was possible to prevent it or not. We have to see what the individual responsibilities were.
As for those responsible for fire protection and what they did wrong or failed to do, well, nobody is going to be held liable for nothing. However, if someone is to blame they will have to take on the responsibility.
And do not worry about the reconstruction.
<…>
See also
Trip to Khakassia
April 21, 2015
Remark: Mr President, I would like to follow up on that. The thing is that we have to go to the authorities with our problems and questions rather frequently.
I have heard from many local people, and I saw this myself: you come to the office of the Administration Head for a meeting, and they tell you he has been summoned for interrogation. I believe this is not the time for such things. There are more important matters now.
Vladimir Putin: Do not worry about the authorities. They will be fine: if a person is innocent, nobody will persecute them.
The answer here is very simple. If a person occupies a post and does nothing, that is one thing. If, however, they perform their duties in full but the elements have proven stronger – this is a completely different situation, and nobody will hold them liable only for the sake of doing it. Do not worry.
Remark: We simply think that this is a time to unite.
Vladimir Putin: We will unite, do not worry.
Remark: Mr President, you said it is the people who matter most, and you support your words with deeds. However, we would like to ask you to help us rebuild our villages.
Vladimir Putin: We will do it. That is exactly what I am here for: to have a detailed discussion with the Head of the Republic, with the Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoy (he will supervise the entire reconstruction process) and with other colleagues who came from Moscow and are working here today. We will decide what should be done and when, to make sure that by winter you can have proper homes, a roof over your head, so you can get back to normal life and work.
Visiting temporary shelter for fire victims.
Remark: Thank you very much for responding to our pain and sorrow.
Vladimir Putin: How could I not?
I have to say that the Head of the Republic responded at once too and got down to work; therefore, we will be resolving the situation together. Do not worry.
In about 4 to 6 weeks, I will return to check the progress. I will come here even before the work is done to see how things are organised.
We will create the necessary infrastructure for the reconstruction operations to make sure everything is done properly, so that quality homes are built on schedule, as the climate here is harsh and by the end of October it will be quite cold.
Viktor Zimin: Yes, it does get pretty cold.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Zimin, we have to assess everything. The initial funding has been allocated, this is only enough to give the people first aid: 680 million rubles is only the first step in this direction.
It will take much greater resources to rebuild the homes and restore the infrastructure. There is a lot of work to do. However, to do it we first have to complete the assessment quickly, so the work can begin without delay. This is something we will discuss with our colleagues now.
I would like to wish you all the best. Do not worry – we will get everything done.
Geography
Republic of Khakassia
Topics
Housing
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 21, 2015, 07:40
Text version