Events
Meeting with Alliance Group President Musa Bazhayev
Vladimir Putin met with Alliance Group President Musa Bazhayev.
November 19, 2015
14:40
The Kremlin, Moscow
3 of 4
With Alliance Group President Musa Bazhayev.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon.
I would like to hear about the results of your work.
Alliance Group President Musa Bazhayev: You issued instructions regarding the Palestinian Authority, and we developed a project: a multifunctional centre for business, sport and music. It is ready now; the investment amounted to about 3 billion rubles. The Presidential Executive Office was in charge of construction. We are done and ready to hand it over.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much.
Musa Bazhayev: Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: I would like to congratulate you on this project. I think people in Palestine will use it and think of those who actually implemented the project.
Musa Bazhayev: The centre’s working name is Dar El Russia, which in Arabic means Russia House. I think this is an appropriate name. Besides, this is in Bethlehem, in the Holy Land.
Vladimir Putin: How many people can it take simultaneously?
Musa Bazhayev: The total area is 7,000 square metres. It has several halls for martial arts: judo, Greco-Roman wrestling, freestyle wrestling and boxing. It is a truly multifunctional centre.
Vladimir Putin: What about the business centre?
Musa Bazhayev: It has a large business centre, with a grand conference hall and several smaller halls for all sorts of forums.
Vladimir Putin: You mentioned music – is it like a music school with special classrooms?
Musa Bazhayev: Yes, with halls and classrooms. There is a small concert hall seating about 150. It is not big – just right for children’s concerts and the like.
Vladimir Putin: I know, Palestinian representatives have already told me about it. They are very happy to have this project, of course. Have you been there yourself at the final stage to see it finished?
Musa Bazhayev: No, I have not, but our experts were there.
You drew the attention of Mr Tolokonsky [Krasnoyarsk Territory Governor] that business representatives need to get involved in preparations for the Universiade. I noted this and decided it would be good if we built an ice palace seating 7,000 in time for the Universiade in 2019. This will also be a multifunctional complex for all sorts of concerts as well as sport competitions. There is an idea to make it a backup site for the opening ceremony. If the weather is poor, the opening could be held there.
We had a ceremony to launch the bridge across the Yenisei River. We were there with Mr Levitin [Presidential Aide], Mr Sokolov [Transport Minister] and Mr Tolokonsky. After the ceremony, we drove up there to lay the first stone. The entire complex will cost about 3 billion rubles. This will be our gift to Krasnoyarsk Territory; we will give it to the people.
Vladimir Putin: When will it be commissioned?
Musa Bazhayev: The Universiade is in 2019, we will finish construction in 2017 and hold competitions there a year before the event.
Vladimir Putin: Good. Thank you very much. Has construction already begun?
Musa Bazhayev: It is beginning. We laid the first stone on October 29. We must finish it in two years. I believe we will make it, Mr President, we definitely will.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much.
<…>
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 19, 2015, 14:40
Text version