Events
Working meeting with Alexander Bastrykin
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Chairman of the Investigative Committee Alexander Bastrykin, who reported on the Committee’s work in 2014 and outlined several proposals aimed at improving the Law on the Investigative Committee.
February 26, 2015
17:10
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
2 of 4
With Chairman of the Investigative Committee Alexander Bastrykin.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Bastrykin, at the Board meeting you discussed the results of last year’s work.
Chairman of The Investigative Committee of Russia Alexander Bastrykin
: That’s right.
Vladimir Putin: Could you please summarise them?
Alexander Bastrykin: We noted certain positive results, specifically in combatting terrorism, extremism and crimes against women and children.
However, there is a problem. This has to do with the quality of our work. We should not strive for numbers, but for better quality. This means greater attention to compliance with the law when initiating proceedings and investigating criminal cases, providing forensic equipment, conducting forensic studies, conducting investigations faster and deciding on pre-trial detention measures in full compliance with the law.
Another challenge we are facing at the Investigative Committee is generation change, both among officials in top positions and rank and file employees. This is exactly why we have the Investigative Committee Academy, the cadet corps. We have signed a number of agreements with Moscow University and some other Moscow institutions of higher learning to train our experts. Our discussion covered all these issues and we made corresponding decisions.
Vladimir Putin: How do you intend to arrange your work now? Are you suggesting any changes?
Alexander Bastrykin: We have submitted a number of proposals to the State Duma to improve the legislation that applies to our jurisdiction. This applies, first of all, to the liability of legal entities. I believe this should become the subject of a serious discussion.
This also applies to improving our work to combat economic crime. The existing legislation contains a few clauses that, unfortunately, are not working and have to be specified to make sure that the legislation is clear on matters pertaining to criminal situations.
One such matter is expert forensic research, which we should conduct, but this is not established by law. In other words, today we need to create a better legal base for our activities. In this connection, we would like to turn to you. We have submitted a number of proposals to the Presidential Executive Office dealing with improvements to the Law on the Investigative Committee. We would like to ask you to issue appropriate instructions to expedite the consideration of our proposals.
Vladimir Putin: Good. Let us consider this in detail.
<…>
Topics
Fight against corruption
Law enforcement agencies
Persons
Bastrykin Alexander
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 26, 2015, 17:10
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of the French Senate Gerard Larcher
Vladimir Putin met with President of the Senate of France Gerard Larcher at his Novo-Ogaryovo residence outside Moscow.
February 26, 2015
14:00
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 4
Meeting with President of the French Senate Gerard Larcher.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, Mr Larcher, friends. We are very happy to see you here.
It is a pleasure to see that relations between France and Russia, particularly thanks to our parliamentary ties, are developing despite the current difficulties. France is our privileged partner in the European Union and our relations have a long history.
I am sure you and Ms Matviyenko
[Federation Council Speaker] have already covered the entire range of our parliamentary relations. Unfortunately, we are observing a certain slow-down in our economic cooperation: last year trade went down by 17.6 percent compared to 2013.
I believe we need to make an effort not just to restore but to enhance our ties and achieve better results as soon as possible. I am certain that parliamentary support will be of great assistance here.
Welcome.
President of The Senate of France Gerard Larcher (retranslated): Thank you, Mr President, for finding the time to see us today with your Senator [Valentina Matviyenko].
In the Presence of the Federation Council Speaker, on behalf of the Assembly I have been heading since autumn and on behalf of the entire country I would like to once again thank you for the solidarity you expressed during the recent tragic terrorist attacks [in Paris].
I told Mr Lavrov, who joined us at the march, that this opens up the way for a solution to our serious common problems in combatting terrorism, particularly Islamic extremism, which we do not confuse with Islam, professed by other citizens, but which has its own special character.
I would also like to say that both as Senate President and as a native of Normandy I was touched by your visit to our country on June 6, 2014 – this was a powerful signal. Similar signals, similar symbols will appear in the next few months as well. I find this a very important feature of the special relations between our countries.
This is why after laying a wreath at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier I also went to the monument to General de Gaulle, a monument that Jacques Chirac unveiled together with you. This was a natural and important gesture for a tourist like myself.
Before we dwell on any specific subject, I would like to convey to you a message from the French community in Moscow, in Russia, from the business community, with whom I met both yesterday and this morning.
Despite the difficulties, they feel confident here and they feel they are being trusted. They attach great importance to our relations – economic relations, naturally, but also in a broader sense – the friendly relations between our nations. They asked me to convey this message to you, which I am doing.
<…>
Geography
France
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 26, 2015, 14:00
Text version