Events
Beginning of meeting with President of the Republic of South Ossetia Leonid Tibilov
March 18, 2015
14:25
The Kremlin, Moscow
Meeting with President of South Ossetia Leonid Tibilov.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Tibilov, friends, good afternoon.
Today, we will take a step forward in developing the legal base underpinning our relations with South Ossetia, and will advance on the integration road too and in developing our alliance by signing the agreement on alliance and integration.
I wish you a warm welcome to Moscow. I know that a lot of work has been accomplished of late so that we can carry out our plans. Of course, there is still more to do and we will have a good opportunity today to discuss the current state of affairs in terms of developing the social sector and economy, and the additional steps we need to take over the coming period.
President of The Republic of South Ossetia Leonid Tibilov
: Mr Putin, thank you for today’s meeting. We will sign the agreement on alliance and integration today and we know that only by developing our alliance and integration can we respond to the challenges and threats the modern world puts before us. 
We know that the Russian Federation is our people and republic’s only guarantor, and I am particularly happy that this event is taking place today, on what is such a symbolic date in the Russian people’s life. It was exactly a year ago that the agreement was signed by which the people of Crimea and Sevastopol, having expressed their free will, found their Motherland.
We welcomed that decision right from the first. South Ossetia welcomes all of Russia’s political decisions and we always stand at your side. I want to thank you for the huge support that Russia is giving South Ossetia. We will have the chance today to give you a brief overview of some of our results and achievements in 2014. Russia is helping us to raise our living standards.
I particularly want to thank you for the invitation to take part in celebrating the 70th anniversary of victory [in the 1941–1945 Great Patriotic War].
On behalf of all the people of South Ossetia, I want to thank you for everything you are doing for us and, as is our tradition, wish you good health and Russia’s prosperity. Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much.
<…>
See also
Meeting with President of South Ossetia Leonid Tibilov
March 18, 2015
Geography
South Ossetia
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Tibilov Leonid
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: March 18, 2015, 14:25
Text versionEvents
Meeting on socioeconomic development in Crimea and Sevastopol
Vladimir Putin held a meeting on socioeconomic development in Crimea and Sevastopol. The meeting took place on the first anniversary of Crimea’s reunification with Russia.
March 18, 2015
16:45
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 2
Meeting on socioeconomic development in Crimea and Sevastopol.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
We are meeting on what is a special day, a symbolic date. Exactly a year has passed since Crimea and Sevastopol were reunified with Russia. I want to congratulate once again the people of Crimea and all of Russia’s people on this event and thank of course the people of Crimea and Sevastopol for the courage and steadfast spirit they showed a year ago.
A year ago, we already understood the extent of the huge task before us. Together as a country, we must work now to develop Crimea and resolve problems that were neglected for decades. We now have to address the many tasks involved in raising people’s living standards, developing the economy and social sector, and solidly integrating Crimea and Sevastopol into Russia’s legal, financial and administrative system. 
It was clear that we would encounter objective difficulties during the transition period as well as attempts to resist the process from outside. This is just what happened. A number of Western countries imposed sanctions and restrictions on Crimea and on Russia as a whole.
Our neighbours, it must be said, have not shown much inventiveness. They cut off the water supply or create other problems. None of this is fatal, but it does of course hamper our ongoing work somewhat.
We had to start by resolving the most urgent priorities. Around two million people in Crimea and Sevastopol have already acquired Russian passports. We raised pensions and social benefits and increased public sector wages.
We also decided that families in Crimea and Sevastopol, who had a second or subsequent child starting from 2007, were entitled to receive the maternity capital payment, regardless of whichever benefits they received earlier. 
Education and healthcare facilities received emergency material and technical assistance. We set up new reserve capacity in the energy sector and increased air and sea transport links.
I note the hard work accomplished in all different areas by the specialists at the federal agencies, the Ministry for Crimean Affairs, and the local authorities. They really have accomplished a lot. The people of Crimea and Sevastopol have shown understanding towards the inevitable transition period difficulties in integrating the two new regions. I want to thank them of course for their understanding.
At the same time, people hope that the concrete problems they face in their everyday lives will be resolved in organised fashion and without delay, and that there will be steady improvement for the better in Crimea’s development. 
I want to make it clear to the authorities at all levels, federal, regional, and local, that you must be in constant contact with people and public organisations and respond to the issues that people bring to your notice.
In general, you need to monitor the situation constantly, above all the socioeconomic situation in the region. You must keep greater watch on the quality of provision of state and municipal services and organise immediate responses to any breakdowns, even individual incidents, and cases of officials taking a bureaucratic approach to people. 
Sociological surveys show that population groups that have already felt the effects of Russia’s social policy programmes have noticed the biggest increase in living standards and quality of life. This includes the families with children I mentioned before, pensioners, people with disabilities, military service personnel, and public sector workers.
Now it is essential to organise the same kind of effective efforts to support business, farmers, and specialists in key sectors of Crimea’s industry and agriculture.
The socioeconomic issues most on people’s minds right now are rising prices, high unemployment, low wages, poor roads, development of towns and villages, the housing problem, and affordable, quality service in the housing and utilities sector, education and healthcare. 
All of this is nothing new. These are problems that people face in other Russian regions too, but some regions have their own specific circumstances. One of the most serious social problems is of course that of drug addiction.
It will take long-term, systemic work to resolve these problems. Our aim is to make Crimea and Sevastopol self-sufficient and fast-growing regions of the Russian Federation. Crimea and Sevastopol need to make real advances in strengthening their own economic base.
We need to stimulate business activities in industry, agriculture, tourism and other sectors, support small and medium-sized businesses, create new jobs, and provide employment and income growth.
The most important challenge is developing infrastructure, including energy, housing and utilities, and transport. And I would like to ask you to report about progress in the work on a key infrastructure project: the Kerch bridge crossing.
And, of course, the region’s culture, education, and science potential needs to be further developed. It is imperative to bring medical services and mass sports infrastructure to a new, higher level.
Our demographic programmes, measures to promote healthy lifestyles, families, and protection of motherhood and childhood, should work in Crimea as effectively and efficiently as possible. I repeat, right now, it is important to shift focus to challenges of comprehensive, sustainable improvement throughout the entire region.
Last August, the Federal Targeted Programme for Developing Crimea and Sevastopol was adopted; it is designed for the 2015–2020 period. We are planning to allocate about 700 billion rubles toward its implementation.
Let me point out that all activities and programmes should be linked, ranged based on priorities and deadlines. It is imperative to establish strict monitoring over the efficient use of allocated resources, and there needs to be precise interaction between federal agencies and local authorities.
The free economic zone, which contemplates significant benefits for entrepreneurs, should become another important instrument for developing Crimea and Sevastopol. As you recall, a corresponding law came into force on January 1, 2015.
Today, I also expect to hear how the practical work to implement the provisions of this law is going. Have all the necessary legal provisions been adopted? How carefully are business and investor interests taken into account? What problems remain unresolved?
I also ask that you report on preparations for the upcoming holiday season, which has enormous influence on Crimean residents’ employment and income.
Today’s meeting participants include the heads of federal ministries, as well as legislative and executive branches of Crimea and Sevastopol’s government, and members of the public. In this composition, I suggest that we discuss the issues I listed, our objectives and priorities.
Let’s begin our work.
<…>
Geography
Sevastopol
Republic of Crimea
Topics
Economy and finance
Regions
Social services
Special economic zones
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 18, 2015, 16:45
Text versionEvents
Concert celebrating Crimea and Sevastopol’s reunification with Russia
Vladimir Putin attended the We’re Together! concert and meeting celebrating the first anniversary of Crimea and Sevastopol’s reunification with Russia.
March 18, 2015
18:00
Moscow
4 of 6
Speech at the We’re Together! concert and meeting celebrating the first anniversary of Crimea and Sevastopol’s reunification with Russia.
The concert took place on Moscow’s Vasilyevsky Spusk, just near the Kremlin. Popular Russian music groups and singers performed at the event.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends!
Exactly one year ago, Russia, which we are speaking of so much right now, and the Russian people showed amazing togetherness and patriotism in supporting the aspirations of the people of Crimea and Sevastopol to return to their native shores.
We understood and felt with our hearts and minds at that moment just how much the links between time and generations matter to us, and how much our heroic forebears have done for our country. We understood that Crimea was much more to us than just a piece of land, even a strategically important piece of land. 
What was at stake here were the millions of Russian people, millions of compatriots who needed our help and support. We understood how important this is to us and that this was not simply about land, of which we have no shortage as it is.
The issue at stake here was the sources of our history, our spirituality and our statehood, the things that make us a single people and single united nation.
Friends, we in Russia always saw the Russians and Ukrainians as a single people. I still think this way now. Radical nationalism is always harmful and dangerous of course. I am sure that the Ukrainian people will yet come to an objective and worthy appraisal of those who brought their country to the state in which it is in today. 
For our part, we will do everything we can to help Ukraine get through this difficult period in its development as soon as possible and establish normal interstate ties.
We ourselves will continue moving forward. We will strengthen our statehood and our country. We will overcome the difficulties that we have so easily created for ourselves over these recent times.
And we will also overcome of course the problems and obstacles that others try to create for us from outside. Such attempts are doomed to fail in general when it comes to Russia.
Thank you for your support. Long live Russia!
See also
Meeting on socioeconomic development in Crimea and Sevastopol
March 18, 2015
Geography
Sevastopol
Republic of Crimea
Topics
Culture
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 18, 2015, 18:00
Text version