Events
Territoriya smyslov na Klyazme (Territory of Meanings on the Klyazma) National Education Youth Forum
Vladimir Putin met with participants in the Young IT Sector Researchers and Teachers theme session. The agenda included current issues in developing the information and communications sector.
July 14, 2015
19:45
Vladimir Region
4 of 9
Visiting IT projects exposition hosted within the framework of the Territoriya smyslov na Klyazme (Territory of Meanings on the Klyazma) National Education Youth Forum.
Before the meeting, Vladimir Putin toured the forum’s exposition pavilion, where he had a look at various IT projects.
The Forum is being held from July 13 to August 28 in Vladimir Region. Its programme features six theme session that bring together about 6,000 PhDs and ScDs, graduate students and experts aged between 18 and 30. The lecturers, experts and distinguished guests at the Territoriya smyslov na Klyazme forum include representatives of the Russian science, government agencies, major research foundations, prominent politicians and public figures.
Geography
Vladimir Region
Topics
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 14, 2015, 19:45
Text versionEvents
Statement by President of Russia Vladimir Putin following completion of negotiations on Iran's nuclear programme
July 14, 2015
13:15
Russia welcomes the agreement reached today in Vienna on a settlement of the situation concerning Iran’s nuclear programme and the joint comprehensive plan of action approved by the six countries and Iran. We are certain that the world heaved a sigh of relief today. The negotiations supported by the UN Security Council and involving Russia, China, the USA, France, Germany, Great Britain, Iran and the European Union went on for many years. We are satisfied that the solution found is based on the principle of phasing and mutuality which our country has been consistently supporting at every stage of these complicated negotiations.
The comprehensive agreement rests on the solid foundation of international law, primarily the nuclear non-proliferation treaty and the IAEA Safeguards, including the additional protocol. Despite the attempts to validate any scenarios based on the use of force, the parties to the negotiations made a choice in favour of stability and cooperation, which will be reflected in a corresponding UN Security Council resolution.
We are grateful to all those who invariably supported efforts to find reliable political and diplomatic solutions to the Iranian issue. The Russian negotiating team and nuclear experts have made a significant expert contribution to the drafting of the comprehensive arrangements, which made it possible to align the different, often opposing views. The IAEA will carefully monitor the implementation of the agreed steps to prove the exclusively peaceful nature of Iran’s nuclear programme.
Iran gets the opportunity to develop this programme, including uranium enrichment, under IAEA control and with the gradual lifting of sanctions imposed against Tehran, something we have long called for. This is also important for the implementation of large-scale plans of peaceful nuclear cooperation between Russia and Iran that got support in the documents approved today.
We expect that all the parties concerned, primarily the six states involved in the negotiations, will comply with the deal in full. The political will demonstrated by these six states and Iran in the course of these negotiations is a guarantee of the successful implementation of the plan of action designed for the long term. Our bilateral relations with Iran will receive a new impetus and will no longer be influenced by external factors.
Russia will do everything in its power to ensure the full implementation of the Vienna agreements, assisting in strengthening global and regional security, global nuclear non-proliferation, the creation in the Middle East of a zone free from weapons of mass destruction and their means of delivery, and the mobilisation of a broad coalition in the region to counter terrorist threats.
Geography
Iran
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 14, 2015, 13:15
Text version