Events
Meeting with Russian Human Rights Commissioner Ella Pamfilova
Vladimir Putin had a meeting with Russia’s Human Rights Commissioner Ella Pamfilova to discuss the results of the work by the Commissioner and its regional representatives. Ms Pamfilova briefed the President on the issues that citizens raise especially frequently.
December 10, 2015
17:10
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 2
Meeting with Russian Human Rights Commissioner Ella Pamfilova.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ms Pamfilova, it has been a year since you have assumed the post of Human Rights Commissioner.
Russian Human Rights Commissioner Ella Pamfilova
: More than 18 months already, Mr President, and they flew by in a flash.
Vladimir Putin: The year is coming to an end, and you and I meet regularly. Is there anything you would like to talk about?
Ella Pamfilova: First, I would like to thank you for pointing out a number of important human rights aspects in your Address [to the Federal Assembly]. This is of great importance. I would also like to thank you for your constant support of the institution of the human rights commissioners. This is very important, especially for my colleagues. This support has made the institution more recognisable and it is now in greater demand.
In the final count, this is not merely for the sake of status. People are getting more opportunities now, especially the unprotected, low income people – those, for whom it is best to protect their rights using this institution as they do not have the opportunity to use the media or hire expensive lawyers. It is the regional Commissioner who gets to the rural communities and meets with the old people, people with disabilities and all those categories, which are in the most difficult situation.
So, thank you for that. These days my colleagues and I have been discussing the entire range of issues facing us, and I am certain that despite all the difficulties, this institution has become more mobile and efficient.
As people share their most pressing problems with us, I would like to discuss one such issue with you – one that ever more people are bringing up now. This has to do with the growing number of all sorts of unreasonable payments people are forced to make – there is such a tendency. I will give you a few examples.
It is simply astonishing when our authorities at different levels plug the holes in their not-always-effective activities, or try to plug them with the help of the public, increasing these fees, which are not always founded. It is particularly ironic, I have data that I will show you later, in instances when money is taken from poorer people to give to richer ones; it is an absolutely abysmal situation.
I would like to focus on several aspects pertaining to inadequate legislation and law enforcement practices. (Ella Pamfilova went on to discuss shortcomings in collecting land taxes and charging contributions for overhaul repairs of housing. According to Ms Pamfilova, there are many unexamined factors causing justified indignation among the public.)
Another important issue concerns the balance of environmental and socioeconomic interests. There is a whole range of high-profile cases in many regions where a “Bermuda Triangle” is formed, consisting of the federal authorities, local authorities and residents. The “Bermuda Triangle” of misunderstanding, inability to align interests, inability to talk to people and take their needs into account. The flipside is knowing how to explain the importance of particular rules for the state. This is something that should be learned.
Let’s take a particularly acute situation with regard to Lake Baikal. There is a great misunderstanding and inability of the parties to explain their reasoning to one another. This is also true in Bashkortostan with construction of the Kronoshpan, where they are trying to build, say, a factory. For example, I was able to strike down an attack on the Water Code, where people were trying to fill the Volga floodplains to build elite cottages and so on.
The topic of harmonising environmental and socioeconomic interests is increasingly relevant because people are get involved in it more actively. And here, we need to find opportunities to discuss it; that is the role of an “open government,” rather than sweeping the problem under the rug.
<…>
Topics
Human rights
Persons
Pamfilova Ella
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 10, 2015, 17:10
Text versionEvents
Presentation of state decorations
Vladimir Putin presented state decorations in a ceremony at the Kremlin to more than 40 citizens of Russia and other countries.
December 10, 2015
14:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 14
Presentation of state decorations.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends,
The presentation of state decorations is a wonderful opportunity to single out the achievements of the people who deserve to be known by the entire country, to thank you for your labour, your talent, heroism and your contribution to strengthening our state, developing our society, resolving the key tasks facing our country.
Time keeps coming up with new challenges, testing our unity and our readiness to jointly protect and defend Russia’s national interests. This is a time when we especially feel the importance of trust, solidarity, generation ties, the importance of appreciating our national history and its lessons, relying on the traditions of fraternity and accord that unite our multi-ethnic people.
We have always lived with trust in good and justice, capable of pushing aside everything that stood in our way, all the differences in the name of our love for our Fatherland. It is this unity that makes us stronger today. Our society has always respected those who commendably do their professional and civic duty, who are engaged in creative search, working towards new victories, those who feel their responsibility to their country, who demonstrate valour and courage.
Thus, complex programmes of long space flight missions require stamina, willpower and true courage. We seem to be getting used to these flights, but every such event is a feat of heroism, a huge risk. For the successful performance of such a flight Sergei Ryazansky receives the titles of Hero of Russia and Russian Federation Pilot-Cosmonaut. Internal Troops Colonel Serik Sultangabiyev has also demonstrated true courage. In a critical situation during military exercises he took the blow to rescue his comrade, deserving the Gold Star Medal of the Hero of Russia.
Russian journalists are working in ‘hot-spots’, carrying on with honour the traditions of the legendary war correspondents of the Great Patriotic War. They report from the frontlines, telling the truth about what is happening in military conflict zones. For his professionalism and courage, special correspondent of the National State Television and Radio Broadcasting Company (VGTRK) Yevgeny Poddubny is awarded the Order of Alexander Nevsky.
I would like to say the warmest words today about those who work in production, work the land and develop new fields. I would like to speak of those who create the strong foundation that we need for our Fatherland to flourish and our people to prosper. Alexander Yezhevsky made a great contribution to the development of agricultural machine building. Only recently, he celebrated his 100th birthday, but he continues working despite his venerable age. Thank you for coming here today.
The energy and talent of the people dedicated to what they are doing result in the most outstanding discoveries and breakthroughs in scientific knowledge and technical progress, in medicine and education. The works of Academician Gennady Romanenko, vice-president of the Russian Academy of Sciences, are widely known. He is one of the developers of the fundamental principles of Russia’s agrarian policy.
Among the recipients are scientists of world renown: Nobel prize winner and respected public figure Zhores Alfyorov.
Also here is the founder of the top cardiology school – top not only in this country, but also one of the best in the world – an outstanding surgeon who performs extremely complicated surgeries and has saved countless lives – Leonid Bokeria.
Also with us is a group of people representing the humanitarian sphere. Natalya Solzhenitsyna is making a great contribution to preserving the historical, literary and philosophical heritage of Russia, to promoting educational and charitable initiatives.
People, whose creative achievements and fruitful public work are known to all, have become full cavaliers of the Order For Services to the Fatherland. They are Nikita Mikhalkov, Yury Solomin, Oleg Tabakov and Gennady Khazanov, and the renowned master of national and world opera Dmitry Khvorostovsky.
It is a pleasure to welcome this country’s good friends, our partners who are actively and constructively working to strengthen economic and cultural ties with Russia and are assisting in establishing mutual understanding and trust between peoples. These are Chairman of the Korean financial-industrial corporation Lotte Mr Dong Bin Shin, and a well-known British public figure, director of the Science Museum Group, Mr Ian Blatchford.
Friends,
Such ceremonies are not simply a tribute to our tradition or state protocol. This is also a chance to meet with gifted, interesting, enthusiastic people who have been lucky enough to find their path and do their job for the benefit of their country. Your achievements and success, you courage and steadfastness, your loyalty to your Fatherland is convincing proof of the fact that present-day Russia is worthy of its great predecessors and its great history.
Please accept my congratulations on receiving your state decorations. I wish you all the best.
<…>
Topics
State decorations
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 10, 2015, 14:00
Text versionEvents
Russia Today’s 10th anniversary
Vladimir Putin toured a multimedia exhibition honouring the 10th anniversary since the start of RTTV-Russia Today’s television broadcasts.
December 10, 2015
21:30
Moscow
1 of 7
Visit to exhibition honouring Russia Today’s 10th anniversary. With Editor-in-Chief of Russia Today Margarita Simonyan.
In particular, the President viewed the River of Time installation, bringing together over 100 events in Russia Today’s 10-year history.
Earlier, the President sent a congratulatory message to the television company’s staff, congratulating them on 10 years of broadcasts.
* * *
Speech at celebration honouring 10th anniversary of Russia Today television channel
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, friends,
I am very pleased to be here today among you to celebrate the 10th anniversary since the start of Russia Today’s work. When this idea was first born, I’ll tell you honestly, I did not expect that it would be implemented with such spirit, on such a large scale, and bring together such an outstanding group of talented individuals.
Just now, when I was looking at instances of your work and how you do this, I thought: our greatest merit lies in letting you prove yourselves, in liberating you, not forcing you to do anything, ensuring you work freely, giving you the chance to have fun and work at your own enjoyment. And we can see the result – which, of course, is excellent.
I want to congratulate you on your 10th anniversary, on this special date, on the fact that you have been able to achieve a great deal in these years – you know all this, but I am will say it again: creating six information channels, including a documentary channel, as well as a global video news agency.
Today, it is my pleasure to note that Russia Today is the number one TV news channel in the world on YouTube. The total number of views has exceeded three billion. Just now, Margarita [Simonyan] showed me that it’s at nearer four billion – 3.6 or 3.8 billion – which is an absolute record.
Let me say that these are amazing achievements. These are real breakthroughs in the information world, in terms of developing up to date, leading content and a wide variety of topics and programmes, and creative presentation of materials.
We saw a good example of this today, it was like when our seamen rip their shirts. I can see here that this is how your correspondents work as well, fighting for points. That’s really impressive. But don’t rip anything else off yourselves. Just the seamen’s shirts, and stop at that.
All this is truly important; you have been able to create an international team of TV stars, and that is a guarantee of success. Well-known journalists, as well as newcomers to the profession, from around the world are happy to work with you.
You compete on the same playing field as international news giants, and are already beating them according to many parameters. In some regions of the world, you have higher ratings than traditional news organisations that have long been operating in the international information market.
The Russia Today television channel is now accessible to 700 million viewers. Naturally, we do not know how many people actually watch it, but it is accessible to 700 million. This is a very large audience, but it can be even greater. But this is already a lot, so we need to tap into this audience.
Today, when the situation in global politics is, frankly speaking, complicated, it is more important than ever for your and our voice, your and our position, to be heard not only by politicians, not just the political elite, but also, first and foremost, by ordinary people around the world.
In order to increase your viewer numbers and your popularity among them, you will certainly need a high level of professionalism. And you reassert this professionalism daily through your hard work and your achievements.
No topics are off-limits to you – this is also highly important. You provide different points of view on nearly every significant event. As we say, you do not weigh viewers down with heavy, blunt propaganda cliches. Your greatest strength is presenting information freely and independently.
Of course, here in Russia we – by “we” I mean the Russian authorities – are no saints either, and we make mistakes; I suppose some things could be improved or are not as good as they could be. So objective presentation of materials concerning our nation is, again, highly important as well. I hope that it will remain this way. That is how the media should be: objective and interesting. Otherwise, there will be no demand for it.
Let me tell you something that may be somewhat unexpected and perhaps even strange. When I was viewing your materials, I looked at your questions and comments from politicians, my colleagues from other countries, and here is something I noticed: I agree with them on certain issues. Why? Because civil society, people like you, creative, free, and sometimes somewhat unbridled, have their own view of things. It may be no worse than ours, or it may, in some ways, be better. But we, the people who hold the responsibility for making decisions and the consequences of those decisions, also have our own view on things, and also have a right to our opinions.
Your objective is not to serve the interests of the Russian authorities, but to present these different points of view in order for average citizens, viewers and listeners to have a general, correct, multifaceted, three-dimensional view on whether the authorities are making the right choices, whether they are working toward the interests of society and all citizens, or in the interests of certain elites or quasi-elites, monopolistic groups, trying to gain power. This mission is highly important.
Many media throughout the world receive financial support from the government, but that’s entirely beside the point. What’s most important with regard to Russia Today is that we do not control you – I have already said this in different ways – and we do not meddle in your fieldwork, as well as other work. You have your own editorial policies and we respect that approach. Moreover, if somebody in the government stops respecting this and tries to control you, you will certainly be unable to reach this level of creativity. And we are deeply interested in you being effective.
At the same time, it would be strange if you ignored the position of the Russian authorities or joined your colleagues from other countries for whom informational confrontations, in this case with our country, have become a kind of trend. There is absolutely no need to get drawn into this interchange, in my view. There is no reason to get involved in this contest; we simply need to state our position – that is the power of free media.
Indeed, you broadcast our point of view on nearly all issues – with regard to Russia’s internal life and international issues – but we do not hide our positions. In this respect, I feel, that is the main support for our work: the fact that our policy is entirely transparent, I assure you, with the exception of certain very specific things. We have nothing to hide. It is a truthful policy, and we have never had anything to conceal from anyone. That is the strength of our policies and, I believe, your work, because you and we have nothing to hide.
Your television channel gives people the opportunity to receive objective information about Russia and, incidentally, provides a free platform for politicians from other countries who want to express their opinion on current events. We are always ready for open, constructive discussions.
There are more than enough examples here. In recent years, so-called double standards, a clear division into “insiders” and “outsiders,” (I mean countries and regions of the world), distortion of events and their causes – they are simply coming out, and this is becoming entirely clear and conspicuous. For example, silence concerning the humanitarian catastrophes in, say, eastern Ukraine, which you showed very clearly.
It is regrettable that even international human rights activists seem to be completely tongue-tied regarding many glaring facts. Whereas you provide that information. Your channel has made an enormous input into telling about the true events in Ukraine overall, and in southeast Ukraine, as well as other regions of the world.
You have the same open and objective information policy with regard to the events in Syria: today, we saw a great deal about this here as well, and overall, you are doing much to counter terrorism. It is well known that the media and the Internet are among its weapons – perhaps even its primary weapon. They use these media to recruit young people, and spread the ideological disease of terrorism. The media’s responsibility in this situation increases exponentially. You understand this well and provide fair coverage of all events, promoting the unification of people in the fight against this threat.
Of course, your channel traditionally gives a great deal of attention to Russia itself. You talk about the Russian regions, the people living here, their work, their civic initiatives, our magnificent nature, our cultural heritage, the customs of our multi-ethnic nation, our values and our history, the achievements of our country, true problems rather than made-up ones, of which we have more than enough, and how they are being resolved. You approach these topics both responsibly and creatively. I want to thank you for this, wish you success and promise that we will not get in your way.
Thank you!
See also
Congratulations to RTTV – Russia Today
December 10, 2015
Topics
Telecommunications
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 10, 2015, 21:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Head of Rosfinmonitoring Yury Chikhanchin
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Head of the of Federal Service for Financial Monitoring (Rosfinmonitoring) Yury Chikhanchin.
December 10, 2015
20:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 4
Meeting with Head of Rosfinmonitoring Yury Chikhanchin.
In the run-up to the extraordinary meeting of the Financial Action Task Force on Money Laundering (FATF), Mr Chikhanchin
told the President about the many Russian initiatives to fight the financing of terrorism. In particular, Russia’s suggestions include freezing transactions conducted in the interests of terrorist groups and involving oil and cultural assets.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Chikhanchin, you were going to meet with colleagues from FATF and discuss combatting the financing of terrorism.
Head of the Federal Service for Financial Monitoring Yury Chikhanchin: That’s right.
Vladimir Putin: What proposals are they working on?
Yury Chikhanchin: In the coming days, FATF will hold an extraordinary session. This has to do with the decision made buy the G20 summit where you spoke and raised the issue of financing terrorism. The Russian delegation is going and we will raise several issues.
The first issue pertains to UN Security Council Resolution No. 2199. We suggest criminalising, or freezing, economic resources, first and foremost, oil, oil products, cultural assets and everything else. We will insist for a new standard to be formed and for all countries to adhere to this decision.
The second issue we would like to draw attention to is the creation of a unified international list of terrorists – in other words, individuals who participated in ISIS events. These are people who participated and went back, and there should be a Security Council resolution about them, as with the Al-Qaeda list. We believe this is justified. Naturally, this should be followed by corresponding measures, i.e., freezing these people’s assets, introducing other sanctions, and so on.
The third set of issues we would like to raise has to do with identifying financial centres, financial institutions, used by ISIS and taking corresponding measures directly in the country involved.
Vladimir Putin: To monitor money wires.
Yury Chikhanchin: Yes, through money wires, as you also said at the G20 summit. We currently have a methodology, and we will try to explain it at a certain point. Moreover, I would like to say that this methodology has been launched in CIS countries under the auspices of CIS heads of financial intelligence.
We have proposed it and already talked it through with several countries, shared our methodology, particularly with our Australian colleagues. They were able to use our methodology to identify several people participating in ISIS, and appropriate actions are being taken. The same is true for Korea. Today, we are working with Armenia and Kazakhstan. In other words, the methodology is yielding results. We would like for the entire world to try it. That is our primary objective, our main goal for this visit. I will report to you about the results.
Vladimir Putin: Good.
 <…>
Topics
Fight against terrorism
Persons
Chikhanchin Yury
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 10, 2015, 20:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Alisher Usmanov
Vladimir Putin met with businessman and head of the USM Holdings Alisher Usmanov.
December 10, 2015
18:15
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 2
Russian businessman Alisher Usmanov.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Usmanov, you are the President of the International Fencing Federation. We will definitely touch upon this, bearing in mind that today is Olympic Athlete Day. Our National Olympic Committee is holding events in Moscow to mark it. However, I would like to begin with the production part. I would like to hear how your holding company is doing, what are your sales volumes, what is the situation on the markets, how are you resolving social issues for your staff, what is the average salary and so forth.
Head of USM Holdings Alisher Usmanov: Frankly speaking, this year a number of objective and subjective factors have led to a situation whereby even successful companies, including those within our holding, have registered lower sales, but not in terms of volumes of goods, but in terms of their dollar equivalent.
The situation on the international raw materials markets has deteriorated significantly, and as for the cost of the services we provide on the territory of Russia, for which we charge rubles, there are also problems with working assets. We are becoming smaller, but our overall sale of services this year was about 700–800 billion rubles. This is less than last year, but that again has to do with the price of the goods.
I would like to draw you attention, Mr President, to a very unexpected development, but it is very important, something we need to pay attention to: generally the volume of non-raw materials export is growing in the Russian economy. I hope the Government will see this and help those industries where we can see growing export, which means a growing demand for our produce.
This is the result of your policy, your support for import replacement by companies. Thus, we used only Russian equipment to build our latest complex, which we commissioned in 2015. Our kiln, which gave a new technological boost and created competitive conditions for our company on the metallurgical fresh feedstock market, was made in Russia. I believe that this trend should be supported – this is the first time in 2014–2015 that the export of non-raw materials exceeded that of raw materials. This is a serious tendency.
In our group, non-raw materials, in this case highly processed raw materials, began to generate more income than the initially processed concentrate and pellets, which we are happy about.
As for our group in general, given today’s situation, we are addressing problems successfully. We cannot pay more taxes than we were paying before because the volume of sales is lower and income is also lower. But we are taking the President’s example and fulfilling our social obligations to our workers.
Over the past five years, we have invested about 60 billion rubles in each of the regions (I don’t want to list them, I’ll just give you a summary) into our holding company’s social and charity programmes. I think that the governors of the regions where we are working can tell you all about it. I feel this is a high-priority objective for us, for entrepreneurs to help the government deal with the hardships due to the international circumstances and the political situation. We will certainly continue this course of action through to the end.
Vladimir Putin: What is the average salary in your company?
Alisher Usmanov: Sixty to eighty thousand rubles for manufacturing; miners receive even more, 100,000 rubles, while those at enterprises like Megaphone receive less, with an average salary over 30,000. But our programmers are paid good money, and we also feel that this is very important today: supporting tech companies. These young staff members who will create the IT product, which incidentally is also exported, must have good salaries so that they are happy to be working at our company and in Russia.
<..>
Topics
Industry
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 10, 2015, 18:15
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Head of Chechnya Ramzan Kadyrov
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Head of the Chechen Republic Ramzan Kadyrov. Mr Kadyrov briefed the President on the socioeconomic situation in the region, noting, in particular, a reduction in unemployment. According to Mr Kadyrov, around twenty investment projects have been implemented in the republic, including in agriculture, energy sector, and industry.
December 10, 2015
19:15
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 4
With Head of the Chechen Republic Ramzan Kadyrov.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Kadyrov, we have traditional issues pertaining to life in the Chechen Republic: how is the situation, how do things stand, how is the economy developing and how are social issues being resolved?
Head of the Chechen Republic Ramzan Kadyrov
: Mr President, indeed, we have a stable situation in our republic and a very good dynamic of economic growth. This year, agricultural production was 10 percent higher than last year. We also implemented 19 investment projects in agriculture, energy and manufacturing.
Vladimir Putin: What did you do in manufacturing?
Ramzan Kadyrov: We have built a hydroelectric power plant, started work on a central heating power plant and are gradually developing machine-building. Our manufacturing includes a dairy plant and a meat plant.
Vladimir Putin: Processing?
Ramzan Kadyrov: Yes, processing. We plan to build a cement plant – we have already started. There are some interesting projects that we are doing today for our region worth 203 billion rubles.
If you recall, on April 7, 2014 we had 18 percent unemployment, but today, it is down to 13.9 percent. This is also a good result in the current situation.
Concerning your May Executive Orders, we have nearly resolved the issue and the situation is under control. But as always, we need your support and help.
Vladimir Putin: One of the most pressing issues has always been the level of unemployment, especially among young people. Have you been able to bring it down it?
Ramzan Kadyrov: We have lowered it to 13.9 percent since April 7, 2014; I think this is an important result. When you appointed me to my position, we had 76 percent unemployment. And today, thanks to you and your support, Chechnya is becoming more attractive for foreign investments, as well as domestic ones.
We are also working with Rosseti and Gazprom; they are also building powerful 4.7 megawatt heating and power plants, with investments of 20–23 billion rubles in the republic. They will provide heat and light to the city of Grozny.
We are also very closely working on developing small and midsize businesses. Abu Dhabi is also cooperating with us extensively on this, thanks to your help. Starting next year, they will make investments and their experts will participate and work in Chechnya.
Vladimir Putin: I saw for myself how Grozny is developing. It certainly serves as a role model for many. I recall the situation when it was in such a state that we were considering whether the capital of Chechnya should remain there at all. The first President of Chechnya, Akhmad Kadyrov, said, “No, although I myself am from Gudermes, but the capital of Chechnya should nevertheless remain in Grozny.” And you were able to rebuild the city, so that now it is in excellent shape. I ask you to continue to give this matter your attention, because it is important for the republic and for all of the North Caucasus as a good example of development.
Ramzan Kadyrov: Thank you very much. Akhmad Kadyrov began in Gudermes, and after you came to Grozny and said that the city looks terrible from a helicopter, everything in Chechnya started to change for the better. Today, everyone says that it looks beautiful from helicopters and planes. Thank you very much for this!
Vladimir Putin: Thank you, you are the one who made it happen. I also thank the residents of Chechnya; everything was done by their hands, care and labour. I am very happy that you were able to implement what you planned. But we need to keep moving forward. Let’s discuss that now.
<…>
Geography
Chechen Republic
Topics
Agriculture
Industry
Social services
Persons
Kadyrov Ramzan
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 10, 2015, 19:15
Text version