Events
Meeting with Deputy Crown Prince, Defence Minister of Saudi Arabia Mohammad bin Salman Al Saud
Vladimir Putin met with Deputy Crown Prince, Defence Minister of Saudi Arabia Mohammad bin Salman Al Saud on the sidelines of the 19th St Petersburg International Economic Forum.
June 18, 2015
17:15
St Petersburg
2 of 3
Meeting with Deputy Crown Prince, Defence Minister of Saudi Arabia Mohammad bin Salman Al Saud.
The discussion focussed on the prospects for expanding relations between Russia and Saudi Arabia.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Your Highness, colleagues, good afternoon. It is a pleasure to meet with you here in Russia, in St Petersburg.
We have enjoyed friendly relations with the Kingdom for a number of years and we highly value these relations.
I would like to note with satisfaction that our trade is growing. Although it is still rather modest in absolute figures, the trend is very good.
As you may know, during my telephone conversation with the King of Saudi Arabia I invited him to visit the Russian Federation. I would like to confirm this invitation and convey my best wishes to His Majesty.
Welcome.
Deputy Crown Prince, Defence Minister of Saudi Arabia Muhammad bin Salman Al Saud (retranslated): I am very happy to have this opportunity to meet with you for the second time. I have the honour of conveying to you the greetings and best wishes from the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques and expressing his great respect for your Excellency.
I would like to say that the Custodian of the Two Mosques confirms his acceptance of your invitation. I also have the honour of inviting you to visit the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
We view Russia as an important state in the modern world. Our relations have a long history. Russia was the first foreign state to recognise Saudi Arabia in 1926. Therefore, we will work to develop bilateral relations in all areas.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
I remember the warm welcome I received in Saudi Arabia during my visit. I accept the invitation with pleasure.
<…>
Geography
Saint Petersburg
Saudi Arabia
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 18, 2015, 17:15
Text versionEvents
Meeting with First Vice Premier of the State Council of China Zhang Gaoli
On the sidelines of the 19th St Petersburg International Economic Forum, Vladimir Putin met with the First Vice Premier of the State Council of China Zhang Gaoli.
June 18, 2015
19:15
St Petersburg
2 of 4
Meeting with First Vice Premier of the State Council of China Zhang Gaoli.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Zhang Gaoli, friends, allow me to welcome you to St Petersburg.
I would like to begin by saying that the Russian-Chinese strategic partnership is actively developing in all areas.
In May our great friend, Chairman Xi Jinping visited Moscow. I know that June 15 was his birthday. Please convey my best wishes. We will soon be meeting within the framework of the BRICS and SCO summits in Ufa on July 8–10. In addition, as we agreed, I intend to visit Beijing on September 3.
Our economic relations are on the rise. This is largely due to the efforts of the Government of the Russian Federation and the State Council of the People’s Republic of China, and we are grateful to you for that. All our Chinese partners are working with Russia actively and with great interest – we see this and value it highly. Thank you for your decision to come to the St Petersburg Economic Forum as well.
First Vice Premier of the State Council of China Zhang Gaoli
(retranslated): Good afternoon, Mr President, Russian partners and friends.
Mr President, I am very grateful to you for finding the time to meet with me and my delegation despite your very busy schedule. This is a great honour for me to meet and talk with you again. The jacket with the inscription Sila Sibiri [The Power of Siberia] that you gave me last year is even more unforgettable.
Vladimir Putin: You were cold then because you did not come prepared.
Zhang Gaoli: When I returned home, I told President Xi Jinping and many of my friends that Mr Putin is not only a strong-willed man and a powerful leader but also a very friendly and attentive person. I remember as we were standing by the model you asked your colleagues to bring me a jacket. Although I told you I would not be cold, you insisted that I wear the jacket. I still remember the warmth.
Frankly speaking, I have a very busy schedule, but I came here to take part in the St Petersburg Economic Forum for your sake and for the sake of Russia.
First, I would like to convey to you, Mr President, the greetings and best wishes from President Xi Jinping and Premier Li Keqiang.
The relationship between you and President Xi Jinping is very close and friendly, and in the past two odd years, you have been maintaining close contacts. Today in the course of our talks and at the meeting of the Commission on Investment Cooperation I told Mr Shuvalov [First Deputy Prime Minister of Russia] that, as far as I know, there is no other foreign leader with whom President Xi Jinping would have such close contacts, such frequent meetings and such understanding.
It is thanks to the personal efforts of the leaders of our two states that Chinese-Russian relations of comprehensive partnership and strategic cooperation are developing at such a high level.
Last month President Xi Jinping made another successful visit to Russia to take part in the May 9 celebrations. I watched the television broadcast of the parade on Red Square on numerous occasions, when the Russian Armed Forces and the latest samples of armaments passed before you and President Xi Jinping. Many of our Chinese friends were very excited, and so was I.
President Xi Jinping and you have already set new targets for expanding and deepening our comprehensive strategic partnership. This would give a new powerful impetus to the development of our relations. The purpose of this trip is to implement the agreements between our two countries’ leaders and to prepare for the 20th regular meeting of prime ministers.
<…>
Geography
Saint Petersburg
People's Republic of China
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Zhang Gaoli
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 18, 2015, 19:15
Text version