Events
Vladimir Putin answered Russian journalists’ questions
The President answered journalists’ questions on current issues, in particular, the Russian economy’s development outlook, oil prices, Russia’s social policy, the situation in Ukraine, Europe’s response to the flood of refugees from the Middle East and North Africa, and the fight against terrorism.
September 4, 2015
06:50
Vladivostok
Earlier in the day, the President took part in the first Eastern Economic Forum and addressed a meeting of oil and gas sector workers.
* * *
Responses to journalists’ questions
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon. Go ahead, please.
Question: Looking at today’s Eastern Economic Forum, do you think it has been a success in sounding out some growth spots? What sorts of prospects do you see opening for the region?
Vladimir Putin: This region has tremendous potential and so there have always been areas of growth and development here. Our task though is not to simply find individual growth spots, but to establish a favourable climate in general and a good business environment for developing the Far East’s economy and social sector. The people here are very talented, energetic and active, and we simply need to give them the right conditions.
Today’s event, the Eastern Economic Forum, is one step in this direction. More important though is what we have been doing lately, discussing the Far East’s development and taking the decisions that I spoke about at the forum. As I explained, this includes the priority development areas, preferential loan rates, the Vladivostok Free Port and a whole range of other support measures.
We hope very much that this will bring results, but judging by the number of contracts and deals signed right here during the forum, we can say that these measures look to be working. I hope very much that we will start seeing the tangible results very soon.
See also
Trip to Primorye
September 4, 2015
Question: Mr President, this trip has also taken you to Chita, and to China, where the main event was the anniversary of the end of World War II. How would you describe the situation with the results [of World War II] in light of your contacts with your colleagues, with veterans and others? Is the meaning and significance of these dates and events being diluted and eroded?
Vladimir Putin: I think we are all witnessing attempts to erode the importance of World War II and its events, and sadly, this is happening in Europe and in Asia too, where we can see similar tendencies. It is therefore very important for everyone who fought Nazism and militarism to uphold in humanity’s consciousness the true meaning of what took place in the fight against Nazism and militarism.
I think that in holding such large-scale events to mark this anniversary of the end of World War II, our Chinese friends are moving in precisely this direction, the right direction, and are maintaining among their people a correct understanding of the significance of the fight against these things. The real sense of all this is to only make sure that nothing like this ever happens again in human history.
For our part, we will continue to do all we can to make sure that the truth about the Great Patriotic War, the truth about those who fought for our independence and freedom and brought freedom to the peoples of Europe, will remain not only in our minds, but in the hearts of our people and people in other countries, too.
China held very large-scale events, and we sensed that not only the Chinese leadership, but also the people deeply cherish and preserve the memory of what their forebears did to free their homeland.
Vladimir Putin answered Russian journalists’ questions.
Question: In your speech earlier, you did not give an assessment of the current economic situation in Russia. We see though that the ruble continues to fall as oil prices slip. What is your assessment and your forecast, and do you plan any new measures to stabilise the market?
Vladimir Putin: This work is conducted publicly. The Government conducts its work publicly, and I meet regularly with the Government members responsible for the economy. I had a detailed discussion of all these issues with the Prime Minister in Sochi just recently.
The Government has a package of measures and proposals on what to do in this kind of situation and how to go about it. This is not some kind of extraordinary situation for us. We already went through a similar situation in 2008–2009, and in earlier years too. Our measures for supporting the economy and business are known and ready. The only question is which instruments to use and to what extent.
In general, in a crisis situation, the best response is always to give business more freedom. This is the direction we will move in.
As I said at the forum just before, our general line is that we will not simply burn through our reserves or use only budget money to support industrial sectors or individual companies. Our general line is about expanding entrepreneurial freedom, freeing our economic system from red tape and improving the decision-making system and the business climate. This is our general development line, and our policy in this particular case.
In general, in a crisis situation, the best response is always to give business more freedom. This is the direction we will move in, but at the same time, there will be no avoiding targeted support measures for specific industrial sectors, the labour market and the social sector. As I said, we will proceed very carefully, based on the market’s demands. The Central Bank is reacting quite effectively.
As for the volatile prices for energy resources, our traditional export goods, yes, this is happening, but this is not within our control. It depends on processes taking place in the global economy as a whole and on the Asian markets. I discussed this issue with our Chinese friends too, and we do not see anything dramatic in this situation.
I think these market adjustments were not unexpected. Of course, they have an impact on energy prices, but this is not the whole issue. It is also a question of excess production of energy resources and the entry of new players with sizeable reserves onto the global market, including expected arrivals, such as Iran.
I think this is all a natural process. The global economy, including the energy sector, needs to follow its natural development and be in a normal state, not come under pressure from external or political factors. I am sure that everything will take a fully normal and natural turn. I think that Russia’s economy has already more or less adapted to the situation. There are still some aspects we need to work on, of course, the Government and the business community, and we will do this.
The Government is making the right decision in going over to a one-year budget, and I will ask the Parliament to support this approach.
I think it perfectly justified that the Government is moving over to an annual budget in this situation, because in these conditions it is harder or even impossible to predict exactly how global markets will behave and how this will affect federal and regional budget revenue.
The Government will continue to set target figures for subsequent years, the second and third years, and will continue to make its forecasts, which we will take into account, but in these conditions, trying to predict more or less accurately what will happen and how we should respond is possible only for a year ahead.
I think the Government is making the right decision in going over to a one-year budget, and I will ask the Parliament to support this approach. As for our social commitments, we will do everything necessary to ensure that they are met.
Question: On the subject of Ukraine, we know the events that took place yesterday at the Verkhovna Rada in Kiev, when law enforcement officers were killed and demonstrators clashed with police. This took place as the Parliament voted on amendments to the Constitution. How do you assess these events and what is your prognosis?
What we are seeing today is the next round of political confrontation in Ukraine, and the amendments to the Constitution are being used only as a pretext for intensifying the political battle for power.
Vladimir Putin: I remind you that in accordance with the Minsk Agreements, amendments were to be made to Ukraine’s Constitution, but this would be done through discussion, dialogue and coordination with the Donbass region and the unrecognised Donetsk People’s Republic and Lugansk People’s Republic. Unfortunately, the authorities in Kiev are not taking any such steps today and there is no dialogue and coordination on the amendments to Ukraine’s Constitution. This is of principle importance.
If we are talking about carrying out the Minsk Agreements, let me remind you that amendments to the Constitution must be discussed and settled with the Donbass region for a start, and second, the law on local government elections also needs to be settled with the Donbass region. Third, a law on amnesty is supposed to be passed, but this has not happened, and a law on special status for these regions is supposed to come into force. This law has been passed, but its entry into force has been postponed. These are four basic conditions for political settlement that our colleagues in Kiev have not implemented, unfortunately. They are simply not being carried out.
As for the tragic events that took place, I think this is not linked to amendments to the Constitution, because everything proposed today as amendments is purely declarative in nature and essentially changes nothing in the way state power in Ukraine is organised.
I will not go into the details now. You can talk with the experts. All of this is clear enough to see. Simply, what we are seeing today is the next round of political confrontation in Ukraine, and the amendments to the Constitution are being used only as a pretext for intensifying the political battle for power.
Question: What do you think will happen from here?
Vladimir Putin: That will depend not on us but on Ukraine itself, on the Ukrainian people and how long they are prepared to put up with this chaos.
I have already said that the fact that Ukraine has been placed under outside governance and foreigners hold all the key posts in the Government and now in key regions too is, I think, an insult to the Ukrainian people.
Are there really no decent, honest and competent managers in Ukraine? Of course, there are. I repeat; it does not depend on us. The way events develop in Ukraine depends on Ukraine itself and on the Ukrainian people.
Question: In the past few days, the refugee crisis has reached a critical point in Europe. The situation is very tense. What is your assessment of this situation, why do you think it is happening? What do you think will happen next?
Vladimir Putin: We talked about this on numerous occasions a long time ago. I believe this is an absolutely expected crisis. If you remember, or look it up in your archives, we in Russia, yours truly in particular, said a few years ago that we are in for large-scale problems if our so-called western partners continue with their misguided foreign policy, as I always referred to it, especially in Muslin regions, in the Middle East, North Africa – the policy they are actually still conducting.
What is this policy? That of imposing their standards without taking into consideration the history, religion, culture or national characteristics of these regions. This is, primarily, the policy conducted by our American partners; Europe blindly follows the lead, complying with its so-called allied commitments, and then it bears the brunt.
Together, and I would like to stress this word, together we need to combat terrorism and extremism of all sorts, primarily in the problem countries.
I am surprised to see certain American media outlets criticising Europe for its excessively tough, as they say, attitude to migrants. However, the United States does not have to deal with such a flow of migrants, while Europe, after it blindly followed instructions from America is now bearing the brunt of the crisis.
I am not saying this to say how smart we are and how shortsighted our partners turned out to be, or to bait anyone; we simply need to see what to do next. What is it? The answer is very simple.
First, together, and I would like to stress this word, together we need to combat terrorism and extremism of all sorts, primarily in the problem countries, to resolve this issue – without that any further progress is impossible. How can we make any progress in regions controlled by the Islamic State? It is impossible, people are fleeing those regions, they kill hundreds of thousands, blow up cultural monuments, burn people alive or drown them, cut the heads off living people. How can one live there? Of course, people are fleeing.
First, we must efficiently combat terrorism and extremism together.
Second, we need to restore the economy of those countries and their social sphere. Only this way, by showing respect for the history, traditions and religion of these peoples and countries, we can restore their statehood and provide large-scale economic and political support.
If we join our efforts in all these areas, we will have positive results. If we act separately and keep arguing among ourselves over some quasi-democratic principles and procedures on certain territories, this will get us into a greater deadlock. However, I pin my hopes on a positive development and on joining efforts with all our partners.
Question: Mr President, I would like to clarify something with regard to the Islamic State, because Russia has been speaking of the need to create a political coalition, and the United States has been urging the same thing. There is no agreement on Syria, for example, and so forth. How do you see the creation of such a coalition?
Vladimir Putin: We are taking specific steps, and doing this publicly. If you want to know the details, I can explain once again. It is true that we want to create an international coalition to combat terrorism and extremism. With this aim in view, we are holding consultations with our American partners, I personally discussed this over the telephone with the President of the United Stated, Mr Obama, and I also discussed this with the President of Turkey, the leaders of Saudi Arabia, with the King of Jordan, the President of Egypt and other partners. Our military agencies are in close contact, only recently the heads of the general staffs of the countries neighbouring on these conflicts met in Moscow.
We continue our political efforts to create a certain coalition. If today it is impossible to organise joint work directly ‘on the battlefield’, so to speak, involving all the countries interested in combatting terrorism, we should at least achieve certain coordination between them. We are trying and making certain efforts in this direction. Our first steps show that overall this seems possible.
We know that there are different positions on the developments in Syria. Incidentally, people are not fleeing from the Bashar Assad regime – they are fleeing from the Islamic State, which has occupied vast territories in Syria and Iraq and is committing atrocities there. That is what people are running away from. However, we understand that political change is also required. We are also working with our partners in Syria.
It is true that we want to create an international coalition to combat terrorism and extremism.
There is an overall understanding that such joint efforts to combat terrorism should go side by side with certain political processes inside Syria. The Syrian President agrees with this too, including, say, holding early parliamentary elections and establishing ties with the so-called ‘healthy opposition’ and involving them in running the country. This is primarily a matter of Syria’s internal development. We are not imposing anything, but we are ready to assist in an internal Syrian dialogue.
Question: Mr President, just to clarify: is Russia ready to take part in a military operation if the coalition does take shape? Particularly since we have a certain moral responsibility – there are Russians within the Islamic State. Some media are already saying that our aviation is being deployed in the area.
Vladimir Putin: You know, this is a separate issue and we see what is going on. Say, the American aviation is making certain strikes. So far, their efficiency has not been very high, but it is too early to say that we are ready to do it. However, we are providing Syria with significant support anyway, both in equipment and armaments and in personnel training.
We signed major contracts with Syria some 5–7 years ago, and we are complying with them in full. Therefore, we are considering various scenarios, but so far, what you have mentioned is not on our agenda. However, we will continue our consultations both with our friends in Syria and with the countries in the region. I have already told you who we are having an exchange with on this matter, and the parties we are in dialogue with.
Thank you very much.
Geography
Primorye Territory
Topics
Media
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 4, 2015, 06:50
Text versionEvents
First Eastern Economic Forum
Vladimir Putin took part in the first Eastern Economic Forum in Vladivostok. The current situation in the Russian economy and the Far East region’s investment attractiveness were the main subjects of the President’s address.
September 4, 2015
05:10
Vladivostok
The first Eastern Economic Forum (EEF) started work on September 3, and presents investment opportunities and projects in the Russian Far East. The forum’s main missions are to strengthen ties between the international investment community, Russian entrepreneurs, federal, regional and local authorities, provide comprehensive expert assessment of the Far East’s economic potential, and present new opportunities and conditions for investing and doing business in the region.
* * *
Speech at the First Eastern Economic Forum
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon friends, ladies and gentlemen.
Let me welcome you to Vladivostok. I met with many of you here three years ago during the APEC summit. Today, it is a pleasure to see you all at the Eastern Economic Forum.
This is the first time we are holding this event. The large number of Russian and international business community representatives taking part reflects the great interest that the Far East region holds. It is only natural that there should be great interest, for the region has great potential. Of course, the very fact that we are holding this forum is a symbol of the radical changes taking place today in the Far East. It is a practical expression of our policy aimed at accelerated, fast-track development in this region.
Russia’s movement towards the Pacific coast was the result of the great labour and courage of many generations of our forebears.
Let me stress that developing the Far East region continues Russia’s historic course. Russia’s movement towards the Pacific coast was the result of the great labour and courage of many generations of our forebears. Outstanding sons of our country – pioneers, industrialists, and statesmen – bound their names to the Far East’s development. Times and political systems have changed, but the course of developing this region remains unchanged.
At the turn of the 20th century, statesmen such as Sergei Witte and Petr Stolypin had big plans for developing the Far East. Later, the Soviet period built further on these plans. Founding Vladivostok and Komsomolsk-on-Amur, building the Trans-Siberian and the Baikal-Amur mainline railways, and developing the Far East’s natural resources were projects of truly national scope that advanced not just the Far East region but practically the entire country.
Today, we see the future of the Far East as a key socioeconomic development centre for Russia, and a region that should be effectively integrated into the developing Asia-Pacific region as a whole. Our main task is to develop the economy and infrastructure, build new production facilities and create new jobs. This is the goal we are working towards.
First Eastern Economic Forum.
In just these last years alone, several dozen major projects have begun or already been completed in the Far East region. Many of them really could qualify as national and even global projects in scale and significance. They include the launch of the Eastern Siberia-Pacific Ocean oil pipeline and the opening of a federal university in Vladivostok, which has already become a major scientific and educational centre for the Asia-Pacific region. Then there is the construction of the Power of Siberia gas pipeline, the Vostochny Space Launch Centre, which is nearing completion, modernisation of the Baikal-Amur and the Trans-Siberian mainline railways, which I just mentioned, offshore development of Sakhalin, Magadan and Kamchatka, the Eastern Petrochemicals Complex project, building a modern cluster for shipbuilding and manufacturing equipment for offshore fields, developing companies engaged in mining iron ore, gold and other minerals, and successful agricultural sector projects.
Our main priorities in the Far East are an active social development policy, building a modern transport and education infrastructure, affordable housing, and a healthcare system providing quality services. Naturally, we are also expanding economic freedom and providing better conditions for Russian and foreign investors to do business, so that the Far East can compete successfully with other leading business centres in effectiveness and returns on capital.
We offer our potential partners genuinely exclusive opportunities and incentives in the Far East.
Friends and colleagues, we offer our potential partners genuinely exclusive opportunities and incentives in the Far East. I would like to say a few words about this now. I am sure this subject has already been discussed and will be yet, but I have come here to speak with you and let you hear everything right from the top, as it were.
The law on priority development areas came into force on March 30. We will continue to work together with investors to encourage projects carried out in the Far East. Residents of the priority development areas benefit from special conditions for organising new production, preferential tax regimes, administrative support measures, and help in developing infrastructure. Nine such areas have already been established in the Far East: in the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia), Primorye and Khabarovsk territories, Amur Region, Chukotka and Kamchatka. There are plans to organise more such areas on the Russky Island and Bolshoi Ussuriysky Island, and in other parts of the Far East.
Residents of the Vladivostok Free Port will get an even broader range of incentives. The relevant law will come into force in October, and its provisions will apply to all key ports in the south of Primorye Territory, from Zarubino to Nakhodka, and to 15 municipal areas that are home to nearly 75 percent of Primorye Territory’s population.
Procedures for crossing the border will be substantially simplified. Instead of numerous inspectors on the border, there will be one single agency. The border checkpoints will work round the clock, and it will be possible to make an advance electronic declaration of goods. Foreign citizens arriving in Russia via the Vladivostok Free Port will be able to obtain an eight-day Russian visa at the border. Free port residents will benefit from preferential insurance contribution and tax regimes, and also from the free customs zone regime.
Our hope is that these measures will enable us to develop a big transport and eventually industrial hub oriented to demand not just in the Far East, but in the entire Asia-Pacific region. It should provide the stimulus for developing international trade and open up the great potential concentrated in the southern part of the Russian Far East.
Western European, Japanese, Korean and Chinese partners, particularly in China’s border regions, all show big interest in making use of the Free Port and its opportunities. It offers them the shortest, most direct, and therefore most economically efficient access to international sea routes. I think that we have succeeded in finding a good, competitive formula for a free port, drawing on our own historical experience and on best international practice, and I therefore propose that the Government consider the question of extending the free port regime to other major ports in Far East.
First Eastern Economic Forum.
If investors put resources into developing new fields and production facilities in the Far East, we will of course examine the matter of helping them build the needed infrastructure. This will make it possible to bring down costs, shorten the time it takes for projects to pay themselves off, and guarantee their effectiveness. These are also very advantageous investments for the state authorities. To give you one example, for the first six projects already selected, the state authorities are investing 13.8 billion rubles in infrastructure development in the form of direct subsidies to investors. This will enable us to attract private investment totalling 126.5 billion rubles. As you can see, this gives us a ratio of one to nine. I hope that my colleagues in the Government will ensure this instrument’s wide use and will expand the list of projects.
Co-financing of projects will also take place using resources from the Far East Development Fund and the Russian Direct Investment Fund. We have already taken the decision on funding for construction of the Nizhneleninskoye-Tongjiang bridge, which will link Russia and China. The Russian Direct Investment Fund, together with Russian and foreign partners, has invested more than 50 billion rubles in projects in the Far East. The Far East Development Fund will make resources available at preferential conditions, for the long term, and at lowered interest rates.
I remind you that in my Address to the Federal Assembly, I proposed a mechanism for topping up the Fund’s capitalisation. I will not go into the details now, but I ask my Government colleagues to settle on the sources as soon as possible. Discussion continues on this matter. I spoke about it just yesterday with the Finance Minister, but I see that the debates will reach their conclusion soon and I hope that everything will start working very soon.
Let me stress that support measures for projects, the priority development areas, the Vladivostok free port, and help for investors in infrastructure development will produce real results only if we make a general fundamental improvement in the Far East’s business climate. The regions must make active use of successful practice in working with investors, providing state services, supporting small and medium businesses, and ensuring that development projects have the necessary housing and social infrastructure.
In the Far East we are creating additional opportunities for our citizens to set up their own businesses.
Generally, we need to improve the training and raise the qualification of administrative staff. We have the necessary mechanisms. The Agency for Strategic Initiatives together with the country’s leading schools of higher learning have launched a Training Centre to teach the best practices of creating a favourable investment climate. I would like to draw the attention of my colleagues in the Russian regions, the heads of regions to the fact that this is primarily their responsibility. We will be assessing the work of regional teams mainly on the basis of the feedback we receive from the business community. I am referring here to that sphere of your activity that deals with fostering an investment climate.
In this connection, I would like to remind you that here in the Far East we are creating additional opportunities for our citizens to set up their own businesses, I mean farms, various production facilities and industrial companies. I am referring to the Government’s proposal to allocate free of charge up to 1 hectare of land in the Far East to Russian citizens. The implementation of this project is to begin in 2016. I would like to ask the Government to rapidly produce a relevant draft law and submit it to the State Duma. Most importantly, we need to envisage the simplest procedure possible for obtaining land plots, including through the use of information technologies.
I would like to repeat that here in the Far East all the main conditions for doing business should be competitive: access to financial resources, administrative procedures, transport and energy tariffs. Special measures should be worked out within the existing budget to reduce transportation and energy costs for businesses in the Far East. We need to propose and approve electric power tariffs that would be attractive for consumers, investors in every region. I would like to stress here – I looked into what is going on with the tariffs – this is an old problem in the region: they are not competitive everywhere, therefore I would like to ask the Energy Ministry to look into this to make sure we consider each Far Eastern region separately. We will have to use additional sources, if necessary, and additional budget resources to create an infrastructure.
We are interested in investment into all branches of the region’s economy.
I would like to address now all our potential investors, both Russian and international, those already working in the Far East or only planning to. We are interested in investment into all branches of the region’s economy – this includes shipbuilding, the metals industry, timber processing, bio-resources, transport, energy, healthcare and tourism. Your projects will receive full support. You can address all your issues directly to the people responsible, including the Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoy to the Far East, Mr Trutnev; he is also a Deputy Prime Minister and has all the necessary authority.
I would like to stress that the Government should strictly ensure the priority nature of funding the region’s social and economic development. This requires a consolidation of the resources of the federal budget, the state programmes, and development institutes as well as of the infrastructure companies and companies with public ownership. This is a significant reserve, one company alone (Mr Sechin is here) – Rosneft, jointly with its partners – intends to invest over 1.3 trillion rubles into the development of its Far Eastern projects which will produce a multiplier effect of about 6.6 trillion rubles and help create some 100,000 new jobs. This will also lead to the production by related companies of another 6 trillion rubles worth of goods over 20 years. Within the same period, the budget will receive about 4 trillion rubles in taxes.
We will also be developing shipbuilding, as I have already said. I would like to inform you that I have decided to allocate 60 billion rubles from Rosneftegaz resources for the modernisation of the Zvezda Far Eastern shipbuilding complex. Rosneftegaz has sufficient resources; the critical task is to ensure their efficient use. Rosneftegaz resources are an effective mechanism. I proceed from the fact that the funding of the entire modernisation programme at the plant, which amounts to 146 billion rubles, is a joint commitment of Rosneft and Gazprombank. This is a preferential resource that allows for an in-depth restructuring of the plant and the creation on its basis of a modern civilian shipbuilding cluster, the production of marine technology and equipment for the exploration, production and transportation of hydrocarbons. I would like to acknowledge all our foreign partners who made the decision to take part in this project.
With its colossal resources, Russia can ensure the enhanced growth of the economies of the Asia-Pacific states.
Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen,
I am convinced that the Asia-Pacific countries, despite their current problems, will clearly remain the locomotive of the global economy and an important market of goods and services. Strengthening relations with these states is of a strategic importance for Russia. With its colossal resources, Russia can ensure the enhanced growth of the economies of the Asia-Pacific states. I would like to stress that the creation of and energy bridge between Russia and the Asia-Pacific region is our common strategic task. We can see and understand that the region is interested in a strong and successful Russia, open to cooperation and putting forth a positive and result-oriented agenda. Eurasian integration, in turn, opens up new opportunities for mutually beneficial cooperation and trade with the APR states.
The Eurasian Economic Union is a receptive regional market with a free movement of goods, capital, services and workforce, with clear rules and without any unnecessary barriers. I would like to stress that this is a market initially created on WTO principles. This year we signed an agreement on a free trade zone between the EAEC and Vietnam; jointly with our partners we are considering the possibility of having similar agreements with Israel, India and Egypt. On May 8, 2015, in Moscow, together with my colleague Chinese President Xi Jinping we adopted a Joint Declaration on Cooperation in aligning the development of the Eurasian Economic Union and the Silk Route Economic Belt. This document envisages the coordination of efforts, a simplification of mutual investment procedures and the development of a transportation infrastructure.
The advantage of these two projects is that they complement each other, creating greater opportunities for each participant. This in fact creates a new configuration of trade routes and economic cooperation in Eurasia. This is sure to have an impact not only on the development of this continent, but also on the global economy as a whole. Thus, it will significantly simplify cargo shipment between Asia and Europe: cargoes from China will have only two borders to cross on their way to Europe. We are now actively developing transportation routes through Kazakhstan and European part of Russia. At the same time, we are adding to the existing routes; I am referring here to Trans-Siberian and the Baikal-Amur railways that I mentioned earlier. By 2017, we plan to spend about 500 billion rubles on the modernisation and expansion of both.
Moreover, the North Sea Route has a great development potential. Our job is to turn it into a competitive transport corridor of global significance, including for container traffic that dominates in the world cargo turnover. I would like the Government to continue these efforts. We believe new international financial institutions designed to resolve practical cooperation tasks could play a major role in the implementation of our large-scale joint projects. I am primarily referring here to the New Development Bank created by the BRICS countries with a capital of $100 billion. As you may know, Russia is actively involved in it, including in terms of capital – we rank third in volume after China and India.
First Eastern Economic Forum.
I would like to reiterate that we will actively strengthen cooperation with the APR countries in the creation of an infrastructure and the development of trade and industrial cooperation. At the same time, the Asia-Pacific is not only a major production centre, an established world ‘workshop’. It is rapidly developing its system of education, its universities, engineering centres and high technology production – what we call the knowledge and intellect economy. In this connection, our cooperation in science and education acquires special importance. All this could become a powerful stimulus for the technological development of all the Asia-Pacific countries. Russia has serious fundamental scientific capacity and we are ready to put forth a series of initiatives in this area.
Thus, we suggest considering the creation of large research platforms, so-called mega science projects that will make true scientific breakthroughs possible. Today laboratories of this kind, like CERN and ITER are mainly located in Europe. I believe it is time to create such an infrastructure, a network of research and educational cooperation centres in the Asia-Pacific region as well. Russia invites all countries that are interested in this work to join us.
The very idea of a modern 21st century Far East has been supported by Russian society, which in itself is a guarantee of success.
The Far Eastern Federal University, where we are meeting today, is becoming one such cooperation centre. We expect it to turn into a platform for generating new ideas, addressing development tasks for Russia and the entire Asia-Pacific region. I would like to note that the university has only existed in its current state for three years. Today, together with our colleagues from China, Japan, India and other APR states and with the involvement of businesses they are actively conducting fundamental and applied research. Young people from all over Russia come to study here. I expect them to link their future with the Far East. The Far East needs qualified experts, scientists, engineers, managers, production organisers and workers with unique skills and qualifications. The Agency for the Development of Human Resources has been created in the Far East with the purpose of finding and attracting such people.
Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, friends,
We see the scale of the tasks we are facing. I have no doubt that we will be successful. We rely on a realistic, proven strategy and will put all our plans into practice. The very idea of a modern 21st century Far East has been supported by Russian society, which in itself is a guarantee of success. Recent polls show that an absolute majority of Russians believe that this region will become dynamic and flourishing. The Far East is open and welcomes all who are ready for joint work and cooperation, who are ready to implement their ideas and business plans and make use of these unique development opportunities.
I wish you success.
Thank you for your attention.
See also
Trip to Primorye
September 4, 2015
Geography
Primorye Territory
Topics
Economy and finance
Investment
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 4, 2015, 05:10
Text versionEvents
Meeting with oil and gas sector workers
Vladimir Putin met with oil and gas sector workers on the sidelines of the Eastern Economic Forum.
September 4, 2015
06:00
Vladivostok
Speech to oil and gas sector workers.
In his remarks the President noted in particular that the oil and gas sector is one of the Russian economy’s key economic sectors, and Russia is one of the world’s leading producers of oil and gas and petroleum products, and one of the biggest energy resource exporters. Mr Putin said he hopes that Russia’s oil and gas companies will continue to become more effective and competitive and reach new heights.
* * *
Speech at a meeting with oil and gas sector workers
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends,
We have a good tradition now of meeting regularly with representatives of the oil and gas sector either on your professional holiday, or just before it, like now. I want to wish you all success and prosperity.
The tradition of celebrating this professional holiday each year began 50 years ago as a symbol of our deep respect and gratitude for the difficult and devoted labour of everyone working in this sector, and a symbol of the special place the oil and gas sector holds in Russia’s economy.
The efforts of our oil and gas industry workers have strengthened Russia’s economic and energy resource base, developed vast territories and established new industrial centres in the Volga region, Siberia, the Far North, and of course, the region where we are meeting today – the Far East.
Today, the oil and gas industry is one of our country’s key economic sectors. Russia is among the world leaders for production of hydrocarbons, petroleum products, and export of energy resources.
You are carrying out major infrastructure projects. It is enough to mention some of the big events of recent years, such as the start of operations at the Eastern Siberia-Pacific Ocean oil pipeline, and the completion of the Nord Stream and the Sakhalin-Khabarovsk-Vladivostok gas pipelines.
You have developed and begun industrial operation of unique fields such as Yamal and Eastern Siberia. As a result, in 2014, Russia reached a new record oil production figure of more than 526 million tonnes, and gas production came to more than 640 billion cubic metres.
I am certain the sector’s workers will continue to fulfil their set missions with honour and ensure that Russia’s export capability continues to grow and that our domestic market continues its stable work. I am sure that our oil and gas companies will become more efficient and competitive and will reach new heights. I have absolutely no doubts about this. I know practically all of the company bosses personally and for many years, and I know their human potential and the sector’s potential.
Once again, I congratulate you on this holiday and I ask you to pass on my best wishes to all your teams, to everyone at their posts today, and, of course, to the sector’s veterans.
I wish you success. Thank you very much.
See also
Trip to Primorye
September 4, 2015
Geography
Primorye Territory
Topics
Energy
Industry
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 4, 2015, 06:00
Text version