Events
Russian-Belarusian talks
Vladimir Putin had talks in the Kremlin with President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko.
December 15, 2015
17:15
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 9
Before Russian-Belarusian talks. With President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko.
The agenda covered a broad range of bilateral cooperation and international issues.
Following the talks, the two presidents witnessed the signing by Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov
and Belarusian Foreign Minister Vladimir Makey of a Protocol on Exchange of Ratifications of the Protocol on Amendments to the Agreement between the Russian Federation and the Republic of Belarus on Ensuring Equal Rights of Citizens of the Russian Federation and the Republic of Belarus to Freedom of Movement and Choice of Place of Residence on Union State Member States’ Territory of December 24, 2006.
The presidents of Russia and Belarus signed a joint declaration.
Vladimir Putin and Alexander Lukashenko
also made press statements.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Lukashenko, colleagues,
See also
Press statements following Russian-Belarusian talks
December 15, 2015
It is a pleasure to see you in Moscow. As we have agreed, you are making your first visit after your elections to Russia, which is only natural given the level of our political relations, the scope of our economic cooperation and the progress that we have made, to a large extent through your efforts, in joining our capabilities to resolve social matters in Belarus and Russia. All this goes to show that we always have things to discuss.
We meet frequently. Nevertheless, we have been looking forward to this official visit of yours. We are very happy that it is taking place, despite all sorts of current developments, and that you are here for a detailed discussion of the entire range of Russian-Belarusian relations.
Welcome.
President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko: Thank you, Mr President, for your hospitality.
True, we agreed in Ufa in the course of our intermediate meeting, so to speak, that prior to this meeting, our Governments and other agencies will work on all the matters that need to be resolved and then you and I will meet here in the Kremlin and consider and resolve all the remaining issues.
We are fully aware of what Russia wants from Belarus. I am certain that Russia knows full well what Belarus needs from Russia. I believe that a solution to the issues that remain open would bring our peoples even closer together. However, frankly speaking, it seems awkward to try to compare our relations to the traditional relations between states because we are so close that regular criteria do not apply.
Nevertheless, I am grateful to you for this assessment and we are ready to quickly and accurately – I know the governments have closely considered all these issues – discuss everything today and resolve all the outstanding issues.
<…>
Geography
Belarus
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Lukashenko Alexander
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 15, 2015, 17:15
Text versionEvents
Meeting with US Secretary of State John Kerry and Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov
The discussion covered the outcome of today’s talks between John Kerry and Sergei Lavrov in Moscow.
December 15, 2015
18:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 3
At the meeting with US Secretary of State John Kerry and Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Secretary of State, colleagues,
I would like to heartily welcome you to Moscow.
Mr Secretary of State, we see the efforts you are making to resolve a number of pressing issues. We find it hard to follow your movements – I can see you need to catch up on your sleep. You know that together with you we are all looking for solutions to the most acute crises.
I know that after our meeting in Paris, the American side presented its ideas regarding ways to resolve a number of issues, including the Syrian crisis. Today you also had substantive talks at Russia’s Foreign Ministry.
Foreign Minister Lavrov has just briefed me on your proposals and on certain issues that require additional discussion. I am very happy to have this opportunity to meet with you and to discuss this entire range of issues.
Thank you.
United States Secretary of State John Kerry: Mr President,
Thank you very much for welcoming me and thank you for bringing your team with Foreign Minister Mr Lavrov leading it at the disposal of our efforts. It has been a good cooperative effort and we are very appreciative for what we have achieved so far.
You had a chance to speak with President Obama in New York and then subsequently in Paris and both you and President Obama have committed yourselves to trying to develop as much as possible through Foreign Minister Lavrov and me an approach that can try to deal with both Ukraine and deal with Syria.
With regard to Syria, Vienna-1 and Vienna-2 were a strong beginning, opening up possibilities, and I think there is no question – Foreign Minister Lavrov and I have agreed – that together the United States and Russia have an ability to be able to make a significant difference here.
So, I very much look forward to our discussions now and appreciate the seriousness of your commitment of time and thought about these issues.
<…>
Geography
United States
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Lavrov Sergei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 15, 2015, 18:30
Text versionEvents
Press statements following Russian-Belarusian talks
Following the talks, Vladimir Putin and Alexander Lukashenko made statements for the press.
December 15, 2015
17:20
The Kremlin, Moscow
Press statements following Russian-Belarusian talks.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen,
Out talks with the President of Belarus during his first official visit to Russia after his re-election to the post of President were traditionally business-like and constructive. I would like to once again congratulate Mr Lukashenko on his convincing victory in the elections and wish him further success.
Relations between Russia and Belarus are of a strategic nature. They are based on a solid tradition of friendship, mutual respect and good neighbourly relations between two fraternal peoples. We are interested in the dynamic development of the multifaceted Russian-Belarusian alliance in every direction. This approach forms the basis of the joint declaration we have just signed.
In the course of a separate meeting today with Mr Lukashenko and during our talks with the participation of our delegations, we discussed pressing matters of bilateral cooperation and the international agenda, and in view of the OCSE summit to take place on December 21, we focussed on ways of ensuring security and stability on the external borders of our organisation and our joint fight against terrorism.
We gave special attention to the development of bilateral trade and economic cooperation. Russia ranks first among Belarusian foreign economic partners. Our market accounts for almost half of all Belarusian trade. This year our trade turnover in dollar terms has gone down due to sharp fluctuations on currency markets, while in ruble terms, it has gone up by 20.6 percent and reached 1.3 trillion rubles.
This was made possible, among other things, due the fact that Russian and Belarusian companies are more actively using national currencies in their settlements; this covers about 86 percent of the overall trade volumes.
Achieving stable growth in trade is also the target of the action plan to create additional conditions for the development of trade and economic relations, approved by our governments.
Among our priority goals is making our companies more competitive, enhancing cooperation in industry, conducting a coordinated policy in import replacement and stimulating mutual investment.
According to the Eurasian Development Bank, Belarus has already accumulated $6.3 billion in Russian capital investment. This is 40 percent of our total investment in the CIS states. We have created more than 3,500 joint ventures in all sectors of the economy.
The construction of the Belarusian Nuclear Power Plant in Grodno Region is a major investment project. Construction is proceeding strictly on schedule. The first power unit will be commissioned in 2018, the second – in 2020.
We have agreed to pay special attention to high technology cooperation, particularly in machine tool building, to promote joint projects in space industry, satellite navigation and geological exploration.
We see good prospects for the development of direct contacts between small and medium-sized businesses as part of cooperation between regions. The forum of Russian and Belarusian regions held in Sochi in September gave a powerful impetus to this kind of cooperation.
During our talks, we also touched upon matters pertaining to the functioning of the Union State. We have agreed to set the date for the next meeting of the Supreme State Council early next year. In our work on the Union State’s budget for 2016, we proceed from this year’s parameters. Most of the funds will be allocated to implement 40 union programmes in various areas: energy, construction and transport.
We, of course, discussed the prospects for the development of the Eurasian Economic Union. We highly assess the work done by Belarus as the chair of this integration association this year. We support the measures taken by Minsk to strengthen the contractual legal framework of our organisation in connection with new members joining it: Armenia and Kyrgyzstan.
On the international arena, Russia and Belarus are following a coordinated foreign policy. This year we gave special attention to arranging events within the framework of the United Nations and other multilateral organisations dedicated to the 70th anniversary of Victory in the Great Patriotic War.
Another example of such close cooperation was Belarus receiving, with our active assistance, observer status in the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation. We noted the proximity of our countries’ views on such pressing matters as resolving the Ukrainian crisis and combatting international terrorism in Syria.
We agreed to develop our military and military-technical cooperation to strengthen regional stability and security.
I would like to note our mutual commitment to expanding our traditionally strong humanitarian ties. The Days of Minsk festival was recently held in St Petersburg. In July, Belarus hosted a festival of Russian spiritual culture. We will continue supporting such projects.
I would also like to draw your attention to an important initiative in the sphere of migration, of which I informed Mr Lukashenko. As you may know, as of January 1 of this year foreign citizens who want to work and live in Russia have to prove their knowledge of the Russian language, Russian history and the basic legislation.
At the same time, considering the special nature of Russian-Belarusian ties, we made the principled decision to exempt Belarus citizens from this requirement. This would require amending the acting legislation. An appropriate law has already been drafted and is being considered by the State Duma. I believe this document would fully coincide with the principles of allied cooperation between Russia and Belarus.
In conclusion, I would like to thank once again Mr Lukashenko and all our Belarusian friends and partners for this constructive discussion, looking forward to a further strengthening of our friendly ties.
Thank you for your attention.
President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko
: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen,
First of all, I would like to thank my good friend, the President of the Russian Federation, for the invitation to visit the Hero City of Moscow, for his hospitality and the excellent level of organisation in our meeting.
I will state directly that of the issues on today’s agenda, not a single question remains where we have not come to an agreement, although we spent a long time preparing for this meeting.
As you recall, Mr Putin and I made a decision in Ufa not to hold in-depth talks, but to prepare for this day and conduct a very serious analysis of how things stand in Belarusian-Russian relations, and address the issues that have accumulated. I repeat, not a single issue remains that requires further, deeper work. There are a couple questions that will be addressed in the coming week, and our governments will make decisions on them.
Significant attention during the talks was given to developing integration relations. Economic challenges and the issues we face during this difficult time should not lead to disunity between the member states of the treaty on creating the Union State and on the Eurasian Economic Union.
We are satisfied with the nature and results of the cooperation between Belarus and Russia in the international arena. I must say – and Mr Putin and I have long noted this within the framework of the Union State – that the relations between our foreign ministries and ministers could serve as an example of cooperation for other departments.
Of course, as Mr President said, in discussing the international agenda, we talked about Ukraine, the situation in the Middle East, and other tense spots on the planet. Belarus has a neighbourly interest in peace in Ukraine and the Middle East, and the President of Russia and I have no disagreements on these issues.
The earth shakes with strife and armed conflicts; there are millions of refugees and international terrorism is a threat to the entire world. In the last month alone, we have seen a series of heinous, barbaric terrorist attacks that are not and cannot be justified. You all know this for yourselves, and there is no need to say more about it.
Returning to the topic of our relations, we had a detailed discussion on issues of equal access to Belarusian goods in the Russian market and received the Russian President’s support in this regard. We know about the import substitution programme being implemented by the Russian Federation. Incidentally, we have already adopted a second import substitution programme in Belarus, having accumulated a certain amount of experience, and we support this programme in the Russian Federation.
I must say that from our point of view, you are moving in absolutely the right direction, and will see the result in the near future. But I asked Mr Putin, as well as Russian and Belarusian Government members who were present, to ensure this programme is not detrimental to the work of our joint enterprises, especially in the case of supplying Belarusian goods and services, so our goods and services are not considered foreign and are treated practically as though they were Russian, especially since they are reinforced through bilateral agreements and Eurasian Economic Union norms.
Belarusian producers have a good reputation in Russia and we are prepared to help ensure satisfaction among Russian consumers in the groups of products where we can be competitive in terms of price and quality.
Many of our key exported goods are produced from Russian components and Russian raw materials, so they are a true product of Belarusian-Russian cooperation.
Localisation was mentioned here; it is widely discussed in general. For example, our giants, Minsk Automobile Plant, Minsk Tractor Works and so on, have already localised at 55–60 percent in Belarus. We are buying components, raw materials and so on and producing a final product at the end. Whose is it? It’s Belarusian and Russian.
Today, Mr Putin and I signed a joint statement confirming the main principles of an all-encompassing strategic partnership between our nations, establishing priorities for developing Belarusian-Russian relations.
I want to once again stress the constructive nature of our talks. We do not have any topics in our discussions that are off-limits – absolutely none. We completely trust one another and talk openly, expressing our views at our talks. We also count on further cooperation with Russian, and I am confident that it will come to be.
I am grateful for what Mr Putin said about supporting our citizens. If it were not the case, the legislators would simply have put themselves to shame, because the Russian language is our language. Why should we take Russian language exams in Russia? Especially since – as I once told you and we confirmed this year in children’s competitions, at teachers’ competitions, at international instructors’ competitions – Belarus invariably wins these competitions in the Russian language. So this is our language, it is our native language, it is also the state language, so it is good that you took this into account and did not put us in an uncomfortable position of having to prove our knowledge of the Russian language.
As for history, one day, I will give you some history textbooks. Due to my little one’s age, I read these history lessons, although my educational background is also in history. Since Soviet times, we have been studying nearly the same history. And there is nothing there to be ashamed of; we were together everywhere then. So as you can see, in the 20 years of recent history, we have never deviated from the holy bond between our peoples.
Thank you.
See also
Russian-Belarusian talks
December 15, 2015
Geography
Belarus
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Lukashenko Alexander
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 15, 2015, 17:20
Text versionEvents
Second stage of power bridge to Crimea launched
Vladimir Putin took part in a videoconference to launch the second stage of the power bridge from Krasnodar Territory to Crimea, which will allow synchronising the Crimean and all-Russian energy systems.
December 15, 2015
13:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 2
Vladimir Putin took part in a videoconference to launch the second stage of the power bridge from Krasnodar Territory to Crimea.
The President also gave orders to build two more lines of the power bridge by May 2016, which would make it possible to accommodate Crimea’s basic electricity needs.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Novak, colleagues, good afternoon,
Energy Minister Alexander Novak: Mr President,
On December 2, you ordered to launch the first stage of the power bridge connecting the Crimean energy system to Russia’s unified energy system. The energy flow since then has amounted to 200 MW. Crimea’s energy system has been synchronised with Russia’s unified energy system.
In line with your instructions, by December 15 we completed the construction and adjustment of equipment to launch the second stage of the power bridge. Within this unique project, we are now commissioning the new Kafa substation with a 220-kV capacity.
We are now in Feodosia at the construction site. This substation was built in a record 18 months compared the standard 30 months. We also laid an additional 4 cable lines across the Kerch Strait, which will now carry power to the Crimean Peninsula at 220 kV. Besides, we built 122 kilometres of power lines that will also be commissioned today, from the crossing point to the Kafa substation. As we reported earlier, during the launch of the first stage we also commissioned the 220-kV Taman substation.
Mr President, given the current capabilities, the launch of the second stage of the power bridge would make it possible to deliver an additional 200 MW of power to the Crimean power system, to reach a total of 400 MW. With their own power generation and this flow, the overall capacity of the Crimean energy system will reach some 1,000 MW. This is 80 to 100 percent of the total needs of the Crimean energy system, depending on time of day, air temperature, wind and solar generation capacities, but not taking into account diesel generators. These are the additional capacities the Crimean energy system now has.
Very importantly, apart from housing, the new section of the power bridge will make it possible to power industrial facilities. This would bring them back to life, bringing the population back to work and allowing for the further development of the Crimean economy.
Mr President, allow me to launch the second stage of the Crimean power bridge.
Vladimir Putin: Please start.
Alexander Novak: Taman substation, please report on the readiness of your equipment.
Nikolai Pozdnyakov: Mr President, this is Nikolai Pozdnyakov, CEO of the general contractor CIUS EEC (UES Centre for Engineering and Construction Management), a subsidiary of the Federal Grid Company. Stanislav Monchinsky represents the state customer, the Russian Energy Agency.
The equipment of the Taman substation required for the launch of the first block of the power bridge is ready. This is the end of my report.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you, Mr Pozdnyakov.
Alexander Novak: Please report on the readiness of the cable for power transfer to the Crimean energy system.
Alexander Nekrasov: Mr President, the underwater cable line of the power bridge, the second line for power transfer is ready. General Director Alexander Nekrasov.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you, Mr Nekrasov.
Alexander Novak: Please report on the readiness to transfer power from the unified energy system to the Crimean energy system.
Boris Ayuyev: Mr President, this is Boris Ayuyev, chairman of the board of the system operator.
The power regime and reserve parameters make it possible to increase capacity transfer to the Crimean energy system. The equipment has been tested, emergency response and relay protection settings are according to plan. Readiness of the Crimean energy system to accept up to 400 MW of power from the unified energy system has been ensured.
Vladimir Putin: Go ahead, Mr Ayuyev.
Dispatcher: Shall we start power system loading?
Vladimir Putin: Go ahead.
Dispatcher: Chief dispatcher of the control centre, please switch on and ensure load increase required for connecting the consumers of the Crimean energy system.
Dispatcher: Switch on the consumers in the Crimean energy system through an increase in the power flow up to 400 MW to the Crimean energy system from the Kuban energy system. Please proceed.
Alexander Novak: Mr President, the second stage of the power bridge has been launched. Transfer of up to 400 MW of additional power has begun.
This ends my report.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Mr Novak, next to you I see the heads of Crimea, while behind you are those who actually did this job. Those on the screen are, of course, not all the people involved. This is a big team of workers, engineers, power industry and network facilities’ organisers.
I would like to thank you all for the outstanding pace of your work – you have done it in a very short time, and I presume the quality is up to the mark. I know you are still fine-tuning the equipment, but I believe that even if you do have any setbacks, you will take care of them promptly. We have new issues to resolve, among them building two more power lines to the Crimean Peninsula by summer, actually by April or May at the very latest, to bring power supply to Crimea of at least 800 MW. This would cover all of Crimea’s needs.
As we said before in Simferopol, we should clearly keep up the pace of work and build a dedicated Crimean power generation system so as not only to meet all the current demand, the needs of the consumers, Crimean residents and facilities, but also to have a reserve for the further development of the local economy. These plans of the power industry and network workers need to be coordinated with the efforts of both the Russian Federation Government aimed to develop the Crimean economy, and the governments of Crimea and Sevastopol. I expect you together to meet these targets, and to do it on time.
I would like to wish you all success and thank you once again for your work.
I would also like to thank the residents of Crimea for their patience, their trust and their courage, their reserve and their faith in us.
Thank you all very much, once again. Thank you.
Alexander Novak: Thank you very much, Mr President.
See also
The President launched first stage of power bridge to Crimea
December 2, 2015
Geography
Republic of Crimea
Topics
Energy
Regions
Persons
Novak Alexander
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 15, 2015, 13:00
Text version