Events
Meeting with Vladimir Potanin
Vladimir Putin met with President of Interros Holding and CEO of MMC Norilsk Nickel Vladimir Potanin to discuss Norilsk Nickel’s current activities, in particular a number of social programmes the company is carrying out and development prospects for the Rosa Khutor ski resort in Sochi.
March 23, 2015
17:10
The Kremlin, Moscow
With President of Interros Holding and CEO of MMC Norilsk Nickel Vladimir Potanin.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, Mr Potanin,
Let’s begin with Norilsk Nickel.
President of Interros Holding and CEO of MMC Norilsk Nickel Vladimir Potanin: Yes, this is the main focus of my attention at present. Over these last two years, Norilsk Nickel has been implementing a new strategy, which has proven exceptionally effective. The strategy is very simple in essence: we are concentrating on our first-class Russian assets and developing them on the Kola Peninsula, the Norilsk industrial district, and our new site in Trans-Baikal Territory.
This simple strategy has worked so well that we have succeeded in maintaining the highest modernisation rate in the sector. We modernise more than 20 percent of our basic stock each year. This is a higher percentage than our competitors.
What is interesting is that in 2015, for example, many companies have slowed down somewhat compared to 2014, which is understandable given the complicated situation on the global markets. The situation at our industrial sites is very clear though, and so we can continue building up our investment and are putting an average of around 2 billion a year into modernisation.
This in turn enables us to carry out our mining activities more effectively. Norilsk Nickel works only under licence and so we try to treat all mineral resources as our national wealth and use them rationally and mine them efficiently. This is something we try to keep in mind at all times.
Recently, we have been able to shift the focus of our attention somewhat toward environmental problems. It is widely known that Norilsk is not a successful city in this respect, and we are now investing serious money to modernise production to ensure full utilisation of sulphur emissions. We expect to collect up to 95% of harmful emissions in the next five to seven years, and to finally clear the Norilsk air of impurities, which have a negative health effect.
Vladimir Putin: And social facilities? As you remember, we visited stadiums and other sites.
Vladimir Potanin: Yes, we still maintain the level of our investment in social facilities, continue to build sports facilities, renovate and reconstruct them, and encourage Norilsk residents to go on vacation, subsidising their plane fare.
Right now, given that the regional budget has certain difficulties with financing of various programmes, we are even making advance payments to them on account of income taxes in order to stabilise the situation in the region overall, and work in close contact with the governor.
We have now taken on some projects that were supposed to be implemented directly by government organisations, such as construction of fibre-optic lines within the framework of the programme to bridge the digital divide, with the understanding that this is something our company can handle, we can do it ourselves.
Last time, I reported to you about how we will build our own electrical line to the Bystrinsky mining and processing plant. In accordance with your instructions, this line should then be purchased by the Federal Grid Company, but for now, we are building it.
Thus, we are trying to do what we can ourselves rather than asking for regional or federal resources.
Vladimir Putin: What is currently the average salary?
Vladimir Potanin: The average right now is about 70,000.
Vladimir Putin: What are your plans for this year?
Vladimir Potanin: This year we plan to index salaries. And while in previous years, we usually did this once a year, this year we indexed salaries in January and now have plans within our company budget to have the option of several indexations over the course of the year, if inflation continues to grow rapidly…
Vladimir Putin: “Eating up” incomes.
Vladimir Potanin: …Yes, it’s possible that sometime this spring, we may do another indexation so that people do not feel quite so acutely that their income is being “eaten up.”
Plus, we are also maintaining various types of programmes, for example, we are maintaining lower prices for 30 essential food products at supermarket chains belonging to our company, and this creates a certain pressure, in the good sense, on the sellers – they don’t push it and maintain the prices.
Vladimir Putin: They are forced to use those benchmarks.
Vladimir Putin: On the one hand, we maintain those prices, but on the other hand, we provide transportation services to sellers that bring products to Norilsk at a reduced rate. So they do not really have the moral right to raise prices that much.
Vladimir Putin: I see.
You mentioned modernisation. How much do you plan to invest this year in modernisation?
Vladimir Potanin: This year, we plan to invest around $2 billion. Right now, we are working to specify our plans, because given the changes in the ruble to dollar exchange rate, the previously planned investment volumes have become a little cheaper for us. So this amount may decrease. But in general, we are looking at $2 billion a year.
Vladimir Putin: I see.
Earlier, you had made a noticeable, significant input into preparing our Olympic bid, and later, preparing the facilities. The Rosa Khutor Alpine Ski Resort is a project you started even before the Olympic project was born. What is the situation there now, following the Olympic Games?
Vladimir Potanin: You know, the sceptics who doubted the 2014 Olympics would have a fitting legacy have simply been put to shame. You must come to Rosa Khutor and see what is happening there. It has 5,000 to 10,000 visitors each day. The slopes are crowded, the hotels are operating at near-full capacity. And this year, we have even had the problem that we cannot serve everyone who wants to come: there were lines at the chairlifts, and the slopes were crowded. So we are now thinking that we may need to expand the resort.
Vladimir Putin: You need to go up.
Vladimir Potanin: With your permission, I would like to show you a map.
Vladimir Putin: You could build a road straight through the gorge, a little upwards. The government or the region could do this, and then, private investors could begin works a little higher to get the slopes and chairlifts ready for use; you don’t really need to do too much there. But everything would need to follow a common plan.
Vladimir Potanin: Yes, I agree with you, because the infrastructure is already in place, we just need to expand. And we are already in talks with those who are investing with us. Gazprom and Sberbank also have certain plans; we are discussing them together in order to then create a single ski pass, so that people can ski throughout the entire resort zone.
Vladimir Putin: You should certainly create a single ski pass, regardless of how difficult it is for various entrepreneurs, particularly private ones, to reach an agreement; nevertheless, the result must be such that our tourists coming on vacation there can use a single pass to enjoy all the ski resorts.
Moreover, it would be very important to ensure there are good communications in the gorge.
Vladimir Putin: We are considering this now. Mr President, I would like to draw particular attention to this: here on the map, this is the UNESCO-protected nature reserve, and here is our development zone; here are the Gazprom and Sberbank complexes, and this is our complex. We are planning to expand in the direction of the National Park, exclusively within the framework of existing legislation, without violating any environmental norms.
We believe this will be possible. We made Rosa Khutor an ecological resort and we want the expansion to also be limited exclusively to the recreational areas of the National Park, which is fully legal and even expedient in terms of developing the National Park: after all, it stipulates recreation zones, but they are specifically provided for people to be able to ski there in the winter, and bike or hike there in the summer.
Vladimir Putin: Of course. If you need any support, let me know.
<…>
Topics
Industry
Regions
Social services
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 23, 2015, 17:10
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Director of the Federal Service for Financial Monitoring Yury Chikhanchin
Mr Chikhanchin briefed Vladimir Putin on the Service’s 2014 results and its current activities. An amnesty for capital was also discussed at the meeting.
March 23, 2015
13:40
The Kremlin, Moscow
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Chikhanchin, let’s start with the agency’s results for 2014. I then want to discuss with you a matter concerning preparations for the capital amnesty. I know that your agency is involved in this work too. Then of course there is also the matter of your international activity, given that financial intelligence works in close contact with its partners throughout the world.
Please, go ahead.
Meeting with Director of the Federal Service for Financial Monitoring Yury Chikhanchin.
Director of the Federal Service for Financial Monitoring Yury Chikhanchin
: Thank you very much, Mr President.
We met recently to sum up the year’s results. Representatives of the relevant ministries and agencies were present at the meeting. I want to tell you about some of the results. We think that the decision to create a mega-regulator headed by the Central Bank was a very good decision that has enabled us, working together, to clean up substantially our financial institutions in general and not just the banks.
Let me give you a few figures. The number of operations that involve sending capital abroad through dubious operations has fallen by nearly half. Operations to unofficially convert capital into cash have also fallen by around 1,500-fold.
The law enforcement agencies are taking greater interest in our information now. Overall, we have conducted close to 40,000 financial investigations and the law enforcement agencies have used our information to open around 1,500 criminal cases, with 300 of them having already gone directly to the courts.
We have made progress in the fight against financing terrorism and think that the 62 criminal cases opened for such activity is a big result. This is one aspect of our work. Also, a mechanism is now in place for freezing terrorists’ assets. We froze around 3,500 accounts belonging to people connected to terrorist activity and on the list of individuals with connections to terrorism and extremism.
Going over the resulting joint figures for the year, we prevented losses to the state totalling 300 billion rubles (we have the documents to confirm this), assets recovered came to a total 265 billion rubles, property worth slightly more than 3 billion rubles was confiscated, and 16 billion rubles in taxes were paid in addition or returned. These figures show that we really are now making headway in our results.
Director of the Federal Service for Financial Monitoring Yury Chikhanchin.
Over the last year, we liquidated 15 large shadow markets that were responsible for processing around 90 billion rubles. True, we face a problem in that part of this shadow money is now going to other markets. Law No. 134, which you supported, has provisions allowing banks to suspend dubious operations. We used this to suspend operations involving 137 billion rubles, thus preventing this money from going into the shadows.
We are now looking together with the Central Bank at where the financial flows have gone. There is no question that they are heading into the securities market. Unfortunately, around half the operations in this area are dubious in nature, and this is a very serious issue.
Insurance companies are another area of concern. The problem here is that if we revoke insurance companies’ licences, especially those working in medical insurance, we could leave people without access to medical care. We are therefore taking great care here and monitoring the situation to make sure that such problems do not arise. It is the same situation with pension funds, especially those that are working with funds provided through the maternity capital scheme.
The precious metals sector has come to our attention increasingly of late. There are problems in this sector too, matters that require regulation. This is one of our tasks over the coming period.
In accordance with your instruction, we are working actively with state contracts, as I reported earlier. Unfortunately, we see that slightly more than 500 contracts or around a third of the total, are connected to offshore companies, the founders of which are abroad. We are currently working on provisions that will prohibit this.
As instructed, we are working on the state defence procurement programme too and will have regulatory documents in this area ready by the end of the month, working together with the Defence Ministry and Finance Ministry. The final revisions are underway now and the documents are already with the Presidential Executive Office. 
Meeting with Director of the Federal Service for Financial Monitoring Yury Chikhanchin.
Let me say a few words about the amnesty on capital. We are certainly closely involved in the preparations, as such amnesties in any country, including in Russia, take place under the strict supervision of FATF [Financial Action Task Force on Money Laundering]. Any deviations here could put us at risk of sanctions, and so it is important to do things right.
Very soon, at the end of this month, the chairman of the relevant Council of Europe committee will visit at our invitation to hold a round table and tell us about how amnesties have been carried out in other countries and the problems encountered.
In this respect, Russian citizens should not wait for the amnesty, I think, but should simply return their capital. The ‘lucky letters’ that Russian residents with accounts in Britain received, for example, are simply a signal that all Russians with accounts there are being asked to explain where their money came from. If they try to stall this whole process…
Vladimir Putin: You mean, they could look for pretexts that our partners could use to prevent the return of these financial resources to Russian jurisdiction?
Yury Chikhanchin: Yes, they could conduct a financial investigation or open a criminal case, for example, and this would essentially make it impossible to return the money as we hope. In other words, this is all related to the amnesty, and this is why we are working so closely and intensively now.
I want to say a few words about international forums. First there is the BRICS
group. Russia currently holds the BRICS presidency and will host the group’s summit this summer, and so we are working through various international forums to build cooperation mechanisms with our colleagues – the heads of financial intelligence services and the heads of delegations at these international meetings. We have had two meetings now and have found some common ground. One such area is related to the creation of the BRICS Bank, ensuring cleanness and transparency of clients, expenses and so forth. 
Another area is working out concrete common approaches for evaluating these countries. We will hold a seminar for these countries soon, in late April.
Another area of work, as I reported earlier, is that we have established a network organisation encompassing 15 Russian universities and a dozen-odd foreign universities all following the same approach on prevention of money laundering. We signed an agreement in this area at our last meeting with the association of the BRICS institutions.
A number of countries, especially Brazil and South Africa, have expressed the desire to have their teachers and students come here to work together on common methods and standards. We will therefore continue our work in this area. 
Vladimir Putin: Good.
<…>
Topics
Economy and finance
Persons
Chikhanchin Yury
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 23, 2015, 13:40
Text version