Events
Meeting with Chairman of the Federation of Independent Trade Unions Mikhail Shmakov
Vladimir Putin and Mikhail Shmakov discussed the issues of safeguarding the interests of workers in current economic situation.
September 17, 2015
17:50
Sochi
4 of 4
With Chairman of the Federation of Independent Trade Unions Mikhail Shmakov.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Shmakov, we meet with you regularly, maybe not as often as we would like to, though we often meet at the Russian Popular Front's events; however, it’s been a long time since we last had a detailed discussion with you. Life goes on, and it is not easy, both in the economy and in other spheres.
In this context, our today’s meeting is a timely one, I mean, that taking into account the developments in the economy, we should not forget about the social issues and the need to safeguard the workers’ interests. This is the area where the resolution of such issues without the involvement of the trade unions, without their leading association, would be quite difficult.
Chairman of the Federation of Independent Trade Unions of Russia Mikhail Shmakov
: Of course.
Mr President, we have entered the budget preparation period, and a decision was made to put together a budget for one year – 2016 – so the deadlinefor submitting the budget to the State Duma has been pushed back slightly. Thus, during our federation’s executive committee meeting, we discussed this matter and adopted an appeal addressed to you as President, the Prime Minister, and members of the Federal Assembly – State Duma deputies and Federation Council members – on what we think should be taken into account when planning the budget.
It’s possible that our suggestions might be slightly overstated, as always. After all, the Finance Ministry largely determines the parameters of our budget, and the Finance Ministry’s main point is that there is no money. But if there is no money, perhaps we should look at certain changes to the entire economic policy or choose slightly different paths.
Chairman of the Federation of Independent Trade Unions Mikhail Shmakov.
Right now, we have a crisis situation due to external and internal factors. Perhaps we need to step back from the consistent economic policy that we followed these years, which had its positive sides but, nevertheless, we see today that for an average person, for any worker, the volume of his or her financial obligations and regular payments is increasing due to the introduction of the proposed new tax scale for property based on its cadastral value, due to the introduction of regular payments for capital renovation of residential buildings, and so on and so forth. In some large cities they even introduce paid parking lots.
These are all additional costs for a family, for an individual, but at the same time, citizens’ incomes are shrinking, and we are seeing a gap. Eventually, we want to carefully analyse all this, so that there is a balance – we should either postpone the measures that lead to an increase in citizens’ mandatory expenditures, or take measures to increase people’s incomes. Otherwise, these scissors can seriously cut your entire socioeconomic policy.
We are particularly concerned that suggestions are made, first and foremost by the Finance Minister, to immediately increase the retirement age, to not adjust pensions for inflation fully but for just half or even less than half of the inflation rate that is expected and that we register today. We feel that these approaches should be revised.
Vladimir Putin: Let’s discuss this.
<…>
Topics
Pensions
Social services
Trade unions
Persons
Shmakov Mikhail
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 17, 2015, 17:50
Text versionEvents
Meeting with newly elected regional heads
Vladimir Putin met with heads of 22 Russian Federation regions elected on the single election day on September 13, 2015. The meeting discussed the results of the election campaign and plans for the future as regards the development of the Russian regions.
September 17, 2015
15:10
Sochi
2 of 2
Meeting with newly elected regional heads.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues,
The election campaign is over, and the single election day in Russia saw elections in virtually all of the regions. The competition was for more than 90,000 regional and local authority mandates.
Everyone who took part in this process did a lot of work, and I want to specially thank those people who were in charge of preparing and holding the elections – representatives of political parties, public organisations, and observers who were controlling the voting.
I want to note that the voter turnout has increased: our citizens voted more actively, voicing their positions and expressing interest in the way their village, city or region will develop.
I believe it is important that the citizens support those political forces that back the country’s progressive development and consolidation of its sovereignty, support those candidates who are closer to people, whom the people see, know and understand what these candidates competing for various posts want to achieve, first of all, for their voters.
The election campaign was open, honest and sometimes quite fierce. As regards the election of regional heads, in some regions the fight was for every vote, and in one region, as you know, the second round will need to be held to determine the winning candidate, and I think that on the whole this is not bad, because this proves that the competition was open, honest and transparent. And the people there are worthy, I mean, both candidates.
Despite the intensity of the competition, all the parties that participated in the elections have confirmed the legitimacy of the voting mechanism and the results themselves, which once again shows that Russia is developing a mature multi-party system, and our political culture is growing. The set standards for holding truly open, competitive and legitimate election procedures should certainly be ensured in the upcoming 2016 State Duma elections as well.
This election campaign once again confirmed that the parliamentary parties play a key, system-forming role in our nation’s political life. Incidentally, their representatives were the main competitors in this gubernatorial election. Meanwhile, the non-parliamentary parties are drawing increasing attention; they actively participated in the last election at many different levels.
At a meeting with newly elected regional heads.
I will also note that many strong candidates – your opponents in these elections – will likely be State Duma candidates next year, including in single-mandate constituencies from your regions. And it’s good to see such prominent individuals who enjoy public esteem.
I just noted that both parliamentary and non-parliamentary parties participated actively in the elections. Incidentally, my colleagues and I were just saying that we will have twice as many political parties participating in the 2016 State Duma elections as last time: ten non-parliamentary parties have the right to participate directly in the elections, plus four parliamentary parties. We had only seven parties participating in the last State Duma elections, but this time, we will have 14.
I am confident that serious competition will help bring to the federal parliament those political forces that will prove their ability to resolve the most pressing issues that concern people through their actions, not just words.
Colleagues, the support you received from citizens means exactly one thing: you must work with greater impact, with even more concerted effort. This is true of you and your teams.
We need to constantly give attention to people, regardless of the political calendar, and we must do this without resorting to current difficulties, without shying away from problems. And friends, what’s most important is that if you have come into power, if you have been elected, if the people have entrusted you with such high offices, then you must work honestly and ensure your full dedication; otherwise, you should not have campaigned to be elected. It would seem as if I’m talking about basic things, but practice shows that not everyone and not everywhere always knows these basic things. But we should never forget about them.
And, of course, given the upcoming State Duma election, it is important to work to bring the public together, to unite all the constructive forces to resolve key challenges in our nation’s development.
I expect that you all understand the level of responsibility and are ready to engage in serious practical work.
Thank you for your attention.
<…>
Topics
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 17, 2015, 15:10
Text version