Events
Press statements following Russian-Kazakhstani talks
October 15, 2015
11:15
Astana
President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev
: Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President,
The visit to Astana by the President of the Russian Federation Mr Putin has the status of a state visit and is made on my invitation. The high level of the visit stresses the special nature of relations between Russia and Kazakhstan.
Our countries have a long and successful history of cooperation and friendship. Each one of our meetings results in specific agreements on the implementation of joint projects and the development of new areas of cooperation on mutually beneficial terms.
Given the current complicated situation, coordinated action in the economy was the main topic of our talks. We have all the necessary instruments for this, both bilateral and within the Eurasian Economic Union.
The very fact of the EAEU existence is a huge positive factor for our countries. Kazakhstani producers have gained unlimited access to the broad market of the EAEU member states. All we have to do is enhance the competitiveness of our goods, works and services to establish ourselves on this market.
In the course of our talks, we established a set of specific measures to mitigate the consequences of the problems in the global economy. This includes transit through Kazakhstan, including pipeline transit, the possibility to transit through our territory to China, joint development of the Caspian fields Tsentralnoye and Khvalynskoye, cooperation in the coal industry and transit using the new road along the Caspian Sea to the Persian Gulf.
We had a separate discussion on the completion of the Western Europe – Western China highway and other conditions of infrastructural cooperation. There is enormous potential for the further development of our partnership in these areas.
Russia has traditionally been Kazakhstan’s major trade partner. The average annual trade turnover amounts to about $21 billion. Naturally, as you may understand, it is dropping against the drop in prices. I believe this is understandable and it will be restored with time.
Russian companies take part in the development of major Kazakhstani hydrocarbon fields. There are more than 5,600 companies with Russian capital operating in Kazakhstan. Currently 20 major joint investment projects have been implemented under Kazakhstan’s industrialisation programme, four are underway and three more are planned.
We paid special attention to current international matters. Among them were, of course, the implementation of the Minsk agreements, enhancing cooperation within global and regional organisations, including for the purpose of stability and security in Central Asia. Mr Putin briefed me on the situation there and we discussed it.
There are speculations now regarding Shiites and Sunnis. This has nothing to do with it [the situation] because what is going on in Syria is a threat to all of us, especially for Central Asia. We already know about the incidents on the border with Turkmenistan and we are concerned about Tajikistan.
In this connection, we discussed our idea to create a forum Islam Against Terrorism. If this idea receives support, this would help properly direct our efforts to achieve a better understanding of what we are doing.
Kazakhstan and Russia share their assessment of developments in the world and coordinate their approaches to their resolution. An exchange of views on these matters confirmed the unity of our views.
I am confident that the agreements reached will help further strengthen cooperation between our two countries along the entire range of cooperation in the spirit of friendship and a mutually advantageous partnership.
Prior to your arrival, I was welcoming the astronauts who have been to the space station [ISS]. Thank you, Mr President, and the Russian side for making it possible for the third Kazakhstani astronaut to go to space and work on the tasks set before our nations.
Thank you for your visit and your attention.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President,
Today we have had truly constructive and quite intense talks, which traditionally took place in a frank and friendly atmosphere.
The highly dynamic political dialogue fully demonstrates our mutual desire to develop our strategic partnership and strengthen our alliance. We have exchanged views on the entire range of trade and economic relations, giving special attention to such important areas as trade, investment, energy, transport, space and the peaceful use of nuclear energy.
I would like to note that the advantages of our two countries’ close economic integration are benefiting both sides. Despite the complicated external conditions, the drop in the price of our main export items and the fluctuation of currency exchange rates, we have nevertheless managed to retain the high intensity of trade and economic relations.
In the first 7 months of this year trade increased by 23 percent in ruble equivalent. Mutual investment is growing. Total volume of cumulative Russian investment in Kazakhstan’s economy exceeds $9 billion.
Kazakhstan’s investment in Russia amounts to about $3 billion, with Russian business represented in almost all areas of Kazakhstani economy and 5.8 thousand joint enterprises created and operating successfully.
In the fuel and energy sector, we cooperate on a grand scale. The main volume of Kazakhstani oil – about 20 million tons – is exported to external markets through Russian territory.
We have great plans for joint oil production in the Caspian Sea. We have signed a document to amend the 1998 Agreement on the delimitation of the bottom of the northern part of the Caspian Sea. This would allow companies from both countries to launch the development of the major Struktura Tsentralnaya oil field.
The power systems of our two countries have been synchronised since 2000. We are working on a programme to create a common electricity market for Russia and Kazakhstan. The implementation of the project to expand and reconstruct the Ekibastuz-2 (GRES-2) power plant is in full swing. We are preparing to build the first nuclear power plant in Kazakhstan.
The Russian-Kazakhstani intergovernmental commission will give an additional impetus to expanding cooperation in trade and the economy. We have agreed that the commission will meet again before the end of the year.
Industrial cooperation is also becoming stronger. Leading Russian car manufacturers are building assembly facilities and service centres in Kazakhstan. The AvtoVAZ plant in Ust-Kamenogorsk will be the largest with a capacity of 120,000 automobiles a year.
Transmashholding together with Kazakhstani Railways and the French Alstom company have built an electric locomotive plant in Astana producing 100 mainline cargo locomotives a year. Work is underway to set up a joint venture for the assembly of the Ka-226T multi-purpose helicopters.
We are developing closer cooperation in space exploration. Russian and Kazakhstani scientists and engineers are working on the Baiterek Space Launch Complex. In September, a Kazakhstani astronaut completed his flight to the International Space Station with the Soyuz TMA-16M crew.
The intergovernmental agreement on cooperation in rocket launches from the Dombarovsky positional area using a site in Kazakhstan will help in the successful implementation of promising space exploration programmes. It contemplates further orbital injections of scientific and commercial equipment, such as the Kazakhstani KazEOSat-2 remote sensing satellite launched last year.
Russia and Kazakhstan are closely cooperating in air transportation. The intergovernmental agreement we have just signed creates new opportunities for greater cooperation in aviation search and rescue operations.
Humanitarian exchange is also growing. In the 2014–2015 academic year the number of Kazakhstani students studying at Russian educational establishments at no cost has doubled. Six Russian higher education institutions have their branches in the Republic – Moscow State University, the Moscow Aviation Institute, Moscow University of Economics, Statistics and Informatics.
Russia and Kazakhstan are closely coordinating their approaches to international issues. In the course of our talks, we discussed key regional and global problems.
We briefed Mr Nazarbayev on the main results of the Normandy Four meeting in Paris and on the development of the situation in Syria and our actions to suppress terrorist activities in that country.
We, of course, support the proposal made by the President of Kazakhstan to join the efforts of all countries, primarily those with an Islamic population, in fighting terrorism.
We have also touched upon some aspects of the functioning of the Eurasian Economic Union, including prospects for developing mutually beneficial ties with third countries and international organisations.
In conclusion, of course, I would like to thank the President of Kazakhstan and all our Kazakhstani friends for their hospitality and the constructive and vast agenda they have put forth today for our joint work.
Thank you for your attention.
Question: America responded to our proposal to send a delegation headed by Dmitry Medvedev – they refused. What do you think about this?
Vladimir Putin:I do not really understand how our American partners can criticise Russia’s actions in Syria to combat international terrorism if they are refusing to have a direct dialogue in such an important area as political settlement.
I believe this stand is not constructive and the weakness of the American position in this case is probably based on the absence of any agenda on these issues. It seems as though there is nothing to talk about, but we nevertheless leave the doors open and strongly hope for a constructive dialogue with all the participants in this complicated process, including our American partners.
See also
State visit to Kazakhstan
October 15, 2015
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 15, 2015, 11:15
Text versionEvents
Beginning of Russian-Kazakhstani talks in expanded format
October 15, 2015
10:10
Astana
President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev
: Mr President, I am happy to welcome you, the members of the Russian delegation and all our friends in Astana. You are making a state visit at my invitation and I believe this is a very important moment.
We have already had several bilateral meetings before this, and your state visit to Kazakhstan is a special event for this country. For us Russia is a strategic partner and ally. We are jointly operating within the Eurasian Economic Union
.
In terms of bilateral relations, our countries are successfully implementing projects in the economic, scientific and humanitarian areas. Therefore, we attach special importance to this meeting. I am certain that it will give an additional impetus to cooperation between our two countries.
The current drop in mutual trade is understandable. We know this is a temporary development caused by the cyclic pattern of global development and the fall in the price of our energy resources – our export goods.
At the same time, we see the need to take rapid coordinated action both at the national level and within the EAEU. We need to use our reserves to resolve economic matters and use the advantages for the development of the Eurasian Economic Union.
We have mentioned today that the Eurasian Union can exist in conditions of equality of all its members and when our government officials feel they are international officials and work in the interests of all EAEU states and the overall economic policy.
For tomorrow, we have planned a meeting of the CIS
Council of Heads of States and the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council. There we will go into the details of regional cooperation. Now we have a wonderful opportunity to focus on bilateral relations. We have covered everything in narrow format, now we can discuss it with the participation of our delegations.
 Mr President, the floor is yours.
President of Russian Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much, Mr President,
Colleagues, it is true that we have covered a number of sensitive areas of our cooperation in narrow format. However, I would like to begin by saying that our relations are developing efficiently in all areas, bearing in mind our political cooperation, cooperation in security matters, in combatting terrorism and organised crime and, of course, our economic cooperation.
We are observing a slight statistical drop, but in physical volumes nothing has really changed. I would like to note that we are operating under a bilateral plan adopted in 2013, which ends in 2015. Our colleagues are now working on the next joint work plan for 2016–1018. We have sent a draft of this plan to our partners in Kazakhstan and hope that it will be approved before the end of the year.
I would like to say that despite the obvious difficulties, we continue enhancing mutual investment. Russian investment in Kazakhstan is growing and has already surpassed $9 billion.
Most of Kazakhstan’s crude oil shipped to external markets transits through Russia along the Atyrau-Samara and Makhachkala-Novorossiysk oil pipelines and the Caspian pipeline. We have many large interesting joint projects in high technology, industry, agriculture and energy sector. I am very happy to have this opportunity today to discuss all these promising areas of our cooperation in expanded format.
<…>
See also
State visit to Kazakhstan
October 15, 2015
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 15, 2015, 10:10
Text versionEvents
Beginning of meeting with President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev
October 15, 2015
09:25
Astana
President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev
: Mr President,
I sincerely welcome you in Kazakhstan on this state visit on my invitation. Your previous such visit was 4 years ago. Despite the official nature of our meetings, we meet rather frequently to compare notes and resolve the issues that come up. Therefore, I believe this state visit of yours will help further deepen our relations in these difficult times.
Tomorrow you and I will meet at Borovoye to discuss matters of the CIS
, of our Eurasian Economic Union
, and, I believe it is very important that we are prepared for these discussions. Despite the fact that our Eurasian Economic Union is going through trials, despite the fact that some partners do not want to accept it, it is expanding and gaining respect and authority.
Those who have the desire are building up free trade with us, joining us, and their number is growing. Therefore, I believe that we are on the right track. We had the opportunity to discuss everything pertaining to our relations in Sochi, therefore today the documents for our meeting and talks have already been prepared.
Yesterday we started with an exchange of opinions. Today we will cover regional and international cooperation and our economic contacts.
Welcome to Kazakhstan!
President of Russian Vladimir Putin: Mr President, thank you very much for your invitation.
We do meet and talk regularly, and our teams are in constant contact. There is no need for me to characterise Russian-Kazakhstani relations: this is not only a relationship of trust, this is an alliance in every sense of the word. Kazakhstan is one of our major trade and economic partners.
You are right – both the global economy and our relations are going through hard times, and unfortunately, this involves both objective and subjective factors. However, I have to say that despite a slight reduction in trade in terms of volume, we have registered a 23 percent growth in ruble equivalent in the first 7 months of the year.
However, this is not the point. The thing is that we have almost 6,000 Russian companies operating in Kazakhstan. We have accumulated a large investment in dollar terms. Besides, your brainchild, as I would call it without any exaggeration, our Eurasian Economic Union is developing and creating conditions for the efficient development of our economies.
You said that some do not wish to recognise it, but even that is almost a thing of the past. We can see proposals from many of our partners to develop relations between economic unions. And we know that many countries are voicing their desire to cooperate with the Eurasian Union in various formats, including within free economic trade zones.
All this will be the subject of our talks today. The state visit format only serves to highlight the level and nature of our relations. Thank you very much for your invitation.
Nursultan Nazarbayev: I would like to add that our relations are developing on the basis of the Framework Agreement on Friendship and Cooperation, an alliance directed into the 21st century. The alliance is formalised in the Collective Security Treaty Organisation
, while its economic manifestation is the EAEU.
Kazakhstan has always been and will remain Russia’s closest and most reliable neighbour in all life situations. I would like everyone to know this, because it meets the vital interests of the people of Kazakhstan. I hope it is the same for Russia. In this way, we shall develop and build our relations.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
<…>
See also
State visit to Kazakhstan
October 15, 2015
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 15, 2015, 09:25
Text version