Events
General Assembly of the SportAccord International Convention
Vladimir Putin took part in the General Assembly of the SportAccord International Convention, which is underway in Sochi from April 19–24.
April 20, 2015
13:45
Sochi
The President said he hoped the experts’ work through the convention would help to promote a healthy lifestyle and develop mass sport throughout the world.
Later, Mr Putin attended a working breakfast with IOC members and the heads of international sports federations.
The President said that Russia will make every effort to develop fitness and sport in the country, support sport around the world in all forms, promote a healthy lifestyle, and develop relations between peoples and countries in order to make the world a more stable and predictable place.
Mr Putin thanked the international sports organisation representatives for supporting the efforts to develop sport and fitness in Russia.
SportAccord was established as an international organisation in Lausanne, on April 21, 1967. The organisation focuses primarily on exchanging knowledge and experience in the areas of ethics and the international sport movement’s social responsibility, and promoting cooperation between the sports world and the business community. Every year, representatives of more than 100 international sports federations and organisations take part in this sports and business summit.
Speech at the General Assembly of the SportAccord International Convention
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Bach, Mr Vizer, friends and colleagues,
It is a real pleasure to welcome the participants of this year’s General Assembly of the SportAccord International Convention. I particularly want to congratulate Mr Vizer, who was re-elected today to the post of president of this influential international sports organisation. My congratulations, Mr Vizer.
Russia has successful and productive cooperation with SportAccord and we are pleased to see you gather again in our country, this time in Russia’s sports capital, the city of Sochi.
The Winter Olympics, which took place here a year ago, gave us everything we need for successfully hosting big international sports events and other events, major exhibitions and presentations. I am sure that during your time here, you will have the chance to appreciate the value of the Olympic legacy and the possibilities it offers.
Actually, many of you already know Sochi, and we see your desire to come back here as the international sports community’s positive assessment of our efforts to promote sport and a healthy lifestyle.
Here in Sochi, we have built dozens of modern new sports facilities. In actual fact though, we are developing the infrastructure for mass sport and for top-level sport through the entire Russian Federation.
3 of 7
Before the working breakfast with IOC members and heads of international sports organisations.
Naturally, we are giving particular attention to getting ready for the big sports events that have been entrusted to Russia as host country.
Kazan will host the world water sports championship this summer. Next year, we will host the world hockey championship, and then, in 2017 and 2018, we will play host to two major FIFA competitions – the Confederation Cup and the FIFA World Cup. Finally, in 2019, Russia will host the XXIX Winter World Student Games, which will take place in Krasnoyarsk, in Siberia.
There is obviously a lot of work to do, but with our experience and proven ability to keep our word, there is no doubt that we will ensure these big projects’ organisation is of the very best and highest level.
At the same time, let me emphasise how important it is for us to have the support of the international sports community, SportAccord and the IOC. We want to continue our work together and are ready to broaden our cooperation in the interests of sport, peace, and development.
This is particularly important in today’s world. Sport has long since become a universal language and it has a special humanitarian mission to play: its vocation is to unite, not divide, people throughout the whole world and bring vivid and positive emotions to millions of people.
I believe that any confrontation within the sports community itself and inability or unwillingness to listen to each other constitute a real threat to the unity of the global sports movement and sports around the world. This is why the sports community makes such an effort today to look for compromises and respect the rights and interests of athletes, viewers, and everyone who has an interest in sport.
One of the current tasks is to continue developing mass sport. It is important to make more and more people around the world aware of the need for regular exercise and get them to take a fresh look at their lifestyles and give up bad habits.
I hope that the work the experts do through the SportAccord International Convention will help to reach these goals.
In conclusion, I want to wish you productive work and a fruitful search for new solutions in the interests of global sports.
Friends, colleagues,
I sincerely wish you the very best and wish you success in your work. Thank you for deciding to hold this event in Olympic Sochi, in Russia.
Thank you for your attention.
Geography
Krasnodar Territory
Topics
Sport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 20, 2015, 13:45
Text versionEvents
Meeting with IOC President Thomas Bach
Vladimir Putin met with President of the International Olympic Committee Thomas Bach in Sochi, on the sidelines of the General Assembly of the SportAccord International Convention.
April 20, 2015
14:15
Sochi
1 of 3
Meeting with IOC President Thomas Bach.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, Mr Bach, dear Thomas, let me once again wish you a warm welcome to Russia.
It is always a pleasure to continue the contacts we have with the International Olympic Committee and to have the chance not just to meet, but also to discuss our work together.
It is with great pleasure that I will update the President of the International Olympic Committee on what we are doing to develop Sochi’s Olympic legacy, present our plans for the Olympic University’s subsequent development, and discuss opportunities for holding future joint events in Russia through the International Olympic Committee.
Russia has always supported the Olympic movement and will continue to do so. In this respect, I want to say again that we hope very much indeed for fruitful work together. Thank you.
President of the International Olympic Committee Thomas Bach (translated from Russian): Thank you very much, Mr President, for another friendly meeting here in Russia, in Sochi.
This is a particularly special visit for me as it comes a year after what was a successful Olympic Games in Sochi. I want to take the opportunity to congratulate you once again on organising a magnificent Olympics and to thank you for this.
This visit fills me with even more positive emotions when, over the course of my brief stay here in Sochi, I have had the chance to see just how well you are developing the Sochi Olympics’ legacy.
I was at the Federation Cup match yesterday. The curling world championship was taking place at the same time. There was also the chance to test out cars on the Formula One track. The director of one of the hotels, with whom I had a chance to talk, said he was happy with the occupancy rates at his hotel.
I also had the chance to see how the Olympic legacy is thriving today. For example, I met a student at the Russian [International] Olympic University, who has finished his studies and is now working here at this congress. Once the congress is over, he will return home to Kazakhstan, where he plans to continue working for the sports movement. This is practical implementation of the common goals that we set when we decided to establish the Olympic University. This makes me very keen to continue our cooperation.
We have much in common with the Russian Olympic Committee and both sides want to keep developing this cooperation for the benefit of sports in Russia.
As we know, the Sochi Olympics were not just an organisational but also an economic success. In this situation, the International Olympic Committee has decided to renounce its share of the profit made by the Games and has sent it instead to the Russian Olympic Committee so that the money can be spent on developing sport in Russia.
We are ready and want to continue developing our sports cooperation with Russia, and I therefore look forward to the exchange of views ahead, at which we will probably discuss our joint projects.
Thank you very much for the Russian hospitality that we once again experienced. I am happy to have this meeting in Sochi.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
<…>
See also
General Assembly of the SportAccord International Convention
April 20, 2015
Topics
Sport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 20, 2015, 14:15
Text versionEvents
Meeting with FIFA President Joseph Blatter
Vladimir Putin met with President of the Federation of International Football Associations (FIFA) Joseph Blatter to discuss preparations for the football World Cup that Russia will host in 2018.
April 20, 2015
14:50
Sochi
1 of 2
President of the Federation of International Football Associations (FIFA) Joseph Blatter.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, let me wish you a warm welcome to Sochi.
We held the Olympic Games last year, and now Russia has the big task and enormous undertaking of preparing for the 2018 World Cup. This sports event is probably as big as the Winter Olympics in scale.
I don’t know how our teams will perform – this is a job for the specialists – but preparing to host the event is the authorities’ responsibility. Mr President, we will do our best not to disappoint you and all football lovers around the world.
We have made the many official decisions that you are well aware of. It is just as important to continue getting the facilities ready. This work has already begun and is going ahead actively. Everything is going according to plan. You are aware of the situation as we keep you regularly updated.
I am very pleased, of course, to have this chance to meet with you in person and discuss all of our common plans today and look at how the work is going. If you have any comments or suggestions, we, as you know, will always respond to them rapidly.
President of the Federation of International Football Associations (FIFA) Joseph Blatter (translated from Russian): Mr President, thank you very much for meeting with me today. It is a great honour for me to discuss with you the preparations for this big FIFA event, namely, the World Cup that will take place in Russia.
You said that you do not know how Russia’s team will perform at this event. For my part, I want to say that your organisational committee and you personally deserve top marks. This goes for the organisation and preparations for this competition. This is what I want to say, and I say this in full resolve.
You spoke about contacts and international cooperation. I can but affirm the same. We have indeed developed intensive contacts, and this applies too to your efforts at the international level to promote the football world cup. This work deserves our particular commendation because I see that more and more people around the world are taking an interest in the 2018 World Cup in Russia. If politicians are not too happy that we are taking the world cup to Russia, I always say to them, “Well, you can stay home, and in Russia we will hold the biggest world cup ever yet.”
I have been working for FIFA for 40 years now. Believe me, I have seen many world cups, but none have kept so tightly to plan. It is not just that your preparations are keeping to schedule, but that you are even ahead of the deadlines. We still have three years before the world cup, but FIFA and I personally are happy with the way the preparations for the event are going.
Mr President, I want to congratulate you and the Sports Minister on the way the preparations are going. At the same time, I want to congratulate the entire Russian people, who support the idea of holding the world cup here in Russia. This is something we can feel. This is good for you, good for FIFA, and good for football’s development.
Mr President, I want to share some recently published statistics with you. Around the world, 1.6 billion people are directly or indirectly connected to the football world. This makes the world cup a truly global event. I am pleased to see that Russia is part of an event that leaves no one indifferent around the world.
Football is a powerful team game that brings people together and builds bridges. We are looking forward to a world cup that will continue this mission in worthy fashion and bring together Russia and the rest of the world. And the rest of the world is football. This way, we will find unity through this game.
Football’s mission is really very simple: we need to look each other in the eyes and shake each other’s hands in the name of peace. This is the work we will pursue.
Vladimir Putin: Mr President, we will at the very least achieve one objective and will organise this big event in Russia. We will provide the conditions for developing football here in Russia. This will be another step towards developing football around the world in general. This we can promise you.
Joseph Blatter: Thank you.
<…>
See also
General Assembly of the SportAccord International Convention
April 20, 2015
Geography
Krasnodar Territory
Topics
Sport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 20, 2015, 14:50
Text version