Events
Press statements following Russian-Egyptian talks
August 26, 2015
16:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon.
 The talks with President of the Arab Republic of Egypt Abdel Fattah el-Sisi were constructive and business-like in spirit. We exchanged views on the full range of our bilateral relations, which have always been of a friendly and mutually advantageous nature. Our bilateral cooperation has developed particularly actively of late, and our regular contacts with the Egyptian Government and with Mr el-Sisi personally have contributed to this.
 We took a detailed look at our trade and economic cooperation today. In particular, we noted that our bilateral trade increased by 86 percent in 2014. True, during the first six months of this year, an unfavourable situation and the exchange rate difference affected our trade and led to a small downward adjustment.
 We agreed today to make the needed effort to reduce the impact of external factors and set our trade back on a steady growth track. Concrete steps we can take to give the economy fresh incentives include a possible free trade zone, what would in essence amount to a free trade zone between Egypt and the Eurasian Economic Union, using our national currencies in mutual settlements, and facilitating investment cooperation and investment flows.
See also
Meeting with President of Egypt Abdel Fattah el-Sisi
August 26, 2015
I note that around 400 companies with Russian capital already work in Egypt and are carrying out large and promising projects. We hope that the joint fund set up by investment organisations in Russia, Egypt and the United Arab Emirates will make a substantial contribution to this work.
We are making successful advances in our energy sector projects. Rosneft, Gazprom and other Russian companies, including LUKOIL, are working in Egypt.
One of our biggest bilateral projects is the construction of a nuclear power plant using Russian technology in Egypt. Specialists from both countries are now finalising the practical aspects of this power plant’s construction.
Given that Egypt recently launched the expanded Suez Canal, we exchanged views on the possibility of boosting our industrial cooperation and possibly establishing a Russian industrial zone.
Agriculture is an important area for our cooperation. Egyptian exporters are making good use of the new opportunities that have opened up on the Russian market following the restrictive measures we took in response to the European Union’s sanctions. Imports of produce from Egypt increased by more than 8 percent over the first six months of this year.
For its part, Egypt is one of the biggest export markets for Russia’s wheat. We exported 4 million tonnes to Egypt last year, covering 40 percent of the country’s demand. We plan to increase supplies, and in this context, we discussed prospects for Russia to take part in building grain infrastructure facilities in Egypt.
We see good prospects for cooperation in civil aviation, and are looking at the possibility of delivering the Sukhoi Superjet 100 to Egypt’s national airline.
Russia continues its work to help train qualified specialists for Egypt’s needs.
As we know, Egypt has become one of the most popular holiday destinations for Russians. A record number of Russians visited Egyptian resorts in 2014, around three million people, which is 35 percent more than in 2013.
We exchanged views on current international issues too, of course. We agree that it is in both countries’ fundamental interests to build up our foreign policy cooperation.
We have common views on the need for greater efforts to fight international terrorism. This is particularly urgent today, given the aggressive designs of radical groups, above all the Islamic State.
We stressed the need for a broad counterterrorism front in which the key international players and the region’s countries, including Syria, would take part. We also discussed other issues concerning the situation in the region.
In conclusion, I want to thank the President and our Egyptian friends and colleagues for these substantive talks that will undoubtedly help to deepen further the traditionally friendly relations and partnership between Russia and Egypt.
President of Egypt Abdel Fattah el-Sisi
(retranslated): Mr Putin, President of the friendly Russian Federation,
 First of all, I want to thank you, Mr President, for the invitation to come to Moscow again and meet with you. This is our fourth meeting, and this underscores the special nature of the relations between our peoples and is evidence of the progress in the traditional and strategic relations between our countries.
 Mr President, I am absolutely certain that our meeting today will give a new boost to our bilateral relations, which have developed rapidly over the last two years and reached a new level. We now want to take this new level, strengthen it further and expand our partnership in the future, all the more so when we see the bold position that Russia under your leadership took to support the Egyptian people’s will and choice at a time when our country faced big challenges unprecedented in its history.
 At the talks with Mr President today, we discussed various aspects of our bilateral relations and confirmed the strong political ties between our countries. We also discussed practical and effective steps we need to take to strengthen our cooperation. During these talks, we agreed on the need to develop our trade and economic relations and our investment ties as a solid base for developing and strengthening long-term strategic relations between Egypt and Russia.
 I said to Mr President that I am happy with the results achieved and with the progress made thanks to efforts in both countries to carry out obligations regarding joint projects and activate cooperation mechanisms. I think that we have big and promising opportunities ahead. We hope to begin practical steps to establish a Russian industrial zone in the Suez Canal region, given the clear ideas we have about carrying out ambitious investment projects and increasing our bilateral trade.
 In this same context, we have made good progress of late in our work together in the nuclear energy sector, and we hope very much to make use of Russia’s considerable experience in this vital area.
Our talks also covered a number of important areas in which we hope to see a considerable increase in our cooperation in the near future. These matters will be the subject of a detailed examination and discussion at the tenth session of our Intergovernmental Commission for Trade, Economic, Science and Technology Cooperation, which will take place in Egypt at the end of the year.
We discussed international and regional issues of mutual interest. I was very pleased to see that we coincide in our views of how to settle these issues. In particular, we reaffirmed the need for a political solution to the Syrian crisis, in accordance with the provisions set out in the Geneva communique. We also reaffirmed the need to settle the Palestinian issue, including giving the Palestinian people their lawful rights and the establishment of an independent Palestinian state with East Jerusalem as its capital.
We discussed the situation in Yemen, Iraq and the latest events in Libya, including ways of preventing terrorism, which threatens us all. We share a common understanding of the fact that the existence of terrorism is linked to hotbeds of tension in the Middle East. This makes it essential that we develop and activate our cooperation and consultations to find concrete solutions to these problems and guarantee the unity, territorial integrity and security of the region’s countries.
President Putin, I want to take this opportunity to thank you sincerely for having Russia represented at such a high level by the Prime Minister at the opening of the new Suez Canal. This was very much appreciated in Egypt at official level and by the general public.
Mr President, I want to express our gratitude for the gift of the Russian naval hardware that took part in the Suez Canal’s opening ceremony. This was a very generous gesture that Egyptians saw as proof of the strong and friendly relations between our countries and peoples.
I am happy with the progress made and the success in developing our relations in the military cooperation, arms, training for personnel, exchange of experience and help in the fight against terrorism. I hope such intensive work in this area will continue and we will activate our cooperation mechanisms in our common interest of achieving stability in the Middle East and guaranteeing international security.
In conclusion, I want to thank you once again, Mr President, and thank the friendly Russian people for this hospitality and warm reception. Egypt and Russia have reaffirmed of late their desire to strengthen the strategic relations between our countries, which are based on political and intellectual rapprochement, our historical heritage, and the friendship and mutual respect between our countries and peoples. Egypt values this greatly.
Mr President, I hope personally for close cooperation with you to strengthen and develop our strategic partnership and relations in the future.
Thank you for your attention.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: August 26, 2015, 16:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Government members
Vladimir Putin met with Government members to discuss current economic development matters.
August 26, 2015
19:40
The Kremlin, Moscow
The participants discussed the situation on the financial market, in particular, the ruble’s exchange rate fluctuations, executing the budget and the anti-crisis measures the Central Bank is taking in the banking sector.
The meeting also discussed the work of the Government’s anti-crisis commission, which was set up to coordinate the federal, regional and local authorities and various organisations in carrying out the country’s import replacement policy.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
Let us discuss certain current matters, and one major issue – we will get to this – that will be considered at other venues, without the Government’s direct involvement.
Let us begin with the Eastern Economic Forum. Mr Trutnev is in charge of the preparations. The forum is scheduled for September 3–5. Go ahead, please.
Deputy Prime Minister, Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoy to the Far Eastern Federal District Yury Trutnev
: Mr President, colleagues,
We initially planned for 1,000 participants and proceeded from the idea that we need people, rather than scale.
Currently we have some 4,000 applications, 1,470 of them from foreign participants. We are now working with the delegations individually, to make sure that everyone receives fair treatment, but at the same time ensuring we preserve the forum’s format. These are 24 countries, and the largest delegations will come from China, Japan, Korea, Singapore and Malaysia. We have accredited 660 journalists.
We have enough to tell the participants: over the past year, eight priority development areas have been created in the Far East, the ninth has been listed recently – a tourist and recreational area in Kamchatka. A decision has been made to provide infrastructure support to six investment projects, and the Far East Development Fund has become operational.
The decision has been approved to fund the first three projects, including the Nizhneleninskaya – Tongjiang railway crossing. The law On the Free Port of Vladivostok has been passed and is to come into effect on October 12. Work has begun and we believe that its results will make it possible to say that a new competitive investment space will have been created in the Far East for investment in the Asia-Pacific countries.
Vladimir Putin: Good. Could you repeat the number of expected participants, please?
Yuri Trutnev: We cannot accept more than 1,000, everything has been designed for 1,000 people, but we have 4,000 applications, with 1,500 foreigners alone.
Vladimir Putin: Good. Thank you.
We are aware of the situation on the Asian stock markets and the international financial currency markets, and the situation with oil prices. All of this has its effect one way or another on our financial market. I would like Mr Siluanov to comment on these developments and give his assessments.
Finance Minister Anton Siluanov
: Indeed, Mr President, in the past days we have seen greater volatility on the world financial and commodities markets. We see that stock markets have gone down by about 10 percent, prices of raw materials have also gone down, there has been a weakening of currencies, especially those of the developing countries and especially those that export primarily raw materials. The national currencies of those countries have lost 5 to 15 percent.
The reason, of course, is the increasing unpredictability of the Chinese economy’s growth. The Chinese economy is currently one of the major economies influencing world demand, including demand for raw materials. Among such reasons, we also see the overproduction of oil; there are constant excessive volumes of oil being produced, while demand is not growing at the rate that was expected earlier. We are also witnessing pressure on financial markets, expectations of increased rates from the Federal Reserve System, which, as we know, may lead to a withdrawal of capital from developing markets.
The drop in oil prices is undoubtedly having the greatest effect on the Russian financial market. During the past month, the prices went down by some 20 percent, about 10 percent in the past week alone. This inevitably had an impact on the financial market of the Russian Federation: the ruble lost about 10 percent, just as many other currencies in countries, as I have said, with developing economies; the stock market here has dropped by about 15 percent since early August.
We have already witnessed a similar situation with the exchange rate early this year, but a rise in oil prices then led to a strengthening of the ruble. We should not rule out a repeat of this development. However, analysts dealing with the oil market say the oil price drop may be long term and we need to prepare for such a possibility and work to ensure financial and budget stability.
Of course, Mr President, we will comply with all our budget commitments for this year. This year we will need to use the reserves that we have accumulated, but these reserves are not unlimited, and for next year and the following budget cycle we have to align our commitments with the new macroeconomic situation. The Government is currently working on such proposals and we will present them for your consideration.
Vladimir Putin: Ms Nabiullina, would you like to add anything?
Central Bank Governor Elvira Nabiullina
: Overall, I agree with the assessment provided by Mr Siluanov, but I would like to say that the key factor affecting the ruble, which is the price of oil, is volatile. We have already seen this year that it can go up and down: this year alone there was a period when it grew by 23 percent and then dropped by 38 percent. Therefore, we can expect change any minute.
True, our financial system is part of the global system and is not protected from all the existing risks. However, we modelled various scenarios well in advance, knowing that a pessimistic one is possible, so that we could prepare. Thus, for instance, whenever possible we increased our gold and currency reserves to create a long-term basis for our financial stability and to strengthen our safety net.
We have introduced currency refinancing mechanisms. We envisaged a $50 billion limit on loans to banks to avoid excessive pressure on the currency market. We have spent $34 billion of that reserve, and we believe that the remaining $16 billion would be enough. At the same time, we decided that we would not refinance these amounts for banks that have used up their annual limits so they feel more comfortable.
Moreover, we have decided to loosen bank regulation to allow our banking system to adapt. We have curtailed a number of measures because the banks did not need them, and were planning to discontinue more as of October 1. However, now, depending on how the situation is going to develop, we are ready to retain those measures with certain modifications.
The main thing now is for the exchange rate fluctuations to have a minimal effect on prices. I mean that after the drop in the exchange rate early this year we managed to get inflation under control. For 16 weeks, weekly inflation was about 0.01 percent, with the exception of the week when we had our traditional rate increase. Therefore, we will continue in the same way to ensure a further drop in inflation.
Vladimir Putin: Good. Thank you.
Mr Dvorkovich, has the Import Replacement Commission begun work?
Deputy Prime Minister Arkady Dvorkovich
: Yes, pursuant to the law that was passed in July, the Government has set up a Commission headed by the Prime Minister. It held its first meeting to establish Commission procedures, some of which are temporary because the law will come into full effect on some of the Commission’s powers only next January. After that, we will adjust some of these procedures.
Two sub-commissions are to be set up: one headed by Mr Rogozin [Deputy Prime Minister] to deal with the defence industry and import replacement in these areas; the other one headed by me will deal with civil branches of the economy. These sub-commissions are to be set up by September 1, in the next few days.
At its first meeting, the Commission considered import replacement in the agro-industrial complex. Work has been launched in this area and plans were adopted last year, and we already have certain results. Nevertheless, this requires constant coordination and we have passed some additional resolutions.
Work in the defence industry was launched about 18 months ago. In this area, the new sub-commission will enhance coordination of efforts on implementing the appropriate plans in specific import replacement areas.
As for the civil branches of the economy, we have approved around 20 plans, which are very detailed and cover every position in specific areas, including pharmaceuticals, where we have had significant progress. In other areas work on the plans is only beginning. The Industry Ministry, the Energy Ministry, the Transport Ministry and the Communications Ministry are all coordinating this in their appropriate areas.
The sub-commissions are to align the actions of the various state agencies and the companies that are implementing projects and have a demand for certain goods. This is in the focus of the Government’s attention.
I would like to stress that we are talking about creating goods which will be competitive not only in Russia, but on the world markets as well – this is the point of all these efforts. We have specific targets and we intend to achieve them.
Vladimir Putin: We must ensure that the commission does not just take token measures. The work must be filled with very specific content.
Arkady Dvorkovich: The main changes that are to be introduced as of next January deal with the coordination of investment projects and purchasing within these projects to ensure that the companies that are implementing the projects prioritise goods produced in Russia. We are preparing for this.
Vladimir Putin: Right, and the tasks you have set should not be general, but very specific.
Arkady Dvorkovich: These are all very specific things.
Vladimir Putin: Good. Thank you.
Russia has won the right to host the 2019 WorldSkills International Competition. Ms Golodets will provide her comments.
Deputy Prime Minister Olga Golodets
: Mr President, colleagues,
Acting on your instructions, Mr President, Russia submitted its application to host the WorldSkills Competition – a world championship in professional skills, in 2019. The competition was quite fierce, because Russia proposed Kazan as the venue, and it had to compete with Paris, France, and with Charleroi in Belgium. That made the victory even sweeter: of the 57 votes, 31 were cast in favour of Russia, which speaks of a high level of trust for this country in the current geopolitical situation.
I would like to note that at the same time we won six medals for professional skills. Our team was new to these competitions; we had 32 people taking part in the WorldSkills Competition in Sao Paolo, Brazil. Our team was best in such skills as cooking, electrical installations, restaurant service, hairdressing, IT network systems administration and mechatronics.
We have already begun preparing for the 2019 competition. We had a meeting and are preparing to set up an organising committee. Everything will be ready, and I hope this movement will contribute to restructuring the Russian economy and the import replacement programmes, because it focusses on the quality of work and the quality of professional training.
Vladimir Putin: We do need to prepare for 2019 and host this event properly, but we must also prepare and hold similar national and regional events.
<…>
Topics
Economy and finance
Social services
Persons
Dvorkovich Arkady
Golodets Olga
Nabiullina Elvira
Siluanov Anton
1 more
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 26, 2015, 19:40
Text version