Events
Meeting with Russian Human Rights Commissioner Ella Pamfilova
Ms Pamfilova presented to Vladimir Putin the annual report on the human rights situation in Russia.
May 6, 2015
12:50
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 3
Russian Human Rights Commissioner Ella Pamfilova.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ms Pamfilova, I know that you have prepared a report on the human rights situation in the Russian Federation.
Human Rights Commissioner Ella Pamfilova
: Yes, the report for 2014. It differs substantially from earlier reports because the year itself was special, starting with Crimea.
The report’s first section is our first attempt to conduct a study through a triple prism: the view of human rights taken by society, the human rights activists, and myself as Human Rights Commissioner. The most interesting conclusion is that these views converge overall on the most serious issues.
Everyone, no matter what their age or social status, gives priority to the right of access to medical care. In other words, healthcare is in first place among priorities, followed by employment rights. Strange though it might seem, people are more concerned about losing their jobs, even though unemployment is low.
A new category has emerged that calls for our attention – the working poor. The studies all show that among the poor, pensioners now make up a much lower share than working people with two or three children.
Vladimir Putin: Their incomes are too low?
Ella Pamfilova: Yes. What we see now is that the minimum wage is not working and is no longer fulfilling its main social function of motivating people to work. We need to address this issue.
Next on the list is education, and then housing, as always. But along with the traditional rights and complaints, new issues have emerged now, going by the letters and complaints that we receive.
By the way, I received more than 59,000 complaints over the course of the year, 44 percent more than the previous year. There was an increase of 30 percent in complaints from Russian citizens whose rights have been violated beyond Russia’s borders. We are quite effective in getting their rights restored – the number of cases in which rights were restored increased 2.5-fold.
Along with the traditional complaints, such as criticism regarding an absent or weak adversarial system in court proceedings, there have been many complaints about poorly enforced provisions on early release from prison. I think that the amnesty will go some way to resolving this problem.
Adding to the report, I also have a proposal. The amnesty will see quite a large number of people released from prison, but far from all of them actually have somewhere to go. I therefore have concrete proposals on helping them readapt to society, find work and reinsert themselves in life.
There are other new areas where we are seeing an increase in the number of complaints. We have had more complaints about the work of debt collection agencies, for example. I have some very concrete proposals regarding this issue too. The situation here really is quite worrying and we need to take some serious measures.
Vladimir Putin: We discussed this issue recently. I think some legislative amendments are currently being considered in this area. We will discuss the matter now.
Ella Pamfilova: On the wildfires issue, we also have additional proposals on how to protect people in such situations.
I would also like to discuss with you a number of proposals on non-governmental organisations and the non-commercial sector.
Vladimir Putin: Good.
<…>
Topics
Human rights
Persons
Pamfilova Ella
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 6, 2015, 12:50
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Federal Migration Service (FMS) Director Konstantin Romodanovsky
Mr Romodanovsky briefed Vladimir Putin on the migration situation.
May 6, 2015
14:10
3 of 3
With Federal Migration Service Director Konstantin Romodanovsky.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Romodanovsky, we agreed earlier to hold this meeting. I asked you to prepare a report on the migration situation. I know that you have done so and I will be happy now to listen to your conclusions and discuss the situation with you.
Federal Migration Service Director Konstantin Romodanovsky
: Mr President, following the board meeting in which you took part, we started active work on this. You set the task of creating the environment for civilised labour immigration, rigorously preventing illegal immigration and addressing the problem of fictitious [residence] registration, that is, dealing with the so-called ‘elastic apartments’. Twenty amendments have been passed in the area of immigration control alone. They are all working effectively.
One of the most effective measures is refusing entry to the country, including to the category you cited, repeat violators of immigration law. Such people can now be refused entry for periods of 5 or 10 years. To date, 1.35 million foreign citizens who have violated our immigration and residence laws have been refused entry.
For the first time, as you can see here, we now have a situation where we have managed to check uncontrolled increase in immigration. The numbers are not rising as they were over the past years, and we have even seen a drop in the number of foreign citizens in the country. If we exclude Ukrainian citizens, we have up to 10 million foreign citizens in Russia. This is a reasonable figure.
This change is not the result of fewer people coming to Russia, but of more people leaving the country. In other words, we are seeing movement now as immigrants start to abide by our laws. Overall, this has had a positive impact on bringing down the crime rate and lowering the number of crimes committed by foreign citizens.
Regarding the so-called ‘elastic apartments’, the law that was passed made it possible for us to reduce their number from 10,090 to 1,160. We will have this problem sorted out by the end of the year and the effect will be clear. I think we could end with 10, 20 or 30 such apartments still going. Obviously, such apartments will crop up, but we will continue to close them down. We now have the mechanism we need to be able to do this.
Vladimir Putin: The figure you gave for the number of foreigners currently in Russia excludes Ukrainian citizens. So, how many Ukrainians are there in this country?
Konstantin Romodanovsky: I was not counting refugees from Ukraine. We have a total of 2.5 million people from Ukraine here at the moment. Of this number, 550,000 people would seem to be hiding in Russia in order to avoid taking part in the military operations in Ukraine. Then there are 970,000 people who have fled en-masse from southeastern Ukraine. More than 500,000 of them have a temporary residence and asylum permit, which enables them to work in Russia. We do not demand that they get work permits.
Vladimir Putin: We spoke about this matter after the Direct Line [call-in programme]. But there are other problems. Formally speaking, they have the right to work, but when they try to get jobs they encounter another problem, namely, that they are expected to provide residence registration, which they do not have, and so they are not hired. It creates a vicious circle.
Konstantin Romodanovsky: Mr President, the registration issue creates problems not just for this group but for others too, for the native Russian speakers [coming to live in Russia], for example. We have a law for this category of people and the provisions are in place, but they are also asked for residence registration, as are many other categories of people. We are addressing this situation. I have prepared a number of documents, which I want to present to you.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, this situation must be resolved, because we are not dealing with ordinary life and the usual routine here, but with people who have ended up in very difficult circumstances and have been forced to flee from the war. We therefore need to think about how to resolve this situation. We must not create problems on our internal labour market, of course, but at the same time, we need to make it possible for these people to work. They want to earn their own living and support their families after all. Let’s discuss this in more detail.
<…>
Topics
Migration
Persons
Romodanovsky Konstantin
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 6, 2015, 14:10
Text version