Events
Presentation of jubilee medals to Great Patriotic War veterans
In the run-up to the Defenders of the Fatherland holiday, Vladimir Putin presented medals commemorating the 70th anniversary of Victory in the 1941–1945 Great Patriotic War to war veterans.
February 20, 2015
13:40
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 16
At a ceremony awarding Great Patriotic War veterans the 70th Anniversary of Victory in the 1941–1945 Great Patriotic War jubilee medal. Photo: RIA Novosti
The veterans invited to the ceremony at the Grand Kremlin Palace included heroes of the Soviet Union, Full Cavaliers of the Order of Glory and participants in the Great Patriotic War’s key battles.
The Medal commemorating the 70th Anniversary of Victory in the 1941–1945 Great Patriotic War was established by Presidential Executive Order in 2013. It is awarded to participants in battles on the Great Patriotic War’s fronts, members of partisan and underground resistance groups, people working on the home front, former child prisoners of concentration camps and ghettoes, and foreigners who fought in the Red Army’s ranks.
The award ceremony at the Kremlin is the first of a series of similar events that will take place around Russia through to May 9, 2015.
* * *
Speech at a ceremony awarding jubilee medals to Great Patriotic War veterans
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends, veterans,
2015 marks the 70th anniversary of the Soviet people’s victory in the Great Patriotic War. This is a glorious date that the whole country is celebrating, and today we are holding the first of a series of events to commemorate Victory Day.
Today, in the run-up to another important holiday for our entire country, Defender of the Fatherland Day, we are presenting these medals to people who took part in the Great Patriotic War. This is a great honour for me.
You endured and won, traversed hardships and privation, sacrificed yourselves and gave every last drop of your strength. You saved our homeland and fulfilled the noble liberating mission that the entire world remembers in spite of everything.
We are presenting jubilee medals to commemorate 70 years since our Victory was achieved. It is highly symbolic that this ceremony is taking place here in the Moscow Kremlin’s St George Hall, which is dedicated to the memory of Russia’s military glory.
Dear veterans, your lives and achievements are an inalienable part of this glory. Your names and the names of your comrades at the front are as precious and dear to us as the names that shine in gold upon these walls.
You went into battle in what was a most difficult hour and in the cruellest of wars in the history of humankind and of our country, and you endured and won, traversed hardships and privation, sacrificed yourselves and gave every last drop of your strength. You saved our homeland and fulfilled the noble liberating mission that the entire world remembers in spite of everything.
You went to the frontline at the call of your conscience and fought to the death for every inch of our native soil. After destroying the enemy, you worked just as selflessly, shoulder to shoulder, to rebuild the country and make it a truly great power.
The example that you set of unity, strength of spirit, selfless courage and commitment to working for our homeland’s benefit will always live in our hearts.
It is through the example set by you, the victorious soldiers, that we learn to love and be proud of our country. We learn from your example about friendship and hard work, learn to approach life, work and people as you do – with sincerity, responsibility and honesty.
The moral values you have forged and your sense of civic spirit and involvement do not let you stand aside from our country’s public life.
Many of you are engaged in active patriotic and educational work with young people. It is very important that young people should have this chance to learn the truth about the Great Patriotic War and to hear it directly from you, the people who took part in those events. With your help, they can realise the full depth and extent of the events of those times and judge them correctly, draw the right conclusions, so that never again will the monstrous ideas of Nazism enter people’s heads. 
There will always be a place in our memories and hearts for those who carried out this exceptional feat in the name of our homeland, protected it at the cost of their lives and health, and selflessly served the Fatherland.
Dear veterans, your experience and knowledge are an enduring treasure for us and we are grateful that you are so generous with this treasure and that despite the passing years you remain in the ranks of our homeland’s most dedicated defenders. 
I bow low before all Great Patriotic War veterans and express the entire Russian nation’s profound gratitude.
Let me wish you good health, prosperity, caring attention from your loved ones, and long life.
Thank you very much.
<…>
It was such a pleasure to hear just now these wonderful words from the last of those being decorated today. “Greetings from Leningrad’s Dinamovtsi !” [members of Dinamo sports club], he said. The veterans are still very much in the ranks. You saw how to the point these dialogues were. I said to one of the medal recipients, “I hardly know where to pin the medal,” and he replies, serious as anything, “You’ll find room.”
Yes, we will always find room to pin a medal, a decoration. This is not the main thing. What I really want to say is that there will always be a place in our memories and hearts for those who carried out this exceptional feat in the name of our homeland, protected it at the cost of their lives and health, and selflessly served the Fatherland. 
Thank you very much.
Topics
Great Patriotic War
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 20, 2015, 13:40
Text versionEvents
Meeting with permanent members of the Security Council
Vladimir Putin met with permanent members of the Security Council. Particular attention was given to the issue of energy supplies to southeast Ukraine.
February 20, 2015
16:10
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 3
Meeting with permanent members of the Security Council.
Implementation of the Minsk Agreements and current issues on the domestic economic agenda were also discussed.
Taking part in the meeting were Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev
, Federation Council Speaker Valentina Matviyenko
, State Duma Speaker Sergei Naryshkin
, Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Sergei Ivanov
, Secretary of the Security Council Nikolai Patrushev
, Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov
, Interior Minister Vladimir Kolokoltsev
, Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu
, Director of the Foreign Intelligence Service Mikhail Fradkov
, Deputy Secretary of the Security Council Rashid Nurgaliyev
, and permanent member of the Security Council Boris Gryzlov
.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon colleagues.
I want to start by asking Mr Medvedev to brief us on the situation with energy supplies to our neighbour, Ukraine. We have been receiving different information on this matter. The Government has already taken the relevant decisions.
Mr Medvedev, what is actually happening?
Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev: Mr President, as we know, the Ukrainian organisations stopped gas supplies some time ago to the unrecognised republics of Donetsk and Lugansk. Despite their assurances that they are ready to restore gas supply, it has not been resumed yet according to the standard system. Gas is not coming through the standard system to these two unrecognised territories.
This is putting people’s lives and health at risk. Yesterday, following my instruction, our Energy Ministry and Gazprom, acting in response to a request from the gas supply organisations in the two unrecognised republics, examined the possibility of providing gas supplies via an alternative route.
This alternative route was always there and we sometimes even used it. Given that gas is not coming in via the normal route, we have organised supplies via the alternative route.
At the moment, gas is now being supplied in the quantities required to meet the needs of districts in the Donetsk and Lugansk regions and in the two unrecognised republics themselves.
Vladimir Putin: What about the gas supply situation in general in Ukraine?
Dmitry Medvedev: As far as the current situation goes, our customers in Ukraine are getting the gas supplies that were agreed. As you recall though, Mr President, the problem is that we went over to a prepayment system with the Ukrainians, and these payments are coming through, albeit with difficulty.
However, the advance payments are not big enough to make it possible to continue gas supplies over a long period. If they continue using as much gas over the coming days as they are right now, the prepaid amounts will run out in just a few days, in three or four days.
Vladimir Putin: Ukraine’s gas consumers asked for an increase on the volumes initially agreed.
Dmitry Medvedev: Yes, they asked for an increase, but we will act in accordance with the contract we concluded. Whether we are talking about consumers throughout the whole of Ukraine or consumers in individual regions, they are all part of the overall gas volumes supplied to Ukraine. We will continue supplying gas so long as they continue to pay, taking into account too the gas that we are currently supplying for humanitarian reasons via the alternative route to the Donetsk and Lugansk peoples republics.
Vladimir Putin: They are asking for around three times more gas than before?
Dmitry Medvedev: They are asking for 2.5-times more as far as I know. Either our Ukrainian partners are going to have to pay for these supplies, or we will once again have to make a difficult decision.
Vladimir Putin: I ask the Russian Government to keep to the contract obligations and act in strict accordance with them.
Dmitry Medvedev: Good, we will do this, Mr President.
<…>
See also
Security Council News
Geography
Ukraine
Topics
Energy
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Security Council
Publication date: February 20, 2015, 16:10
Text versionEvents
Gala reception to mark Defender of the Fatherland Day
Vladimir Putin attended a gala reception at the Grand Kremlin Palace to mark Defender of the Fatherland Day, which Russia celebrates on February 23. The President congratulated veterans and armed forces servicemen and civilian personnel on the upcoming holiday.
February 20, 2015
19:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 2
At a gala reception at the Grand Kremlin Palace to mark Defender of the Fatherland Day, which Russia celebrates on February 23.
Earlier in the day, Mr Putin presented jubilee medals marking the 70th anniversary of victory in the 1941–1945 to Great Patriotic War veterans.
* * *
Speech at a gala reception to mark the Defender of the Fatherland Day
President OF RUSSIA VLADIMIR PUTIN: Good afternoon, comrades and veterans.
We are meeting on the eve of the Defender of the Fatherland Day. I want to start by congratulating the military and civilian personnel of our armed forces and our honoured veterans on this upcoming holiday.
On this day, it is our tradition to honour those who dedicate themselves to military service, those who have made guaranteeing our country’s sovereignty and security and protecting our people the sense and purpose of their lives, and those who wear their uniforms with honour and carry out their duties without reproach.
It is our tradition to honour those who dedicate themselves to military service, those who have made guaranteeing our country’s sovereignty and security and protecting our people the sense and purpose of their lives, and those who wear their uniforms with honour and carry out their duties without reproach.
Russia has always had great respect for the military profession, which, as Peter the Great said, is most important as being paramount for the Fatherland’s defence. Our nation has always been proud of our fearless soldiers. At various moments in history, they have not allowed the enemy to conquer Russia, have protected it from invasion and spared no sacrifice to defend every inch of their native soil.
Soon, on May 9, we will celebrate the 70th anniversary of Victory over Nazism. This is a sacred date for us. It was our people and the Soviet army that made the decisive contribution to fighting Nazism.
It was the courage of our soldiers and officers in the battles for Moscow and Stalingrad, Kursk, Warsaw, Leningrad, Budapest and finally Berlin that made it possible to defeat the aggressor’s finest troops. 
In the fiercest battles, our troops not only drove the Nazis from our land but went on to carry out the great liberating mission of freeing Europe from enslavement and then struck a blow against the aggressor in the Far East and sounded the victorious final note in the entire Second World War.
These are not just historical facts but the memory that lives in every Russian family, and this is our history, which we will defend from lies and from being forgotten.
I am sure that those who serve in the Russian army today and those who will join the ranks in the future and serve beneath our battle banners will always look to the example of the victors and will never flinch or retreat.
Comrades, we all know well what great responsibility our armed forces and all of our security and law enforcement services bear today. They are responsible for our country’s peace, security and stable development. 
No one should harbour any illusions about it being possible to achieve military supremacy over Russia or to use pressure against us in any way or form. Russia will always have an adequate response to any such reckless actions.
We all know well what great responsibility our armed forces and all of our security and law enforcement services bear today. They are responsible for our country’s peace, security and stable development.
Our soldiers and officers have shown that they are ready to act decisively, with coordinated precision, professionalism and courage to carry out even the most difficult and novel missions, as befits a well-trained and experienced modern army that preserves its traditions and military spirit and is constantly improving and setting the highest modern standards as its benchmark. 
We have done much over these last years to make our military command system more efficient and build up groups of troops in the areas of greatest strategic importance. We are successfully carrying out an ambitious programme to modernise the army and navy, including active modernisation of our air and space defences and nuclear forces. This is the guarantee of global parity.
We will continue to do everything needed to ensure that the armed forces continue to build up their capability. I want to stress that we will carry out our military development plans no matter what the circumstances, and there should be no doubt about this.
The state authorities will also continue to implement the programme to put in place good conditions for military service, including construction of permanent and service housing, expanding the medical and social services system, and developing modern garrisons.
Friends, let me congratulate you on the upcoming holiday. I want to offer my warmest congratulations to your families and loved ones, to all those who are your reliable support in your lives and your work.
I am sure that Russia’s soldiers and officers will continue to guarantee reliably our people’s peaceful life and protect our great country’s independence and national interests.
I wish you success!
Topics
Armed Forces
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 20, 2015, 19:00
Text version