Events
New Year Address to the Nation
December 31, 2015
23:55
Moscow
New Year Address to the Nation.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Citizens of Russia, friends,
In a few moments, we will see in the New Year of 2016. The sensation of this wonderful moment between the past and the future is familiar since childhood. We look forward to it with joy, hope and excitement, believing in the best.
Traditionally, we celebrate it with our families, with all our near and dear ones. Of course, not all manage to see the New Year in with their families.
People have to work at hospitals and production facilities, perform their service and combat duty, defend our borders, and be on regular duty ensuring our security on land, at sea and in the sky.
We are grateful to all those who are always on their post, day and night, weekdays and holidays. Today, I would like to extend special greetings to those of our service members who are fighting international terrorism, defending Russia’s national interests at distant frontiers, showing their willpower, determination and staunchness. Though, these are the qualities we need all the time, whatever we are doing.
The success of the entire nation depends on the efficient labour and achievements of each one of us. We are united by the same goals, by our common desire to benefit our Motherland and by our sense of responsibility for its future.
In the outgoing year of 2015, we marked the 70th anniversary of Victory in the Great Patriotic War. Our history, the experience of our parents and grandparents, their unity in times of trouble and their willpower shall always serve as an example for us. They have helped and will help us to meet all current challenges with dignity.
Friends,
On this New Year’s night, we feel especially strongly just how much our near and dear ones mean to us. It is so important for all to be healthy and everything to be fine. For our parents to be surrounded by love and care, so that all the good things they have ever taught us come back to them.
Let our children grow smart and active, while love and responsiveness, kind-heartedness and compassion support us in our everyday chores.
There are a few seconds left before the New Year. Let us wish each other success and happiness.
Let us thank each other for understanding and support, for sympathy and responsiveness we give each other.
And let us raise a toast to the prosperity and wellbeing of Russia!
Happy New year to you! Happy 2016!
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 31, 2015, 23:55
Text version