Events
Meeting with President of Abkhazia Raul Khadjimba
Vladimir Putin met with President of Abkhazia Raul Khadjimba to discuss opportunities for developing cooperation between Russia and Abkhazia.
May 15, 2015
18:50
Sochi
1 of 3
With President of Abkhazia Raul Khadjimba.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Khadjimba, we saw each other just recently, on May 9 in Moscow. By the way, thank you for coming. I think it was completely natural that we should celebrate together our common fight against Nazism and our shared holiday.
I will not give an assessment of our relations and their development right at this moment. I am very pleased to see you because this gives us the chance to discuss the start of implementation of the bilateral agreements that we signed, and which I think are very important and substantive documents.
Welcome!
President of Abkhazia Raul Khadjimba: Thank you.
Mr President, I thank you sincerely for your invitation to take part in celebrating the 70th anniversary of Victory over Nazism, a date of such significance for our peoples. We saw these magnificent celebrations, an event that made a big impression not only on us, I think, but on the entire international community.
Since the Agreement on Alliance and Strategic Partnership between Russia and Abkhazia was signed, we have implemented a number of provisions. We have already signed an agreement on pensions and an agreement raising wages for some categories of public sector employees. Active work is underway on defence-related matters, border issues, and cooperation between Abkhazia’s and Russia’s interior ministries.
Relations between our two countries are developing at quite a good pace. In Abkhazia, we are doing everything we can to make these relations stronger and closer.
Mr President, the people of Abkhazia are grateful to you for the constant attention and support you give our country. Thank you.
<…>
See also
Law ratifying Russia-Abkhazia agreement on alliance and strategic partnership
February 4, 2015
Geography
Abkhazia
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Khadjimba Raul
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 15, 2015, 18:50
Text version