Events
State Council Presidium meeting
Vladimir Putin held a State Council Presidium meeting in Nizhny Tagil on carrying out state policy on import replacement in the regions.
November 25, 2015
13:20
Nizhny Tagil
4 of 5
At the State Council Presidium meeting on carrying out state policy on import replacement in the regions.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
We are here to discuss issues concerning import replacement. This will be the main focus of our attention today, of course.
But let me first make use of this opportunity, since we have the Government’s senior members here, including the deputy prime minister responsible for the energy sector, to say a couple of words about the need to ensure uninterrupted operation of the temporary generators in Crimea while the energy blockade of the region continues.
I am in constant contact with the Government, and I spoke today with the region’s heads. I want to thank the residents of Crimea for their endurance and their readiness to cope with the hardships brought about by this energy blockade. We will resolve these problems, of course.
See also
All news about the trip to Sverdlovsk Region
November 25, 2015
We are surprised though by the position our partners in Kiev have taken. These things could not have happened without their tacit agreement. This is clear. They speak of the need to return Crimea to Ukraine, but in inflicting these mockeries on people, they are working in completely the opposite direction. Well, what can we do? This is their choice and there is nothing new or surprising here.
We need to do everything we can today to get the temporary generators working. As we agreed, by December 20, we will have the first section of the energy bridge in place, and the second section will be in place by the summer of 2016. I hope that this will go according to plan. The Energy Minister said that this work could be completed perhaps even sooner. I ask you only to make sure that the quality does not suffer. Mr Dvorkovich [Deputy Prime Minister], I draw this to your attention and ask you to keep this under your personal control.
As I said, we are here to discuss matters concerning modernisation of our economy.
We drafted a so-called import replacement programme in the aim of developing our technological and industrial base on a nationwide scale. The idea is to develop import replacement primarily in civilian industrial sectors and open modern new production facilities, using advanced technology, here in Russia.
Let me stress that the task is not to replace imported goods with Russian-made goods by any means possible. We need to organise mass production of high quality Russian-made goods that come at an acceptable and economically justified cost and can compete as equals with foreign equivalents on the market here and abroad.
In this respect, our engine makers’ achievements make me very happy. I want to congratulate Alexander Inozemtsev. Mr Inozemtsev, I congratulate you, as chief designer, and all of your colleagues, the whole team, on what is certainly a victory. We have not had an event like today’s in the nearly 30 years (29 to be exact) of our engine-building sector.
I want to thank the residents of Crimea for their endurance and their readiness to cope with the hardships brought about by this energy blockade.
This event, which took place just recently and passed largely unnoticed, was the development of our new PD-14 engine. This engine was planned originally for our new MS-21 plane, but in reality, it has been designed for our entire range of aircraft models, and will also have applications at gas pumping stations and other facilities that need such machinery. This is a big event for Russia’s industry, and for our aircraft manufacturing and engine-building sectors. I congratulate you.
Managing Director and Chief Designer of Aviadvigatel Alexander Inozemtsev: Thank you for your support and for your praise.
Vladimir Putin: Good luck.
Today, we will discuss precisely this kind of production and look at concrete projects related to import replacement.
Of course, carrying out these projects depends a lot on how well we plan and coordinate the work of the federal and regional authorities and the business community in this area. It is crucial to follow a common policy in this area and coordinate the import replacement projects with our country’s needs and demand, our priority economic development tasks, and our regions’ strong points.
The Industry and Trade Ministry has approved 20 sectorial import replacement plans that cover more than 2,000 products and technologies. We need to launch effective mechanisms for carrying out these plans and provide business initiatives with the necessary infrastructure and financial support.
State Council Presidium meeting on carrying out state policy on import replacement in the regions.
Of course, we also need to ensure the human resources for these projects, and in this respect, I ask the regional heads to pay particular attention to professional education.
I note that this year, the Industry Development Fund has begun active work. It accords preferential loans for modernising industrial facilities and opening new high-tech production facilities. It has already approved 56 projects for a total 19.2 billion rubles. Private organisations are investing around 140 billion rubles in addition in these projects.
I remind you that the Fund provides targeted loans of 50–700 million rubles under a co-financing system at 5-percent interest for a 7-year period.
The Fund is working at a good pace now. We need to carefully monitor the effectiveness of this investment and make sure that the goods produced are fully competitive in terms of both quality and price.
Special investment contracts are another mechanism that should become a part of the import replacement effort. These contracts offer a range of preferences and incentives for modernising or opening new industrial facilities, for a period of up to 10 years. The Government has already approved the rules for concluding these contracts.
Regions and municipalities, with the federal authorities’ participation, will be able to sign these contracts with investors starting in 2016. I ask the regions to make active use of this instrument and work closely with potential investors.
The task is not to replace imported goods with Russian-made goods by any means possible. We need to organise mass production of high quality Russian-made goods.
Projects with greenfield status will also qualify for substantial tax breaks. These breaks will be extended to new industrial facilities starting from 2016. After these facilities begin production operations, they will qualify for profit tax deductions equivalent to the amount of investment made.
I want to draw my Government colleagues’ attention to the fact that this law does contain quite a few restrictions for potential investors, and I ask you to come back to this. There is still work to do. You need to take a close look at the decisions made and get rid of everything that could hamper this law’s active practical use.
Moving on, as I said, Russian-made goods must satisfy not just domestic demand; we need to promote them on markets abroad too. This requires a comprehensive system of support for non-commodities exports. This system should encompass the whole range of instruments, from preferential loans and insurance for exporters to loans for the final buyers of Russian products, following the practice many countries use in promoting their products abroad.
The Russian Export Centre started work in June 2015. It provides a single-window centre for financial and non-financial assistance for exporters. The centre’s portfolio already counts more than 70 projects in the automotive sector, aircraft manufacturing, agriculture, nanotechnology, and microelectronics. The volume is not big yet, but we need to take these first steps, see how this instrument works, and expand its possibilities.
We need to continue developing our industry’s and companies’ export potential. It is important for this support system to be in demand among our exporters and those who buy their products. Only then it will become a key mechanism for stimulating import replacement.
Let’s start work.
<…>
Geography
Republic of Crimea
Sverdlovsk Region
Topics
Import replacement
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, State Council
Publication date: November 25, 2015, 13:20
Text versionEvents
Opening of the Boris Yeltsin Presidential Centre
Vladimir Putin and Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev took part in the opening ceremony of the Boris Yeltsin Presidential Centre.
November 25, 2015
17:00
Yekaterinburg
1 of 9
Vladimir Putin and Dmitry Medvedev, accompanied by Boris Yeltsin’s widow, Naina Yeltsina, and daughter, Tatyana Yumasheva, visit the exhibition ‘Seven Days that Changed Russia’ at the Boris Yeltsin Centre’s museum.
Mr Putin and Mr Medvedev
laid flowers at the monument to the First Russian President and, accompanied by Mr Yeltsin’s widow, Naina Yeltsina, and his daughter, Tatyana Yumasheva, visited the exhibition Seven Days that Changed Russia at the centre’s museum.
Participants in the opening ceremony included Mrs Yeltsina and Ms Yumasheva, Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Sergei Ivanov
, government representatives, foreign leaders who worked with Mr Yeltsin, members of his presidential team, politicians, cultural figures, relatives, and former fellow students.
The Boris Yeltsin Presidential Centre was established in accordance with the Federal Law On Establishing Centres to Honour the Historical Legacy of Former Russian Presidents, passed in 2008. The centre’s main purpose is to preserve, study and understand Boris Yeltsin’s historical legacy in the context of political and social events of the 1990s.
The centre was conceived as a public and political organisation that can contribute to building a rule-of-law state and studying and developing the institution of the presidency in Russia. The centre will provide support for educational, research, charity, and cultural projects.
See also
Trip to Sverdlovsk Region
November 25, 2015
Speech at opening ceremony
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mrs Yeltsina, ladies and gentlemen, friends,
Today, we are opening the Boris Yeltsin Centre.
This is more than simply a tribute to Russia’s First President. The centre was conceived as a place that would reflect an entire era in our history, a time of radical change, very important, difficult, and, of course, contradictory transformations.
We saw the exhibition just now. It really does tell the honest story of how modern Russia was built, the difficulties encountered on the way, and the problems that had to be solved. It is the story of all that was accomplished during this difficult period.
We are learning to objectively and carefully treat and respect our history and the centuries-long uninterrupted road our country has travelled. This road was full of great achievements, sharp turns, mistakes, and outstanding victories.
We need to know and study this difficult experience with its many aspects and dimensions, take pride in it, learn lessons from it, of course, and feel and understand its spiritual and moral significance.
The centre’s exhibition is an example of how we apply this attitude to what was one of the key stages in Russia’s development. It has collected and systemised a unique and very large quantity of documentary materials.
Boris Yeltsin’s own destiny and personality reflected in full the tremendous challenges, difficulties and contradictions of that time. He had a determined, direct and courageous character and the ability to be resolute to the limit. It was in large part thanks to these qualities of his that our country stayed on the democratic development track it had chosen.
It was then, at a time of intense political confrontation, that our country’s Constitution was adopted, forming the foundation and providing the clear provisions for beginning the constructive period of our development.
Boris Yeltsin had a deep understanding of the dramatic nature of the radical transformations taking place. He lived these changes himself in full, in his conscience, soul and heart, knew doubts and torments, and knew what tremendous difficulties our people had to go through. It was then that he took the decision to step down and, as we remember, addressed Russia’s people with sincere words, a genuine confession. In this, we see his strength, honesty and openness.
Mrs Yeltsina, you were at Boris Yeltsin’s side for more than 50 years and you earned the respect of millions here in Russia not just as the First President’s wife, but also as someone of great tact and strength. We feel your warmth and generous spirit here in this hall too.
I want to thank all of the Boris Yeltsin Foundation’s organisers and trustees for their active participation in establishing the centre. The Sverdlovsk Region and Yekaterinburg authorities made a big contribution here. I hope the centre will continue to receive your all-round support.
There is a lot of work ahead. The centre must live and develop as an educational platform and venue for carrying out many different projects, including social projects.
Of course, young people and their interests will be a particular focus of attention. It must be said that young people today know little about our recent past and about the life of our country’s First President. It is important that young people become frequent visitors to the centre, take part in its programmes, study our history, and gain deep understanding of its significance for their intellectual and spiritual development.
Friends,
I recall Boris Yeltsin’s words, which the whole country knows now: Look after Russia! Those words were addressed to all of us, to present and future generations. Boris Yeltsin wanted our country to become strong, prosperous and happy. We have already done a lot to achieve these aims. We have overcome many difficulties, and we will without question resolve the tasks ahead.
Russia will grow stronger and develop through our people’s labour, efforts and devotion to their homeland.
Thank you very much for your attention.
Geography
Sverdlovsk Region
Persons
Ivanov Sergei
Medvedev Dmitry
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 25, 2015, 17:00
Text version