Events
Meeting with Government members
Vladimir Putin held a meeting with Government members to discuss measures to ensure sustainable development of the national economy and stability in the social sector in 2015.
January 21, 2015
16:00
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 2
Meeting with Government members.
Speech at meeting with Government members
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues,
We have met several times to discuss current economic policy and talk about the medium-term perspective.
I suppose I do not need to describe what is happening in global markets, in the global economy, and how it affects Russia. I will not talk about the entire range of causes; they are all well-known. We must think about what we need to do, how to build our policy. Naturally, we should and will proceed following the logic of the market economy; we will rely exclusively on these considerations.
But first of all, whatever we do and whatever plans we make, we must certainly ensure the fulfilment of our social commitments. We know that this is all entirely doable; there are no doubts that we will do this.
At the same time, in fulfilling our social objectives, we must also talk about what we will do in corresponding sectors of the economy, in the economy overall – today and in the future, considering different development scenarios.
<…>
Before we move on to discussing specific issues, I want to remind you that this is not the first time we are facing this kind of situation; we already faced it once in 2008–2009. Then, too, the crisis was caused by external factors. As you recall, it began with the collapse of the US mortgage system and later affected other nations, including Russia. And once again, today, one of the main reasons behind the economic situation is the state of foreign markets – in this case, raw materials markets – which affects us seriously.
If we are to talk about the so-called sanctions effect, I want to point out that during the 2008 crisis, I don’t recall anyone wishing to extend loans to Russian financial institutions; on the contrary, we had so-called margin calls. We were relying solely on our own means to resolve these problems, first and foremost relying on our development institutions and the reserves we had. In that respect, little has changed.
Unfortunately, the structure of the Russian economy has changed little as well, but the external limitations we are up against today may finally push us toward working more vigorously to change this structure.
Moreover, we have already ascertained that despite the seeming stability of international economic rules, they are actually subject to erosion under pressure from political factors. As you know, we were even somewhat naive, believing that such fundamentals of the global economy are inviolable. This, too, has served as a lesson to us.
In reality, this should push us toward increasing our economic sovereignty, remaining – as we have stressed many times – an integral, natural, organic part of the global economy.
Based on all these parameters, let’s discuss all the suggestions you have prepared in the past six weeks.
<…>
Topics
Economy and finance
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 21, 2015, 16:00
Text versionEvents
Working meeting with Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev, during which the Prime Minister submitted to the President, among other things, proposals for optimisation of the rocket and space industry.
January 21, 2015
15:30
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
Mr Putin and Mr Medvedev discussed the creation of a new corporation Roskosmos, which will exercise both administrative and business functions. Such a corporation will allow tackling complex multidimensional tasks the space industry is facing.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Medvedev, Deputy Prime Minister Mr Rogozin
reported to me yesterday on the situation at the Vostochny Space Launch Centre and how the construction is progressing. Everything is moving forward, thankfully, although there are still many unresolved issues, but nevertheless, everything is moving forward.
We have discussed issues pertaining to the proper organisation of the entire rocket and space sector. There were various suggestions and I know the Cabinet has worked on it. What is the current status?
Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev
: Indeed, some time ago, we prepared suggestions on creating a whole range of new structures in addition to Roscosmos, including the United Rocket and Space Corporation as a joint stock company. It is working, but its operating experience shows that the problems in the industry are more serious, more complex, and it is imperative to focus the efforts of the government and business somewhat differently – the way it was done before in the nuclear sector.
So what the Cabinet is suggesting to the President is to create a new Roscosmos corporation. And of course, we are not talking about strengthening the role of government once again; in this case, we are suggesting streamlining the management system. A management system like the one at Rosatom has proven its efficiency with regard to fulfilling the most important government tasks.
We hope that if the President supports this suggestion and a corresponding draft law is prepared, then having a corporation that will exercise management functions on the one hand and business functions on the other will allow us to solve the highly complex, multifaceted challenges faced by the space industry.
That is the essence of the suggestion. It can also be divided into a whole set of stages, because at first, this corporation would be created while keeping the Federal Space Agency as an administrative governing body under the Cabinet. And later, all management functions will be transferred to the corporation, if you support this approach. Then we will make a whole set of management and personnel decisions at the government level in order to accelerate this process.
Vladimir Putin: What ideas do you have with regard to staff?
Dmitry Medvedev: We have the following ideas. Currently, we have two main structures operating. One is the management organisation, Roscosmos, while the second is our United Rocket and Space Corporation, which operates as a joint stock company.
Our idea is to appoint the United Rocket and Space Corporation’s CEO the head of the new Roscosmos.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Komarov?
Dmitry Medvedev: Yes, Mr Komarov. And, respectively, relieve Oleg Ostapenko of this position. But given his level of experience, we could entrust him with some other work within the space sector, for example, heading the Board of Directors of one of the holding companies that would make up Roscosmos.
Vladimir Putin: I think this is a good suggestion, the right idea, because it’s not just a separate entity, and not even an individual direction for research or specialised practical activities. The rocket and space sector integrates an enormous number of directions in science and industry. These are large production teams with diverse objectives, including in defence and commercial space exploration. So in this case, I suppose, we would be justified in applying the same instruments as in the nuclear industry. But, of course, we need a draft law.
Dmitry Medvedev: We will prepare it and certainly submit it to the President. And if this plan is approved, then I will make management decisions with regard to Roscosmos.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
<…>
Topics
Industry
Science and innovation
Persons
Medvedev Dmitry
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 21, 2015, 15:30
Text version