Events
Meeting with Hamid Karzai
Vladimir Putin met with former President of Afghanistan Hamid Karzai, who was in Moscow following an invitation from the Russian International Affairs Council.
June 24, 2015
21:35
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 4
With former President of Afghanistan Hamid Karzai.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: I am very happy to see you.
Right now, we are witnessing processes that are of great concern to us. The Taliban is active and it controls a significant part of Afghanistan’s territory, many border crossing points. But what is even more disturbing is that the so-called Islamic State is getting increasingly active in Afghanistan, consolidating its position there. I believe we are already seeing the Islamic State’s presence in 25 out of the 34 provinces.
So I have many questions, and naturally, I am very happy for this opportunity to speak with you – a person with a thorough knowledge and clear understanding of what is happening in the region overall and in Afghanistan in particular, and to exchange views on the situation.
Hamid Karzai
(retranslated): The Islamic State is an entirely different case: they are not in any way associated with Afghanistan; they are not ours, not homegrown. And without a doubt, Mr President, their upsurge is supported by external forces.
The fact is, they were not created for Afghanistan – they are using Afghanistan as a launching pad to spread their influence across the region. And Russia and Afghanistan should certainly focus on countering this threat.
<…>
Geography
Afghanistan
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Karzai Hamid
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 24, 2015, 21:35
Text versionEvents
Meeting of the Council for Science and Education
Vladimir Putin held a meeting of the Council for Science and Education on new challenges and priorities for developing science and technology in Russia.
June 24, 2015
14:55
The Kremlin, Moscow
5 of 6
Meeting of the Council for Science and Education.
Speech at meeting of the Council for Science and Education
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
Today, as we agreed, we are discussing our choice of priorities for science and technology development. In this context, we must set aside all narrow corporate lobbyism, prejudices and subjective approaches. The task is obviously a complex one, and so all decisions in this area must be as open and transparent as possible and based on principles that are clear to all.
In setting our priorities, we must take care not to restrict creative and research freedom and the right to experiment.
Another important point to keep in mind is that in setting our priorities, we must take care not to restrict creative and research freedom and the right to experiment. Some people, not without reason, seem to think that it is impossible in general to set priorities here, but nevertheless, we have to do this in order to organise our work more competently and, most important, provide financing.
We realise that science does not exist in a world apart and cannot develop in isolation from the country’s development tasks and from the geopolitical, economic, demographic, social and national security challenges that we encounter.
The world is changing very fast today, and these changes affect all areas of life, including science and technology. The leading countries try to respond flexibly to these trends and create new mechanisms for supporting and developing scientific research. We too must be ready for competition in this area. What is at stake is our scientific and technological sovereignty, and the need to ensure that external challenges and attempts to restrict our country or hold us back, as well as the weakness of our own scientific capabilities, do not become barriers for our development and growth.
See also
News of Council for Science and Education
Our aim is certainly not to try to do everything ourselves. I have already said before and say again now in relation to today’s subject that we do not seek autarchy in science and technology. This would be impossible. This kind of intellectual isolation would only lead us into backwardness. But if we can establish our leadership in a number of key areas, develop technology on which our partners will depend, and at the same time be quick to absorb and make use of foreign developments, we will create the kind of interdependence that can substantially bolster our position and put us on an equal footing with the other actors in the technological development process. This would also insure us against various risks.
I want to note several important points.
First, we have spoken many times about the need to develop Siberia, the Far East and the Arctic, build up our industrial potential and ensure our food security. These tasks call for completely new and original technological solutions in areas such as energy conservation, production and transport of energy resources, and generally making our economy better armed in the energy sense. Rational use of natural resources is another big issue. We still have not resolved this issue and are displaying a wastefulness that we cannot afford.
We have spoken many times about the need to develop Siberia, the Far East and the Arctic, build up our industrial potential and ensure our food security. These tasks call for completely new and original technological solutions.
I ask the heads of the energy production and mining companies and our industrial enterprises to pay more attention to these matters when planning their spending on research and development and environmental programmes, and organise practical work with Russian scientists involved in energy conservation.
It is equally important to concentrate on developing Russian-made production of equipment and machine tools. This is the basic foundation for developing our country’s industrial and defence industry capabilities.
We also need to work on improving people’s quality of life, of course. This includes advanced medical technology, production of healthy foodstuffs, environmental issues, and safe materials for housing construction. In short, this includes everything that gives people a long, comfortable and active life.
Second, we need to define the actual concept and content of science and technology development priorities. These priorities should have clear aims and measurable performance indicators and implementation mechanisms. They need to have strong analytical and resource support.
Third, it is clear that we must not set too many priorities because this would devalue the very notion of a priority. At the same time, if we choose some specific key areas, we must ensure that they receive financing in full. We need to learn how to concentrate our resources where they are needed and trim away the weak and uncompetitive organisations in the science and education sector. We discussed this matter yesterday evening in quite some detail with some of those present here today, in application, true, to fundamental science and science in general.
We need to work on making our use of budget money more effective in general. The current system of budget planning in science and education is still very vague and lacks unified, clear criteria for measuring how effectively money is spent. I ask the Government to give this matter its attention and propose solutions.
We need to work on making our use of budget money more effective in general. The current system of budget planning in science and education is still very vague and lacks unified.
Fourth, it is clear that depending on the priorities we set, we will also need to train personnel and develop the scientific infrastructure. There are many issues in this area to do with whether we develop our own infrastructure or whether we use what our partners can offer.
I want to conclude with the following proposal. I think that following today’s discussion, we need to start work on drafting a long-term strategy for Russia’s science and technology development. This should be a document based on the work and advances we already have, and at the same time, it should also look to the future and the promising intellectual breakthroughs ahead. It should take into account too the completely new challenges we face both from outside and inside. Of course, it should also follow the logic of raising the role of science as one of the most important instruments and institutions for society’s development.
Thank you very much for your attention.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: Colleagues, thank you very much for today’s discussion.
We met today to discuss drafting a long-term strategy for developing science and technology in Russia and setting the principles for choosing our priorities in this area. There were many interesting and substantive remarks. Some of you made reference to historical analogies, including our atomic project, a subject we often come back to, and the rocket project. What can I say? Life itself set these priorities and they were dictated above all by the need to ensure the country’s survival. It was as simple as that and all possible efforts were put into these projects.
Science does not exist in a world apart and cannot develop in isolation from the country’s development tasks and from the geopolitical, economic, demographic, social and national security challenges that we encounter.
Similar motivations exist to some extent today too, but our tasks in the modern world are broader and more diverse, and so it is harder for us to even decide today what is most important, even in terms of ensuring our country’s defence capability and security. But to make sure we do not overlook anything, in this area, as in others, we need to organise work properly so as ensure quality and make sure that our country’s resources are used effectively.
A lot was said here today about the corps of chief designers and the selection of talented young people. In fact, we need to start not just in the universities, but right from the school classrooms. [Rector of Moscow State University
] Viktor Sadovnichy gave the example of how many specialists are leaving the country. We no doubt all know, though maybe some are not aware, about the so-called foreign funds that work in our schools and the network organisations that have been roaming about our schools for many years now under the guise of providing support for our talented young people. In reality, they are like vacuum cleaners, sucking up our graduates right from the schoolroom, getting them hooked on grants and taking them out of the country. This is something that needs our attention too.
The humanitarian dimension is certainly important, as is the issue of bringing what we eat into line with our genetic demands. It is very important to define where we need applied science, and where we need fundamental science. [President of the Russian Academy of Sciences] Mr Fortov spoke about this, and the colleagues on my left raised this issue too.
Before I came here, I spent quite some time on the telephone, talking with my Japanese colleague, the Japanese Prime Minister. Japan is a country that offers a good example of getting business involved in resolving the tasks facing applied science. As I mentioned, we met in quite narrow format yesterday and discussed behind closed doors some of the same issues that we are discussing now, without the cameras and suchlike around, had a cosier discussion about what to do. After all, the amount of budget money that we put into applied science is considerably higher than elsewhere in the world. Japan cannot compare with us here. In other countries, business spends far more money on applied science. But for this to happen, business needs to be encouraged to invest in this area. We have not been doing this, but we should.
But you also said that the research you are carrying out now is on order from the United Shipbuilding Corporation and the Zvezdochka plant. In your case then, business is involved, but this kind of involvement should be the norm and take place on a much bigger scale than it does now.
But business will never start investing in fundamental research this way. This is why we are saying that the state authorities need to pay greater attention to this area of science. It would be fairer to say, of course, that there is no fundamental and applied science, only good science and bad science. I cannot but agree with this, but the simple truth of the matter is that business will not invest money in fundamental science. But we need to develop every area and the state authorities must not forget about the basic scientific values too. This is what the issue is about.
It is equally important to concentrate on developing Russian-made production of equipment and machine tools. This is the basic foundation for developing our country’s industrial and defence industry capabilities.
In conclusion, I want to say that as far as developing a strategy goes, this is just the first step in the discussion, the first attempt. We need to settle on the principles for selecting our priorities, but as [General Director of Information Satellite Systems – Reshetnev Company] Mr Testoyedov said, the most important task is not to lose anything. This is certainly true. We must not overdo it with the regulation. It would be a terrible mistake if we signed our agreement to everything and said we’re going to take care of this, that and the other. But you know how things always end up in bureaucratic organisations, and the state is a bureaucratic organisation, after all, and not just a repressive apparatus. In the end, everyone would spend all their time on this and forget about everything else. This work needs a careful approach and further thorough separate discussions. Let me repeat that what we are doing today is just the first step.
At the same time, we cannot have an infinite number of these priorities that we will set out in the strategy, or else we will simply drown in them all. This is not an easy task, but we need to resolve it, and I am sure that we can do this together. I am counting on your help and support. The Presidential Executive Office and the Government will work on this of course, but with support from the academic community and this Council.
Thank you very much.
Topics
Professional training
Science and innovation
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Commissions and Councils, Council for Science and Education
Publication date: June 24, 2015, 14:55
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Government members
Vladimir Putin met with Government members to discuss accessibility of social services, including in remote districts and rural areas.
June 24, 2015
16:10
The Kremlin, Moscow
Meeting with Government members.
The President also announced that he has signed an executive order extending for a year special economic measures to ensure Russia’s security.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
As we agreed, we are here today to discuss our citizens’ access to social services, especially in remote districts and rural areas. But before we start, we will first look at a few matters of the moment.
One of these matters is our response to our European colleagues’ decision on the sanctions. The Prime Minister sent me a letter, proposing that we extend the measures that we took in response to the actions of our partners in some countries. In accordance with this letter, I signed today an executive order extending special economic measures taken to ensure our country’s security, and I ask the Government to promptly draft and issue the corresponding Government resolution.
Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev
: This will be done, Mr President. These documents are already being drafted now.
Vladimir Putin: As the Prime Minister proposed, we are extending these measures for a year starting from today. I think that this will be a good opportunity for our farmers too.
See also
Executive Order on extending special economic measures to protect Russia’s security
June 24, 2015
The 19th St Petersburg International Economic Forum has just ended in St Petersburg. Mr Prikhodko
headed the forum’s organising committee. Mr Prikhodko, what are your impressions and what were the results, as you see them?
Deputy Prime Minister and Government Chief of Staff Sergei Prikhodko
: Mr President, over the St Petersburg International Economic Forum’s three days of work, we had more than 10,000 visitors from 120 countries. This was more than last year. Fifty high-level representatives from foreign countries took part in the forum, including many former heads of government, who worked actively at the various sessions.
Many members of the Government, officials from the Presidential Executive Office, State Duma
deputies, members of the Federation Council, and representatives of the Eurasian Economic Commission also took very active part in the forum. The heads of 63 regions were there, representing our country’s regions.
Foreign media outlets also showed interest in the forum’s work. In particular, more than 70 foreign television channels covered the plenary session. Mr President, you saw the great interest in the forum during your speech and your discussion with the forum participants, who were very happy with this chance to talk.
The forum’s programme was substantial in content and in scale. We held 150 different events. In their remarks and conversations, the participants noted that the discussions were very open and to the point, and our guests said that the results would be useful for the future work in Russia. Together with the experts, we will take these discussions’ results, sum up the proposals and comments and report our suggestions to you.
Deputy Prime Minister Arkady Dvorkovich at a meeting with Government members.
As we in the organising committee see it, the main result is that, despite the initial scepticism from some of our partners and the cautious attitude related above all to the sanctions pressure, global business’ interest in Russia is still as strong as ever. Financial investors and heads of big companies from Europe, the Middle East, the Asia-Pacific region, and North America all showed real interest in continuing their work on the Russian market. We see this too in the practical result of the forum’s business section: more than 200 agreements signed for a total of around 290 billion rubles (this is the open figure, which does not include information on agreements that are considered commercial secrets). This total includes loan agreements signed for a total of more than 40 billion rubles.
Among the companies traditionally active in signing agreements were our big Russian companies in the energy sector (Gazprom
, Rosneft, Rosatom), transport sector (Russian Railways
), chemicals sector (SIBUR, FosAgro, EuroChem), and the financial sector (Sberbank, VEB, Gazprombank, and Rosselkhozbank).
Let me end by saying that we together with the St Petersburg administration are now smoothly beginning preparations for the next forum, the twentieth anniversary forum. It will take place at a new venue, called the EXPOFORUM. We hope that the change of venue will not make the forum any less attractive, but on the contrary, will offer even more comfortable working conditions for the Russian and foreign businesspeople visiting St Petersburg. We will continue working in this direction.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much.
Mr Novak, June 30 is the date when our discount gas prices for Ukraine expire. Are there any contacts with our partners, including in the European Union, to continue further cooperation in the same key we have had up until now?
Energy Minister Alexander Novak
: Mr President, allow me to report. We continue trilateral consultations within the framework of the Minsk Agreements in the Russia-EU-Ukraine format on gas issues. The main goal is reliable gas supplies to European consumers and reliable transit of gas through Ukraine during the autumn-winter season. We have planned another round of these consultations for the end of this month, taking into account the fact that the discount provided in the second quarter will soon expire. We plan to talk with our partners about the volume of gas we need to pump into Ukraine’s underground gas storage facilities before the start of the autumn-winter season, by October 15, the amount of financial assistance offered to Ukraine by the EU and, possibly, pricing issues.
Energy Minister Alexander Novak at a meeting with Government members.
We believe, together with the European Commission, that Ukraine needs to pump 19 to 20 billion cubic metres of gas into its underground storage facilities by October 15. Currently, that indicator stands at 11.5 billion cubic metres.
In accordance with the trilateral statement we made on March 20, when we discussed gas supplies for the second quarter, the Russian Federation is looking at the possibility of offering a discount on gas price on a quarterly basis as agreed between Naftogaz and Gazprom, but first, a relevant request should be made by the Ukrainian side. I want to let you know that until now, the Ukrainian side has not made any such request, so today, the situation is as follows: the quarter is about to end, and we are awaiting our Ukrainian colleagues’ request.
Vladimir Putin: Let’s wait; after all, it is Ukraine that needs it, not us. So I hope that this will be done in a timely manner.
The one thing I would like to point out is that the final price is the key issue. Clearly, with such a serious drop in oil prices, which is ultimately used to calculate gas prices, we cannot offer the same discount, in the same volume, as before. But in any case, the final price for Ukrainian consumers should be at the same level as for neighbouring nations like Poland, it should not be higher.
And the Government should calculate this discount and make corresponding decisions; Mr Medvedev and I have discussed this. If you receive such a request, I request that you hold talks, conclude them and make the corresponding decision.
Alexander Novak: Ok.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much.
And an issue that is highly important today is preparing the budget for 2016 and 2017–2018. I would like Mr Siluanov to say a few words about this. I know that the Government is currently working very actively in this direction.
Finance Minister Anton Siluanov
: Mr President, indeed, we have begun the budgeting process. Today, the Cabinet held the first reading at the budget commission and tomorrow, we are having a Cabinet meeting on this matter.
The budget is complicated, and its main goal is to stimulate economic growth by reducing inflation, to reduce the cost of credit resources on the market, and improve the quality of federal budget spending.
Finance Minister Anton Siluanov at a meeting with Government members.
Revenues are dropping compared to the parameters we had approved within the framework of the 2015–2017 three-year period. According to our assessments, revenues will fall by 1.8 trillion rubles next year, and by 1.6 trillion rubles in 2017, so we are giving a great deal of attention to budget spending. And here, we need to make a decision that would not allow us to boost spending, but let us finance our key programme goals and actions.
So we suggest staying on spending parameters that were approved for the 2015–2017 budget (I am referring first and foremost to 2016–2017), reducing only the unallocated proceeds within the framework of conditionally approved expenditures that we did not allocate to specific programmes or actions, and fit all of the necessary goals and objectives in that volume. Why? Because we will already see a significant budget deficit in this case; in 2016, we will have a deficit of 2.4% of GDP. But given the challenge of reducing the deficit and increasing balance, we will gradually reduce the deficit volume to reach a minimal deficit of 0.7% of GDP by 2018.
This will allow us to maintain the reserves we have accumulated during the good years, and these reserves will be used evenly over the course of three years to ensure that they also remain for 2018. So on the one hand, our goal is to ensure all our targeted programmes and actions fit in the spending volume, and on the other hand, to maintain the reserves without increasing the budget deficit. We will make spending more efficient, identify our priorities with regard to our spending, our commitments, our powers, and we will report on the results of our work.
Vladimir Putin: This work is always difficult and very tedious, in the sense that there are many priorities, and all of them are the most important. Of course, we must proceed from the real situation our nation is living in and our economy operates in.
Chairperson of the Accounts Chamber Tatyana Golikova at a meeting with Government members.
At the same time, here is what I would like to point out. We have already spoken about this once and touched on these issues: according to our monitoring agencies, our companies’ credit debts stand at 2.2 trillion rubles. The resources that are used inactively in some areas are in the hundreds of billions. You spoke about the need to use what we have more effectively; this is exceedingly important in our joint work. Colleagues, I would like to ask all of you to give this your most thorough attention. Ms Golikova
[Chairperson of the Accounts Chamber] will speak today and tell us more about it. Thank you.
Let’s begin our work.
<…>
Topics
Regions
Social services
Persons
Medvedev Dmitry
Novak Alexander
Prikhodko Sergei
Siluanov Anton
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 24, 2015, 16:10
Text version