Events
Meeting with President of Kyrgyzstan Almazbek Atambayev
Following the meetings of the CSTO Collective Security Council and the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council, Vladimir Putin met with President of Kyrgyzstan Almazbek Atambayev.
December 21, 2015
20:10
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 3
Meeting with President of Kyrgyzstan Almazbek Atambayev.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Atambayev, friends,
We meet regularly and quite frequently, but we always have something to discuss, because we are truly friends. Moreover, we have more and more areas where we are working together, including within the framework of our integration processes.
These are difficult times, but that forces us to exchange views more actively on ways to overcome difficult situations, where to go and how quickly, and what we must do together to ensure this movement is as effective as possible.
I am very happy for this opportunity. I welcome you once again.
President of Kyrgyzstan Almazbek Atambayev
: Thank you, Mr Putin.
Naturally, I am also very happy for this opportunity to once again meet with you, to talk with you and discuss the progress made in implementing our joint agreements. I am very glad that this is happening ahead of the New Year.
We always hope for the best in the New Year. I hope that next year will be wonderful for the great Russian nation and for our people, that we will always be together and always have good things to discuss.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Almazbek Atambayev: I hope we will have only blue skies ahead.
Vladimir Putin: Very well.
<…>
See also
Meeting of the CSTO Collective Security Council
December 21, 2015
Meeting of the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council
December 21, 2015
Geography
Kyrgyzstan
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Atambayev Almazbek
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 21, 2015, 20:10
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev
Vladimir Putin met with President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev.
December 21, 2015
12:25
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 6
With President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Nazarbayev, friends, it gives me great pleasure to welcome you to Moscow.
Our strategic partnership is developing steadily, in spite of the difficulties in the global economy, which have had an impact on the dynamics of growth in our country. Nevertheless, we continue to work on the convergence of our policies, including in the sphere of customs and technical regulations, and in other areas. All this inevitably leads to a positive effect. I am sure the impact on our economies would have been much greater if we did not have all those agreements we had put in place earlier and which serve as guidelines for our efforts today.
I am very pleased to have this opportunity to see you and hold these talks.
President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev
: Thank you, Mr Putin, for finding the time to meet with me.
We traditionally meet before the New Year in Moscow, this time to discuss the outcomes of the Eurasian Economic Union’s work. This is also a good opportunity to congratulate all Russians on the upcoming New Year and wish them success and prosperity in every home.
We have completed the first, difficult year of the Eurasian Economic Union, finding ourselves in this crisis, but we knew that these costs would come. Nevertheless, I feel that we did the right thing and we must move forward.
It is true that overall, all the nations’ GDP has declined by 30 percent and trade has decreased, but our communication, open borders and joint enterprises play a very large role and we will talk about this today at the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council meeting. We will also discuss the situation we are seeing today. Russia is involved in Syria and other countries, the Turkish issue – I think we will talk about all these matters at the CSTO meeting.
As for our bilateral relations, I made a visit to Russia this year, you made a visit, and the interstate commission is working very actively; I am grateful for this. We can say that there are no bilateral issues. At the Supreme Council meeting, we should probably discuss ways to continue developing the Eurasian Economic Union in view of the newly created Transatlantic and Trans-Pacific partnerships. We also have some issues that need to be resolved.
<…>
Geography
Kazakhstan
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Nazarbayev Nursultan
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 21, 2015, 12:25
Text version