Events
Meeting with President of Tajikistan Emomali Rahmon
Vladimir Putin met with President of Tajikistan Emomali Rahmon. The two presidents exchanged views on key issues in bilateral and international cooperation.
July 8, 2015
15:45
Ufa
2 of 4
With President of Tajikistan Emomali Rahmon.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Rahmon, friends, it is a great pleasure to welcome you to Ufa.
I am very happy to see that our relations with Tajikistan are developing very positively. Last year, despite the economic difficulties in Europe, the world, and here in Russia, our trade with Tajikistan increased by more than 21 percent, which is a very good sign. There was a small adjustment downwards at the start of this year, but the trend is very positive overall.
We note the good, high quality work Tajikistan is doing as the country presiding in the CSTO
. A large number of important events are taking place, including military exercises that have been a success. We are preparing for the CSTO summit in Tajikistan on September 15.
Thank you for agreeing to come to Ufa to take part in the BRICS
and SCO
summits. We are very happy to see you. Welcome!
President of Tajikistan Emomali Rahmon
: Thank you very much, Mr President.
I am pleased to have this chance to meet. Thank you for the invitation and for the excellent conditions for our work. I am sure that the SCO summit will be a success.
Tajikistan and Russia are strategic partners. I therefore want to talk today about developing the relations between our countries in all different areas. This is our priority.
Yes, the CSTO has organised many big events, not just military exercises. The defence ministers and the heads of other agencies held meetings during the summit. There have been meetings, and exercises, and a lot of effort has been made to strengthen the border between Tajikistan and Afghanistan.
During our meeting today, we also want to discuss implementation of agreements signed earlier. You noted that our trade is not increasing just now, but there are some possibilities and some reserves that we need to put to use in the future.
Vladimir Putin: Our colleagues are coming to the BRICS summit too, as I said. I think you will have the chance to meet on the sidelines of the two summits with a broader circle of heads of state and government of other countries too.
Emomali Rahmon: Yes, certainly. Thank you very much.
<…>
Geography
Tajikistan
Topics
BRICS
Foreign policy
SCO
Persons
Rahmon Emomali
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 8, 2015, 15:45
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of China Xi Jinping
Vladimir Putin had a meeting with President of China Xi Jinping. The two presidents exchanged views on priority matters in bilateral relations, cooperation within the BRICS group and the SCO, and current international issues.
July 8, 2015
14:20
Ufa
1 of 4
With President of China Xi Jinping.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: President of China, dear friend and comrade Xi Jinping, Chinese friends,
Let me wish you all a warm welcome to Ufa, one of the Volga region’s most beautiful cities. Thank you for agreeing to take part in first the BRICS
summit and then the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation summit
. This part of Russia is one of our country’s most beautiful corners and I hope you will like it here.
I know that the authorities here in Bashkortostan and the local people have put in a lot of effort to prepare well for hosting these events.
We are all very pleased to see our guests and friends here, but I will not hide that it makes us especially happy to see our Chinese friends, given the extensive humanitarian and political contacts we have and our growing trade and economic ties.
We are fully aware of the difficulties we face in the economy and in international politics, but if we join our efforts, I am sure we can overcome all problems before us and resolve all the tasks.
We are very happy to see you. Welcome!
President of the People’s Republic of China Xi Jinping
(retranslated): Mr President, my old friend, it is a pleasure to see you again and to meet with other old friends.
I did indeed arrive in Ufa today in the best of moods. Many asked me, “Where exactly is Ufa?” and I also said that I was going there for the first time.
But when I looked out of the plane window, I saw what really is a very beautiful city. What’s more, there was so much forest down below. I am sure that this is a very clean and attractive city, and I am staying in an excellent hotel here. I thank you once again for the warm welcome and hospitality, and I thank the local authorities too for organising these summits.
I would also like to thank you again for the welcome reception I was given during my recent visit to Moscow. The parade on Red Square made a deep impression on my colleagues and me. It made a deep impression on the Chinese people in general and helped us to gain a deeper understanding of that war [the 1941–1945 Great Patriotic War].
Our participation together in the events celebrating the 70th anniversary of Victory had broad resonance and sent a challenge to the entire world to celebrate this event.
I am looking forward to seeing you in September in China to take part in celebrating the 70th anniversary of victory in our war against the Japanese invaders and the victory in the war against fascism. We will continue working together with the international community to make our contribution to the cause of peace throughout the world.
It is with great pleasure that we have accepted your invitation to take part in the seventh summit of the BRICS and SCO leaders. I am ready to pursue the closest contacts with you in order to ensure that these summits are a success and produce results.
I know that your former Prime Minister, Mr Primakov, died recently and I express my profound condolences and pass on my words of sincere sympathy to his family and friends.
He was one of the founders of our strategic partnership relations and made a great contribution to developing peace. Our people will always have fond memories of him.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much for your condolences.
Mr Primakov was without question one of the founders of Russia’s policy today. He was a man of great influence and served his country long and well.
<…>
Geography
People's Republic of China
Topics
BRICS
Foreign policy
SCO
Persons
Xi Jinping
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 8, 2015, 14:20
Text version