Events
Meeting with Nicolas Sarkozy
Vladimir Putin met with ex-president of the French Republic Nicolas Sarkozy. The two politicians discussed Russian-French relations, current pan-European problems, and the situation in the world in general.
October 29, 2015
15:55
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
2 of 5
With former French President Nicolas Sarkozy.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: How do I address you now – Mr President or Doctor Sarkozy? You now hold the title of Doctor Honoris Causa of our respectable higher education institution, MGIMO [Moscow State Institute of International Relations], and I want to congratulate you on that. I understand that your lecture there has made a strong impression on the audience, and not just on those who were present in the hall.
I am very happy to see you – it’s been a long time, a whole year. Many events have taken place over that period – in Europe, in the world, and in our bilateral relations. I am very happy to see you and have this opportunity to discuss all these problems.
Nicolas Sarkozy
(retranslated): Mr President, I see that information updates are getting fast to Moscow.
Vladimir Putin: The profession obliges.
Nicolas Sarkozy: Mr President, I am very happy to visit Moscow again. As you might have noticed, many events took place, but you know what my earnest conviction is: the world needs Russia – Russia and Europe are bound to work together.
Despite the fact that sometimes there were differences between us – between our countries – but when we spoke with you, we were always able to make the right compromise. And I do not understand how you can make a compromise if you do not discuss the problem and do not talk to your opponent. We need to talk to each other, listen to each other and what’s most important – we need to respect each other. I believe that these are the main development patterns for Russia and France: there is a need for mutual respect.
Vladimir Putin: True, we did manage to do a lot of things.
Nicolas Sarkozy: I think that no one felt betrayed or humiliated then.
I am not saying that the compromise we made was ideal in itself but we managed to avoid a confrontation, and I am sure that we need to pull out of this confrontation period that we are going through.
<…>
Geography
France
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Sarkozy Nicolas
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 29, 2015, 15:55
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Prime Minister of Serbia Aleksandar Vucic
Vladimir Putin met with Serbian Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic who is in Russia on a three-day working visit.
October 29, 2015
14:10
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 3
At a meeting with Prime Minister of Serbia Aleksandar Vucic.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister, friends, let me wish you a warm welcome.
You have an extensive agenda in Russia: I am sure that yesterday you have discussed all the aspects of our cooperation with Prime Minister of Russia Dmitry Medvedev
.
At the beginning of our meeting I would like to note that, despite all the difficulties the global economy faces, and we have our problems too, our trade turnover with Serbia is unexpectedly growing, and supplies of Serbian agricultural products to the Russian market has increased by 40 percent in one go. This is a good indicator.
Also, we have many other issues that are of mutual interest, as the diplomats say.
We are very happy to see you. Welcome!
Prime Minister of Serbia Aleksandar Vucic
(retranslated): Mr President, on behalf of the Serbian Government I would like to thank you for the warm welcome and hospitality. Today is our third day in Russia.
Together with Prime Minister Medvedev and your colleagues, we have discussed economic issues and our political relations, I would say – a certain outlook for the future, for an accelerated development of our bilateral relations.
On behalf of the Serbian Government, I would like to thank you for the support you have given us both in the UN, UNESCO and other organisations where Serbia is trying to protect not only its territorial integrity but also its liberty-loving spirit and its way of living.
I would like to note that the situation in the world at large is complicated; the situation is just as complicated in the Balkans. In Brussels, we have signed an agreement with Pristina (from 2008 – the capital of the partially recognised Republic of Kosovo); we have signed many documents, but today, the President of Kosovo stated that they do not plan to implement the most important of them at all – and that is very sad news for us.
In any case I want to once again thank you for the warm welcome and hospitality, and I hope we will be able to discuss all these issues more thoroughly and in greater detail.
<…>
Geography
Serbia
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Vucic Aleksandar
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 29, 2015, 14:10
Text version