Mr President, I would like to assure you that we have come here with representatives of delegations from national federations, and our executive committee is here in full. I want to tell you that the executive committee has recently passed a new resolution, in which FIFA assures the Russian Federation of its full support for the project to hold the 2018 World Cup in Russia. We have complete trust in Russia and the Russian leadership. This resolution was passed at a meeting attended by Mr Mutko.Events
Meeting with KVN festival organisers and participants
During a visit to Kaliningrad Region, Vladimir Putin visited the Yantar Kholl variety theatre, where he met with Wailing KiViN Festival organisers and participants.
July 25, 2015
23:00
Svetlogorsk
2 of 7
Meeting with Wailing KiViN Festival organisers and participants.
The President was accompanied by head of the International Union of KVN Alexander Maslyakov and Governor of Kaliningrad Region Nikolai Tsukanov
. Before the meeting, Vladimir Putin watched a video with excerpts of team performances.
The building of the Yantar Kholl variety theatre in Svetlogorsk was restored for holding KVN festivals. The Wailing KiViN Festival was held in Jurmala between 1996 and 2014.
 * * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: I would like to congratulate you on your new location. First of all, of course, those who organise KVN, but also those who love this game and those who are engaged in it at practically or almost a professional level.
 I think this should be interesting. It is essentially opening a new region – even if it is not new for us – but I suppose it is new for KVN.
 Of course, it’s too bad that certain unpromising barriers are being created in some of our neighbouring countries. I hope that this will end soon. But we have our own platforms that are being developed actively. We will continue to give the necessary attention to developing Kaliningrad Region. I am confident this will be a very popular place.
 Just now, the governor was telling us that last year, over a million people – 1.4 million Russian tourists – visited here. This is ultimately a sign that infrastructure is being created; not as quickly as we would like, but it is developing. This is a very good area with a temperate, seaside climate, and it is beautiful here. And when more facilities like this appear here, including hotels, people will visit. And this means that you will also be more comfortable here – you and those who will come after you.
 This is a fairly easy location to reach for people from Central Europe, those who love KVN, and those who enjoy participating in it. I know that there were some problems on the border. We will try to eliminate them and ensure that there are no problems from our end.
 You know, I was just at the bid for the 2018 Football World Cup and yesterday we opened the world championships in swimming. What we are doing there is facilitating visa-free travel for those who hold tickets to the World Cup. We can come up with something for KVN as well.
 Kaliningrad is a new platform for you. I think it is a very good and promising one. I wish you luck!
Geography
Kaliningrad Region
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 25, 2015, 23:00
Text versionEvents
2018 FIFA World Cup preliminary draw
Vladimir Putin attended the preliminary draw for the 2018 FIFA World Cup.
July 25, 2015
20:00
St Petersburg
1 of 2
Address at the 2018 World Cup preliminary draw. On the right is President of the International Federation of Football Associations (FIFA) Joseph Blatter.
The preliminary draw was held at the Constantine Palace in St Petersburg and became the first official event of the four-year tournament cycle.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: President Blatter, ladies and gentlemen, friends. I am happy to welcome you to Russia, to the historical St Petersburg suburb of Strelna.
This is a special day for millions of fans of the number one game in the world. We are launching a grand football marathon of 180 national teams. They have 840 qualifying games ahead of them to determine the 31 strongest teams. We will be looking forward to welcoming them in Russia in 2018 at the first World Cup in the history of this country.
The FIFA World Cup is a major world sports event, a grand festival that leaves unforgettable impressions, a festival with a special atmosphere of unity and shared joy.
See also
Meeting with FIFA President Joseph Blatter
July 25, 2015
Football is one of the most popular sports both in this country and in the entire world. Football clubs have a huge army of fans. Football has priority place among sports and fitness programmes in Russia, and it is also part of the many educational initiatives directed at promoting sports and healthy living among young people.
This country has long traditions of playing football. Here today are some outstanding representatives of several generations of national football. I am certain that we will raise new talented players who will join the leading clubs and national teams. We cannot ignore here the success of our national youth team at the recent European Championship, where they won silver medals.
The selection of Russia as the host of the 2018 FIFA World Cup will help enhance the popularity of this sport and broaden its geography. I believe this is what guided the members of the FIFA executive committee when they were selecting the host nation for the 2018 championship. This will enhance interest in football not only here in Russia, but in many of our neighbouring countries.
The 2018 tournament will take place in 11 cities located in regions with unique cultural traditions. Guests from all over the world will learn about the unique history of this country and its cultural diversity.
It is of principle importance for us to create impeccable conditions for the teams so they can fully concentrate on their game and demonstrate high-class football. Naturally, we will also do everything in our power to ensure security and comfort for the fans. One practical measure in this direction was the cancellation of entry visas for all World Cup ticket holders.
I would like to confirm once again that we will implement all our plans in preparing for the tournament. Hosting it is one of our key tasks and a good opportunity to demonstrate to the world Russia’s diversity and openness, its ability to surprise and inspire.
I wish all the teams good luck in the draw and in the qualifying matches. Thank you for your attention.
Geography
Saint Petersburg
Topics
Sport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 25, 2015, 20:00
Text version