Events
Meeting with Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu. In particular, the Defence Minister informed the President on the discovery of the flight data recorder from the Russian fighter jet shot down in Syria by the Turkish Air Force.
December 8, 2015
22:35
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 6
With Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: How is work proceeding, Mr Shoigu? You and I will have to discuss preparations for the annual meeting of the [Defence Ministry] Board on the year’s results, but now let us get down to our current matters, please.
Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu
: Mr President, in line with your instruction, on December 5 we increased the intensity of our strikes and prepared and launched a massive aviation and missile attack using Tu-22 strategic bombers from the territory of the Russian Federation. For the first time we launched Kalibr cruise missiles from the Rostov-on-Don submarine based in the Mediterranean Sea.
Both the aviation and the submarine fleet were successful, hitting all the targets. The Kalibr missiles have once again demonstrated their efficiency at long distances. We tested both the launch of the missiles and their flight, as well as ensuring they hit the targets, which were two major terrorist facilities in Raqqah.
Over these last three days, Tu-22 airplanes have carried out 60 combat missions and hit 32 targets. All targets have been previously thoroughly scouted using all forms of intelligence, so we can say with full confidence that significant damage has been done to ammunition depots, plants manufacturing various types of mines and, of course, to oil infrastructure, in other words, processing, transport and shipping.
In addition, simultaneously with Tu-22 aircraft and the submarine, our airplanes from the Hmeymim airfield have been working for three days. We carried out over 300 sorties and hit more than 600 different targets. I must also say that your instructions have been fulfilled: Su-30 fighters provide air escort to absolutely all flights. This is also true of strategic aviation flying at high altitudes, as well as strike aircraft and bombers taking off from the Hmeymim airbase.
Vladimir Putin: And has the submarine made underwater launches?
Sergei Shoigu: Yes, Mr President, the submarine made underwater launches because in May you gave instructions to test our new weapons in all environments where it can be used – in the air and in water. We launched Caspian Flotilla missiles from the sea. Now, we have tried and demonstrated real launches of missiles from the Mediterranean against real targets. We warned our colleagues in Israel and the United States that we would conduct these launches today. Before that, this vessel made surface launches in the northern seas, the Northern Fleet.
From the Hmeymim airfield, we actively worked on territories where militants who shot our pilot are based. As a result, all these areas have been liberated, and the Syrian Army’s special operation forces…
Vladimir Putin: Searching for the crew?
Sergei Shoigu: Yes. The Syrian service members searched the territory, detected our aircraft’s crash site, and all these bandits were leaving so fast they did not have time to take anything from the aircraft, so we discovered a parametric recorder, which we brought here and which I would like to show you.
Vladimir Putin: With regard to strikes from a submarine. We certainly need to analyse everything that is happening on the battlefield, how the weapons work. Both the Calibre missiles and the Kh-101 rockets are generally showing very good results. We now see that these are new, modern and highly effective high-precision weapons that can be equipped either with conventional or special nuclear warheads.
Naturally, we do not need that in fighting terrorists, and I hope we will never need it. But overall, this speaks to our significant progress in terms of improving weaponry and equipment being supplied to the Russian army and navy.
As for the parametric recorder, let’s look at it now. Have you opened it?
Sergei Shoigu: No, Mr President.
Vladimir Putin: I will ask you not to open it for now, and to open it only together with foreign experts and carefully record everything. As I understand, the parametric logger will give us the opportunity to clearly understand the full trajectory of the Su-24 from the location and moment that it took off to the moment it fell – its speed, altitude, all the turns made during the flight. In other words, we can understand where it actually was and where it suffered that felon blow from the Turkish Air Force, which we have now discussed many times.
And I want to qualify this right away. Of course, we need to know this information. But regardless of what we learn, our attitude toward what was done by the Turkish authorities will not change. I repeat, we treated Turkey not only as a friendly nation but as an ally in the fight against terrorism and nobody expected this treacherous stab in the back. But for ourselves, of course, we need to know everything in detail, what happened there. So we need to work with this device very carefully and thoroughly, at a highly professional level, together with international experts. In any case, we should invite anyone who wants to take part in this work.
We must certainly thank our service members in the special forces, the search and rescue unit, and the Syrian service members for retrieving this recorder, which will certainly help us determine what happened.
<…>
Topics
Fight against terrorism
Foreign policy
Persons
Shoigu Sergei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 8, 2015, 22:35
Text versionEvents
Joint meeting of the Presidential Council for the Development of Physical Culture and Sport and the Russia 2018 Organising Committee
Vladimir Putin held a joint meeting of the Presidential Council for the Development of Physical Culture and Sport and the Russia 2018 Organising Committee on preparations for hosting the World Cup.
December 8, 2015
23:35
The Kremlin, Moscow
12 of 12
Joint meeting of the Presidential Council for the Development of Physical Culture and Sport and the Russia 2018 Organising Committee.
The discussion focused on measures for expanding football infrastructure, including through federal targeted programmes, and will discuss the formation of new financing sources and the development of professional football in Russia, including ways to increase income from spectator numbers at matches.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues, good evening,
Unfortunately, the weather did not allow us to look at the facilities being built today in Samara, including the football arena, but the governor will speak after me, and he will talk about the progress of the work there.
First of all, I want to thank the Council’s working group for the materials it prepared. They prepared everything taking into account various positions and opinions, and naturally, this approach is always the most effective.
As we agreed at the last meeting, the topic of today’s Council meeting is football. We will look into issues related to the World Cup, which will be held in Russia in 2018, and most importantly, discuss issues of developing football in Russia.
This is the most popular and widespread sport in our country: over 2.5 million people play football. However, our national team does not often have big, bright successes. Its greatest achievements were winning the European Cup in 1960 and the Olympics in 1956 and 1988.
In recent history, it took third place at the European championships in 2008 and 2015, and second place for the youth national team at the European championship. Russia has never been a world champion, and it has not qualified for the Olympic Games since 1992 – not once since 1992! Some club teams have seen serious success in European tournaments in recent years. But we understand that bringing in foreign specialists and foreign players played a role here.
I repeat: Russians love and value football and play it from a young age on. It has, of course, received government attention and private investor support as well. This means that the problem lies in the football management system itself, in organising the selection and training for promising youngsters, methods and forms of work with coaches and players. Today, I suggest we discuss measures necessary to change the state of affairs.
Obviously, we need a clear, adequate programme of action, and in this respect, I suggest drafting a national strategy for football development through to 2030. Of course, we need to prepare and perform well in 2018. Increasing the number of people playing football should be among our priorities, as well as improving the performance of our football players at major international events, including the 2018 World Cup, as I already said.
We should set corresponding goals at the federal, regional and local level, create partnerships with public organisations and businesses, form a common research and methodology space and effective system for improving coach qualifications – first and foremost, for children’s coaches, of whom we simply do not have enough.
One of the working group’s suggestions is to create large national centres for developing football: they should include football academies that train the nearest reserve, and provide activities for children and youth sports schools that specialise in football.
However, grassroots sports remain the foundation for everything, the most important resource for developing football. We should give particular attention to improving the system of youth and children’s amateur tournaments such as “The Leather Ball,” as well as encourage and support children’s interest in football as a way of active, healthy recreation, and create the necessary infrastructure.
The situation with constructing football fields is improving, incidentally, thanks in part to the work of the Sports Ministry, but their number is still insufficient. I support the working group’s recommendations to include a Football sub-programme in the federal targeted programme for developing physical culture and sport for 2016–2020, which would focus on constructing open access fields for grassroots football.
Professional tournaments also require attention. I already mentioned the success of many clubs, but we also see some evident problems: non-transparent actions from the part of football agents, some strange transfers, a large number of foreign players that close the door for our own fledgling players, and moreover, payments to players comparable to those for leading national championships in Europe.
Unfortunately, the athletic competition between football clubs sometimes turns into wallet wars. I already said at a meeting –either in this composition or similar one – that it’s not even about sports; it’s a competition of someone’s ambitions. And yet, many clubs are financed through regional budgets, using a significant part of the resources allocated locally for overall sports and physical culture.
Still, football is earning money throughout the world, and it is doing so on its own: through the sales of broadcasting, advertising, merchandising rights, and using other ways. I am asking the Sports Ministry to provide specific suggestions to create a clear and adequate system for professional football clubs’ financial activities. Incidentally, in order to improve financial transparency in many sports federations, we have created supervisory councils that include respected, responsible public figures and business representatives who truly care about sports. Part of their responsibilities will involve monitoring the effective use of funding – both public and private. This is certainly important at all times, but is especially important today.
Another topic requiring our attention concerns football game attendance. I will not go into the details now – you know how many problems this entails. Fans, especially those with children, are sometimes simply afraid to go to the stadium. But we have discussed these problems more than once, met with representatives from fans’ associations, yet in practice, little has been done to date. We are seeing a similar situation in many areas associated with attendance.
I want to once again point out the need for a full set of measures to resolve safety problems. Arenas where most of the illegal situations occur should be equipped with effective video surveillance systems. The Ministry of the Interior, Sports Ministry and competition organisers need to determine procedures for identifying concrete violations of the law.
And finally, we must work on the so-called near-football environment more actively and substantively. We won’t get civilised fans if we use only fines and limitations. I am asking the relevant departments not to delay making a decision on these issues – this is also important with regard to the upcoming World Cup. It is exceedingly important how we appear to football fans across the planet.
Before the Council meeting, we already discussed the situation pertaining to the construction and renovation of sports infrastructure. There are some problems with nearly all facilities, but we observed the most serious problems at the stadium in Kaliningrad: the backlog there must be eliminated as quickly as possible.
Here, I want to once again appeal to regional leaders: I am asking you to give your utmost attention to all issues in preparing for the World Cup. I am talking not only about renovating stadiums, but also about creating modern infrastructure that should serve the regions’ socioeconomic development for many years to come, and largely determine their tourism and investment appeal, as well as simply improving people’s quality of life.
And another important thing: we all see that people’s interest in sports is increasing and how the active lifestyle culture is forming and gaining popularity in Russia. This is extremely important, all this needs to be supported and developed, including through the use of the potential of popular sports, like football, and large-scale competitions. Our Council will always pay serious attention to this work, and I suggest we use our next meeting to address the issues of developing hockey in Russia and training the national team for the 2018 Olympic Games in Korea.
Let’s begin our discussion.
<…>
Topics
Sport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Commissions and Councils, Council for the Development of Physical Culture and Sport
Publication date: December 8, 2015, 23:35
Text version