Events
Comments on the situation with FIFA
Late last night Vladimir Putin gave journalists his comments on the situation at the Federation Internationale de Football Association (FIFA).
May 28, 2015
12:00
Vladimir Putin commented on the situation at the Federation Internationale de Football Association (FIFA).
Question: Reports have appeared today about a major scandal at FIFA – the organisation in charge of football. It was accused of corruption and 14 employees were arrested. Do you think all this could have any bearing on the 2018 World Cup in Russia?
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: I do not know. This is not our business. However, I do have an opinion on the matter, of course. As we all know, on Friday FIFA was to elect its president, and Mr Blatter has every chance to be re-elected. We are aware of the pressure that was put on him to prevent the 2018 World Cup in Russia. We know of his views, which have nothing to do with any special relations between FIFA and Russia. This is his general principled position: it’s not right to mix sports and politics. Moreover, he believes sport should have a positive influence on politics and serve as a platform for dialogue, for reconciliation and a search for solutions. I believe this is the right position.
As for the arrests that were made, it seems strange in the very least as the arrests were conducted on the basis of corruption charges made by the American side. Whom did they charge? International officers. It may be possible that some of them did something wrong, I do not know, but the USA definitely have nothing to do with this. These officers are not United States’ citizens, and if anything did happen, it did not happen on the territory of the United States and the USA have nothing to do with it. This is yet another obvious attempt to spread their jurisdiction to other states. I have no doubt that this is obviously an attempt to prevent Mr Blatter’s re-election to the post of FIFA President, which is a grave violation of the principles that international organisations function on.
Meanwhile, according to our media, the United States Attorney General has already stated that these officers of the FIFA executive committee have committed a crime, as though he as a prosecutor is unaware of the presumption of innocence. Only a court can find a person guilty or not guilty, and only after that can anyone say anything, even if we assume that the United States have a reason to extradite those people, though the actions occurred on third party territory.
We are aware of the position of the United States regarding the former special services employee Mr Snowden, who was a National Security Agency employee and who made public the illegal practice of the United States practically all over the world, including tapping the phones of foreign leaders. Everybody is discussing this, including in Europe, but nobody wants to grant him asylum, guarantee his security, nobody wants to quarrel with their partners, with their senior partners.
This may be understandable, as Mr Snowden is a former security service employee and a citizen of the United States. What about Mr Assange, who has been forced to hide at a foreign embassy for several years? This is almost like being imprisoned. What is he persecuted for? For sexual crimes? Nobody believes that, you do not believe that either. He is being persecuted for spreading the information he received from US military regarding the actions of the USA in the Middle East, including Iraq.
Why did I bring this up now? Unfortunately, our American partners use these methods for their own ulterior purposes. They are illegally persecuting people. I do not rule out the possibility that the same goes for this situation with FIFA. Although I do not know what this will result in, but the fact that this is happening on the eve of elections of the FIFA president leads one to think so.
Topics
Sport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 28, 2015, 12:00
Text versionEvents
Moscow State University Board of Trustees meeting
Vladimir Putin chaired a meeting of the Lomonosov Moscow State University Board of Trustees.
May 28, 2015
14:50
The Kremlin, Moscow
The discussion focussed on interim results of the Moscow State University development programme through 2020 and work on the Vorobyovy Gory science and technology cluster.
* * *
Speech at meeting of the Lomonosov Moscow State University Board of Trustees
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
Today we are holding the second meeting of the Board of Trustees to talk about our plans and priorities for further development of Moscow State University (MGU).
MGU’s role in the nation’s history is enormous: for over two and a half centuries, it helped multiply Russia’s cultural, scientific and intellectual heritage.
MGU’s role in the nation’s history is enormous: for over two and a half centuries, it helped multiply Russia’s cultural, scientific and intellectual heritage. This country is proud not only of Moscow State University professors and alumni, which comes without saying, but also of its benefactors and trustees. Thus, Yekaterina Dashkova of the Romanov dynasty and other outstanding personalities assisted in the establishment of Moscow University, helped its students, donated money, restored it after the war of 1812, donated their book, art and science collections, created university museums that remain, without any exaggeration, a national heritage.
I would like to note that the creation of the Moscow State University Board of Trustees is a tribute to the traditions of charity and civic involvement in major projects our country needs. Present here today are people of authority, undoubtedly, and, what is more important, those who are convinced that science and education are the most important resources for the nation’s development, while their multiplication is the joint responsibility of the state, society and business. I would like to thank all the members of the Board of Trustees for their assistance to the university, both in the form of financial support and substantive, constructive ideas on personnel training and the development of science and technology. I expect the role of the Board to grow and all of you to be taking an ever more active part in the implementation of major projects to develop Moscow State University.
The creation of the Moscow State University Board of Trustees is a tribute to the traditions of charity and civic involvement in major projects our country needs.
Colleagues,
I would like to remind you that five years ago we approved the Moscow State University development programme through 2020. Over these years, the university has made qualitative progress both in personnel training and in strengthening its research and technology base.
Moscow State University alumni traditionally occupy leading positions in Russia’s companies and research centres. I would like to note that at least a quarter graduate with distinction. This is very good, of course.
I would like to thank all the members of the Board of Trustees for their assistance to the university, both in the form of financial support and substantive, constructive ideas on personnel training and the development of science and technology. I expect the role of the Board to grow and all of you to be taking an ever more active part in the implementation of major projects to develop Moscow State University.
New departments have been created to train experts in promising areas. The university is working to find talented, gifted children, and interdisciplinary research has received a serious impetus. Significant steps were made in such advanced areas as medicine, bio- and nano-technology, which will to a large extent decide which states will lead the way at this new stage of technological development. I would like to highlight the growing authority of Moscow State University not only in our country, but abroad as well. You should, undoubtedly, move on, strengthening your position. Moscow State University has the necessary potential for this.
Let us consider together what additional assistance Moscow University needs to implement its development programme. I would like to remind you that the decision has already been made to expand the university’s research and educational infrastructure, as we discussed in detail at the first meeting of the Board of Trustees. The university should actually create a new generation multidisciplinary complex with laboratories for fundamental research and experimenting, centres for the implementation of innovative studies and trial production facilities in priority areas of the country’s scientific and technological development.
New departments have been created to train experts in promising areas. The university is working to find talented, gifted children, and interdisciplinary research has received a serious impetus. Significant steps were made in such advanced areas as medicine, bio- and Nano-technology, which will to a large extent decide which states will lead the way at this new stage of technological development.
The idea is to link science and business, so that companies could use the educational and research capabilities of Moscow State University, while researchers could develop their projects commercially. In other words, to ensure that our companies that are interested in the latest technology and developments could acquire them here, in Russia, and use the national research and intellectual base and the national potential.
Next. I am convinced, that Moscow State University should further strengthen cooperation with leading national and foreign research centres to attract world-class scholars to joint work. The university’s efforts to spread scientific expertise and knowledge and ensure our humanitarian influence in the post-Soviet space and the world at large are of paramount importance.
The university should actually create a new generation multidisciplinary complex with laboratories for fundamental research and experimenting, centres for the implementation of innovative studies and trial production facilities in priority areas of the country’s scientific and technological development.
I would like to give special thanks to faculty and students of the Moscow State University Sevastopol branch for their loyalty to the traditions of the national school of higher education and their contribution to preserving historical, cultural and educational ties between Russia and Crimea.
Colleagues,
I would like to focus on further development of science and education.
I am convinced, that Moscow State University should further strengthen cooperation with leading national and foreign research centres to attract world-class scholars to joint work. The university’s efforts to spread scientific expertise and knowledge and ensure our humanitarian influence in the post-Soviet space and the world at large are of paramount importance.
In the difficult years of 2008–2009, the key decision was made to invest significant resources in research and higher education. I would like to stress that this was done amid an economic crisis and limited budget. This was in fact a decision to invest in the country’s future, its long-term priorities.
Significant qualitative changes have already occurred in the past years: we have implemented programmes to develop top universities, new funding mechanisms for strong research teams have been put forth and the number of young scholars and specialists has grown. This reserve is helping us today to create new production facilities and technologies, to organise import replacement where it is reasonable and necessary and to upgrade our industry, including the defence industry.
At the same time, it is important not to scatter financial resources but to concentrate our efforts on areas that are crucial for the country. The selection of these priorities should be based on clear principles, with the involvement of the state, the scholarly community and business. Let us consider this also at the meeting of the Council for Science and Education that will take place in late June.
Significant qualitative changes have already occurred in the past years: we have implemented programmes to develop top universities, new funding mechanisms for strong research teams have been put forth and the number of young scholars and specialists has grown. This reserve is helping us today to create new production facilities and technologies, to organise import replacement where it is reasonable and necessary and to upgrade our industry, including the defence industry.
I would like to conclude my opening remarks here.
Thank you for your attention.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: I believe every one of you has this brochure on the history of Moscow University, and here, at the very end, paragraph 12 features an excerpt from the first University Charter of 1804: “The University will not refuse to assist in the desire of the benefactors of education who have decided or may decide in the future to cover the cost of tuition for underprivileged students. The University will do everything possible to express the proper gratitude to such benefactors.”
In our case, we are not only speaking of underprivileged students, but of overall support for the University. I know that many of those present here stay in contact with the university leadership on certain programmes and development areas, use university laboratories in their day-to-day work and send their specialists there. All this also means significant support for the university.
Let us agree that we will continue working together with this leading educational establishment, bearing in mind that the successful development of Russian education will largely depend on how striking its development is and how strikingly it proves the advantages of Russian education. Such leading universities and research centres as Moscow State University serve as models for the country’s entire educational complex. Let us wish success to Mr Sadovnichy.
Thank you very much.
Topics
Universities
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 28, 2015, 14:50
Text versionEvents
Presentation of foreign ambassadors’ letters of credence
Vladimir Putin received letters of credence from 13 foreign ambassadors in a ceremony in the Grand Kremlin Palace’s Alexander Hall.
May 28, 2015
15:40
The Kremlin, Moscow
The President received letters of credence from new ambassadors of Austria, Albania, Lithuania, Macedonia, Monaco, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Slovakia, the Philippines, Ecuador, Ethiopia, the South African Republic and South Sudan.
* * *
Address at presentation of foreign ambassador’ letters of credence
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to welcome you and congratulate you on the official start of your honourable and responsible mission in Moscow.
You are in for some serious work to develop relations between the countries you represent and Russia. We want your work to yield results and efficiently promote political dialogue, enhance trade, economic and investment ties and humanitarian contacts. You can rest assured that the Russian leadership, our ministries, agencies, public and business circles will provide you with all the necessary assistance and support.
You are in for some serious work to develop relations between the countries you represent and Russia. We want your work to yield results and efficiently promote political dialogue, enhance trade, economic and investment ties and humanitarian contacts.
We have recently marked the 70th anniversary of Victory in World War II – the Great Patriotic War
. During that war, the multi-ethnic Soviet people gave millions of lives and made a decisive contribution to the defeat of Nazism. In the course of the celebrations, we paid tribute to the war victims and expressed our respect and gratitude to the veterans. We believe that the moral duty of today’s generation is to remember the lessons of that war. We need to remember what catastrophe aggressive nationalism, intolerance and ideas of racial domination can lead to.
The anniversary session of the UN General Assembly will take place in New York in September. The international community will be marking the 70th anniversary of the United Nations Organisation. I would like to stress that it was together with the allies in the anti-Hitler coalition that we managed to create this unique organisation and lay the foundation of the post-war world order. The basic principles of international cooperation, laid down in the UN Charter – equality of sovereign states, non-interference in internal affairs and peaceful cooperative settlement of disputes – came at a high price to humanity.
We have recently marked the 70th anniversary of Victory in World War II – the Great Patriotic War. We believe that the moral duty of today’s generation is to remember the lessons of that war. We need to remember what catastrophe aggressive nationalism, intolerance and ideas of racial domination can lead to.
Today these principles are especially important. Guided by these principles, Russia will continue to assist in every way in ensuring stability and security in international affairs. We will develop friendly relations with all our partners, both in the West and in the East, and take part in the development of joint solutions to global and regional challenges. The summits of such organisations as BRICS
and the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation
that we are preparing to host in Ufa on July 8–10 will definitely help promote these efforts.
I would like to remind you that the BRICS organisation, created on Russia’s initiative in 2006, has already become an influential factor of world politics and economy. Russia is interested in further strengthening cooperation between the BRICS states and in creating new cooperation mechanisms, including those in finance and the economy. In Ufa, we expect to reach agreement on launching the BRICS Bank and the Contingent Reserve Arrangement. I am sure that we will give an additional impetus to the development of inter-parliamentary relations, humanitarian and informational cooperation and contacts between trade unions and non-governmental organisations.
The basic principles of international cooperation, laid down in the UN Charter – equality of sovereign states, non-interference in internal affairs and peaceful cooperative settlement of disputes – came at a high price to humanity. Today these principles are especially important.
The Shanghai Cooperation Organisation summit will traditionally discuss regional security issues. We expect important resolutions regarding the launch of SCO expansion. We are convinced that the addition of new states to the organisation, namely India and Pakistan, will enhance the authority of the SCO and make it possible to more efficiently fight terrorism, extremism, illegal drug trafficking and other problems. We also plan to approve a new basic document outlining the SCO’s priorities – the Organisation’s Development Strategy through 2025.
Ladies and gentlemen,
Present here are heads of 13 diplomatic missions. I would like to briefly, in a few words describe Russia’s current state of relations with each of the states you represent.
We aim to develop traditional friendly relations with the Slovak Republic and to strengthen diversified business and humanitarian contacts. The visit to Russia by Prime Minister Robert Fico next week will assist this. Incidentally, he was here in Moscow on May 9 to celebrate the Victory anniversary.
We will develop friendly relations with all our partners, both in the West and in the East, and take part in the development of joint solutions to global and regional challenges. The summits of such organisations as BRICS and the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation will definitely help promote these efforts.
Our relations with the Republic of Senegal are developing consistently and constructively. We plan to diversify our trade, investment and humanitarian ties and the dialogue on regional matters.
We can see a number of unused opportunities in our cooperation with Albania, including our trade and economic ties. Greater bilateral cooperation meets the interests of the people of both countries and of stability on the Balkans and in South Eastern Europe in general.
Our relations with Austria are based on solid traditions of mutual respect, partnership and work to diversify cooperation. We are interested in not only maintaining, but also in multiplying the many years of experience of joint work, specifically in the spheres of energy and industry. We will further develop cultural and humanitarian exchanges with Austria, which are enhanced by the reciprocal culture seasons held in our two countries. I would like to use this opportunity to once again thank our Austrian colleagues for their constant care of the memorials and burial sites of Soviet solders.
The potential for cooperation with Lithuania is not used to the full. We are ready to develop cooperation based on principles of good-neighbourliness and mutual respect and we would like to see a similar approach on the part of our Lithuanian partners.
I would like to remind you that the BRICS organisation, created on Russia’s initiative in 2006, has already become an influential factor of world politics and economy. Russia is interested in further strengthening cooperation between the BRICS states and in creating new cooperation mechanisms, including those in finance and the economy.
We are for the soonest possible resolution of the internal conflict in the Republic of South Sudan. We support the corresponding efforts of the international community and the Africans themselves. We are interested in establishing varied bilateral contacts.
Strong links of friendship connect Russia and Ethiopia. We note your country’s constructive contribution to a settlement on the African continent. We will continue to enhance political, economic and humanitarian cooperation.
We confirm our firm intent to develop overall relations with Saudi Arabia, a leading state in the Middle East. Mr Ambassador is aware that in late April I had quite a useful telephone conversation with King Salman. I am confident that through joint efforts our states may assist in improving the situation in the Middle East, in promoting Palestine-Israeli negotiations, ensuring peace and security in the Persian Gulf area and enhancing the efficiency of anti-terrorist and anti-extremist efforts. An exposition featuring Russian regions is taking place in Jeddah, and the contacts established in its course should encourage bilateral cooperation in industry, agriculture, education and other spheres.
June 16 marks 70 years since the establishment of diplomatic relations with the Republic of Ecuador – Russia’s reliable partner in Latin America. We have close views on international and regional issues. Russian business community is ready to implement our joint projects.
The Shanghai Cooperation Organisation summit will traditionally discuss regional security issues. We expect important resolutions regarding the launch of SCO expansion. We are convinced that the addition of new states to the organisation, namely India and Pakistan, will enhance the authority of the SCO and make it possible to more efficiently fight terrorism, extremism, illegal drug trafficking and other problems.
Deep historic roots, cultural and spiritual affinity connect Russia and the Republic of Macedonia. We closely follow the latest developments in your country and see all the difficulties the Macedonian leadership is going through. Russia supports efforts to normalise the political situation, we are interested in seeing Macedonia a stable and prosperous country.
Our relations with the South African Republic have reached the level of a true strategic partnership. The results of our recent talks with Jacob Zuma on May 9 in Moscow confirmed our mutual resolve to further develop business ties and strengthen the contractual legal base. Our countries closely interact on the international arena, including within the UN and the G20. We look forward to seeing Mr Zuma in Ufa for the BRICS summit.
We are open for more active cooperation with the Republic of the Philippines, primarily in trade, culture and tourism. We also hope to develop a constructive dialogue on pressing regional and international issues.
We are satisfied with the high quality of ties between Russia and Monaco. The first official visit by the head of the Principality to this country in October of 2013 was a milestone in their development. I am certain that the numerous events held in Russia within the framework of the Year of Monaco will contribute to the progress and development of our relations. Two days ago, we discussed the development of bilateral relations in a telephone conversation with Prince Albert II, with whom we maintain regular contacts.
Ladies and gentlemen,
Hard and interesting work awaits you. I hope that once you get to know the life of this country and feel its pace you will begin to understand Russia better. And that you will do everything possible to further strengthen cooperation and mutual understanding between Russia and your countries.
I sincerely wish you success and all the best. Thank you for your attention.
Geography
Albania
Austria
Ecuador
Ethiopia
9 more
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 28, 2015, 15:40
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Agriculture Minister Alexander Tkachev
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Agriculture Minister Alexander Tkachev to discuss state support measures for the agriculture sector and access to credit resources for agricultural producers.
May 28, 2015
17:50
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 3
Meeting with Agriculture Minister Alexander Tkachev.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Tkachev, you were only recently appointed to the post of [Agriculture] Minister, but you are not a newcomer to this sector. You know it well, and this is why you were appointed to this position.
My first question: how are you settling into your new job? After all, you are responsible for the entire country now, with all the opportunities and difficulties that we see before us in developing the agriculture sector. Second, what is happening with the support programme for the agriculture sector this year, and with state support, one of the most important issues in this area? My next question concerns the situation with credit resources. You know how important this is. What is the situation in this area? Please, go ahead.
Agriculture Minister Alexander Tkachev
: Thank you, Mr President. I am settling in without problem. I have been having many meetings, especially with the department heads, getting to know the ministry, and meeting with people from the business community and various public organisations and associations. I think that I will soon start travelling around the regions a lot more so as to see first-hand the various sites and get to know the issues people face. Overall, everything is going well.
We have accomplished a great deal over the past years in the areas of credit access, state support and structural change. A lot of work has been done in the ministry in general, and in river management too.
Regarding the credit resource situation this year, state support from the budget under the programme adopted at the end of last year provides for around 237 billion rubles. This is an unprecedented level of support for the country’s farmers.
Vladimir Putin: This is taking into account the additional funds allocated – 54 billion rubles?
Alexander Tkachev: Yes. Support for the sector has never been so high over the last decades. As a result, we see growth in the sector now, particularly in the livestock industry, which is very good. The pork sector posted a 4-percent increase, poultry had an 11-percent increase in just five months, and beef production was up by one percent. We are starting to see an increase in milk production too.
The harvest is shaping up to be a good one this year, with the experts predicting at least 100 million tonnes of grain. Let’s hope that the weather is good, given our country’s vast size. Things are a bit behind in the Urals and Siberian federal districts because of the high rainfall they had there, but I think that the situation will come right.
In order to maintain the pace of rural development, we really need to get the business community involved – big business, and small and medium-sized Russian companies. We need to get the rural people into agriculture-related business and put the land to use, develop small-scale production, small farms. Of course, we will need state support for this, and of the level we had last year and this year. We already have plans for 2015, 2016 and 2017, and if we keep state support at the current level, business will certainly be willing to put considerable resources into the sector’s development too and we will be able to achieve much higher figures. This will be very positive for the tax system too, and it will create new jobs in rural districts, help to spread new technology and so forth.
Regarding budget loans, bank loans and other financial instruments, we are a little behind this year compared to the situation last year. As always, Rosselkhozbank and Sberbank are active on this market. Following your instruction, Rosselkhozbank had its capital topped up by another 10 billion rubles. I hope that this will have a positive impact on drawing in new players from the business community, new borrowers, above all. I hope very much that the banks will be just as active in lending to the agriculture sector, lending to farmers, and this will have a positive effect on the level and quality of life in the countryside and help to make our products more competitive.
Vladimir Putin: I know that the ministry has earmarked more for the regions this year than was the case last year. Of the 124.4 billion rubles allocated for supporting livestock production and crops, the ministry has already transferred 88 percent of the annual limit to the regions. This is the money coming through the state support programmes. There is also 78.5 billion rubles for subsidising loans.
But at the same time, one issue that I want to bring to the attention of the regional heads, above all, is that after the money comes to the region, it is very slow in actually getting to the agricultural producers themselves. According to the statistics we had on May 21 this year, the final recipients have actually received only 48.5 billion rubles in total. This is a very low figure.
The worrying thing in this situation is that if the final recipients do not receive this money on time, they might not be able to get their projects underway this year, and this delay could end up costing us dearly.
According to the statistics from May 21, 2015, there are some real outsiders on the list. Murmansk Region, for example, has delivered only 4.12 percent of the funds to the final recipients. The figure is 5.23 percent in Ingushetia, slightly more than 6 percent in Primorye Territory, just over 10 percent in Yakutia, 12 percent in Sakhalin Region, and 12.9 percent in Astrakhan Region. This is absolutely insufficient.
Mr Tkachev, I ask you to make a thorough investigation of this situation and work with your colleagues in the regions I just named and in the other regions too. I hope this situation will be put right, and I hope that this will happen swiftly. If you need further support from my end, tell me right away.
Alexander Tkachev: I will, thank you.
The Agriculture Ministry is aware of this problem, of course. We are monitoring the situation. There are two reasons for this problem. One is objective: the money comes from the federal budget on condition of co-financing from the regional budget. It can happen that the regional budget does not have the required funds at the given moment, and so the federal money stays in the treasury and does not get used. As the regional budgets put together the required funds, the money will come and will reach the agricultural producers directly.
As for the subjective reason – this is just the usual lack of discipline and poorly organised work.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, it’s this above all. I can imagine that some of the regions on the list I just named, Ingushetia, for example, might not have sufficient resources of their own for co-financing, but all this should be taken into account when organising the work together. But some of these regions definitely do not have such problems. Astrakhan Region, Sakhalin, Primorye Territory, Murmansk Region, Yakutia – they do not and cannot have such problems.
Alexander Tkachev: Previously, the co-financing level was half and half. In other words, 50 percent came from the federal budget and 50 percent from the regional budget. Following your decision, the ratio was changed to 70 percent from the federal budget and 30 percent from the regional budget. We are thus helping the regions. For the regions facing the biggest economic difficulties, the ratio is 95 to 5. You are absolutely right – they can surely find this 5 percent.
Vladimir Putin: Work with your colleagues, and the sooner, the better.
Alexander Tkachev: Yes.
<…>
Topics
Agriculture
Persons
Tkachev Alexander
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 28, 2015, 17:50
Text version