Events
Press statements following Russian-Chinese talks
May 8, 2015
14:10
Press statements following Russian-Chinese talks. With Chinese President Xi Jinping.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: President Xi Jinping, ladies and gentlemen,
We have just ended substantive talks with the President of China, Mr Xi Jinping, who arrived in Moscow today at the head of a representative delegation for an official visit.
Tomorrow, together with other foreign leaders, we will take part in the events celebrating the 70th anniversary of Victory in World War II. In September, in Beijing, we will celebrate the end of World War II and will honour the memory of those who fought shoulder-to-shoulder against militarist Japan.
Our countries suffered the greatest losses in this war, and this is why we so consistently oppose any attempt to rehabilitate Nazism and militarism or falsify history.
This heroic past that we share gives us a good foundation for building mutually advantageous good-neighbourly bilateral relations in the twenty-first century. China today is our strategic key partner. Our talks took place in the spirit of trust and mutual understanding that characterises our relations. We examined a broad range of bilateral matters and international issues, and we signed two joint declarations and an impressive package of documents, which you saw just before, inter-governmental and commercial agreements.
Expanding and bolstering our economic cooperation was one of the main subjects on the agenda at the talks. China remains Russia’s leading trade partner. Our countries’ bilateral trade reached a figure of $88.4 billion last year according to our data, and $95 billion according to Chinese statistics. The small drop by half a percent that we saw at the start of this year was due primarily to unfavourable foreign economic situation and the fall in oil prices.
We discussed the possibilities for working together in the energy sector, a key area of our relations. We looked at oil and gas projects and projects in electricity, nuclear energy, and energy conservation.
We have solid results in all of these areas. Russia is steadily increasing oil exports to China. In 2014, we delivered 28.5 tonnes, which is an increase of nearly 40 percent on the previous year. Let me stress this figure – 40 percent in just a year.
In accordance with the breakthrough agreement signed in May 2014, we will supply 38 billion cubic metres of natural gas every year over a 30-year period via the eastern route gas pipeline. This pipeline’s construction is already underway in Russia and construction is due to start soon on the Chinese side too.
The next stage will be to deliver natural gas to China via the western route. The main conditions for this project’s implementation were cemented today in the agreement signed between Gazprom and PetroChina.
We welcome Chinese companies’ involvement in gas production in the Russian Arctic and Sakhalin offshore fields. Work is underway to examine and prepare our Chinese partners’ participation in developing the large Vankor oil and gas field in the north of Krasnoyarsk Territory.
Together with the Chinese President, we examined opportunities for Rosatom to take part in building new power units at the Tianwan nuclear power plant and other sites in China and in third countries.
We will continue to develop our financial sector cooperation, including through broader use of the ruble and the yuan in mutual settlements. Over the first two months of this year, we used our national currencies in more than 7 percent of settlements under our bilateral contracts.
We took another big step in this direction today. You saw that Sberbank has reached an agreement with its Chinese partners on providing credit lines in our national currencies and has signed the relevant accord.
We have launched new financial instruments: in March, the Moscow stock exchange began trading ruble-yuan futures.
We also plan to step up our investment cooperation and build up reciprocal capital flows. Let me note in this respect the work of the Russian-Chinese Investment Fund, which has invested 130 billion rubles in our countries’ economies. The plan is to raise this figure to 200 billion rubles over this year.
We agreed to continue our close cooperation in the high-tech sector. Renova Group and the Chinese Cybernaut Fund have agreed to carry out joint investment projects in Russia worth a total of around $1 billion.
China will be a partner country at the big INNOPROM international industrial fair in Yekaterinburg in July this year.
We agreed to deepen our industrial cooperation. We plan to complete work rapidly on initial design of a wide-body long haul aircraft and will prepare a draft intergovernmental agreement on this plane’s joint production. We hope by the end of the year to conclude a general contract for developing a heavy civilian helicopter.
We will actively promote our Sukhoi Superjet-100 plane on the Chinese market. The agreement signed today between the United Aircraft Corporation, the Russian Direct Investment Fund, and their Chinese partners will help us in this task.
We discussed opportunities for developing our space sector cooperation. Further integration of the GLONASS and BeiDou navigation systems is on the agenda.
We are developing our cooperation in the transport sector. China is ready to invest around 300 billion rubles to finance construction of a high-speed railway link between Moscow and Kazan.
We discussed the issue of coordinating cooperation between the Eurasian Economic Union and China. We think that the Eurasian integration project and the Silk Road Economic Belt project complement each other very harmoniously.
The Joint Declaration I signed today with President Xi Jinping speaks precisely of these possibilities for integrating these models. Essentially, we seek ultimately to reach a new level of partnership that will create a common economic space across the entire Eurasian continent.
We are actively expanding the range of our bilateral humanitarian ties. As part of the programme of activities through the years of friendly youth exchanges, more than 300 exchanges took place last year, and more than 200 joint events are planned for this year.
We are looking now to organise reciprocal years of Russian and Chinese media in 2016 and 2017. These events all aim to help to bring our peoples even closer together.
We agreed to coordinate more closely our joint efforts to help resolve the most serious global and regional problems. These include the Syrian crisis, the Iranian nuclear programme, achieving non-nuclear status on the Korean Peninsula, and strengthening stability and security in the Asia-Pacific region.
We are grateful to our Chinese friends for their active support of Russia’s presidency in the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation and the BRICS group and their help in preparing these two organistions’ summits, which will take place in Ufa, in Russia, in July.
Of course, we also discussed the situation in Ukraine. Our foreign ministries are in regular contact on this issue.
In conclusion, I want to thank our Chinese colleagues once again for the open and constructive dialogue, and I want to thank our great friend, Chinese President Xi Jinping, for his constant personal attention to developing Russian-Chinese relations.
Thank you for your attention.
President of the People’s Republic of China Xi Jinping
(retranslated): President Putin, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon,
On the eve of May 9 and the Victory in the global anti-fascist war, it gives me immense pleasure to come to Moscow at President Putin’s invitation to take part in the celebrations marking the 70th anniversary of Victory in the Great Patriotic War and visit Russia to be together with the Russian people and the peoples of the entire world for this sacred occasion. For the Russian people, May 9 was and still is the most glorious holiday, the celebration of Victory.
Russia and China were the main theatres of military operations in Asia and Europe during World War II. Our peoples suffered the greatest losses in the fight against militarist and Nazi aggressors and achieved an immortal historical feat through this victory in the global anti-fascist war.
The Chinese and Russian peoples fought shoulder-to-shoulder in the war against the Nazi and militarist invaders. They supported and helped each other and cemented with their blood and their lives a true brotherhood forged in war.
The years have passed, but the Chinese people will never forget and the world’s peoples will never forget the great sacrifices made by our fathers and grandfathers and their feats in achieving victory in this war.
China and Russia will hold a whole series of events this year to celebrate the 70th anniversary of Victory in World War II. Our aim in holding these events is to make sure that history is never forgotten, pay tribute to the fallen heroes, preserve and defend together with all the world’s peoples this peace that was won at such great cost, combine our efforts to defend the results of World War II and justice in the world, oppose the falsification and distortion of history, and open together a radiant future for the world and all of humanity.
President Putin and I just held substantive and friendly talks. President Putin has already spoken in detail about our discussions. We had a deep-reaching exchange of views on Chinese-Russian relations and key international and regional issues of mutual interest.
We reached common positions on a broad range of issues. We agreed that both countries would continue to see development of our relations as a priority area in our foreign policy. We will give each other greater support on matters concerning each other’s vital national interests, continue to strengthen the traditional friendship between our peoples, and continue to develop at the highest level our relations of comprehensive partnership and strategic cooperation.
We agreed on the need to continue expanding our cooperation in various practical areas. We will give particular attention to finding common ground in China’s development of the Silk Road Economic Belt, Russia’s efforts to build Trans-Eurasian transport links, and the Eurasian Economic Union integration project. We will work towards greater mutual openness, coordinate our development strategies and deepen and interweave our interests for the good of both countries and peoples.
We agreed to continue developing our bilateral cooperation in the humanitarian sector and continue the Youth Exchange Year. We have agreed to hold the Years of Chinese and Russian Media in 2016 and 2017.
China and Russia have gathered successful experience over the course of establishing a new type of international relations. This year, as we celebrate the 70th anniversary of the UN’s creation, China and Russia, as permanent members of the UN Security Council, are supporting firm compliance with the UN’s rules and the basic norms of international law and advocate the formation of a new type of international relations based on the principles of cooperation and common benefits.
In this respect, BRICS, the SCO and other multilateral organisations can be of great use. China is doing all it can to support Russia’s presidency in these two organisations this year. We are ready to make a common effort together with Russia to help these two groups to make a bigger contribution to guaranteeing peace, development and prosperity in the region and the world in general.
In conclusion, I once more thank President Putin and the Russian Government for the excellent organisation and for giving our delegation such a hospitable welcome.
Thank you for your attention.
See also
Russian-Chinese talks
May 8, 2015
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 8, 2015, 14:10
Text versionEvents
Meeting of the CIS heads of state
An informal meeting of the heads of CIS states was held at the Kremlin on the eve of the 70th anniversary of Victory in the Great Patriotic War.
May 8, 2015
16:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
6 of 6
Meeting of the CIS heads of state.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues, friends,
I am sincerely grateful to you for being together with us here in Moscow to celebrate the 70th anniversary of Victory and pay tribute to our common history, the veterans, and all who gave their lives in the fight against Nazism.
I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate Mr Nazarbayev on his re-election to the post of President of Kazakhstan. We already had the chance earlier to congratulate the President of Uzbekistan [Islam Karimov] on his re-election. I hope that Russia and Uzbekistan and Russia and Kazakhstan will continue to develop their relations as actively as they have been over these last years.
Kazakhstan holds the CIS presidency this year. The CIS states have organised a comprehensive programme of events to mark the 70th anniversary of the end of the Great Patriotic War, which encompasses around 60 big projects. They include holding military parades in the CIS countries’ capitals and the hero cities, organising the Victory Relay along the CIS external borders, and republishing the most memorable memoirs, literary works and essays with the support of the CIS organisations.
These common events pursue the goal of reminding all of our citizens, especially our young people, of course, about the courage and heroism of those who defended our homeland, and about the decisive contribution the Soviet Union’s peoples made to defeating the enemy and saving Europe and the world from Nazi enslavement.
One important area of our joint work is to support initiatives to immortalise the memory of the war on the international stage, above all through the UN and the OSCE. The coordinated efforts of the CIS member states and friendly countries made possible the adoption of the UN General Assembly resolution of February 26, 2015, and the Declaration of the OSCE Council of Foreign Ministers of December 5, 2014, on the 70th anniversary of the end of World War II.
The CIS Heads of States’ Message to the peoples of the CIS and the global public on the Victory anniversary is particularly important. This document underscores the importance the unshakeable friendship and great patriotism of our peoples, who fought together for this common victory, and expresses our aspiration to honour the memory of the fallen and maintain in a decent state military burial sites and memorials.
Unfortunately, we often see today attempts to politicise or rewrite the results of World War II. I think that we all understand and realise that this is a case of resorting to unworthy tactics. We must do our utmost to preserve the historic legacy of Victory and not allow a resurgence of Nazi ideology and the ideas of racial and religious intolerance. We all have an unpayable debt to the veterans and it is our duty to give them our constant care and attention and be attentive to their problems and everyday needs.
This year is the Year of Veterans in the CIS. Our countries have taken additional measures to improve veterans’ socioeconomic situation, material conditions, and medical care, and it is important now of course to continue this work.
The decision to issue anniversary medals commemorating the 70th anniversary of Victory is a symbol of our respect for the generation of victors. This was done successfully and on time. In total, around 115,000 medals were issued and given to veterans living in the CIS countries and beyond our borders.
Colleagues, this summit’s informal nature gives us the chance to discuss a broad range of issues of mutual interest. Next year, we will mark the CIS 25th anniversary. This is a milestone in the CIS work and a good occasion to take an objective look back at the results we have achieved together and outline the directions for the medium and long-term future.
I want to stress that Russia seeks to continue making the CIS countries’ multifaceted and mutually advantageous cooperation more effective. I am sure that this is completely in the strategic interests of our countries and peoples.
Thank you very much for your attention.
<…>
Topics
CIS
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 8, 2015, 16:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting of Supreme Eurasian Economic Council
A meeting of the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council (SEEC) was held at the level of the heads of state. President of the Kyrgyz Republic Almazbek Atambayev also participated in the summit.
May 8, 2015
18:20
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 11
Before Supreme Eurasian Economic Council meeting.
Following the SEEC meeting, a set of documents was signed on Kyrgyzstan’s accession to the organisation.
Also, another set of documents was signed concerning the main macroeconomic policy indicators of Eurasian Economic Union members for 2015–2016, the creation of a common electricity market in the Eurasian Economic Union, and liberalisation of motor trucking services. Decisions were also made concerning free trade between the Eurasian Economic Union and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam and negotiations with China on signing an agreement on trade and economic cooperation.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues, good evening,
This is our first meeting since the Eurasian Economic Union began working. I am very happy to note that most of the decisions made to launch the Eurasian integration project have been fully implemented within the deadlines we agreed upon. A new economic association has now emerged on the global arena with a single set of rules concerning the movement of goods, services, capital, and labour resources.
Armenia became a full-fledged member of the Union on January 2, and decisions have already been made on Kyrgyzstan’s full-scale accession – I hope that all of this will come into force following ratification.
It is important that all Eurasian Union participants are dispose to deepening integration. Closer trade and investment ties will certainly promote further socioeconomic development in our nations, enhancing our nation’s competitiveness in the global economy and ultimately ensuring improvement in our citizens’ wellbeing.
Eurasian integration is proving to be effective: mutual trade between participating nations grew by nearly $20 billion, trade infrastructure has improved, the share of high value-added goods increased and the share of raw materials has decreased quite significantly – from 40% to 28.9%
We have agreed upon common macroeconomic growth targets for 2015–2016 within the framework of the Eurasian Union, and we have planned a set of measures to stimulate economic development, deepen cooperation in the real sector and improve the business climate.
We suggest considering the possibility of closer cooperation in monetary policy. I am certain that working together, our nations’ central banks could more effectively withstand the negative influence of sharp exchange rate fluctuations.
We are fully aware that this is a matter for the future. Nobody here is going to get ahead of themselves. The monetary policy actions we have agreed upon must be based on integration first and foremost in the economic sphere after achieving a certain level of cooperation. But we can already begin discussing these issues and thinking about it.
Our work to create a common energy market in the Eurasian Union is in its final stage. A concept for a single energy market that would begin to function in 2019 has been submitted for our approval. This document defines the stages of formation, regulation mechanisms, and procedures for mutual energy trade.
We are continuing to create a common transport space in the Eurasian Union. We will need to approve a programme for step-by-step liberalisation of the motor freight transportation market. We are setting ourselves the objective to reduce transportation costs and promote fair competition in this service sector. We will harmonise the rules and requirements for trucking companies.
For national development corporations, we are devising joint lending programmes for exporters to foreign markets. This will help even out the recent drop in our trade with third nations.
We are creating the Eurasian one-stop-shop business system. Its launch will allow us to harmonise our fiscal, customs and administrative procedures regulating foreign economic activity.
Before the end of the year, we will need to seriously update our contractual legal framework: over 50 draft documents are in the works. In particular, we will need to adopt a new Customs Code, and sign an agreement on cooperating in the monetary, financial, and socioeconomic sectors. We will need to complete work on the majority of the documents in time for the Council’s next session, which will be held in October in Astana.
Foreign partners are expressing interest in deepening relations with the Eurasian Economic Union. We have established cooperation with UN agencies. In September, at the 70th session of the UN General Assembly, the Eurasian Economic Union should receive observer status. It is important for our foreign ministries to coordinate efforts when the relevant application will be considered in the UN.
The Eurasian Economic Commission is negotiating free trade agreements with several states. An agreement with Vietnam has been approved and will be signed shortly, and similar documents are being developed at the expert level with Israel, India and Egypt.
The development of economic cooperation between the Eurasian Union and the People’s Republic of China is also promising; I spoke about this today at my meeting with President of China Xi Jinping as well.
Incidentally, the President of China is also interested in this and says that this process could be written into the Silk Road Economic Belt, a project that is being implemented by our friends in China. I feel it would be expedient to instruct the Eurasian Commission to begin talks with China on signing an agreement on trade and economic cooperation.
I think that in the future, we should also consider the possibility of a harmonious alignment of the Eurasian economic integration process and, as I already said, the Chinese Silk Road Economic Belt initiative.
I am sire that close cooperation with Chinese partners will facilitate the flow of investments into Eurasian Economic Union, help create new jobs, and allow us to develop the Eurasian transport potential more effectively.
Thank you very much.
Topics
EAEU
Economy and finance
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 8, 2015, 18:20
Text version