Events
Meeting with President of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan
Vladimir Putin held talks at the Kremlin with President of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who is in Russia to take part in the opening ceremony of Moscow’s Cathedral Mosque following reconstruction.
September 23, 2015
14:40
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 6
With President of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, friends, good afternoon once again.
Thank you for coming here to take part in the opening of Moscow’s Cathedral Mosque, and thank you once again for your help in the reconstruction work.
I must take this opportunity to discuss our bilateral relations and issues on the international agenda.
See also
Moscow’s Cathedral Mosque has reopened after reconstruction
September 23, 2015
As far as our bilateral relations are concerned, we are very happy with their development. We continue our regular contacts at the top level, in all areas, through our parliaments and our contacts at the government level. We know that you are about to hold parliamentary elections and we wish your party success.
As for our economic ties, despite the fall due to a number of objective circumstances, Russia remains Turkey’s second-biggest trade and economic partner. Our trade and economic ties continue to diversify, which makes us very happy. Investment has increased on both sides, by around $10 billion from each country.
In general, we have plenty to discuss. We are pleased to see you.
Meeting with President of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
President of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan
(retranslated): I also want to thank you. The mosque that was rebuilt and restored here in very heart of Moscow has turned out a magnificent monument. This is very important when you think of the many different events that can be held there now and the opportunities it offers. Your direct involvement has great importance too, of course, and I want to thank you for this direct involvement on your part.
Over the last 10 years, bilateral relations between Turkey and Russia have reached a very good basic level. Negative circumstances in the global economy have had an impact on our trade, but our bilateral turnover continues to grow even so. In 2014, our bilateral trade reached a figure of $31 billion, and it came to $11 billion over the first six months of this year. As you know, our goal is to reach a figure of $100 billion by 2023. Let us hope that fortune is on our side and we will succeed in reaching this objective.
Today’s event gives us a good opportunity to discuss our bilateral relations and go over the international agenda.
Thank you very much.
<…>
Geography
Türkiye
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Erdogan Recep Tayyip
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 23, 2015, 14:40
Text versionEvents
Federal Anti-Monopoly Service Competition Week in Russia forum
Vladimir Putin took part in the annual international Competition Week in Russia forum, organised by Russia’s Federal Anti-Monopoly Service (FAS). This year’s forum marks 25 years of anti-monopoly regulation in the Russian Federation.
September 23, 2015
13:15
Moscow
2 of 5
Speech at the Federal Anti-Monopoly Service Competition Week in Russia forum.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues and friends.
Let me start by congratulating everyone at the Federal Anti-Monopoly Service on 25 years since a special anti-monopoly agency was first set up in Russia. This was the start of what is today the Federal Anti-Monopoly Service.
FAS thus dates from the same time as the far-reaching transformations that established market relations and entrepreneurship in Russia. Over these 25 years, you have done much to develop the legal base and introduce modern competition mechanisms.
I hope that FAS will continue to play an important and substantive role in carrying out our country’s economic policy and forming a favourable climate for business and investment and for entrepreneurial activity in general. I say this all the more that your powers were expanded substantially just recently and you are now responsible for issues related to tariff regulation in many areas too. I signed an executive order on this on July 21, 2015.
Much indeed depends on your competent and professional work and the decisions you make. Healthy competition and entrepreneurial freedom are crucial factors for developing our country and ensuring our national economy’s effective and sustainable growth.
FAS dates from the same time as the far-reaching transformations that established market relations in Russia. Over these 25 years, you have done much to develop the legal base and introduce modern competition mechanisms.
Monopolism in all its forms chokes private initiative and acts as a brake on progress. The Russian industrialists of the past, who built up Russia’s economic might, understood this well. “We need general competition because it is the road to improvement… Factories with excessive protection will use their profits any way they please and neglect the effort to improve their own goods” – thus spoke Nikolai Putilov, one of the founders of Russia’s railways, steel and shipbuilding industries.
Our task today is for Russia’s companies and businesses to learn to produce better goods and services than any of their competitors. We realise that this is not a simple task, but we know too that the main incentive here is competition on our own domestic market. This competition must be open and follow clear and transparent rules.
We therefore need to continue creating opportunities for all who seek to win in a fair competitive fight, advance, work hard, find new solutions, and raise the quality of their own goods. The more such people we have in our country, the stronger Russia and its economy will be.
We have been working hard to improve the anti-monopoly legislation over the last several years. This work has been undertaken in cooperation with FAS, of course, and the entire business community and the Strategic Initiatives Agency. With the help of everyone working through these platforms, we have drawn up and approved a roadmap that sets out concrete measures for developing competition in various economic sectors.
Federal Anti-Monopoly Service Competition Week in Russia forum.
Many decisions are already being implemented. Wider use is being made of market tenders now, and rules for non-discriminatory access to the infrastructure of several natural monopolies have been improved. We know, of course, that there is still much work to do, and I stress in this respect that laws and rules the roadmap envisions must be given practical application everywhere throughout the regions. We must make a special effort to develop competition in the regions and municipalities. I am not just talking about putting an end to individual abuses by monopolists and decisions that hinder free trade, but about the need for a general systemic improvement of the business environment.
Colleagues, economic competition has an important general human, social and state dimension. What is a competitive market after all? It is a market in which consumers and buyers can choose products and services of higher quality and, most important, at a fair price.
In this respect, I ask you to continue your active efforts to develop competition in areas particularly important to the public, such as housing and utilities, heating supply, electricity and passenger transport, and keep effective watch on the markets for foodstuffs and medicines. You must exclude the possibility of unjustified tariff decisions and prevent prices from rising. Of course, you need to pay particular attention to developing competition in the social sector.
I ask you to continue your active efforts to develop competition in areas particularly important to the public, to keep effective watch on the markets for foodstuffs and medicines.
Friends, colleagues, economists have been discussing for decades how to ensure a perfect competitive environment, where to let the ‘invisible hand’ do its work, and where the state should be present, including through the watchdog and regulatory functions that are also necessary. This truly is a field that calls for utmost professionalism. I believe that any decision in this area should take into account the country’s interests, the interests of honest business and citizens. I ask you to carry out your work on these principles.
Let me congratulate you all once more on your fruitful and effective work. I know your efforts are effective because I see how prices come down and we save state money and resources following your intervention in this or that case.
I wish you success and thank you once again for your work. Congratulations on this anniversary.
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 23, 2015, 13:15
Text versionEvents
Moscow’s Cathedral Mosque has reopened after reconstruction
Vladimir Putin, President of Palestine Mahmoud Abbas and President of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan attended the opening of Moscow’s Cathedral Mosque following reconstruction.
September 23, 2015
12:25
Moscow
Speech at the opening of Moscow’s Cathedral Mosque after reconstruction
The mosque has reopened after extensive reconstruction designed to increase its capacity substantially. The new building can hold up to 10,000 worshippers at a time.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Erdogan
, Mr Abbas
, members of the clergy, foreign guests, friends,
See also
Meeting with President of the State of Palestine Mahmoud Abbas
September 22, 2015
Meeting with President of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan
September 23, 2015
Let me congratulate you from all my heart on the opening of Moscow’s rebuilt Cathedral Mosque. This is a big event for all Muslims in Russia.
One of Moscow’s oldest mosques stood on this historical site and has undergone reconstruction that now makes it the biggest in Europe. It was given a magnificent modern new look worthy of the capital of our united, multi-ethnic and multi-confessional country. This new mosque is worthy of Russia, in which, I want to stress, Islam, under our country’s law, is one of Russia’s traditional religions, with millions of our citizens counting themselves among its followers.
One of Moscow’s oldest mosques stood on this historical site and has undergone reconstruction that now makes it the biggest in Europe. It was given a magnificent modern new look.
I want to thank everyone who took part in the work on this magnificent building and all of the Muslims in Russia and abroad who donated to this effort. We are grateful to the governments of Turkey and Kazakhstan for their contributions to the mosque’s reconstruction.
I am sure that the mosque will become a major spiritual centre for Muslims in Moscow and throughout Russia, providing education and spreading humanistic ideas and the true and authentic values of Islam. It will spread knowledge and spirituality and will help to unite the efforts of Muslims and people of other faiths too in common worthy causes. The Koran tells us to try to outdo each other in doing good.
Right from its creation, Russia has always been a multi-ethnic and multi-confessional country. This mutual enrichment of different cultures, traditions and religions has always been our country’s distinguishing feature and strength.
Moscow’s Muslim community, for example, emerged back in mediaeval times, and this is reflected in the Tatar roots of many of the capital’s street names.
At the opening of Moscow’s Cathedral Mosque after reconstruction.
The traditions of enlightened Islam developed over many centuries in Russia. The fact that different peoples and religions live peacefully together in Russia is in large part thanks to the Muslim community, which has made a worthy contribution to preserving harmony in our society and has always strived to build relations within and between religions based on tolerance for each other’s faiths.
Today, traditional Islam is an integral part of Russia’s spiritual life. Islam’s humanist values, like the values of our other traditional religions, teach people compassion, justice and care for our loved ones. We place great value on these things.
The number of mosques and Islamic cultural centres has increased greatly in Russia over the last 20 years. Amazingly beautiful mosques have been built in Tatarstan, Bashkortostan, Chechnya and other Russian regions. In 2003, our country became a permanent observer in the Organisation of the Islamic Conference. Thousands of pilgrims from Russia make the hajj, and the number of madrasas and schools attached to mosques has also increased greatly.
It is important to educate Muslim youth in traditional Islamic values and prevent attempts to impose on us world outlooks that are alien to us and have nothing to do with genuine Islam. Let me say that the authorities will continue to assist in reviving Russia’s system of Islamic theological schools and religious education.
As you know, I supported the Tatarstan authorities and the principal Muslim spiritual bodies on the issue of establishing the Bulgar Islamic Academy, thus reviving this ancient Russian Muslim centre of religion and learning.
Of course, we must continue expanding the network of Muslim cultural and educational centres. Their aim is to bring Muslims together, impart to them the spiritual, cultural and moral code inherent to traditional Islam in Russia, help to resolve common problems, and take part in youth education.
Speech at the opening of Moscow’s Cathedral Mosque after reconstruction.
I note the big role that Muslims and above all their spiritual leaders play in strengthening interethnic and interfaith harmony. Their rejection and condemnation of all forms of fundamentalism and radicalism have made a major contribution to the fight against nationalism and religious extremism.
Work in this area is all the more important today, when we see attempts to cynically exploit religious feelings for political aims.
We see what is happening in the Middle East (this has been mentioned here today too), where terrorists from the so-called Islamic State are compromising a great world religion, compromising Islam, sowing hatred, killing people, including clergy, and barbarically destroying monuments of world culture. Their ideology is built on lies and blatant distortions of Islam.
It is important to educate Muslim youth in traditional Islamic values and prevent attempts to impose on us world outlooks that are alien to us and have nothing to do with genuine Islam.
They are trying to recruit followers here in Russia too. Russia’s Muslim leaders are bravely and fearlessly using their own influence to resist this extremist propaganda. I want to express my tremendous respect for these people who carry out their work heroically and have suffered losses. I have no doubt that they will continue to educate the faithful in the spirit of humanism, compassion and justice.
Friends, this new mosque is opening as the Muslim community is about to celebrate the big holiday of Eid al-Adha. Let me congratulate all of Russia’s Muslims on this joyful holiday and wish you all goodness, happiness and prosperity.
I congratulate you on the mosque’s opening.
Geography
Moscow
Topics
Regions
Religion
Persons
Abbas Mahmoud
Erdogan Recep Tayyip
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 23, 2015, 12:25
Text version