Events
Meeting with 2015 IWAS World Games champions
Vladimir Putin met with members of the Russian national team that won the 2015 International Wheelchair and Amputee Sports (IWAS) Games.
October 6, 2015
13:50
Sochi
Meeting with 2015 IWAS World Games champions. Photo: TASS
The International Wheelchair and Amputee Sports Federation (IWAS) has been holding World Games since 1948 among athletes with musculoskeletal system disorders. For the first time the Games were held in Russia at sports facilities in Sochi.
The Russian team consisted of 196 athletes. Of 213 sets of medals the athletes competed for, Russia won 323 different medals, thus becoming an absolute leader in the overall medal count.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends,
It is a pleasure to meet with you right after the IWAS World Games. What can I say? You amazed everyone yet again with your results. As the Minister of Sports said, you were not very hospitable towards your competitors.
This was the first time these Games were held in Russia at sports facilities in Sochi, a city that hosted the Olympic and Paralympic Games, which have definitely become the symbol of our victory.
Meeting with 2015 IWAS World Games champions.
More than 500 athletes from 34 countries competed in track and field, swimming, table tennis, archery, arm wrestling and para-Taekwondo competitions. This is a very interesting set of events. It is a pity I did not have the opportunity to see any of them, but I hope I will some other time.
Our team was the most numerous with 196 athletes from 48 regions of the Russian Federation. I would like to use this occasion, this meeting with you, my friends, to address the heads of regions. These are difficult times, though I can hardly remember when they were easy, there is never enough money in the budget, and the easiest thing to do is to cut social spending, such as the funding of sport. I want to ask our regional heads to pay more attention to sports and help athletes. I do not mean only Paralympic athletes, but sport in general. I hope this is how it will be.
Your team – our team has become an absolute leader in the medal count, winning 123 gold, 105 silver and 95 bronze medals.
The IWAS Federation has brought together both renowned masters and beginning athletes, who in the course of the Games had a chance to make themselves known and get a good sports rating, and many of them made very good use of this opportunity.
I would like to specially greet those who took part in the Games for the first time.
Meeting with 2015 IWAS World Games champions. Photo: TASS
At the Sochi competitions, Russian athletes have demonstrated excellent results and a high degree of readiness for new events.
I know that experts consider the IWAS World Games an important stage in preparations for the 2016 Paralympic Games to be held in Rio de Janeiro. Your success here in Sochi, at the local facilities has given you a good lead for your performance in Rio.
You have given both your fans and guests on the stands the unforgettable joy of victory. And you have proven once again that human potential is limitless, while perseverance and willpower can perform miracles.
I am certain that your example will continue to inspire many others to move on. It is not a coincidence that Paralympic sports have been developing so rapidly in the past years, setting unusually high standards, introducing new sports and amazing by their achievements.
This country has made a significant breakthrough. It’s enough to recall last year’s triumph, as I have said, at the Winter Paralympic Games.
However, you, my friends, know just as well as I do that one cannot remain a leader by staying in place. You should continuously move on. Now you have every condition for it: an advanced sports infrastructure, modern equipment, technology and the possibilities for proper training. We have Sochi – a recognised world sports capital.
Vladimir Putin signs the IWAS Federation flag.
Friends,
I would like to once again congratulate you on your outstanding performance at the IWAS World Games. I thank you for your work and results. Please convey my most sincere greetings to your teammates, and of course special thanks to your coaches, mentors, doctors and experts of the Russia’s team – all those who help our athletes and support them.
My congratulations, once again. I hope you will not stop here and will show equally outstanding results in Rio de Janeiro.
Thank you very much. My congratulations.
<…>
Geography
Krasnodar Territory
Topics
Disabled individuals
Sport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 6, 2015, 13:50
Text versionEvents
Working meeting with Dmitry Kobylkin and Sergei Levchenko
Vladimir Putin met with Dmitry Kobylkin and Sergei Levchenko, who won the elections to posts of heads of the Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous Area and Irkutsk Region respectively.
October 6, 2015
14:30
Sochi
Meeting with Irkutsk Region Governor Sergei Levchenko, Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous Area Governor Dmitry Kobylkin and First Deputy Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Vyacheslav Volodin (right).
Mr Kobylkin briefed the President on major infrastructure projects implemented in the Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous Area. The conversation covered the construction of the Zapolyarye-Purpe-Samotlor oil pipeline, the Yamal LNG plant and a railway and bridge across the Ob River.
Mr Levchenko dwelt on the tasks facing forestry and the issue of preserving forests, as well as on the provision of gas supply to the area where the Kovykta gas condensate field, one of the biggest in the world, is located. The discussion also covered the work of the Irkutsk Region industrial cluster.
Taking part in the meeting was the First Deputy Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Vyacheslav Volodin
.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Kobylkin, Mr Levchenko,
I have met with all the newly elected governors, and I would like to congratulate you too on the election results and wish you success.
Mr Kobylkin has experience in economic management, while Mr Levchenko has been a parliamentary for about 15 years now, I believe. In this sense, it would probably be more difficult for you to get a good idea of life in the region in terms of economic management and complying with social commitments to the voters. Nevertheless, I hope your work will be well organised. You can always count on support from the President and the Government, of course.
Let us discuss in greater detail what you consider to be the most important things for your regions for the short term.
<…>
See also
Meeting with newly elected regional heads
September 17, 2015
Geography
Irkutsk Region
Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area
Topics
Regions
Persons
Kobylkin Dmitry
Levchenko Sergei
Volodin Vyacheslav
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 6, 2015, 14:30
Text version