Events
Meeting with Russian Direct Investment Fund CEO Kirill Dmitriev
Vladimir Putin met at the Kremlin with Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) CEO Kirill Dmitriev, who briefed the President on the Fund’s work.
March 30, 2015
20:45
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 3
With Russian Direct Investment CEO Fund Kirill Dmitriev.
Vladimir Putin met at the Kremlin with Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) CEO Kirill Dmitriev, who briefed the President on the Fund’s work.
Mr Dmitriev said that the RDIF continues to work with successful results on a number of projects in Russia and abroad, despite the current economic difficulties.
The RDIF was established in 2011 by decision of the President and Prime Minister to attract foreign investment into leading companies in the Russian economy’s fastest-growing sectors.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: How is the Fund’s work going, Mr Dmitriyv?
Russian Direct Investment Fund CEO Kirill Dmitriev
: Mr President, together with our partners, we invested 180 billion rubles last year, of which 20 billion was RDIF investment and 160 billion was invested by our partners.
Vladimir Putin: This was investment you attracted?
Kirill Dmitriev: Yes, we attracted it. Overall, since the RDIF began work, our partners and we have already invested 400 billion rubles, of which 50 billion was RDIF money and 350 billion comes from our partners.
Vladimir Putin: Where is the investment going primarily, into which sectors?
Kirill Dmitriev: We invested 165 billion in high-tech sectors and infrastructure projects, more than 40 billion in the Far East, and over 25 billion in export-focused sectors. One example of our projects is the Vladivostok Airport, in which we have invested together with the companies Changi and Basic Element. Changi is the company that is the main operator of Singapore’s airport. We think that Vladivostok could really become one of the Asia-Pacific region’s air transport hubs.
Vladimir Putin: It could be developed into a good transport hub?
Kirill Dmitriev: Yes. Changi operates what is essentially the world’s most successful airport. They just won an award for being the most successful airport operating company.
We also have a project with the company Rosseti. We received funds from the National Welfare Fund for this project and have invested together with investors from Arab countries. We expect this project to reduce electricity losses by 15 percent and save up to 55 billion rubles a year around the country as a whole.
Vladimir Putin: You will achieve this through using new equipment?
Kirill Dmitriev: Yes, through the meters that will be installed, and through use of the right energy accounting system.
In Leningrad Region, for example, we have invested in a liquefied natural gas plant and in LNG transportation. We are actively investing in this project together with our Arab partners.
We are working very actively with our Arab and Chinese partners. Forty percent of the total funds invested by the RDIF are automatically invested by the Arab countries’ leading sovereign funds. Our Chinese partners, the Russia-China Investment Fund (RCIF), have already invested 130 billion rubles, and this year, we are planning for more than 200 billion rubles in investment from the Russia-China Fund and other partners. 
What is important is that we are working on projects of great interest and importance. We have approved, for example, investment in the Central Ring Road project together with our Arab partners and Russia’s leading pension fund. We hope to take part in the tender and we have all the necessary resources to carry out this project.
Vladimir Putin: As one of the project participants?
Kirill Dmitriev: Yes, but we plan to submit bids for the third and fourth stages of the project.
Vladimir Putin: What will be the financing involved?
Kirill Dmitriev: We need around $2 billion. Together with our Arab partners and the pension fund (Non-State Pension Fund Gazfond), we have this money.
We have also approved investment in the ZapSib-2 project. This is essentially the world’s biggest petrochemicals project, which is being carried out by SIBUR. We think this is a very promising project.
Vladimir Putin: They want to build another plant?
Kirill Dmitriev: Yes, a facility that will create up to 15,000 new jobs and will process a lot more raw materials. This is a project with excellent prospects. Through our work with the RCIF, we are also getting Chinese banks involved in this project.
Vladimir Putin: I recall that our Chinese partners were also planning to work with SIBUR.
Kirill Dmitriev: That’s right. We also plan to invest in SIBUR and are currently analysing the proposals for work with the RCIF. The Chinese banks are ready to lend actively to companies such as SIBUR. We expect to raise up to $4 billion this year from the Chinese banks and not just from Chinese investors.
Vladimir Putin: They plan to take the goods produced to their own market?
Kirill Dmitriev: Yes, of course. The Asia-Pacific market is growing and Chinese investors are showing a lot of interest in Russia. We are currently looking at around 45 projects in various economic sectors.
There are two other very important areas of work for us: the Investlift programme, which we are working on together with the Agency for Strategic Initiatives and Vnesheconombank, and which provides support for companies with export potential. We think that the instruments we are in the process of developing will help medium-sized companies to grow a lot bigger.
The other area is export-oriented invested and import replacement. We identify the companies that have good demand and are competitive globally, businesses such as data processing centres, oil and gas sector equipment, and agribusiness. We have a very active programme in import replacement.
Vladimir Putin: Is the Fund getting any capital top-ups?
Kirill Dmitriev: We hope to. We have been included in the budget for 2016–17, and we hope to get a capital injection given that we are working actively and the world has recognised our model as a success. The European Union, for example, is now setting up its version of the RDIF in Europe, called the European Strategic Initiatives Fund. Italy and France have established similar funds. Egypt and India have asked for our help in setting up funds of their own, and so we certainly hope for a capital top-up. We are included in the budget and we are very grateful for your support, Mr President.
We are in frequent contact with our foreign partners and they all oppose sanctions. We were in Germany and Italy just recently and we see that turnover at many companies is down by 20 percent, and this is why they are against sanctions. We hope to conclude some major deals with the Italians and the French this year, working through the Russian-French and Russian-Italian funds.
Vladimir Putin: Our partners face problems not only in that some of our markets are now closed, in particular the produce markets, but also because of financing problems, including in areas that our European partners also want to develop, and this is a source of discontent, of course. We will work together on overcoming these problems. I think that this is in everyone’s interest.
Kirill Dmitriev: Yes, of course. They are also working with their governments to bring to their notice the damage that sanctions are causing for German, Italian and French business.
<…>
Topics
Economy and finance
Import replacement
Investment
Persons
Dmitriev Kirill
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 30, 2015, 20:45
Text versionEvents
Working meeting with Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Khloponin
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Khloponin to discuss the preliminary results of the Government’s work on updating licensing agreements.
March 30, 2015
16:15
The Kremlin, Moscow
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Khloponin, are we going to discuss licences?
Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Khloponin
: Yes.
Vladimir Putin: Go ahead.
Alexander Khloponin: Mr President, you signed an instruction on February 12 on updating licensing agreements. The Government has begun carrying out this instruction.
The issue has turned out to be a very complicated matter. To date, we have accorded 7,775 licences, of which 3,329 are for hydrocarbon raw materials and 4.446 for solid minerals. We now need to analyse and update all of these licences.
The work so far has shown that there are three main issues to address.
First, there are the licensing agreements that are difficult to implement at present due to the changing situation on the market, the imposition of sanctions, and difficulty in getting access to credit resources.
This concerns around 800 licences, mostly in the hydrocarbons category. We need to take swift action here so that these companies can continue their development and not have their licences revoked.
Second, we did a random check of 600 licencing agreements (we just took agreements at random), and found that 165 of them contained technical mistakes regarding the coordinates. In other words, these licences…
Vladimir Putin: Were issued with mistakes.
Alexander Khloponin: These are technical mistakes that need some serious correcting. We have passed a law that makes it possible to correct these technical mistakes quickly and enable the companies mining mineral resources to continue their work.
Third, there are a great many licences that were issued before 1990. These are the many licences acquired by companies that continue to work using old methods that do not meet today’s regulations and provisions.
We have already issued our instructions concerning all three areas and are carrying out the updating work. The deadline that you gave us was December 31, 2016. We will work faster in the anti-crisis areas and will have some of the work completed this year. We will report to you once every six months.
I think we are up to the task. The final goal is to bring all the licences into line with a common standard, and simplify the technical regulations and packages of documents that need to be prepared for the licences. I think we will reach our objectives.
Vladimir Putin: When will these new standards and requirements be ready?
Alexandr Khloponin: We have already drafted the requirements. In March, we have been sending the technical requirements out to our companies. This is the list of what they will need to present to obtain licences. We will make our first interim report in May.
Mr Medvedev asked for a detailed list of all the licences that need updating to be ready for his approval by the end of this year. We will complete this task in full.
Vladimir Putin: What will you do about those who obtained licences but are not complying with their terms and in general are not doing anything at all, to put it mildly?
Alexander Khloponin: For those who are not carrying out the terms of their licences, in accordance with your instruction, we will give them a chance, give them a short preferential period during which they can pay their debts on licence agreements the terms of which they have failed to respect. If they do not do so within this short period, then we will revoke the licences. This is also in accordance with your instruction.
One of the points in your instruction was to update licences only for those who are complying with all current demands of their licensing agreements, have no debts to the tax authorities or the federal budget, and are carrying out all of their obligations.
Vladimir Putin: The only thing in this respect is to make sure that violations of the licences are analysed impartially so as to exclude cases where the problems are due to objective circumstances unrelated to the licence-holder’s activities.
After all, there are things that are beyond their control, and then they end up not being able to work because the state authorities do not provide the needed conditions for them to carry out their obligations. This is also something you need to take into account.
Alexander Khloponin: Yes, we will certainly do so.
<…>
Topics
Industry
Persons
Khloponin Alexander
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 30, 2015, 16:15
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Agriculture Minister Nikolay Fedorov
Vladimir Putin held a working meeting with Agriculture Minister Nikolay Fedorov to discuss, in particular, the spring sowing campaign.
March 30, 2015
13:50
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 3
With Agriculture Minister Nikolai Fedorov.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Fedorov, I want to discuss the spring sowing campaign. I know the Government is paying much attention to this issue and the [Agriculture] Ministry and the Government as a whole are examining and generally resolving these matters. This notwithstanding, we know that the spring sowing campaign is important not just for the agriculture sector, but also for the entire country. This is why I want to hear your assessment of how the work is going.
Agriculture Minister Nikolay Fedorov
: If we compare objectively this year’s situation to last year, the sowing campaign is already going full steam ahead because spring has arrived earlier this year than it did in 2014. As for the budget financing timetables, financing is also proceeding faster than it did last year, though the gap is lesser here and we have seen some volatility and zigzags in loans and financing from the regional and federal budgets. 
This is because the early spring means that the situation changes very fast. From one region to another we can have higher financing volumes than last year’s figures one week, and lower than last year’s figures the next week.
Overall though, budget support is very timely and the numbers are ahead of last year’s results by a several-fold figure. This year, we have transferred around 105 billion rubles to the regions to date, while last year the figure was 32 billion. More noteworthy and significant is that double the amount has been transferred to concrete agriculture sector businesses, concrete recipients, compared to last year. We see the same situation with regional budget financing in all the different areas.
Supplies of seeds are higher than they were last year. Particularly important is that the seed conditioning is nearly five percent higher than it was last year. This is extremely relevant and important because better conditioned seeds mean bigger harvests.
There are some risks this year. Failure of winter crops is higher than it was last year. In the Southern Federal District, fortunately, the winter crops have suffered less failure than was forecast, by nearly 500,000 hectares, which represents more than 8 percent. Compared to our worst forecasts, this represents approximately an additional 2 million tonnes of grain crops.
Another important point is that the farmers are adapting to the new conditions and learning how to make use of the anti-crisis measures. Last year, as you recall, we provided [interest rate] subsidies for loans for seasonal work in the fields to a value of 5.7 percent from the federal budget. This year, the Government made the decision in January to raise the federal budget compensation for agriculture sector businesses to 14.7 percent. The regional budgets add another 2–3 percent in compensation, and this means that the real interest rate for bank loans to the agriculture sector is from 3 percent to 6–7 percent.
Modernisation of agricultural equipment is another important area. Following your instruction, [agricultural equipment leasing company] Rosagroleasing’s capital was topped up by 2 billion rubles, which means the company can purchase and transfer on good terms around 4,000 items of agricultural equipment this year, for the most part tractors and combine harvesters. Also, an additional 1.9 billion rubles from the anti-crisis fund is being added to the money already allocated for bringing down the cost of agricultural equipment for farmers. This is an indirect form of support for our agricultural machinery manufacturing sector.
Vladimir Putin: What is the situation with fertilisers?
Nikolay Fedorov: The situation with fertilisers is good because the fertiliser producers’ association and the plants have all met us halfway here. We held many talks with them and they have agreed to offer a 30–33 percent discount on the most in-demand fertilisers. This is serious support.
I travel a lot around the regions. The governors and, most importantly, the farmers themselves, are happy with this decision. The fertiliser producers are respecting what you could call this ‘gentlemen’s agreement’.
The situation with petrol is also good. The price is around 3.6 percent lower than it was last year. But the situation with diesel fuel is not so good and the price has gone up. We are working with the Energy Ministry on this.
It seems to me that oil refineries are taking the logic that the farmers have no choice and will buy diesel whatever the price. I get this impression at times. There are some regions and companies that sometimes push the price up by 8–10 or even 20 percent.
We are in daily contact with the Energy Ministry on these matters.
Vladimir Putin: You started off with the financing situation and said that loans are being accorded at even better rates than last year. Unfortunately though, the information I have is different. I have figures that say that, on the contrary, the loan volume is down by nearly 25 percent on last year, and specific financial institutions are cutting back their loans: Rosselkhozbank by 30 percent, Sberbank by 6–8 percent, I think, and so on.
Nikolay Fedorov: These figures change every day, Mr President. The results change from one day to the next. The loan volumes we are talking about here are large and compensation is immediate, even ahead of last year’s results. At the moment, we are 1.2 percent ahead compared to last year’s level. Sberbank is ahead by 8 percent, and Rosselkhozbank is at the same level as last year.
We are monitoring the situation and working in daily contact with the banks, the regional governors and the farmers to make sure that there are no problems with loans. The loan terms are really very favourable. I can tell you that the agribusiness people at our meetings in the regions say that they did not expect such a level of budget compensation: 17.4 percent of the interest rate is subsidised by the budget in the case. 
Vladimir Putin: But how much have interest rates risen on average?
Nikolay Fedorov: Sberbank’s declared offer is for loans at interest rates of 19–22 percent, and Rosselkhozbank offers loans at 22–23.5 percent. We are checking this information and the reality corresponds more or less to the declared rates and to what is actually happening in the countries’ regions. But the real interest rate actually works out at from 3 to 6–7 percent.
Vladimir Putin: That’s taking into account the 17-percent subsidy.
Nikolay Fedorov: Yes, which is not less than it was last year, and in some cases is even better.
<…>
Topics
Agriculture
Persons
Fedorov Nikolay
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 30, 2015, 13:50
Text version