Events
Informal meeting of BRICS leaders
The leaders of the BRICS countries (Brazil, Russia, India, China, and South Africa) held an informal meeting on the sidelines of the G20 summit.
November 15, 2015
12:40
Antalya
5 of 7
Before the beginning of informal meeting of BRICS leaders.
In his remarks at the meeting, Vladimir Putin said that the BRICS
countries make a substantial contribution to developing global trade and industrial and technological cooperation.
Mr Putin said that the G20 summit’s agenda ties in well with the issues the BRICS group sees as priorities.
The President noted that the BRICS countries, like the G20 countries, are giving their utmost attention to the fight against terrorism.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues, friends,
It is a pleasure to greet the BRICS leaders here at our traditional meeting on the sidelines of the G20 summit.
This is a good opportunity for us to discuss and coordinate our approaches on key issues on the G20 agenda, review implementation of the agreements we reached at the BRICS July summit in Ufa, and map the directions for our future work.
Our countries make a big contribution to developing global trade and industrial and technological cooperation.
It is fitting that the G20 summit agenda ties in well with the issues the BRICS countries see as priorities for their work. These priorities include developing a genuinely open global economy, expanding and diversifying trade, transport, and technology exchanges, and reforming the global financial and currency system, including by giving the developing countries a bigger role in the IMF.
The Economic Partnership Strategy through to 2020, which the BRICS countries adopted at the summit in Ufa, aims to achieve precisely these objectives. I believe that this strategy’s comprehensive implementation will strengthen the BRICS economies’ complementarity, and enable us to make broader use of common resources and reserves to increase goods and investment flows.
The full-format launch of the BRICS New Development Bank and the Contingent Reserve Arrangement with total funds of $200 billion will help to make the global financial system more effective and reliable.
These new institutes will enable our group to carry out big strategically important cooperation programmes independently. The New Development Bank is making an active selection of technology and infrastructure projects and will start financing them very soon.
The five BRICS countries are working closely in other areas too. This year, we began our common cooperation efforts on energy efficiency, information security, and migration. We are developing our cooperation in science, culture, and education. Our countries are developing their inter-parliamentary ties, and contracts between trade unions, youth movements, and civil society.
The issues on the G20 agenda today include cooperation in fighting terrorism and resolving the refugee issue. The BRICS countries give these issues their utmost attention in their close foreign policy coordination. We are very much aware that we can combat the terrorist threat and help millions of people who have lost their homes only if the entire international community unites its efforts.
As for the terrorist threat, we all saw the horror of what happened just recently in Paris. Our sympathy goes out to all who were affected by these attacks, but we continue to call for a common effort in order to fight the terrorist threat effectively. At the same time, we must act in strict accordance with the United Nations Charter, follow international law, and respect each country’s sovereign rights and lawful interests. These basic principles were reflected in the Ufa Declaration the BRICS countries adopted at their summit this year.
Next year, India will take over the helm of the BRICS group, and China will preside in the G20. I want to wish our Indian and Chinese friends success in this work and say that you can always count on our active help and support, and I am sure the same goes for all of the BRICS partners.
Thank you for your attention.
See also
Media Note on the Informal Meeting of the BRICS Leaders on the Margins of the G20 Summit in Antalya
November 15, 2015
Additional
All news about G20 summit
November 15 − 16, 2015
Geography
Türkiye
Topics
Fight against terrorism
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 15, 2015, 12:40
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of China Xi Jinping
On the sidelines of the G20 summit in Antalya, Vladimir Putin met with President of the People’s Republic of China Xi Jinping. In particular, the Russian President expressed confidence that during its G20 Presidency next year, China will make a significant contribution to the development of international economic cooperation.
November 15, 2015
20:15
Antalya
2 of 4
At a meeting with President of China Xi Jinping.
President of China Xi Jinping
(retranslated): It is a pleasure to meet again with an old friend.
Thank you for your participation in our celebrations at the beginning of September. At the end of September, we participated in the anniversary session of the UN General Assembly. The views we expressed on foreign affairs and key international issues are largely similar and have widespread international resonance.
On October 31, a Russian plane crashed in Egypt, claiming the lives of all passengers and crew members. Like you, I am deeply saddened by this. I want to once again express my sincere condolences and words of solidarity to all the families and friends of the victims.
Whenever Russia faces difficulties or misfortunes, the Chinese people and I will always stand by your side, on the side of the Russian people.
From the end of the 1930s until the mid-1940s, the children of some early communist party leaders in China studied in the Soviet Union. Later, they participated in the Great Patriotic War. You and the Russian people have always cared for them.
Recently, the organising committee for the 70th anniversary of Victory in the Great Patriotic War presented them with special commemorative medals. They are priceless representatives of Chinese-Russian friendship. The Chinese government and I myself care for them.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President,
It is a pleasure for me too to meet with our good friends.
You recalled the recent anniversary session of the United Nations. I remember you said in your address that all countries on the global arena – rich and poor, big and small – should enjoy the same rights and are equal participants in international communication. These and other fundamental principles of international law definitely lie at the basis of our approaches to international affairs and they fully coincide.
Thank you very much for your sincere condolences in connection with the tragic crash of our aircraft and the death of Russian citizens.
As for the Great Patriotic War veterans, including Chinese, I am aware that many of them while in Moscow walked the streets and squares of Russia’s capital together with Russian citizens as part of the Immortal Regiment march carrying photographs of their relatives who took part in the fight against Nazism and Japanese militarism. They will always have our deep respect and attention.
I am very happy to have this opportunity to meet with you and to exchange information and views on the development of our bilateral relations.
I am certain that during its coming G20 Presidency, China will make a significant contribution to the development of international economic relations. I want to wish you success.
See also
All news about G20 summit
November 15 − 16, 2015
Geography
People's Republic of China
Topics
Foreign policy
G20
Persons
Xi Jinping
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 15, 2015, 20:15
Text version