Events
Gala concert by laureates of the XV International Tchaikovsky Competition
Vladimir Putin attended the gala concert by laureates of the XV International Tchaikovsky Competition at the Moscow Conservatory’s Grand Hall.
July 2, 2015
22:50
Moscow
This year the competition was timed to coincide with the 175th anniversary of the great Russian composer’s birth. Altogether, 623 competitors from 45 countries applied to take part in the competition.
1 of 4
Address at the gala concert by laureates of the XV International Tchaikovsky Competition.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ladies and gentlemen, friends,
I am sincerely happy to welcome the participants and guests of the XV International Tchaikovsky Competition.
For over half a century now this competition has served as a bright and recognisable symbol of Russian culture, occupying its rightful place among the leading music competitions in the world that have a unique influence on the development of the performing arts. The principal mission of our competition is to discover new names for the world and to offer this prestigious stage to young but already accomplished musicians.
The piano, cello and violin players and vocalists who took part in this competition have an enormous potential, and this has been an exciting and often unpredictable artistic competition that took place in an atmosphere of emotional tension.
No less important is the fantastic interest the competition has drawn. This year the enthusiasm of both the performers and the audience was very similar to that of decades ago. This, in our view, is evidence of the deep spiritual need millions upon millions of people have – both those who were present at the concert halls in Moscow and St Petersburg and those who watched the performances on television. This strong interest and intensity of feelings and emotions go to show how much music is appreciated here. The Tchaikovsky Competition is loved and respected both in Russia and beyond it.
At the gala concert by laureates of the XV International Tchaikovsky Competition.
This year it attracted special interest also because it was dedicated to the 175th birth anniversary of Pyotr Tchaikovsky. The work of this great composer, loved all over the world, unites peoples of all countries and asserts the great creative power of art and the inseparable link between Russian and world culture. This competition plays a very important role in the spiritual unification of peoples.
Friends,
The title of a Tchaikovsky Competition laureate is one of the most respected. I would like to congratulate all the winners and wish you further success, which you will undoubtedly achieve. Your skill and talent will open up the doors of leading concert halls and theatres. The revival of the competition’s tradition, namely tours by the laureates, is certain to help in this.
This year there was a record number of applications – 623 from 45 countries. Clearly, this is the result of the competition organisers’ hard work. The organising committee worked efficiently throughout these past four years. They will not praise themselves, while I can and will do it with pleasure. I would like to give special mention to the contribution made by Valery Gergiev, who has done so much for the laureates’ further promotion.
I sincerely thank the jury, which this year was unique in its composition. It includes famous musicians from many countries and it is a pleasure to see among them former laureates of this competition.
I would like to express my gratitude to our best orchestras and outstanding conductors. Your professionalism and performing perfection not only support the contestants, but also create the unique emotional atmosphere of this competition.
This was a very responsible time for all of you alike – the organisers, the contestants and the jury. You have done everything possible to turn this competition into an event in the world of performing arts that meets the highest requirements of music lovers.
The Tchaikovsky Competition has always been Russia’s pride, one of the most recognised and respected competitions in the world. Thank you all very much.
Thank you for your attention.
Topics
Culture
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 2, 2015, 22:50
Text versionEvents
Working meeting with Yaroslavl Region Governor Sergei Yastrebov
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Yaroslavl Region Governor Sergei Yastrebov to consider the social and economic situation in the region.
July 2, 2015
18:40
1 of 2
With Yaroslavl Region Governor Sergei Yastrebov.
The Governor reported to the President that in 2014 the region’s GDP went up by 1.9 percent, industrial growth amounted to 104 percent and housing construction increased by 42 percent compared to 2013. Many new production facilities have been built, particularly in the machine-building and pharmaceutical industries. The Presidential Executive Orders of May 2012 are being implemented.
The conversation also touched upon the construction of kindergartens and providing adequate housing to people living in substandard homes.
Geography
Yaroslavl Region
Topics
Regions
Persons
Yastrebov Sergei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 2, 2015, 18:40
Text version