Events
Second forum of Russian and Belarusian regions
Vladimir Putin and President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko took part in the second Forum of Russian and Belarusian regions.
September 18, 2015
14:40
Sochi
2 of 7
Second Forum of Russian and Belarusian regions.
The forum’s theme was The Union State’s Industrial Policy: Common Approaches and Regional Aspects. Participants included the heads of the Russian Federation Council and State Duma, the Republic Council and House of Representatives of Belarus, the Union State Standing Committee, heads of key ministries and agencies, regional executive and legislative heads from both countries, and representatives from big business and public and scientific organisations. The last forum took place in June 2014 in Minsk.
After the plenary session, Mr Putin and Mr Lukashenko visited an industrial exhibition held as part of the forum.
Speech at forum’s plenary session
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen,
It is a pleasure to welcome all of the Forum’s participants to Sochi. This meeting between the heads of our two countries’ regions plays an unquestionably important role in developing our bilateral cooperation and facilitating broader direct contacts between our societies, business and public organisations, and our citizens. Present here today are members of our parliaments, heads of ministries and agencies, and business representatives – everyone who is directly involved in developing our ties in a spirit of friendship, good-neighbourliness and mutually advantageous cooperation.
Belarus is our strategic partner and close ally. Our bilateral cooperation is multifaceted, comprehensive, and developing steadily in all areas. At the meeting with our ministry and agency heads just now, we discussed the plans ahead and what has been done up to now.
Russia is Belarus’ biggest economic partner. Our market accounts for nearly half of all Belarus’ foreign trade. The unfavourable foreign economic situation had an impact on our trade growth last year, of course, but let me note that although there was a noticeable drop expressed in dollar terms, in ruble terms our trade actually grew. Overall, the trade flows have not diminished.
I am sure that it is within our ability to put our trade back on a growth track for all indicators. Carrying out large investment projects will help greatly here. An accumulated total of $6.3 billion in Russian capital has been invested in Belarus. This is 40 percent of our total investment in the CIS countries. More than 3,500 joint enterprises have been established across the range of economic sectors.
We are carrying out around 40 programmes through our work in the Union State. We are developing cutting-edge technology for the space sector, satellite navigation, geological prospecting, and agriculture. Financing for the Union State’s budget has remained at its full planned level this year and comes to 4.8 billion rubles.
We work together to deepen the integration process in the Eurasian region and improve the legal base. Our efforts aim to provide the necessary conditions for our producers to intensify their work on the domestic and foreign markets. I think that we and our Belarusian colleagues have succeeded in building a solid cooperation infrastructure. As I said at the start, interregional cooperation is one of the main components. Of Russia’s 85 regions, 80 have direct ties with their colleagues in Belarus. Tyumen, Moscow, Smolensk regions and St Petersburg are among the regions cooperating most actively with Belarusian partners. The two capital cities, Moscow and Minsk, have longstanding strong ties and work closely together. Around 270 interregional agreements have been concluded in a wide variety of areas. New agreements are regularly added to the interregional legal base. Close to 20 new agreements have been signed on this forum’s sidelines.
Belarusian goods and products enjoy a reputation for high quality on the Russian market. Belarusian trading houses and chains operate in many large Russian cities. Our countries’ regions have built up solid experience in industrial cooperation and have established strong technology chains in machine-building, petrochemicals, pharmaceuticals and a number of other sectors. Partners in Altai Territory, Bryansk Region and companies from Sverdlovsk Region, who are taking part in modernising the thermal power stations in Minsk and Grodno, stand out particularly. Companies in Penza Region are assembling specialised equipment for vehicles using Belarusian components.
A centre engaged in developing new-generation radio-electronic devices is at work in St Petersburg. We can make more active use of the fruits of these efforts to find and develop internal reserves for economic growth and diversification, and make ourselves less dependent on foreign components and suppliers. As you know, we are already engaged in this work. The Russian Government has developed a comprehensive import replacement programme covering nearly all sectors and envisioning the launch of more than 2,500 projects.
But let me note at the same time that this import replacement we talk about is not some kind of fetish. It is primarily about the most important technology, dual-purpose technology. I have spoken about this before, but let me say publicly once more before this audience that import replacement as we see it, the import replacement we are pursuing, is about developing high-tech production here in our own country. This is our aim. This is something we would have had to do in any case, no matter what the situation. We are doing it now at a faster pace and with double effect.
Russia passed a new law on industrial policy last December. It provides for long-term guarantees for investors carrying out business projects, tax breaks, preferential loans, and information and consultation support. These measures will help business to cut costs, spread new technology, and raise investment for modernising industrial facilities. In total, the Russian Government plans to allocate 2.5 trillion rubles for these purposes.
The Russian Industrial Development Fund is producing good results. Its resources go towards spreading the use of advanced technology in Russia’s industry. Moscow Region, Sverdlovsk Region and Tatarstan are among the leaders in terms of the number of applications.
The regional investment rating will play an important part. It is formed on the basis of evaluations of the business climate in each region made by the business community itself, which is particularly important.
Based on an analysis of business community views, we can systematise their evaluations and offer the regions the best practices for business support at work in Russia’s different regions.
Let me assure you that Russia is ready to work as closely as possible with partners from Belarus in all areas of industrial policy. I think this would benefit us all. It is easier to raise the competitiveness of both Russian and Belarusian goods and promote them on other countries’ markets if we work together.
I discussed this just before with Mr Lukashenko. We share the view that our common goal is to ensure our economies’ steady growth, make them more effective, improve the business climate and attract investment, especially private investment. We hope that the Forum of Russian and Belarusian Regions will make a substantial contribution to reaching these goals.
I want to thank you not just for listening to me with attention, but for the work you have done over the last two years, and most importantly, for everything you are doing in your daily work to develop Russian-Belarusian ties.
Thank you very much.
See also
Meeting with President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko
September 18, 2015
Geography
Belarus
Topics
Foreign policy
Industry
Persons
Lukashenko Alexander
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 18, 2015, 14:40
Text versionEvents
1000 days remain until the 2018 FIFA World Cup begins
Speaking via video linkup, Vladimir Putin greeted people attending a ceremony launching the countdown from 1000 days until the 2018 FIFA Football World Cup begins in Russia.
September 18, 2015
12:20
1000 days remain until the 2018 FIFA World Cup begins
The President said he is sure that the 2018 World Cup in Russia will go down in world sports history and promised that Russia will do everything needed to be a good host for the competing teams and their fans.
The ceremony launching the countdown took place on Red Square in Moscow, which today is hosting International Youth Football Tournament matches in which youth teams from Russia, Germany, Spain and Italy are competing.
The 2018 World Cup matches will take place from June 14 to July 15 at 12 stadiums in 11 Russian cities: Moscow, St Petersburg, Kazan, Nizhny Novgorod, Saransk, Kaliningrad, Volgograd, Yekaterinburg, Samara, Sochi, and Rostov-on-Don. Competition will open at Moscow’s Luzhniki Stadium on June 14, 2018.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon.
It is from all my heart that I greet everyone taking part in today’s ceremony, and all footballs fans and lovers of what it would be no exaggeration to call the world’s number one sport.
You have gathered at the very heart of our capital, Moscow, on Red Square, to launch the symbolic countdown to the start of the football world cup.
Russia will be hosting the world cup for the first time ever, and now, exactly 1000 days remain before the start of this marvellous event.
Russia will be hosting the world cup for the first time ever, and now, exactly 1000 days remain before the start of this marvellous event. I am sure that this time will fly by rapidly, all the more so as there are many interesting and memorable events lined up on the road to the world cup’s start.
The first of these events is the International Youth Football Tournament, which will begin in just a few minutes on Red Square. I can already see the participants — youth aged under 16, from four countries. They have every chance of being able to come back to Russia in 2018 as members of their countries’ national teams.
I wish them success in their sporting achievements and hope they will set an example for their fellow youth and for everyone who chooses sport and a healthy, active lifestyle. Indeed, encouraging as many people as possible to take up sport is the main aim of big international sports events such as the Olympics and the various world championships, including the football world cup.
5 of 5
At a ceremony launching the countdown from 1000 days until the 2018 FIFA Football World Cup begins in Russia. Photo: TASS
As you know, Russia takes a very responsible attitude towards hosting such events. The preparations for the world cup are in full swing in the 11 Russian cities that will host world cup matches. We will do everything necessary to receive the world’s best 32 football teams and give them the conditions they need to demonstrate their skill and give their millions of fans around the world the gift of real top-level football.
Truly memorable moments await those who come to Russia to support their teams. Not only will they be there in the stadiums to watch the world’s best footballers, they will also have the chance to get to know Russian culture and history and taste our country’s traditional hospitality and warmth.
We always love receiving visitors and we promise to put on a magnificent sporting celebration that I am sure will go down in the history of world sport and world football and, most importantly, will bring the large and happy international football family even closer together.
I wish you good luck and all the very best! Until we meet again in Russia in 2018! I wish you success!
I wish the young athlets success in today’s competition too. All the very best!
Topics
Sport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 18, 2015, 12:20
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko
Vladimir Putin met with President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko before the start of the second Forum of Russian Belarusian Regions’ plenary session.
September 18, 2015
13:45
Sochi
1 of 3
Meeting with President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, friends, let me wish you a warm welcome, this time to Sochi.
As you know, we have established with many of our partners the excellent cooperation mechanism of contacts at interregional level, and we try to support these efforts. Mr Lukashenko proposed that we support this kind of work between Russian and Belarusian regions too and get the relevant regional bodies involved. I think this was a good decision and we should therefore thank this meeting’s initiators and organisers.
We will use this opportunity to discuss our bilateral affairs too, of course. I think that our bilateral relations are developing very well. There are certainly some issues that require our particular attention and thorough examination, but on the whole, we are achieving the objectives we have set for our cooperation, and this is very good to see.
We are aware of the current economic problems in the world and in our own countries, of course. We understand what is happening and know what needs to be done. This is not always such an easy task, of course, but we will continue pressing forward steadily and I have no doubt that we will overcome all the difficulties before us.
We are very pleased to see you. Once again, I wish you welcome.
President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko: Thank you, Mr President.
To be honest, this is far from the first time that we are meeting to discuss the problems that arise and the positive aspects of our relations. We do indeed understand the events taking place around us. We have enough problems of our own too, and this is why we meet at regional events such as this.
Let me say that whenever regional governors visit Belarus, I always meet with them personally and ask about what we can do together. In general, there is always plenty for which I can thank the Russian regions.
In earlier days, it was the Russian regions that saved the relations between our two countries. Were it not for our cooperation with the Russian regions, it would have been very difficult for us to maintain the kind of ties we had when we were all part of the Soviet Union. We went through difficult times after the Soviet Union’s collapse, and so I personally and Belarus as a country have particular respect for relations between Belarus and the Russian regions. Our trade with some of the Russian regions is higher than our trade with individual countries. Russia as a whole accounts for around half of Belarus’ foreign trade. This makes our relations particularly valuable and important.
I want to thank you and your colleagues for this event’s excellent organisation. It has received wide coverage in the media. I saw the opening today and saw the big role that the heads of our parliaments’ upper houses played. Watching this event, I thought to myself how wonderful it is for our parliaments, for the upper houses, that they have found an important, concrete subject to tackle and are working on it with such enthusiasm.
I therefore want to thank you, your colleagues, and the governors for this well-organised event. I think it will become a regular event.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
I cannot help but recall that soon, on October 11, Belarus will hold a presidential election. This is always an important and not so easy moment in any country’s life. I know that the OSCE monitoring group has already started its work.
Alexander Lukashenko: So has the group from the CIS.
Vladimir Putin: There are Russian monitors present in both groups. I am sure the election will be organised well and will measure up in full to our countries’ and international standards. Let me wish you success.
Alexander Lukashenko: Thank you.
<…>
Geography
Belarus
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Lukashenko Alexander
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 18, 2015, 13:45
Text version