Events
Meeting with President of Azerbaijan Ilham Aliyev
Vladimir Putin had a meeting with President of the Republic of Azerbaijan Ilham Aliyev. The discussion covered bilateral relations and international affairs.
June 13, 2015
12:50
Baku
1 of 5
With President of Azerbaijan Ilham Aliyev.
Russian-Azerbaijani talks were held in several formats: first, a meeting with the participation of foreign ministers and foreign policy advisers, then an exchange between the national delegations, and finally the two Presidents had a private conversation.
* * *
President of Azerbaijan Ilham Aliyev
: Mr Putin, it gives me great pleasure to welcome you to Azerbaijan.
Yesterday Russia marked its national holiday. I would like to congratulate you and all Russians on this day and to note that here in Azerbaijan we highly value the fact that you came to this country on Russia Day. We see this is a sign of friendship and a high level of cooperation between our two states.
See also
Visit to Azerbaijan
June 12 − 13, 2015
Indeed, relations between our two countries are developing dynamically, and we have been raising the bar continuously. You and I meet rather regularly – in Moscow, Baku and other places. Our ministers also communicate regularly. We are maintaining an active dialogue in every area, our inter-parliamentary ties are growing stronger and we have good results in economic cooperation. Despite the difficulties in the world economy, we have managed to boost the potential of our economic cooperation. The humanitarian sphere has always been exemplary in our relations, I would say, and we are multiplying our achievements.
In other words, the level of relations between our countries makes it possible to actively cooperate, enhance our relations and look into the future with optimism.
Once again, welcome to Azerbaijan.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much, Mr Aliyev.
On my part, I would like to congratulate you on the opening of the first ever European Games last night. I must say it was a very impressive sight: beautiful, talented and worthy of this major sports event. I have to say that those who worked to prepare this event have done an excellent job.
Despite the economic turbulence, trade between our countries has been growing: last year it went up by about 12 percent, I believe, while in the first quarter of this year by almost 6 percent.
I share your assessment of the level and nature of our interstate relations. I would like to note that despite the economic turbulence, trade between our countries has been growing: last year it went up by about 12 percent, I believe, while in the first quarter of this year by almost 6 percent. This generally goes to show that Azerbaijani businesses are taking advantage of the situation developing on our markets, including the food market. I would like to stress that we are happy about this. Moreover, it would be even better if this cooperation develops further; we are interested in it.
We are making significant efforts to diversify our relations, and there is every precondition for this. We will discuss this in detail today.
Thank you very much for your invitation.
Ilham Aliyev: Thank you.
Geography
Azerbaijan
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Aliyev Ilham
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 13, 2015, 12:50
Text version