Events
Meeting with International Olympic Committee President Thomas Bach
Vladimir Putin met with International Olympic Committee President Thomas Bach.
February 13, 2015
18:45
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
2 of 3
Meeting with President of the International Olympic Committee Thomas Bach.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, allow me to welcome you.
I cannot fail to recall your support during the preparations and hosting of last year’s Olympics. Now, the day our Olympic Games opened has become Winter Sports Day; we are marking this memorable date. And I suppose this is one of the most important legacies of the Olympic Games: that ultimately, our mass sports are developing at a faster rate than before the Olympics.
I am very happy to see you. We agreed that we will maintain contact with the aim of promoting the Olympic ideals, the Olympic movement, and sports overall.
Welcome!
President of the International Olympic Committee Thomas Bach (retranslated): Thank you very much, Mr President! It is a great pleasure and honour to see you again. And now, exactly one year since the opening of the Winter Olympic Games in Sochi, I want to congratulate you on this outstanding success.
These Winter Olympic Games are the best memory for athletes, international Olympic committees from 205 nations, and all who were involved. And we strongly believe that this event will significantly promote the development of mass sports in your nation. And in this respect, I would like to once again congratulate and thank you for giving an important place to sports in your nation; it plays an important role in education.
And I am confident that the events that were held in Sochi, which left us with such happy memories, have created all the conditions for holding other athletic events – world championships, world cups and international competitions – in your nation in the future.
I would like to once again wish you success and thank you for the opportunity to speak with you about further cooperation in more detail.
<…>
Topics
Sport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 13, 2015, 18:45
Text versionEvents
Meeting with economic experts
Vladimir Putin held a meeting with economic experts.
February 13, 2015
15:40
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 2
Meeting with economic experts.
Attention focused in particular on implementing the Plan for Sustainable Economic Development and Social Stability in 2015.
Taking part in the meeting were Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev
, Deputy Prime Minister Igor Shuvalov
, Presidential Aide Andrei Belousov
, Finance Minister Anton Siluanov
, Economic Development Minister Alexei Ulyukayev
, Governor of the Central Bank Elvira Nabiullina
, Sberbank CEO and Chairman of the Board German Gref
, Central Bank Board of Directors member Sergei Ignatyev
, and Dean of Liberal Arts and Sciences at St Petersburg State University Alexei Kudrin
.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
Here today are current and former Government members and heads of the Central Bank, people with very sound understanding of the events taking place and experience in solving the kinds of problems that our economy faces today. I see today’s meeting as part of the broader discussion on the next steps to stabilise and develop Russia’s economy.
As you know, the Government has begun implementing the plan that was drafted and approved, and that addresses precisely all of these issues. Overall, the agenda is clear of course. We discuss these matters all the time. Our tasks include diversifying the economy, creating conditions for faster growth, creating the right environment, improving management at every level of power, from the very top and right down to the municipal level, stabilising the currency, and of course keeping our macroeconomic indicators on course. All of this is clear, only it is often not so clear what exactly we should do at particular moments in order to actually realise all of these things in practice. So let’s discuss this in more depth now. 
We all know each other well and each of us, each in our place, has an adequate understanding of the situation. Let’s exchange views and take a look at what we must do and what decisions we need to take to make sure that the Government plan I referred to does not just stay on paper but becomes a real tool for reaching the set objectives. 
Please, go ahead.
<…>
Topics
Economy and finance
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 13, 2015, 15:40
Text version