Events
Meeting with Prosecutor General Yury Chaika
During the meeting with Russia’s Prosecutor General Yury Chaika, Vladimir Putin focussed on the organisation of inspections of small and medium-sized businesses.
August 11, 2015
14:15
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 3
Meeting with Prosecutor General Yury Chaika.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon.
Mr Chaika, I would like to discuss with you today the organisation of inspections. The prosecutor’s office plays a very important role here. I know you have some additional proposals regarding the organisation of such inspections for small and medium-sized businesses.
Prosecutor General Yury Chaika
: Yes, Mr President, late last year you suggested imposing a moratorium on scheduled inspections by controlling agencies of small businesses with a good reputation. A corresponding law was passed and has already come into force. However, as we were drawing up plans for inspections in 2015, we already took into account this proposal of yours and ruled out planned inspections of small businesses that had not committed any major administrative violations in the past 3 years. We also removed 12,000 agricultural producers from the inspection list – these are mainly small businesses.
We had a meeting at the Prosecutor General’s Office with representatives of controlling agencies, where we recommended that they draw up their inspection plans for 2016 proceeding from the law that has come into force and bearing in mind the moratorium imposed on planned inspections of small businesses. This resolution was posted on our website and we have already issued corresponding instructions to prosecutor’s offices in the regions.
I have to say that the law is a very timely one. Small businesses are subjected to a large number of inspections, and a vast majority of them are honest people who are actually creating the national product. We will continue to operate in keeping with this decision, Mr President.
Vladimir Putin: Ok.
<…>
Topics
Support for business
Persons
Chaika Yury
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 11, 2015, 14:15
Text version