Events
Active citizens’ forum Community
Vladimir Putin spoke at the active citizens’ forum Community, which has brought together state officials with representatives of business, non-profit organisations, volunteer movements, and youth and student associations.
November 4, 2015
17:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 7
Speech at the active citizens’ forum Community.
The two-day forum, organised by the Russian Civic Chamber and timed to mark National Unity Day, began its work on November 3. It includes several different discussion platforms on different themes, in particular, financing citizens’ initiatives, public monitoring, interaction between the non-profit sector and the state authorities, and interethnic relations.
 Regional-level Community forums took place in the nine federal districts earlier, where participants discussed development of the non-profit sector in the regions, the biggest issues and possible solutions, and support for the most effective civic activeness practices.
 The discussions’ results will be summed up in the forum’s final resolution, which will be included in the Civic Chamber’s annual report on the state of civil society in Russia.
* * *
 President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends,
We are meeting today on a holiday occasion – National Unity Day. I think that when this date was first made a national holiday, many people in Russia, myself included, thought back then, “Another holiday, why this one, what, are we short of holidays, short of chances to gather together round the table with friends and celebrate?”
But now, I see clearly and understand well just why we need this holiday. It is important for any country and people, even more so one as complex and diverse as Russia with its many peoples and religions, to stop once a year and think back over all that we have been through, all the events, all of our triumphs and victories, and also our defeats and our tragedies.
If we look back at history, not so far back from our present day, we see that when we stood together, we always achieved memorable victories, and when we were divided, we faced tragedy, disintegration, disasters, and the suffering of millions of our citizens, and we found ourselves at the mercy of false values, criminal ambitions and national catastrophe. This is why, despite our great diversity, it is essential that we have a sense of ourselves as a united nation.
Unity, of course, does not mean uniformity of thinking and views on country’s problems, future and development. It is important to remember just one thing, namely, that no matter how intense the debate may be at times, at its base should always be love for our homeland and a desire to make our country stronger, more powerful and effective, and give our people better lives.
It is not a simple thing, of course, to see clearly between personal or group ambitions, and aspirations for the good of all society and our entire people and country.
Our country has travelled a very difficult road since the early 1990s. Civil society and public organisations have travelled this road together with the country. Essentially, if we move away from scholarly definitions, they are the country and the people. What is a public organisation, after all? What is civil society? They are the country. They are society. They have various organisational structures of their own, but together, they represent the country. Of course, it is people with a particularly active stance in life who stand out in the country. Some of you are here today. I greet you and congratulate you on this holiday.
At the foundation of public organisations’ work, of course, is the desire to improve our lives and help people. At the centre of this work is the Civic Chamber, which is involved in this work in daily ongoing fashion and is also involved in organising events like this forum, of course. I want to thank the Civic Chamber members for this and say that we will continue to support public and non-profit organisations in their various areas of activity. This includes political organisations and organisations with a social focus.
As you know, last year, we allocated decent funding for this work, nearly 6 billion rubles in grant funding, of which a little more than 4 billion is federal funding. I think though that this is already insufficient today, especially as concerns the socially-focused public and non-profit organisations, which often have a better understanding and keener awareness of the people’s needs and demands than do the state or even local authorities. They are often more subtle and effective in their responses to problems, and I think they could do a more effective job of spending state money allocated for this work.
A solid sum has been earmarked for social support in 2016: nearly 250 billion rubles, slightly more than 236 billion rubles. Of course, we need to involve the socially-oriented public organisations that have proved their effectiveness and are capable of resolving the problems the state and municipal authorities face today. I think that we could put these socially-focused organisations in a separate group, select the most suitable ones and confirm their competency, and then open up access for them to the financial resources the state authorities have earmarked for social purposes.
Friends, I am absolutely sure that you and your colleagues will do everything you can to help people live better, no matter what the financing, because what you do, you do at your hearts’ call.
Congratulations! I wish you the very best! Success to you all!
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 4, 2015, 17:30
Text versionEvents
State decorations were awarded to foreign citizens in a ceremony at the Kremlin
Vladimir Putin presented state decorations to a number of foreign citizens in a ceremony at the Kremlin. Ten people were awarded decorations for their outstanding services to strengthening peace, friendship, cooperation and mutual understanding between nations.
November 4, 2015
15:50
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 14
Speech at the presentation of Russian state decorations to foreign citizens.
The award ceremony marks National Unity Day. Mr Putin also hosted a reception at the Kremlin to mark this national holiday.
The award recipients include citizens of China, Turkey, Venezuela, Azerbaijan, Egypt, Republic of the Congo, Tajikistan, India, Armenia and Spain.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends. Congratulations on National Unity Day!
Russia celebrated this national holiday for the first time 10 years ago. Its establishment and its meaning are about our people’s invincible unity and great responsibility for our country’s fate. These feelings of respect, pride and love of our homeland are the most solid foundation of Russia’s statehood. It is these sincere feelings towards Russia that unite our country’s many different ethnic groups and give us the confidence and strength that only truly devoted citizens can give their homeland. This has been proven by our history, which is literally imbued with this loyalty of our people towards their country.
Today’s holiday also commemorates events that go back many centuries now but remind us of the great civic feat of people of different social and ethnic groups, who put an end to the tragedy of the Time of Troubles and ended their country’s division, betrayal and humiliation. The people decided Russia’s fate, defended its independence, cleansed it of infighting, discord and pretenders, restored lawful power and paved the way to rebuilding a powerful sovereign state.
This and many other feats by our people to save our country were and are sacred examples of genuine patriotism. They are an example of how we should understand and defend our country’s national interests, the important values of human rights, freedom and democracy. At times like ours today, we are acutely aware of the significance of our historical road and of our spiritual and cultural uniqueness.
 The great Russian thinker Nikolai Berdyayev, for example, said that “Russia is the Great East-West, an entire huge world in itself.” Essentially, he spoke of Russia’s mission as a strong and independent country that would defend truth and justice and that seeks to bring a spirit of harmony and partnership to relations between people of different cultures and traditions.
 Understanding of this historic role forms the base of our people’s identity and in many ways defines our ideals, views and outlook. It shapes our present and even more so our future. We are always open to economic and humanitarian cooperation and to working together to reach common solutions in the fight against modern threats. I would like to express my gratitude to our people, who sincerely, honestly and openly support Russia’s aspirations and actions.
 Present here today are many of our friends from different countries. I want to thank you for your dedicated efforts to preserve the wealth of Russian culture and language, and for your educational work, which unites people in different countries and continents. It is with great pleasure that I will personally present to you these well-deserved high state decorations.
 Once again, I congratulate everyone in Russia on today’s holiday. I congratulate everyone present in this hall, and all of our compatriots abroad. Your fond feelings for Russia always warm our hearts.
 Happy holiday!
Topics
Culture
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 4, 2015, 15:50
Text versionEvents
Visit to an exhibition on Russia’s history in the first half of the 20th century
Vladimir Putin visited the 14th Church and Public Forum and Exhibition Orthodox Russia. My History. From Great Upheavals to the Great Victory. The exhibition runs at the Manezh exhibition hall on November 4–22.
November 4, 2015
14:15
Moscow
1 of 11
Speaking at the opening of the 14th Church and Public Forum and Exhibition Orthodox Russia. My History. From Great Upheavals to the Great Victory. With Patriarch of Moscow and All Russia Kirill.
The exhibition is based on historical evidence and documents from various government archives and includes ‘live’ maps, books, animation and short films on Russia’s history from 1914 to 1945. The exhibition was organised by the Moscow Patriarchate, the Ministry of Culture and the Moscow City Government.
 * * *
 President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Your Holiness, friends, I congratulate you on the opening of this latest exhibition in the Orthodox Russia cycle, timed to commemorate National Unity Day.
 This educational project is the result of a big joint effort by the Russian Orthodox Church and leading research organisations, archives and libraries, and is evidence of the growing deep and real interest in Russia’s history and in our spiritual roots and origins. I want to thank sincerely the organisers and participants for their work.
This extensive exhibition’s central theme is the period from 1914 to 1945, a time of world wars, revolutions and upheavals. It was a time when old foundations shattered, destinies crumbled and millions of people became the victims of cruel social experiments.
But even in those harsh and difficult conditions, people lived, created, made discoveries and achieved breakthroughs, and always remembered what was most important when our homeland was in danger. They understood the importance of unity and standing together, and drew strength from timeless, eternal values and lofty moral ideals. Ideological stereotypes faded before the real historical Russia.
Love for the Motherland was the strongest and all-vanquishing emotion. It inspired, helped and saved. This was how our people came through the 1941–1945 Great Patriotic War and not just survived, but preserved and strengthened our statehood and brought peace and liberation to the enslaved peoples of Europe.
This year, we celebrated our big national holiday – the 70th anniversary of the Great Victory. This victory was an event of tremendous historical and moral importance, a source of unquestionable pride and respect, and the symbol of our people’s heroism. This is our history. It is our duty to know this history, respect it in full and without passing anything over in silence, to learn and remember its lessons, and respect and value this past experience.
I am sure that this exhibition, which is based on authentic evidence and documents and makes use of the latest technology, will be of broad interest to people of all ages, young people too. This is all the more true as the exhibition will take place not just here in the capital, but in other Russian cities too.
It is important that visitors and guests will have a chance to take a new look at well-known events and facts and form their own views and impressions. Once again, I congratulate you on the opening of this exhibition. I wish you success and all the very best.
Happy holiday!
See also
Vladimir Putin laid flowers at the monument to Kuzma Minin and Dmitry Pozharsky on Red Square
November 4, 2015
Topics
Culture
Religion
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 4, 2015, 14:15
Text version