Events
Meeting with Alexei Mordashov
Severstal Management CEO Alexei Mordashov reported to the President on PAO Severstal's performance in 2014, the companies' potential for development on the domestic market and the implementation of social programmes.
January 19, 2015
14:20
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
With CEO of Severstal Management Alexei Mordashov.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Mordashov, my colleagues and I were just saying that you have over 50,000 workers at Severstal, while overall, the group employs more than 90,000 people. This is an enormous workforce, and indeed, the companies have a long history. Of course, a great deal depends on the organisation of production, but the labour traditions also have great significance. In this respect, I would like to talk about your achievements last year and the group’s future plans.
I know you are also carrying out major social projects in various areas.
CEO of JSC Severstal Management ALEXEI MORDASHOV: Mr President, to start, thank you for finding the time in your busy schedule to see me. Thank you very much.
Indeed, first and foremost, the results in our company are achieved by people who put a great deal of effort and time into the success of Severstal. Overall, we feel we are developing well and are looking forward to the future with optimism. Last year was a good year for all our companies, especially for Severstal itself – the primary and largest company in our group, employing the biggest number of workers at over 50,000.
Last year, we increased our production volume slightly: steel production went up by about 2 percent. Overall, we achieved good indicators, you could say, the world’s leading indicators in terms of such important factors as production profitability and net debt volume. At the same time, we did a great deal of work abroad, but came to the conclusion that our future lies primarily in Russia, in the Russian market, and our production here is most efficient. We sold the North American division and are focusing almost entirely on our Russian assets. This has led to a fairly high profit level.
We have taken on many social programmes. To continue the topic on which you chaired a State Council meeting in Cherepovets recently, we are persevering in our efforts to help children and fight homelessness. We have a large Road to Home programme, which we are developing in the regions where we have a presence. Just before the New Year, we held a meeting with the Governor to look at the outcomes of this programme. We were happy to see that the percentage of homeless children in Cherepovets is half of the national average. In other words, I think the programme is providing significant results.
We are continuing these efforts. For example, just recently, we signed a new collective agreement for three years where we stipulated payments to women who are on leave to care for children aged 18 months to three years, wherein they receive benefits of 4,000 rubles per month, etc.
We are continuing to invest in production. Last year, we launched a long product mill in Balakovo, Saratov Region, which produces one million tonnes of rolled steel per year, worth about $800 million. It has now reached its designed capacity.
Overall, we are continuing to invest. Last year, we invested 32 billion rubles [about $500 million]. This year, we expect to invest 30 billion rubles. We are reconstructing mills in Cherepovets: a hot rolling mill and a cold rolling mill. In other words, overall, we are looking to the future with confidence.
We believe our future lies primarily in the Russian market, which in our view has good potential. Right now, there is a lot of talk about the difficult times and so on. But I think that what is happening now, in spite of some serious difficulties, also represents good potential for growth. In other words, what is happening is a serious correction to the macroeconomic indicators, but on the other hand, these events are making national production more competitive.
Of course, we will probably have to go through a difficult period of several months while everything stabilises and new conditions take hold, but when they do, I am certain we will have new growth opportunities. Therefore, these opportunities are at the heart of all our efforts at Severstal and in our companies as Power Machines, which will also focus primarily on the domestic Russian market. They have a portfolio of orders for three years to come. At the same time, we are developing new types of products, actively working on designing products for our key clients, such as RusHydro, manufacturing turbines, generators for Rosatom, and trying to develop a low speed turboset for nuclear power plants, etc.
The SVEZA company, which is Russia’s leader in plywood production with six plywood mills, is also investing and developing. We are considering a project to build a pulp mill in the Russian Federation.
Thus, we see serious potential in our nation and are working actively.
Vladimir Putin: What is the average salary at Severstal?
Alexei Mordashov: It’s 54,000 rubles at Severstal, but it’s lower at SVEZA, which is based in the regions, so the average there is 34,000. At Power Machines, it is about 60,000, since they are mainly working in large cities.
Vladimir Putin: How do you assess the current state of the global markets?
Alexei Mordashov: The state varies, of course, but for the most part, in our industries, there is a certain excess capacity everywhere, which was built in recent years in anticipation of growth in Asian markets, first and foremost, China, which means a certain increase in competition. But overall, for us, it means we need to be competitive. And what is happening in Russia today largely helps us overcome all the existing difficulties.
Vladimir Putin: It is certainly quite timely that you are investing in modernisation.
Alexei Mordashov: It is very important to expand production, to develop human resources first and foremost, to prevent unreasonable investments, maintain a reasonable level of debt (thankfully, all our companies have a fairly low level of debt) and have high profitability. Nearly all our companies are among the leaders in profitability within their sectors, globally and in Russia.
Vladimir Putin: Good. Thank you.
<…>
Topics
Industry
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 19, 2015, 14:20
Text versionEvents
Working meeting with Deputy Prime Minister and Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoy to the FEFD Yury Trutnev
Deputy Prime Minister and Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoy to the Far Eastern Federal District Yury Trutnev reported to Vladimir Putin on the socioeconomic situation in the Far Eastern regions.
January 19, 2015
13:15
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
With Deputy Prime Minister and Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoy to the Far Eastern Federal District Yury Trutnev.
Mt Putin and Mr Trutnev
also discussed the establishment of priority development areas in the Far East, the creation of a free port in Vladivostok and measures to attract people to relocate to the Far Eastern Federal District
.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: How are you, Mr Trutnev? I know that all the Far Eastern regions are taking stock of their year-end data, and you are receiving it in a condensed form. How does it look?
DEPUTY PRIME MINISTER AND PRESIDENTIAL PLENIPOTENTIARY ENVOY TO THE FAR EASTERN FEDERAL DISTRICT YURY TRUTNEV: Mr President, I want to report that the initial results by the Russian federal constituent entities in the Far East have been confirmed. Industrial production in the first 11 months of 2014 grew by 5.9%. The consolidated budgets of the Russian federal constituent entities grew by 14.6 percent. Growth in agriculture was 29 percent. Mainly, this was due to agriculture support.
Vladimir Putin: After the floods?
Yury Trutnev: Yes, after the floods.
The foreign trade volume grew by 5 percent.
Moreover, the law on priority development areas was prepared and signed by the President of the Russian Federation. We have already begun the project selection process. I am confident that later this year, in 2015, we will report to you on the creation of the first priority development areas in the Far East.
We are working on implementing the Presidential Address [to the Federal Assembly]. Next month we plan to submit proposals on creating a free port in Vladivostok. We will also prepare a model for replenishing the Far East development fund through additional tax revenues from new projects.
Vladimir Putin: Has everything been coordinated with the Finance Ministry?
Yury Trutnev: I am sure we will find common ground. The Presidential Address applies to all ministries.
Vladimir Putin: Naturally, but nevertheless, there are many technical issues.
Yury Trutnev: We will resolve them, Mr President.
Vladimir Putin: Good.
Yury Trutnev: Next, we have prepared a development concept for Bolshoi Ussuriysky Island. We showed it to our colleagues in China, because it is a shared island; they generally agree with it and are prepared to give their own suggestions on ways to upgrade our concept.
Work is underway on creating a priority development area on Russky Island. It will be different from the others, focused on science and education.
It is entirely clear – and we realise this – that the positive results we have achieved this year may be just the beginning of a trend. We have increased our natural population growth by 1,100 people and outflow has decreased nearly 1.5-fold, from 27,000 to 20,000. Still, this is just the beginning of a trend. So we want to propose a measure for your consideration which, in our view, would help to boost this trend in attracting people to the Far East, because naturally, what’s most important is people; without people, we cannot develop the economy. The government currently owns 614 million hectares of land there.
Vladimir Putin: This is defence and security land?
Yury Trutnev: No, this is land from entirely different categories. 99.5% of the land is under government ownership.
We propose creating a mechanism for providing a free hectare of land to each resident of the Far East and each individual who would like to move to the Far East, which can be used for agriculture, creating a business, a forestry enterprise or hunting farm. There are complications in this because this land cannot be provided in territories surrounding large cities, which is a competitive environment with highly developed infrastructure, to ensure there is no corruption and abuse. We will carry out this part with a Government executive order, but the remainder…
Vladimir Putin: We can see where this land is, its quality, and whether one hectare is enough in the Far East. Certain conditions will have to be in place, requiring that the land be used. After all, you could take the land and not use it for decades. This involves many issues requiring additional analysis.
Yury Trutnev: Of course, Mr President. We propose that the land is leased for five years, and if it is used, the ownership rights can be registered; otherwise, if it is not used, it will be taken away.
Vladimir Putin: In and of itself, the idea is good, and has already been implemented in Siberia in the past. But modern conditions for conducting business, the modern economy is somewhat different, so we need to look into all of this carefully; we must think through all the details.
Yury Trutnev: We will prepare all the proposals. We will probably restrict resale to foreign legal entities or individuals. We will try. But I think that this can ultimately be an effective measure.
Vladimir Putin: Yes. Very well. Thank you.
<…>
Topics
Regions
Persons
Trutnev Yury
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 19, 2015, 13:15
Text version