Events
Working meeting with Healthcare Minister Veronika Skvortsova
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Healthcare Minister Veronika Skvortsova to discuss the healthcare situation, including development prospects, current issues and possible solutions. The meeting was part of preparations for an upcoming Russian Popular Front forum.
August 31, 2015
15:15
Sochi
1 of 2
With Healthcare Minister Veronika Skvortsova.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ms Skvortsova, you know that the Russian Popular Front will examine the healthcare system’s development at its upcoming conference. We agreed to meet before this event to discuss the sector’s development and look at the problems and proposed solutions. Please, go ahead.
Healthcare Minister Veronika Skvortsova
: Yes, Mr President, the upcoming conference is a good reason to once again analyse the overall situation. By coincidence, several major sociological surveys were completed in July, and they gave us further material for analysing different aspects of the medical system and the healthcare sector in general.
The biggest survey covered more than 90,000 people throughout the country, giving us a very representative picture. The results showed that more people are satisfied now with the state of the medical system and healthcare. The number of satisfied people came to 40.4 percent, which is 10.5 percent higher than in 2006, and 5 percent higher than in 2012. People were increasingly satisfied with all types of medical care, but the figures were highest for local general practitioners and emergency services.
The differences were quite big from one region to another. The highest figure was 61.5 percent and the lowest figure was 23 percent. Overall, the trend is good, and we are pleased to see this, but at the same time, we realise that there is still a lot of work to do to improve the situation.
In July 2015, the Public Opinion Foundation (FOM) conducted another big survey. This foundation has the longest experience at carrying out surveys of this kind, and its results confirm those of the other survey. In July 2015, 45 percent of respondents said they were happy with the healthcare system. In 2012, the figure was 31 percent, and in 2006, it was 26 percent.
Among other points I would note the following: for a long time, quite a large number of people gave a negative assessment of the current state of affairs in the healthcare sector, but this figure has almost halved since 2011, falling from 58 percent to 32 percent. The second point I would note is a considerable increase in people’s trust in state-run medical organisations. This figure has increased from 52 percent to 65 percent. This year, 81 percent of people turned to state healthcare establishments, and of course, everyone prefers the system of free medical care within the compulsory medical insurance framework.
 Looking at the quality of medical assistance – diagnosis and treatment – the figures here are also high, and have gone up from 78 percent to 93–95 percent.
 One question that produced interesting results was whether people give priority to the quality of medical assistance, even if it means travelling to another region or town to get the specialised treatment needed, or to having access to medical services locally. Fifty-five percent of people, regardless of whether they live in cities or the countryside, give priority to the quality of medical care.
 Accessibility of medical care was the subject of a special analysis. More than 88 percent of respondents said that they receive primary outpatient and clinical medical care locally (55 percent) or within 30 minutes by transport. Nearly 80 percent of respondents said that waiting times for scheduled treatment at clinics and visits to specialist doctors do not exceed the regulation times. We introduced these waiting time regulations in 2013 and made them compulsory in 2014.
The final aspect I want to note regards fee-paying and free medicine. There were two questions here. The first was “Did you pay for medical care last time you saw a doctor?” Here, 82–88 percent of respondents answered “No.” When asked if they have paid for medical care in the past, 46 percent of respondents said “Yes”, and 40 percent of this total paid officially.
This is a separate issue that we are examining very closely. Acting on your instruction, over the last 1.5 years, we have been actively informing the public about which services should be free and what is covered by the state guarantee system.
We have also toughened up our checks. The Federal Service for Surveillance in Healthcare and the Federal Compulsory Medical Insurance Fund revealed around 1.5 million violations last year, concerning cases of people having to pay upfront for what the state has already paid for. But this is not a big figure – 0.1 percent of 1.5 billion visits to healthcare establishments.
Finally, according to the survey results, the number of people who take a responsible attitude to their own health and look after themselves has increased by 20 percent since 2012. This is the respondents’ own assessment. The number of people who consider themselves to be in good health has also increased by 12 percent.
When we analysed the results from all the surveys, we saw that the same issues came up in all of them as being of most concern to the population. The three biggest concerns are having access to primary medical care in rural and remote areas, being able to receive good quality free medical care in hospitals in the event of serious illness, and access to an affordable and broad range of medicines.
With your permission, I will give a brief account of each of these three issues, what we have done, what problems remain, and what we plan to do over the coming period.
<…>
Topics
Healthcare
Persons
Skvortsova Veronika
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 31, 2015, 15:15
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Chairman of Vnesheconombank Vladimir Dmitriev
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Chairman of Vnesheconombank Vladimir Dmitriev to discuss support for non-raw materials exports and loans for manufacturing industries.
August 31, 2015
13:40
Sochi
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Dmitriev, let’s start with the question of support for non-raw materials exports. You wanted to discuss this subject. Please, go ahead.
Chairman of Vnesheconombank Vladimir Dmitriev
: I would like to report that we have established a one-window system that takes into account the establishment of the Russian Export Centre. This system is already in operation now. We expect that Roseksimbank and the Export Insurance Agency will soon join it too. Even now, we have already made substantial progress in providing support for industrial exports, and this is reflected in our increased lending to Russian exporters. Loan volumes are quite impressive now, but the main thing is that we are on a very good growth curve.
Vnesheconombank’s loan portfolio now comes to around 350 billion rubles. This is money used to support Russian exports – guarantees and loans for Russian suppliers and for foreign importers of Russian goods. Compared to July 2013, when the comprehensive support system for industrial exports was put into practice, the volume of guarantees has grown five-fold, and loans have increased 30-fold.
This is significant growth and we think this trend will continue. We already have 550 billion rubles worth of loans in various stages of readiness, plus the 330 billion I mentioned, which have already been accorded.
It is important that this support system for industrial exports rests on a robust state support system. This system makes use of mechanisms permitted within the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development framework, subsidised interest rates and other possibilities that we can offer Russian exporters.
Also important to note is that the Export Insurance Agency of Russia (EXIAR) already has a volume of insurance coverage deals worth a total 130 billion rubles. This is on top of the figures I gave you earlier. Here too, the growth is impressive and we have good prospects ahead for moving this work forward.
We hope that these state support measures will be stable over the long term. In this respect, we are working actively with the Industry and Trade Ministry and the Economic Development Ministry. As far as the sectors covered go, we are working above all with goods in energy machine-building, transport machine-building, agricultural equipment, aircraft manufacturing, and the automotive industry.
The outreach is broad and covers not only our neighbouring countries, but also markets in which we are only now restoring the positions we formerly held, such as supply of energy sector machine tools and equipment for Latin American countries such as Ecuador and Argentina.
Mongolia is a market we have yet to develop, but now with the opportunities and mechanisms at EXIAR’s disposal, we are developing markets in Southeast Asia and Central Asia.
I can state with confidence that the system works, and most importantly, exporters see that the mechanisms the authorities have established are reliable.
Vladimir Putin: Good, but as you see it, in which sectors and markets are these mechanisms working most effectively today?
Vladimir Dmitriev: I would highlight Latin American markets above all. I think the agreement to supply the Sukhoi Superjet to Mexico was a breakthrough deal. The contract is for 20 planes, and they are flying not only in Mexico itself but also abroad. The client is happy, and the main thing is that the planes have demonstrated their reliability, good flight characteristics and cost effectiveness. I already mentioned the supplies of energy sector equipment to Ecuador and Argentina.
I think these are the most promising markets in terms of geographical reach, and also demonstrate very well the prospects for sales of Russian equipment abroad.
Vladimir Putin: As far as being cost effective goes, there is room for improvement. Let us discuss this further.
<…>
Topics
Banks
Economy and finance
Persons
Dmitriev Vladimir
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 31, 2015, 13:40
Text version