Events
Gala reception marking Victory Day
A gala reception was held in the Grand Kremlin Palace on behalf of the President of Russia to celebrate the 70th anniversary of Victory in the Great Patriotic War of 1941–1945.
May 9, 2015
12:45
The Kremlin, Moscow
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Dear veterans,
Ladies and gentlemen,
Dear guests,
My most heartfelt congratulations to you all on Victory Day! The Day of Russia's glory and might! The holiday that lifts our hearts shedding the light of kindness and spiritual generosity!
Victory in the Great Patriotic War represents a milestone that changed the world. It is a universal, world-scale event. And no matter how much time has passed since the triumphant day of May 9, 1945, our country will always honour the generation of the victors.
Time cannot blur either our memory or our common responsibility for the preservation of the heroic legacy of our Motherland's defenders. The glorious Victory has been and will always be the ultimate yardstick to measure our thoughts and deeds.
Our people fought for their national sacred things – for their Motherland, home, culture and mother tongue, for the moral and spiritual values. For freedom in Europe and for peace on Earth. And in this righteous and sacred fight against the Nazism they did not spare their lives. They withstood it all and won!
We will always remember that the Victory was ensured by unity and genuine brotherhood of all the peoples of the Soviet Union.
We pay tribute to the heroic deed of the soldiers of the anti-Hitler coalition and the antifascists who drew the fight nearer to victory.
The spirit of alliance forged during World War II today remains an example of partnership and cooperation of all the countries in the name of peace and just cause.
1 of 12
Gala reception of the President of Russia to celebrate the 70th anniversary of Victory in the Great Patriotic War of 1941–1945.
Dear friends,
Today we share the same feelings of joy and excitement, grief and pride. And of course the feeling of gratitude to our veterans.
It is a great honour for all of us to be here with you on these days. To be able to embrace you, shake your hand, listen to your advice, tell you the most important words of our love to you. To tell you that we admire your courage and dignity, your principle to abide by the laws of truth and justice throughout your life.
You have stuck by this high bar in times of war as well as in times of peace. You rebuilt the country, worked hard and with zeal, made friends, loved, brought up children, and knew how to value life and enjoy it. Duty to your Motherland and work for the common good have always been your most precious values.
You have passed these traditions and the feeling of patriotism on to your children and grandchildren. And this bond between generations is Russia's strength, national asset and indestructible moral pillar.
We bow down to you.
Let me propose a toast:
To the glorified generation of victors!
To the veterans of all the countries who fought against the Nazism, to their brotherhood, courage and heroic deed!
To Russia's peace and well-being!
To the Great Victory!
See also
Parade to mark the 70th anniversary of the Great Victory
May 9, 2015
Topics
Great Patriotic War
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 9, 2015, 12:45
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of Czech Republic Milos Zeman
The discussion focussed on bilateral relations and prospects for the development of cooperation between Russia and the European Union.
May 9, 2015
19:20
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 5
With President of Czech Republic Milos Zeman.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, allow me to once again welcome you in the Kremlin.
I would like to say that it is a pleasure to know that there are politicians in Europe who are capable of directly expressing their viewpoint and of asserting and conducting an independent policy.
Mr President, you know we did not initiate the cooling in relations with Europe, and I hope that politicians like you would make it possible to not only restore them to the full, but also to move on.
See also
Parade to mark the 70th anniversary of the Great Victory
May 9, 2015
I am very grateful to you for being with us today and sharing our emotions on this day – the 70th anniversary of Victory in the Great Patriotic War.
Serious battles took place on the territory of the Czech Republic in which more than 50,000 Soviet soldiers and officers were killed. I would like to thank you and all our friends in your country who take care of the burial places of Soviet officers and men. This is an important and very sensitive aspect that speaks of the depth of our relations, which have gone through different times. Nevertheless, we expect to not only restore our relations with Europe in general, and with Eastern Europe and the Czech Republic, but to develop them further.
Unfortunately, we have had a certain fall in our trade turnover due to obvious developments, including mutual economic limitations. This damages everyone, there is nothing good about it, we see it and we are ready to fully restore our ties.
Thank you very much for coming to Moscow today.
President of the Czech Republic Milos Zeman
(in Russian): Thank you, Mr President.
You know, politics are like the weather: it cools off and then it gets warmer. A person is happy when it warms up after a cool-down. This is one thing.
The other is that I have stated several times in public that I am here primarily to pay tribute not only to those soldiers who died on the territory of the Czech Republic, but to all the 20, or some say 27 million Soviet citizens, both soldiers and civilians, who died during the Great Patriotic War. This was the first purpose of my visit.
As you surely know, I am confident that normal relations will follow the cool-down. Why speak of super-normal relations? What are they? Normal ties are cultural, political and economic ties. Since every president protects the interests of his nation, I am here to protect the interests of the Czech Republic. I don’t want to speak of the whole world the way the UN Secretary-General does.
As for economic interests, they are very simple. I do not know if you remember our first meeting 15 years ago – I was visiting you in your capacity of Prime Minister. I was already performing all the political functions, though I had never been a mayor. I said “We have a minor point” and you said there were no minor points. We also spoke of a gas pipeline somewhere in Kamchatka then. It had to do with an unpaid loan. You resolved it in 14 days. Congratulations.
Some problems recur, as usual. I am certain that the sanctions are a short-term affair. I publicly spoke against the sanctions.
Vladimir Putin: We know that.
<…>
Geography
Czech Republic
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Zeman Milos
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 9, 2015, 19:20
Text version