Events
Russian Federation Marine Doctrine
Vladimir Putin held a meeting to discuss the new draft of Russia’s Marine Doctrine.
July 26, 2015
16:00
Baltiisk
The meeting took place on board the frigate Admiral of the Soviet Navy Gorshkov. Participants included Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Rogozin
, Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu
, Commander of the Navy Viktor Chirkov, and Commander of the Western Military District Anatoly Sidorov.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues, good afternoon.
We have been updating the Russian Federation’s Marine Doctrine. This very complex document’s main aim is to provide our country with an integral, consistent and effective naval policy that will protect Russia’s interests.
The Doctrine has been drafted and approved. This is a big event for our future navy, and for developing our shipbuilding industry, because the main customer – the navy in this case, and the Defence Ministry – formulate their future needs, and the industry must carry out these tasks. Industry adapts to new tasks depending on the needs formulated.
Let me note that for the first time, the Doctrine also includes provisions of a purely social nature. They cover marine medicine, and provisions for improving the health of sailors and the specialists working in the marine field. This is very important. People need to know that from now on, our strategic documents for developing our country’s fleet and navy will address the social aspect too, and will give people what they expect from their service, as they carry out the tasks that face our country today in this very complex and important area.
Let’s now discuss in more detail the Doctrine’s key provisions. Mr Rogozin, you have the floor.
Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Rogozin: Thank you.
Mr President,
This new draft of the Russian Federation Marine Doctrine is a fundamental document of key importance, setting out our country’s naval policy. In other words, it is one of our country’s strategic planning documents.
The Russian Government’s Marine Board undertook the document’s drafting, with the navy playing the leading role in this work. In all, 15 federal executive agencies and organisations took part in drafting the new Doctrine.
We proposed making changes to the Marine Doctrine adopted back in 2001 for the period through to 2020 for two reasons: above all, the changing international situation; and, of course, strengthening Russia’s position as a sea power.
The Marine Doctrine covers four functional areas and six regional areas. The four functional areas are naval activity, marine transport, marine science, and mineral resources development. The six regional areas are the Atlantic, Arctic, Pacific, Caspian, and Indian Ocean, and we have added Antarctica, as a fair number of events involving Antarctica have taken place of late and this region is of considerable interest to Russia.
The main focus is on two areas: the Arctic and the Atlantic. The reasons for this are the following. We emphasise the Atlantic because NATO has been developing actively of late and coming closer to our borders, and Russia is of course responding to these developments.
The second reason is that Crimea and Sevastopol have been reunited with Russia and we need to take measures for their rapid integration into the national economy. Of course, we are also restoring Russia’s naval presence in the Mediterranean.
As for the Arctic, several events motivate our decision. One is the growing importance of the North Sea Route. Mr President, I reported to you that we have begun work on building a new fleet of atomic-powered icebreakers. Three new atomic icebreakers will be ready for work accompanying ships along the northern route in 2017, 2019, and 2020. Furthermore, the Arctic also assures us free and unhindered access to the Atlantic and Pacific oceans. Then there are the riches of the continental shelf, the development of which calls for an attentive approach.
The Marine Doctrine pays particular attention to environmental issues too, because it is important for us not only to develop these riches, but also to preserve them for future generations.
The Marine Doctrine contains a new section on shipbuilding. This is to a large extent linked to the fact that over these last 10–15 years, we have developed a shipbuilding industry that in terms of naval shipbuilding is doing work on a scale comparable to what was happening during the Soviet period. As for civilian and commercial shipbuilding, we are taking measures to encourage the establishment of private shipbuilding companies, which have demonstrated successful results.
State management of marine activities is an important part of the Marine Doctrine. This section stresses the role of the Government’s Marine Board and clarifies the powers of the other state agencies. Essentially, once you approved the Marine Doctrine, we will be able to start drafting the whole list of planning documents for our country’s marine activities in the short, medium and long term.
That concludes my report.
Vladimir Putin: Are there any comments or questions?
Commander of the Navy Viktor Chirkov: Mr President,
Let me thank you for this Marine Doctrine’s timely drafting and approval. This is a timely document. It places responsibility on us for its future implementation, and we have already begun this process.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Sidorov, what is the situation with coordination between the army and the navy?
Commander of the Western Military District Anatoly Sidorov: Mr President, it is hard to talk about coordination when everything works as single whole and unified command. As far as the tasks before us are concerned, the Baltic Fleet is resolving everything together with the Western Military District’s forces.
Regarding the delimitation of certain powers between the naval chief command and the Western Military District’s command, there is full coordination in this area.
Vladimir Putin: Good, thank you.
<…>
Geography
Kaliningrad Region
Topics
Armed Forces
Persons
Rogozin Dmitry
Shoigu Sergei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 26, 2015, 16:00
Text versionEvents
Navy Day
Vladimir Putin took part in celebrations marking Russian Navy Day in Baltiisk. The President attended a parade that took place in the waters of the Kaliningrad seagoing shipping canal.
July 26, 2015
15:30
Baltiisk
1 of 20
Kaliningrad large landing ship. Photo: TASS
Mr Putin marked Navy Day
by laying flowers at the monument to Peter the Great, the founder of Russia’s Navy. He then inspected the Baltic Fleet’s combat vessels from aboard a patrol boat, greeted the crews and congratulated them on the holiday.
Ships taking part in the naval parade including the frigate Admiral of the Soviet Navy Gorshkov, communications vessel Yury Ivanov, the destroyer Nastoichivy, the large landing ship Kaliningrad, the frigate Admiral Grigorovich, the corvette Steregushchy, the diesel-powered submarine Stary Oskol, and the minesweeper Alexei Obukhov.
The President also attended a military sports festival marking the holiday.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Comrade officers, warrant officers and sailors, veterans,
I congratulate you on Navy Day. I congratulate everyone defending our country’s maritime borders, keeping watch while on missions far from home, on combat duty on the ships and at the bases, and working in the shipbuilding industry. Navy Day is one of our country’s most beloved and popular holidays.
We all have great respect for our country’s navy, which Russia has deserved reason to be proud of. The navy was founded by Peter the Great and won glory and victories right from the start, including here on the Baltic.
Since then, the navy has grown stronger and its glory has shone ever greater. The courage of sailors, talent of our shipbuilders, and audacious spirit of our famous pioneers, explorers and naval commanders affirmed Russia’s status as a great sea power.
We believe this status places tremendous responsibility on us before history and before our forebears, who built Russia’s maritime glory, and, of course, before future generations too, to whom we must pass on a strong and modern navy.
Much has been accomplished over the last years. New combat and support ships have been commissioned, new submarines for our strategic forces have left the docks, and we are modernising our marine aviation, coastal forces, and key naval bases.
Our navy successfully guarantees our country’s defence capability and protects our national interests. This includes the Baltic Fleet, which is performing its missions well not just here in the Baltic, where it is based, but it is carrying our flag with honour in other parts of the world’s oceans too.
I am sure that everyone serving in the navy feels boundless devotion to their duty and their fatherland. Patriotism is a sacred emotion for those in the navy. It is handed down from one generation to the next as the highest moral value. Strong moral foundations, the navy’s distinctive culture, strict discipline, and modern skills and knowledge help in serving at sea, in difficult conditions, with honour, building on the traditions laid by our predecessors, and carrying out responsible national missions in worthy fashion.
Once more, I congratulate everyone who has tied their lives and fates to Russia’s navy, all the veterans, everyone now in port or at sea, and everyone waiting back at home.
Happy holiday! Glory to Russia’s navy!
Geography
Kaliningrad Region
Topics
Armed Forces
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 26, 2015, 15:30
Text version