Governor of the Central Bank Elvira Nabiullina: Thank you.
First deputy Prime Minister Igor Shuvalov: Mr President, colleagues,
Chinese President Xi Jinping gave this project particular attention during his remarks at the forum and stressed that it does not compete with other projects, does not try to impose cooperation of any sort, or undermine existing formats, but, on the contrary, aims to give added strength and create new opportunities for developing the existing integration projects.
A programme for economic cooperation with the countries that will develop this project was published today. One of the project’s major stages, as was announced today (in the Chinese press), is that the Chinese are proposing serious discussions with Russia on building a high-speed railway from Beijing to Moscow.
My colleagues in the Government and I are preparing for your summit meeting on May 8, including as regards this matter. In other words, we are working on the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, and the Silk Road project – all of the projects that we are preparing for discussion at the summit meeting.
We are now discussing projects with our Eurasian Union partners, with Armenia, Kazakhstan, and with Kyrgyzstan. Kyrgyzstan is actively developing its own trade dialogue with China at the moment. They are preparing to sign a separate agreement. It is in everyone’s interest that along with bilateral economic ties we are all developing with China, we also have a separate track between the Eurasian Union as a whole and China. We are developing this project and we have all the possibilities we need here.
Vladimir Putin: Good, thank you.
Starting from today, April 1, Russia holds the presidency of the BRICS group, which brings together Brazil, Russia, India, China, and South Africa. Mr Siluanov, could you say a few words about the Russian presidency’s priorities.
Finance Minister Anton Siluanov: Yes, Mr President, Russia begins its term as president of the BRICS group today. More than 80 different events at ministerial and agency level will take place during our presidency. We will also host the BRICS summit in Ufa in July.
As for our main tasks, we see a need to launch mechanisms for financial and economic cooperation and we have discussed this subject over the last years. This year however, during our presidency, decisions are expected on a number of big projects.
The first is the establishment and start of work of the New Development Bank set up by the BRICS countries. The aim is to finance infrastructure and development projects, primarily in the BRICS countries. The Silk Road project and its development could be one of the areas for the bank’s investment.
This bank could become one of the biggest multilateral development banks. Its authorised capital comes to $100 billion and its paid-up capital comes to $10 billion. Each country has an equal stake of 20 percent in the bank’s capital.
I want to note that the Russian Federation’s representative will be the first chair of the bank’s board. During our time as chair of the bank’s board, we can start to set the bank’s policy, including investment policy.
Budget provisions have been made for this year and the following year for covering our contribution to the bank’s capital. But we are counting on the effect from the investment the bank raises and a return to Russia of investment greater in volume than our participation in the bank’s capital. We have also completed all necessary procedures on our side for ratifying the bank’s establishment and are waiting for our colleagues to do the same.
The second big decision, Mr President, is on the creation of a Contingent Reserve Arrangement. The idea here is that the arrangement would be used if the BRICS countries encounter liquidity problems. The arrangement would support them, ensuring mutual assistance through transfer of funds subject to repayment and other payment and deadline conditions. This is another of the major initiatives that will be carried out during our presidency.
A third major area is the development and adoption of an economic cooperation and partnership strategy for the BRICS countries. This is about cooperation in areas such as energy, agriculture, science, technology and innovation. We expect to sign a number of cooperation agreements between our countries.
Vladimir Putin: We have discussed this subject many times, including during the last summit in Brazil. This is something we should develop more actively.
Before we turn to the future, to 2016–2018, let’s hear a few words first about the current situation. The Government has drafted a list of the major companies in their sectors, 199 companies in all, the combined profits of which account for around 70 percent of our total GDP.
Mr Ulyukayev, could you please say a few words about the support measures for the real sector of the economy.
Economic Development Minister Alexei Ulyukayev: Mr President,
Yes, the companies on this list form the backbone of Russia’s industry and between them employ 20 percent of the workforce. We are carrying out thorough monitoring to identify the risks that could arise due to limited demand, exchange rate fluctuations, inflation, and so on.
We have the instruments we need to support these companies if necessary, budget guarantees above all. The budget law, which the Duma is currently examining, earmarks 300 billion rubles for these purposes. If the sum involved is less than 5 billion rubles, the sub-commission makes the decision, and in cases where the sum involved is higher than five billion rubles, the commission that Mr Shuvalov heads makes the decision.
In our work, we have concentrated on the following risk zones – primarily these are transport engineering, the automotive industry, car building, production of rolling stock for the railways, the construction sector, and airlines.
Overall, the dynamic in these and other economic sectors is better than we thought, and better than the investment analysts thought at the end of last year. This is probably partly the result of the anti-crisis programme we have adopted and partly thanks to some general stabilisation in the inflation and exchange rates and other market economy areas.
: Mr President, colleagues,