Events
Meeting with Constitutional Court judges
During his working trip to St Petersburg, Vladimir Putin met with the Constitutional Court judges.
December 14, 2015
17:15
St Petersburg
1 of 2
Meeting with Constitutional Court judges.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues,
Following the tradition, we meet with you on the occasion of the Constitution Day that we mark on December 12. The Constitution was adopted 22 years ago, and next year we will mark the 25th anniversary of the Constitutional Court.
There is no need for me to stress yet again the importance of this institution – the Constitutional Court. The only thing I would like to point out today is that the entire building of Russian legislation hinges on the way you work, the way you interpret the Constitution, and this is extremely important.
I will not talk right now about your current work – you've considered 33 cases this year, if I am correct, so that's a lot of work. Besides, you have switched over to electronic submission of documents meaning that you are improving, keeping up with the times, and this gives our citizens additional access to the Constitutional Court’s capabilities.
And a very important thing is the decision made by Russia’s legislators giving the Constitutional Court the right to make a relevant decision regarding the activities of the European Court of Human Rights as far as it concerns Russia and Russian legislation. These are extremely important things. You and I know that we did not create anything new here; many European countries actually share the same path.
And it was pleasing to hear that you had a meeting with your colleagues from the European Court of Human Rights. Today I would like to hear more about this meeting, what was discussed there and what joint decisions you have come to with your European colleagues.
I want to congratulate you on the Constitution Day and wish you all the very best.
<…>
Geography
Saint Petersburg
Topics
Court
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 14, 2015, 17:15
Text versionEvents
Meeting with UNESCO Director-General Irina Bokova
Vladimir Putin met with Director-General of UNESCO Irina Bokova on the sidelines of the St Petersburg International Cultural Forum.
December 14, 2015
18:50
St Petersburg
With UNESCO Director-General Irina Bokova.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ms Bokova,
We met exactly a year ago, and just now in your speech [at the plenary session of the St Petersburg International Cultural Forum] you mentioned that that meeting was held in connection with the State Hermitage Museum anniversary. Now we mark UNESCO's anniversary.
It is good to know that we have business-like and very friendly relations with the specialised agencies of the United Nations, including UNESCO. We have always supported and intend to further support your work.
We are thankful to you for taking part in the events organised in Russia and for speaking highly of our efforts to support culture.
I want to reassure you that this is one of the key areas in our work though we are aware that what we do is not enough. We count on your support and assistance in the future.
UNESCO Director-General Irina Bokova: Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for your kind words about UNESCO.
Naturally, it is an enormous honour to celebrate our organisation’s 70th anniversary with you here in St Petersburg. And this cultural forum was confirmed as one of the most important forums, addressing problems in culture and creating cultural heritage.
We can see how important these issues are today, politically speaking. You yourself talked about why cultural heritage is important, how we must preserve it, particularly in conflict zones where we see destruction, such as Syria, Iraq and other nations.
I am particularly grateful to you for Russia’s initiative to submit Resolution No. 2199, which we discussed before submission, to the Security Council. And you included preservation of heritage and the need to stop unlawful trafficking of items of cultural value that are then used to finance extremism among the problems to be addressed.
We have developed cooperation with Russia in the field of science, with 56 UNESCO departments, which is the highest number of UNESCO departments. We have many documents that are included in other programmes. We are cooperating in the field of education, new technologies, and communications. We are creating a science council and Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon spent an entire day in St Petersburg on the Russian Academy of Sciences’ invitation, so we could say that we have full-scale cooperation.
I want to once again thank you for the invitation to join you to celebrate UNESCO’s 70th anniversary here in St Petersburg.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much for your visit.
<…>
See also
Plenary session of St Petersburg International Cultural Forum
December 14, 2015
Geography
Saint Petersburg
Topics
Culture
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 14, 2015, 18:50
Text version