Events
Expanded meeting of Prosecutor General Office’s Board
Vladimir Putin took part in an expanded meeting of the Prosecutor General Office’s Board to discuss its results for 2014 and the tasks in strengthening law and order.
March 24, 2015
15:15
Moscow
1 of 7
Expanded meeting of Prosecutor General Office’s Board.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
At today’s meeting, we will discuss the results of the Prosecutor General’s Office work in 2014 and talk about the priorities for the future.
Strengthening law and order remains the key task of the prosecution corps. This includes reliable protection of the rights and liberties of the citizens and combatting crime, bureaucratic arbitrariness and corruption. We all know that smooth and steady development of society, development of Russia as a rule-of-law, economically strong, welfare state directly depends on the efficient, precise and competent actions of the entire law enforcement system.
I would like to note that in a number of areas you managed to make certain progress last year. Thus, in the year that the new law giving the Prosecutor General’s Office the authority to block extremist internet resources without a court ruling has been in effect, illegal information has been removed from over three thousand websites.
Joint efforts of military prosecutors and the Defence Ministry’s leadership have helped improve discipline, law and order in the troops. The prosecution agencies’ involvement made it possible for citizens to receive about 8 billion rubles in wage arrears. The prosecutors provided serious assistance to local authorities and self-government bodies in Crimea and Sevastopol in developing a legal base in line with Russian legislation. I would like to thank you and your colleagues for diligently carrying out your duties.
Colleagues,
Just as before, the main focus in your work should be on the protection of the rights and liberties of our citizens, both political, electoral rights and those pertaining to labour and social relations. According to statistics, the number of violations of law unfortunately remains impressive. The Prosecutor General’s Office itself reports 5 million violations of law in the area of citizens’ rights and liberties disclosed in 2014.
We must strongly respond to employers’ attempts to shift their costs and problems to their employees and save on labour safety measures. Besides, we should keep an eye on the implementation in the regions of measures to stabilize the labour market, including the employment of young people and the promotion of training programmes.
Within their authority, prosecutors have to constantly supervise the observance of rights of citizens to social security, pensions and social benefits.
I would like to remind you that pensioners account for a quarter of Russia’s population. According to experts, for many of them pensions are the main and vital, practically the only source of income. Therefore, there should be no delays here.
You should also strictly control matters pertaining to ensuring social security for Great Patriotic War veterans.
Your direct duty is to more efficiently protect the rights of children and young people. All laws dealing with prevention of child neglect should be complied with in full and in a timely fashion.
I would also like to stress the need to take on a principled stance in cases of violations of legislation pertaining to family support, the use of maternal capital and allocation of housing for orphans.
We have to more actively rectify violations in allocating medicines for privileged categories of citizens and in setting the prices for drugs and vital medicines. As we all know, for millions of our citizens – the elderly, the disabled and those with severe or chronic illnesses – this is of vital importance.
A pressing task today is the exposure of unwarranted price hikes on agricultural produce and foods. The Prosecutor General’s Office has been working on this since last September, and the matter certainly requires greater attention.
We all understand, of course, the possibility of seasonal growth in prices for certain products; sometimes it is necessary for economic reasons. However, price fixing and economically ungrounded price hikes, sometimes manifold, are inadmissible.
We have always been in favour of developing business, free enterprise and market relations. However, the misconduct of resellers, wholesalers or retailers who arbitrarily raise prices should receive the proper legal treatment.
I would like to ask you, together with law enforcement agencies, to further track the prices for socially desirable goods. You should be strict and tough regarding any other unlawful market machinations that lead to violations of consumers’ rights.
Colleagues,
The Prosecutor General’s Office has been entrusted with coordinating efforts of the country’s entire law enforcement system in combatting crime. People expect you to apply your authority effectively and with knowledge to achieve a massive reduction in crime, extremism and corruption.
This makes the work of prosecutors to expose violations in registering crimes very important. Statistics say that, unfortunately, such facts are just as numerous as before. In 2014 there were some 2.5 million illegal resolutions on forbearance of criminal charges and over 450 thousand resolutions to suspend or terminate investigation on a case.
I would like to repeat that ungrounded refusal to initiate criminal proceedings or delays in investigation violate the basic legal principle of inevitability of punishment. This gives reason for victims to doubt the efficiency of the law enforcement system and law in general, to doubt the capability of the state to restore justice, to defend their rights, their personal dignity and property.
At the Interior Ministry Board meeting in early March, we noted that despite the overall tendency for a reduction in crime, a number of acute issues remain. Thus, almost half of all crimes were committed by those who already have a criminal record. The number of crimes in public places has gone up. Here the Prosecutor General’s Office needs to strengthen cooperation between agencies and take additional measures, including preventive ones.
Prosecutors should carefully keep records and efficiently use their authority in supporting prosecution in court.
You should be more active in disclosing cases of violations of the law on terrorism and extremism and respond without delay to any calls for illegal action, violence or mass disturbances.
I would like to focus on the topic of protecting the rights of economic entities. We have been doing a lot lately to remove administrative barriers for businesses, to relieve them of excessive attention on the part of supervisory agencies. In 2014, prosecutors have revealed and curtailed over 143 thousand violations of the laws protecting entrepreneurs’ rights.
However, the habit to control is very strong. In the past 5 years supervisory agencies made proposals regarding 6 million planned and over 200 thousand snap, unscheduled inspections. Only half of them were sanctioned by the Prosecutor’s Office and found reasonable.
I would like you to keep track of this situation and work closely with the corresponding agencies. However, the Prosecutor’s Office should also show restraint in conducting such inspections and proceed from law and reason.
As of this year, the Prosecutor General’s Office has been instructed to keep a register of inspections of legal entities and self-employed individuals and develop annual plans of inspections of compliance with land legislation.
We should also keep up the pace of work in such an important sphere as the protection of rights of citizens in housing and utilities. True, the amount of open theft, deceit and failure to comply with commitments in this area has gone down. However, there are still quite a few people who wish to profit from the utilities sector.
The schemes used for asset stripping, bankrupting utilities companies and embezzlement of funds allocated for modernisation are becoming ever more devious. 347 thousand crimes in this area were exposed in 2014.
The proper use of budget funds, including those allocated for the implementation of federal and regional programmes should remain in the focus of attention and control. This is a key condition for meeting the state’s social commitments to its citizens.
Equally important is the need to implement the state defence order in a timely and precise fashion. I have discussed this on several occasions with the Prosecutor General and the heads of investigative agencies. The enormous resources allocated for this are of special significance.
Meanwhile, according to the Prosecutor General’s Office itself, over 11 thousand violations in the implementation of the state defence order were exposed in 2014 and 177 criminal cases were opened. This is not bad, but we all know what the result should really be if you work properly. How do you measure the quality of such work? By court rulings. Therefore, I expect everything to be done within the law, of course, but the materials would be sufficient to allow courts to rule appropriately.
We should preclude any attempt at raising contract prices without good reason or at introducing unnecessary mediators between the customer and the contractor. Legal action should be applied to violators.
Our citizens expect to see greater results from the prosecutor’s office in such an area as combatting corruption. Last year has demonstrated certain results here. However, we should not stop; we should continue monitoring the application of anti-corruption legislation, including the practice of having the guilty party pay fines to compensate for their crimes.
Prosecutors should remain firm on matters of ensuring the constitutional rights of citizens under prosecution. Along with other services and law enforcement agencies, they should do everything possible to make sure that those who have been isolated from society are kept in proper conditions. They are also citizens of the Russian Federation and have rights that should be complied with.
In conclusion, I would like to thank the prosecution corps once again for the serious and responsible approach to their work. I am certain that you will further protect law and order and serve our nation.
Thank you for your attention.
Topics
Fight against crime
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 24, 2015, 15:15
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of WorldSkills International Simon Bartley
Vladimir Putin met in the Kremlin with President of WorldSkills International (WSI) Simon Bartley. The meeting took place during an inspection tour by the WSI international movement's commission to assess Russia's preparedness for holding the WorldSkills Competition in 2019.
March 24, 2015
21:05
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 5
Meeting with President of WorldSkills International Simon Bartley.
On Mr Putin’s instruction, Russia submitted its bid to host the international competition in professional skills in January 2015. If Russia’s bid wins, the competition will take place in Kazan.
Worldskills is an international non-commercial movement established in 1950 to promote trades’ prestige and develop vocational education. The movement currently brings together 72 countries. Russia joined in May 2012 and has held two national championships since then, the trade-related Worldskills Hi-Tech championship for young specialists at big Russian companies and students at corporate and state educational establishments, and 46 regional competitions. The tradespeople who took first place in the Russian competition went on to take part in the international competitions in Leipzig (Germany) in 2013, and Lille (France) in 2014.
* * *
Beginning of meeting with President of WorldSkills International Simon Bartley
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Bartley, friends,
I am happy to welcome such a prestigious and influential organisation to our nation.
Your organisation, WorldSkills, is one of the most important instruments for raising the prestige of vocational professions; we regard it with a great deal of respect and attention.
In 2012, Russia joined the WorldSkills movement, and since November 2012, we have held a whole series of events: two national competitions and 46 regional competitions, with 5,000 participants and 300,000 spectators.
We are now conducting a great deal of work with professional communities and entrepreneurial organisations to create a national system of qualifications and therefore want to establish permanent working contacts with your organisation.
As you know, we have submitted an initial bid to hold the 2019 WorldSkills Championship in Kazan. We know that Kazan has some respectable competitors, such as the Belgian city of Charleroi and Paris.
I must say that Kazan is better than Charleroi and Paris. I will tell you why. First of all, Kazan is not overburdened with various events. And second, we have built truly world-class infrastructure there.
Just now, very recently, we held the summer’s World Student Games there and in 2018, we will host the FIFA World Cup games there. In other words, the city is entirely ready in terms of infrastructure. But there are other advantages, culturally, because Kazan is at the crossroads of Asia and Europe.
This can be seen in all areas of life. And in addition to everything else, Kazan is a major commercial centre with a very rapidly and energetically developing economy.
We understand that you have a difficult choice. We are prepared for whatever decision you make. And indeed, Kazan’s initial bid – at least as far as we’re concerned – is also an element of support for WorldSkills International. We look forward to working jointly with you in the long-term.
Thank you very much.
President of WorldSkills International Simon Bartley: Mr President, it is a delight to be here in Moscow, and a real privilege for Stefan [Vice President of WorldSkills International Stefan Praschl] and myself to be meeting with you and representatives of Russia.
We are becoming friends with your Deputy Prime Minister [Olga Golodets]. This is the third time I have met her on a visit here to Moscow. And also, I have visited Kazan twice before, and also met the President of Tatarstan as well.
The purpose of Stefan’s and my visit here is really to check the facilities exist and the support of the country exists for the possibility of hosting the competition in Kazan.
As well as looking at the physical facilities in Kazan, which we will do tomorrow, we look to see the engagement of the government at every level.
And I have to say that, already, since we have been here in Moscow, arriving yesterday, we have seen the enthusiasm and the real attitude of the government, the government of the Russian Federation, for wishing to host the competition. And for that, I thank you for your interest and your comments about wishing to compete with Charleroi and Paris.
Vladimir Putin: I also commented that Kazan is better than Charleroi and Paris.
Simon Bartley: Interesting, the Prime Minister of Belgium and the Labour Minister of France said that their cities were the best as well.
Vladimir Putin: It’s surprising. (Laughter.)
Simon Bartley: The other thing we experienced here in Moscow on this visit was the interest of your media.
This morning, we met with the press at TASS. And I gather there has been quite a lot of coverage since that occurred. So two of the twelve things that we have to report back to our board about I think have been satisfactorily achieved so far. And before we leave on Thursday from Kazan, I’m sure that we will have all the information we require in order to explain to our board of directors that Kazan should be allowed to put a formal bid to our general assembly in Sao Paulo in August.
And then, the member countries of WorldSkills will have a vote after they have seen the documentation from Kazan, from Charleroi and from Paris and heard the presentations made to them live about the benefits of each city.
You will recognise the process as one you have been through in relation to winning the Olympics in Sochi. And I think all of us are admiring of the way that you managed to make Sochi a venue, with all of the buildings, with all of the infrastructure, all ready for the Winter Olympics.
We are, I think, confident that because of that example, what is being developed in Tatarstan, in Kazan, will also go smoothly.
And of course, if you were to visit the competition in Kazan in 2019, I am absolutely certain that it will be finished in time for your visit. And I think it would be a very nice thing in the bid if there were some indication that you might be prepared to come to the opening or closing ceremony together with members of your Cabinet and your Government.
When we hosted the competition in London in 2011, we had visits from the Prime Minister, members of the royal family, the Mayor of London, and this makes the people who visit really understand the importance of what we are trying to do.
So thank you very much for your interest. Thank you very much for your support of WorldSkills Russia. I was delighted – Stefan and I were delighted to be in Jeju when Russia was admitted to WorldSkills. You help us make a real family.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much.
The event we are discussing will take place in 2019; the presidential elections will be held in Russia in 2018. But I am confident that whoever becomes the Russian head of state will be happy to participate in these events, because increasing the prestige of vocational professions is directly tied to the development of the economy, which is one of our highest-priority objectives. We will treat preparations for these events very seriously – if, of course, Kazan is selected to host the events.
<…>
Topics
Professional training
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 24, 2015, 21:05
Text version