Events
Meeting with Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Khloponin
Vladimir Putin had a meeting with Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Khloponin.
October 5, 2015
13:40
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 3
With Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Khloponin.
Socioeconomic development in the republics of Daghestan, Chechnya and Ingushetia and implementation of instructions Mr Putin gave following a meeting on Ingushetia’s socioeconomic development on September 14, 2015, were the main subjects of discussion. Mr Putin and Mr Khloponin also discussed plans for celebrating the 2000th anniversary of the foundation of Daghestani city of Derbent.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Let’s start with Derbent. How are the events going?
Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Khloponin
: I brought along an album especially to show you. People in Derbent and Daghestan in general are very thankful and have asked me to pass on their warmest wishes. The only thing that worries them all is that they fear this might be no more than a brief ‘moment of glory’, and then, having done a bit for them, we’ll now forget about them. I remind them that the President asked us to draw up a programme for developing the town.
There are a lot of restoration projects underway. The Naryn-Kala fortress has been completely restored, and our investors’ money made it possible to restore Peter the Great’s House. I was asked to show you what has been accomplished, what the restoration work has achieved, and how the anniversary is being celebrated. Everyone is out in the streets celebrating and the mood is positive all round.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, it all looks very good. They’ve done a great job.
Alexander Khloponin: Mr President, regarding the instructions you gave following your working trip to Ingushetia, I can report as follows.
First of all, you highlighted some very serious problems: the high unemployment level, high infant mortality, and the fact that some schools are working in three shifts (having schools work this way is very difficult, of course). Acting on your instruction, we have readjusted the Southern Russia federal targeted programme for 2014–2016, and we will open 53 new schools in this region by 2016, in order to reduce the burden schools currently face.
The birth rate is high in three regions – Daghestan, Chechnya, and Ingushetia, but these regions either lack sufficient schools, or existing schools are in dreadful condition. We will definitely resolve this problem.
On the infant mortality issue, in 2016, we will open a modern new perinatal centre with around 130 beds that will handle 100 visits a day. The building has already been built and the facility will be ready on time. Sizeable funds were allocated this year for purchasing equipment, and I think, or rather, I am absolutely sure that we will open this centre next year.
We are also close to completing preparations for the launch of a new oncology centre, which will open its doors next year in Ingushetia.
There was also your instruction to the Government on sports facilities, in particular, a sports centre and stadium with capacity for 3,500 people. We will get these facilities built and developed too.
You set another important task, namely, to develop the local economy and create new jobs. To address this task, we are re-profiling the Southern Russia federal targeted programme for 2017–2025, and putting the main thrust on investment projects, developing agriculture sector infrastructure, and building other important facilities.
Each of the republics concerned is now drafting a list of these facilities. Our main emphasis will be job creation, of course. I expect that we will be able to achieve real progress and transformation in this situation by 2020.
<…>
See also
Trip to Ingushetia
September 14, 2015
Topics
Economy and finance
Social services
Persons
Khloponin Alexander
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 5, 2015, 13:40
Text version