Events
Meeting with Premier of the Chinese State Council Li Keqiang
Vladimir Putin met with Premier of the People’s Republic of China State Council Li Keqiang. Mr Putin and Mr Li discussed, in particular, the most significant aspects of Russian-Chinese cooperation.
September 2, 2015
14:10
Beijing
1 of 4
With Premier of the Chinese State Council Li Keqiang.
Premier of the Chinese State Council Li Keqiang (retranslated): It is a great pleasure to meet with you, Mr President, and to see you once again.
I welcome you to China to take part in celebrating the 70th anniversary of victory. I want to congratulate you and the Russian people on the Great Victory and the successful celebrations you held in Moscow on May 9. We are celebrating together, marking this victory in World War II, and in this way, we make common efforts to preserve peace in the region.
Last year, during my visit to Russia, you and my Russian friends gave me a very hospitable reception and I once again want to thank you for this. You are a guest from afar, and I am ready to exchange views with you on the subjects of mutual interest.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Premier,
Thank you very much for these warm words, for the warm reception, and for the invitation. Our contacts began when you were Deputy Premier of the State Council, and we have continued these working contacts all this time.
Tomorrow, we will take part in celebrating the 70th anniversary of the Chinese people’s victory in the war against Japan and the end of World War II. It is important that Russia and China are celebrating this holiday together, like the Victory Day holiday on May 9, which you mentioned. In this fashion, we demonstrate clearly to our peoples and the entire world that we share the view of the results of World War II and oppose attempts to deny or distort history.
Of course, we will use this good occasion to discuss our bilateral relations, which, despite the various external problems, are developing very intensively for the benefit of the Chinese and Russian peoples.
Li Keqiang: China and Russia are strategic partners. We are big neighbours and we stand up together for the results of World War II and oppose distortion and rewriting of these results.
<…>
See also
Visit to China. Celebrations marking the 70th anniversary of the Chinese people's victory in the War of Resistance against Japan and the end of World War II
September 2 − 3, 2015
Geography
People's Republic of China
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 2, 2015, 14:10
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev
Following a dinner hosted by President of China Xi Jinping to honour the foreign guests who came for the celebrations in Beijing, Vladimir Putin had a meeting with President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev.
September 2, 2015
17:15
Beijing
1 of 3
With President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev.
The two presidents examined current matters in bilateral relations and integration processes. Mr Putin and Mr Nazarbayev also discussed the launch of a new crew for the International Space Station, which includes a cosmonaut from Kazakhstan.
* * *
President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev
: I want to thank you for the fact that a Kazakhstani cosmonaut is now in space today.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Just as you planned.
Nursultan Nazarbayev: Yes, we agreed on this. Thank you for the Russian government decision and your decision. This is a big event for Kazakhstan.
Vladimir Putin: I congratulate you. I am sure this will benefit our bilateral relations and will also give a big boost to developing cosmonautics in Kazakhstan. You are right to say that Baikonur is one of the most frequently used space launch centres in the world.
Nursultan Nazarbayev: The Kazakhstanis do not fly very often.
Vladimir Putin: This is an exclusive thing, really. Let’s wish the whole team, the whole crew, and Kazakhstan success.
Nursultan Nazarbayev: And health, so that all return to Earth safe and well.
<…>
See also
Visit to China. Celebrations marking the 70th anniversary of the Chinese people's victory in the War of Resistance against Japan and the end of World War II
September 2 − 3, 2015
Geography
People's Republic of China
Topics
Foreign policy
Space
Persons
Nazarbayev Nursultan
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 2, 2015, 17:15
Text version