Events
Meeting with German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier
Vladimir Putin met at the Kremlin with German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier to discuss various aspects of Russian-German relations and current issues on the international agenda.
March 23, 2016
16:50
The Kremlin, Moscow
3 of 7
With German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier.
Earlier in the day, Mr Steinmeier had talks with Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov
.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Minister, colleagues, good afternoon.
We are meeting just after the tragic events in Belgium. We will certainly need to give this matter our attention too during our meeting today.
I hope to discuss with you our bilateral relations, Russia’s relations with the European Union, and the most important and acute situations taking shape in different parts of the world.
Before we start though, let me note that despite the difficulties we face, our foreign ministries are working together with quite some energy.
Welcome!
German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier: (retranslated): Thank you very much, Mr President, for this warm welcome.
I am very pleased that we once again have the chance to exchange views on the current situation in the world. It certainly is cause for concern, because of, but not only because of the terrible terrorist attacks yesterday in Brussels.
Yesterday’s terrorist attacks show that we live in a world full of conflicts and tension, especially in the Middle East. I am pleased that over these last months, we have had plenty of opportunities to discuss possible solutions to these crises. As for Syria, we have definitely made some progress over these last two to three months.
We will discuss the situation in Syria, of course, and in Ukraine. I am pleased that there are trends in our bilateral relations that give cause for optimism.
As for the fight against terrorism, we clearly need to concentrate our efforts to prevent this threat.
<…>
Geography
Germany
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 23, 2016, 16:50
Text versionEvents
Expanded meeting of Prosecutor General Office’s Board
Vladimir Putin took part in an expanded meeting of the Prosecutor General Office’s Board, reviewing the results for 2015 and priority work areas in 2016.
March 23, 2016
14:00
Moscow
1 of 6
Expanded meeting of Prosecutor General Office’s Board.
Fighting corruption and terrorism and protecting public and state interests in various areas were the main subjects of discussion.
A total of 317 prosecutors and judges from all around Russia took part in the board meeting.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon colleagues.
We are here to discuss the Prosecutor Office’s results for 2015, and set the priorities for work over the coming period.
Let me start by saying that the Prosecutor’s Office has been active in carrying out its principal duties, thus making a major contribution to cementing the legal foundations of our country and society. The Prosecutor’s Office identified a total of more than 5 million legal violations.
I also note your work in a social area of great importance and sensitivity for people, namely, protection of labour rights. The Prosecutor’s Office has helped to return 25 billion rubles in unlawfully withheld wage payments and have opened more than 500 criminal cases against dishonest employers.
The Prosecutor’s Office staff has actively defended entrepreneurs’ lawful rights and interests. Your efforts have brought to light tens of thousands of violations of the law in their regard, and honest business is now better protected from unjustified inspections.
The Prosecutor’s Office has become more effective in keeping watch on the defence industry’s activity. This was a particular request I made of the Prosecutor General.
At the same time, there is still much work ahead.
Keeping watch to ensure respect of citizens’ constitutional rights and freedoms remains a priority. More than 60 percent of legal violations every year are in this area.
Last year, as I expect the Prosecutor General will tell you, the Prosecutor’s Office noted 3.2 million violations of citizens’ rights and freedoms. This is a huge figure.
I ask you to continue to take the strictest measures with regard to organisations that delay wage payments, withhold social benefits and attempt to avoid paying taxes. I ask you to monitor particularly closely the situation at companies where layoffs are planned. Everything must be carried out in strict compliance with the law.
This applies in full to pensions, protection of mothers and children, and guaranteeing the rights of people with disabilities.
You must actively identify cases of poor quality medical services, violations in supplying medicines, and prevent attempts to raise prices without justification for vital medicines and speculative deals between retail chains.
Let me say again, protecting people’s lives and health and providing assistance to the most vulnerable population groups are our top priorities.
You must bring to light violations in price setting for utilities services and resettling people from dilapidated housing and give strict and objective legal assessment of inaction by watchdog officials and management and service organisations. We know that negligence, lack of conscientiousness in carrying out one’s duties, and violating safety rules can sometimes lead to tragic consequences.
We are making big efforts to improve the business climate and strengthen guarantees for entrepreneurs’ rights to protect them from unlawful pressure from law enforcement personnel.
The Prosecutor General’s Office and other organisations, above all the Supreme Court, Investigative Committee and Interior Ministry, must make a thorough analysis of the situation with criminal prosecution of businesspeople for economic crimes and draw up common concepts for decisions on opening criminal cases and pre-trial detention. We must exclude all possibility of abuse in this area. Let me add that this applies not only to businesspeople but to all Russian citizens.
Colleagues, one of the prosecutors’ main tasks is to coordinate the law enforcement agencies’ work to fight crime.
In your coordination work, I ask you to pay particular attention to crime prevention, especially among teenagers. You must help to organise this work with the municipalities. You also must make every effort to ensure that foreign citizens do not break the law. This was something we discussed in quite some detail at the recent Interior Ministry Board meeting. Your work should bring about a real drop in the criminal threat’s level.
Next, working with your colleagues from the Federal Penitentiary Service and people from human rights organisations, you must personally monitor the conditions in prisons and detention centres and make sure that they have modern standards of detention and healthcare.
I remember well my visit to Kresty [a pre-trial detention centre in St Petersburg]. True, this was many years ago, but people were getting teeth removed there without receiving any anaesthetic. What kind of situation is this? What century are we living in? I hope that nothing of this sort is going on today. I draw this issue to the attention of everyone working for the Prosecutor’s Office and monitoring the situation in our prisons.
I note the work the prosecutors have done to prevent extremism and terrorism. We must reliably protect society from the scourge of nationalism, radicalism and xenophobia and take tough action against any cases of this sort.
Fighting corruption is another important task. We must make sure that those guilty of corruption pay for it with their assets. This was one of the tasks set in January at the Anti-Corruption Council’s meeting.
As before, the defence industry requires our particular attention. Your task here is to bring to light ‘grey schemes’ for siphoning off budget money and cases of buying equipment for modernising defence enterprises at inflated prices, and generally help to ensure stricter budget discipline.
I ask you to continue paying the closest attention to ensuring the law is respected with regard to the measures to develop the defence industry and step up your cooperation with the Defence Ministry, the Federal Financial Monitoring Service and other agencies to monitor the use of public funds.
Honesty and rejection of all forms of corruption must be the norm for the prosecutors. You must respond rapidly to all reports of Prosecutor’s Office workers violating anti-corruption rules and carry out thorough, full and objective investigations.
Colleagues, our country and society need effective and productive work by the Prosecutor’s Office. I am sure that your experience and responsibility will help you to resolve the tasks before you and before the country as a whole.
Thank you very much for your attention.
<…>
Topics
Fight against crime
Law enforcement agencies
Persons
Chaika Yury
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 23, 2016, 14:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting of the Working Group to Monitor and Analyse Law Enforcement Practice in Entrepreneurial Activity
Vladimir Putin chaired the first meeting of the Working Group to Monitor and Analyse Law Enforcement Practice in Entrepreneurial Activity, which discussed a number of business community proposals on legal guarantees for businesspeople.
March 23, 2016
15:40
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 4
Meeting of the Working Group to Monitor and Analyse Law Enforcement Practice in Entrepreneurial Activity.
The working group was formed in February 2016 to organise cooperation between business associations and the federal executive authorities. The group’s participants include the Presidential Executive Office, Interior Ministry, Investigative Committee and Prosecutor General’s Office, and also the country’s biggest business associations: the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, OPORA Russia, and Delovaya Rossiya.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
I meet regularly with business community representatives and with the heads of the various law enforcement agencies and security services. I hear various complaints from them in each other’s address, constantly, in fact.
Overall, we see that there are some conflicts. The law enforcement agencies protect the interests of our entire country and society, and this is their sacred duty. The businesspeople say that the law enforcement personnel exaggerate or overstep their powers and in so doing, destroy the positive business climate we have been working to build.
There is no question that this is certainly very important. Only by developing a favourable business climate can we hope to make our economy competitive and effective overall.
At my last meeting with Mr Shokhin
[president of the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs], we agreed to establish this platform for analysing law enforcement practice in business. The business leaders have raised this matter on past occasions and spoken of the need for a platform that would enable both sides to meet and discuss the issues of respective concern.
Of course, as I said, the law enforcement agencies must protect the state’s interests, and it is no secret that there are corruption cases within the law enforcement agencies themselves. This is something we are fighting, and we will continue to do so, but there is no shortage of cases of the business community breaking the law too.
Our paramount task is to ensure that all citizens obey the law, no matter what their field of activity, no matter whether in law enforcement or business.
My position is that this platform and these meetings will not be used to lobby anyone or anything, but will concentrate on the sole task of analysing law enforcement practice and coming up with proposals in this important area to create a better environment and a balance of interests, including by improving existing laws. All of this work should be absolutely transparent and public. This is particularly important.
Today, we are holding the first meeting of this sort. I have instructed Sergei Ivanov
[Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office] to head the group, and Deputy Interior Minister Dmitry Mironov will be the secretary and responsible for routine work. I ask you to take this work very seriously and I am sure that if you do this on both sides, we can and will achieve positive results, as we have of late with the business initiative project, which has formulated tasks for improving laws and law enforcement practice in doing business.
I hope that these meetings will follow the same aim, without trying to act in place of the Prosecutor General’s Office or the watchdog agencies, but carrying out the important work of analysing the situation and improving our laws and regulations.
Mr Ivanov, you have the floor.
Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Sergei Ivanov: Mr President,
After you gave the instruction on February 16 to establish this working group, we held some preliminary meetings with representatives of the business community and the law enforcement agencies, with the Presidential Executive Office’s participation too, of course.
I want to note one matter of principal importance to start. All of the participants share the same understanding of the task: to make a real improvement in the business climate, prevent any attempts to use criminal prosecution as a means of putting pressure on business, unfair competition, and, as you mentioned in your Address [to the Federal Assembly], sometimes simply to seize assets.
We came to the conclusion that there are still quite a few obvious loopholes in the criminal and procedural law, creating opportunities for abuses to take place.
To cite one well-known example, the law enforcement officials open a criminal case against an entrepreneur and seize documents, hard disks, goods in stock and other material assets during the investigation. We do not know how long the law enforcement officials can keep these assets. The law does not clarify this and there is no regulation of any sort. In the meantime, the company essentially comes to a halt in such conditions and the business collapses or, let’s make no secret of it, is taken over by others. I think it would be good and proper to propose adjustments to the Criminal Procedural Code to clarify the amount of time that arrested assets can remain in this state, so that we do not end up with assets under arrest for three, five, or who knows how many years.
This next issue is liability for economic crimes. As you have said, we are not about to close our eyes to legal violations among the business community, but at the same time, punishment should be suitable and fair and should fit the severity of the crimes. In this respect, the logical question is which criteria should we use to assess the seriousness of economic crimes?
Mr President, this matter was already raised when you met with business community representatives. The law sets out the minimum threshold value of damage used to determine serious and especially serious crimes, but this is the issue I want to point out now: what exactly are serious and especially serious crimes in this area?
These threshold values, including for tax crimes, have not changed since the early 2000s, in around 12 years. But business turnover and the value of goods and services has grown many-fold over the last decade, with the result that it is now possible to open a criminal case against a businessperson for stealing 1,000 rubles. Businesspeople can end up getting several years in prison for what is really not a large sum of damage by today’s measure. Today, embezzlement of 250,000 rubles qualifies as a serious crime, and embezzlement of 1million as especially serious. Clearly, the threshold value of damage needs to be brought into line with today’s economic reality. This is a question we want to discuss at today’s meeting.
Regarding the forms and mechanisms for entrepreneurs’ liability, we cannot make it our aim to punish, send people to prison and put them behind bars in every case. If a businessperson has broken the law for the first time and has voluntarily repaid the damage to all victims, there are good reasons to free them from criminal punishment. In other words, if this is a first offence, and if the person has voluntarily compensated the damage to all concerned, and sometimes this can be hundreds of people or legal entities, this could be grounds for being freed from criminal penalties. This is the approach used now with regard to tax offences. I think it would be good to extend this approach to economic crimes too.
Another proposal that has come from the business community, from all of the business organisations, is to cement in law the right to have a notary be able to visit businesspeople in pre-trial detention centres so that while they are in custody, they can delegate the right to run the business or company. The main condition here is that the businessperson and notary have no chance to alienate or hide assets or money that should be confiscated in order to compensate the damage. This is something we must avoid at all costs, of course. But at the same time, the working group agrees with the business community that businesspeople should have the chance, within the law, to protect their business and ensure its normal operation while they are under arrest. This proposal has been made.
In conclusion, I also wanted to mention the notorious article 159.4 of the Criminal Code, “Fraud in business activity.” Business, especially small and medium-sized business, is always raising this question. I remind you that in the past, under this article’s provisions, businesspeople used to be punished less severely than ordinary people. But in 2014, the Constitutional Court ruled that these provisions violate the principle of equality of all citizens before the law and do not give the victims adequate protection. Of course, we must respect and obey the Constitutional Court’s decisions. The main thing here is to find a balance between ensuring the business community’s respect for the law and creating a favourable investment climate.
Businesspeople, legal entities accused of fraud, do often cause greater damage and harm than small-scale swindlers in terms of the sums involved and the number of victims. You do not need to look far for examples. It is enough to recall the directors of some banks, which essentially embezzled their depositors’ money. This is tremendous material damage.
But there is one substantial reservation here. In most cases when businesspeople are punished for fraud, in practice, they are punished simply for failing to fulfil their obligations fixed in contracts and agreements. There are many reasons for this, and it can be the case that they fail to meet their obligations not out of malicious intent, but due to particular circumstances that arose. For example, the market situation changed, competition increased, partners or subcontractors went bankrupt. If your subcontractors vanish, what do you do? But the blame falls on the concrete businessperson. Or, another common case, a businessperson makes a mistake, takes an unjustified risk, doesn’t anticipate the consequences, and ends up taking the blame. We therefore cannot always see in the same light businesspeople who have failed to meet their obligations for whatever reasons, and swindlers who deliberately set out to deceive, break the law, and often cause billions of rubles worth of damage to countless people.
The working group therefore thinks it good to differentiate threshold values in the article on fraud depending on the person who carried out the swindling, in other words, differentiate between those acting as private individuals, as individual entrepreneurs, or as representatives of a legal entity or of an organised group, which also happens.
These are the issues we will examine at today’s meeting. I propose that we discuss them, and then, if you agree, give the instruction to draw up draft amendments to the law in the relevant areas.
Vladimir Putin: Good.
<…>
See also
Working group formed to monitor and analyse law enforcement practice in entrepreneurial activity
February 16, 2016
Meeting with President of the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs Alexander Shokhin
February 15, 2016
Topics
Support for business
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 23, 2016, 15:40
Text version