Events
Working meeting with Head of Tuva Republic Sholban Kara-ool
The Head of the Republic briefed the President on the socioeconomic situation in the region.
March 3, 2016
14:20
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
2 of 4
Head of the Republic of Tuva Sholban Kara-ool.
According to the Republic’s Head, the regional domestic product grew by 3 billion rubles in 2015 to reach 49 billion. Industrial production growth constituted 108 percent. The republic became more attractive in terms of investment, and there are seven financial and economic groups on the republic’s investment map. A mining and processing combine was commissioned in 2015 that produced 680,000 tonnes of polymetals. The production of coking coal exceeded 1 million tonnes.
The republic is implementing social projects, including those designed for young families engaged in animal husbandry.
The region’s head stressed that the Government resolution on the socioeconomic development of Tuva through 2020, passed in 2015, was of great support for the republic. The document specifies all the infrastructure challenges facing Tuva, including its transport accessibility. Reconstruction of the Kyzyl airport runway has begun. The M54 federal motorway, running through the territories where 60 percent of the republic’s population live all the way up to the Russian-Mongolian border, has been transferred to the region.
Geography
Republic of Tuva
Topics
Regions
Persons
Kara-ool Sholban
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 3, 2016, 14:20
Text versionEvents
Working meeting with Head of Republic of Buryatia Vyacheslav Nagovitsyn
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Head of Buryatia Vyacheslav Nagovitsyn to discuss the region’s socioeconomic situation.
March 3, 2016
15:50
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 3
Working meeting with Head of Buryatia Vyacheslav Nagovitsyn.
Mr Nagovitsyn noted that the industrial production index in 2015 reached 102.3 percent. Good results were registered in the processing, transport and forest industries; a large number of helicopters were produced, mainly for export.
Drought caused problems in agriculture, but with the government assistance, the region managed to buy fodder and seeds and prevent stock loss.
According to the Governor, the introduction of a visa free regime with Mongolia increased the number of tourists and stepped up retail trade.
Natural population growth in the region reached 6,000 people. Preschool facilities, schools and sports centres are being built, and construction of a perinatal centre, a children’s republican hospital and an oncological clinic continues.
Geography
Republic of Buryatia
Topics
Regions
Persons
Nagovitsyn Vyacheslav
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 3, 2016, 15:50
Text version