Events
Meeting with President of Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank Jin Liqun
Vladimir Putin met at his Bocharov Ruchei residence in Sochi with President of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) Jin Liqun to discuss the bank’s activities and its participation in financing projects in Russia.
May 18, 2016
18:10
Sochi
The Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank is an international financial organisation that currently unites 57 founder countries. The bank’s charter states that its main goals are to facilitate infrastructure projects in the Asia-Pacific region and reduce the economic development gap.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, friends, allow me to welcome you here.
As we all know, Russia has joined the work of this bank, which was founded on the initiative of the People’s Republic of China. Russia ranks third after China and India in the size of its contribution to the bank’s capital.
We think this is a timely, important and useful initiative, and we hope very much that under your leadership this bank will take up a worthy place among the world’s international financial institutions, complementing the IMF and the World Bank.
We know that you are committed to having the bank operate in a market environment. You are an experienced and reputed professional, and so this is sure to be the case.
We hope that the bank will work with good effect in developing the infrastructure in the Asia-Pacific region above all. We can propose a number of interesting projects in the Russian Federation: expanding the Trans-Siberian Railway, developing the Northern Sea Route, and developing the special economic zones in Russia’s Far East.
Mr Jin, we wish you success. You can count on our all-round support.
President of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank Jin Liqun (retranslated): Your Excellency President Putin, it is a great pleasure to meet with you. I remember that we last met four years ago at a forum in Moscow.
You are a very effective and strong ruler for Russia and you enjoy constant, broad respect in China. The current global economic situation is a challenge for some countries, and probably for Russia too, but we are sure that under your effective leadership, Russia will overcome all difficulties.
I remember that at the forum where we last met, I said in my speech on that occasion that the Russian economy needs to diversify and free itself from its dependence on energy resources. I remember that you fully supported my words.
Mr President, thank you very much for your best wishes. I am sure that with the support of all of our shareholders and all founder countries we will be up to the task and will pursue effective cooperation.
Russia is one of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank’s biggest shareholders, coming in third, and so we certainly hope for Russia’s support for all of the bank’s undertakings.
I would like to thank you for finding the time to meet with me despite your busy schedule, and I want to congratulate you on the very successful start of this Russia-ASEAN summit.
In reality, close cooperation between Russia and the ASEAN countries is already in itself support for our bank.
<…>
Topics
Foreign policy
Investment
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 18, 2016, 18:10
Text versionEvents
Russian-Indonesian talks
Vladimir Putin met with President of Indonesia Joko Widodo, who is in Russia on an official visit. The two presidents discussed the current state and prospects of bilateral trade and economic cooperation and the situation in the Asia-Pacific region.
May 18, 2016
20:10
Sochi
3 of 7
Meeting with President of Indonesia Joko Widodo.
Following the consultations, a package of documents on cooperation was signed in the presence of the two presidents.
See also
Press statements following Russian-Indonesian talks
May 18, 2016
The package includes an agreement on defence cooperation between the Russian Government and the Indonesian Government. The parties also signed a memorandum on mutual understanding in archival cooperation between the Russian Foreign Ministry and the Indonesian Foreign Ministry and their respective archives; a cultural cooperation programme for 2016–2018 between the Russian Ministry of Culture and the Indonesian Ministry of Culture, and a joint statement on mutual understanding and cooperation in preventing illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing and ensuring sustainable fisheries management.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, allow me to welcome you here.
It is a great pleasure to see you in Russia, in Sochi. Sochi is a place of special significance if we recall that exactly 60 years ago, Indonesia’s first President, Mr Sukarno, who was a great friend of this country, visited this city.
I know that to some extent you see yourself as a successor of his policies. It is very good that we will have the chance during this visit to discuss not only the situation in the region, but also our bilateral relations.
The processes underway in the global economy have affected our relations as well, resulting in a slight drop last year, but we see that the trend is changing this year.
I have fond memories of my visit to your country and the positive atmosphere created for our delegation on that visit. I hope that we will be able to reciprocate with our Russian hospitality during your visit.
Welcome!
President of the Republic of Indonesia Joko Widodo
(retranslated): Thank you, Mr Putin, for the warm welcome. We are pleased to be in Russia.
For me, the history of our relations, which started with President Sukarno, means quite a lot, and I would like for the relations between our countries in the economy, politics and culture to expand.
With regard to trade, we need to look for new ways to boost exports of palm oil from Indonesia to Russia in the near future.
Mr President, you are aware of the plans to increase the import tax on palm oil. Palm oil is the largest export item from Indonesia to Russia, reaching $480 million. Exports have fallen sharply, which is bad for our country’s economy.
I hope that your policies, Mr President, will help ensure that Indonesian palm oil exports to Russia will increase in the near future.
Besides, Mr President, Russia is a good friend of Indonesia. The Embassy and the residence of the Ambassador of Indonesia are located in a building that is part of Russia’s cultural heritage.
<…>
Geography
Indonesia
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Widodo Joko
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 18, 2016, 20:10
Text version