Events
Meeting with President of Vietnam Tran Dai Quang
Vladimir Putin met with President of Vietnam Tran Dai Quang on the sidelines of the APEC Leaders’ Meeting in Lima.
November 19, 2016
19:50
Lima
2 of 4
Meeting with President of Vietnam Tran Dai Quang.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, friends, good afternoon,
I am very pleased to meet you in person and to discuss the state of Russian-Vietnamese relations. I would like to highlight from the very beginning of our conversation that we are satisfied with the way our interstate ties are developing, based on the traditions of friendship, mutual support and assistance.
In the economy, we rely on the development of ties in high technology, power engineering, defence cooperation, culture, education and science.
Despite all the well-known problems in the global economy, trade between Russia and Vietnam grew 5 percent in the first nine months of this year. Moreover, a very important event took place: Vietnam and the Eurasian Economic Union reached an understanding and signed a free trade agreement. Vietnam became the first country to receive preferential access to the market of Russia and our partner countries.
I am very glad to discuss the entire range of these issues with you and our friends. Thank you.
President of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam Tran Dai Quang
(retranslated): Thank you very much, Mr President.
I am very glad to meet with you today on the sidelines of the APEC meeting in Lima, Peru, and I am pleased to meet with our other Russian friends, who have worked shoulder to shoulder with Vietnam over the past years.
I would like to thank you once again for your congratulations and kindness to me when I was elected President of Vietnam and also on my birthday.
I am very glad to cooperate with you personally and with our other Russian friends to boost our ties. I would like to highlight our traditionally friendly relations.
Recently our relations have experienced positive shifts in such spheres as the economy, trade, investment, defence cooperation, science, technology, education and so forth. The political trust between our countries is getting stronger, and traditional spheres of cooperation are developing as well.
I fully share Mr President’s view that the free trade agreement between Vietnam and the Eurasian Economic Union became a major milestone in the development of our economic ties.
I would like to use this opportunity to express my gratitude personally to the President of Russia and our Russian friends for the help you rendered to us in the war years, when we were fighting for national liberation, and in the current period, as we are building our country.
I agree with those main guidelines you set for developing our ties in the nearest future, especially amidst globalisation and the technological revolution.
Thank you for Russia’s support at international forums and especially as part of APEC.
Vietnam will host the next APEC Leaders’ Meeting and I would like to take this opportunity to invite you to participate in it and pay an official visit to Vietnam.
Thank you very much.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much. We would also gladly welcome you to Moscow at any time convenient to you. I will certainly pay a visit and participate in the APEC meeting.
<…>
See also
Working visit to Peru. APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting
November 19 − 21, 2016
Geography
Vietnam
Topics
APEC
Foreign policy
Persons
Quang Tran Dai
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 19, 2016, 19:50
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of the Philippines Rodrigo Duterte
Vladimir Putin and President of the Philippines Rodrigo Duterte discussed the development of bilateral cooperation. The meeting took place Lima, the capital of Peru, where the heads of state had arrived for the APEC summit.
November 19, 2016
20:50
Lima
1 of 2
With President of the Philippines Rodrigo Duterte.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, colleagues, friends,
I am very pleased to meet you and to greet you here.
Mr President, elections in your country took place on May 9, which is one of the most important holidays in Russia – Victory Day, a holiday that commemorates the victory over Nazism in the Great Patriotic War. And it is a victory day for you too, so I would like to congratulate you personally once again.
This year we are celebrating the 40th anniversary of establishing diplomatic relations between our countries. From the historical viewpoint, this is a very short period, but we have managed to achieve a great deal to develop a comprehensive partnership and build up trust between our countries.
I am very happy to have this opportunity to talk with you and your colleagues about the developing our bilateral relations.
President of the Philippines Rodrigo Duterte
: I have been looking forward to this moment, to meeting you, Mr President, not only because you represent a great country but because of your leadership too.
We have been longing to be a part also of this type of business. We have been longing to be a part of Europe, especially in commerce and trade all over the world. But there was one thing that really stood before us, and that was the result of the Cold War.
Historically we identified ourselves with the Western world. It was good until it lasted and, of late I see a lot of these Western nations bullying small nations. And not only that. They are into so much hypocrisy. They seem to start war but are afraid to go to war. That is what’s wrong with America and the others. We have witnessed war in so many places: in Vietnam, Afghanistan and in Iraq. And what seemed to be the reason was the weapons of mass destruction, and there were none.
They insist if you are allied with them that they follow you: they go to the Korean War, nothing happened, they got defeated, they also got soldiers, Filipino soldiers both in Iraq and Vietnam and nothing happened. Then they went on an expedition in Iraq on an excuse of weapons of mass destruction and there were none.
They forced my country to contribute military forces. And then one soldier, no, one Filipino worker in the Middle East was captured by the groups there, it threatened to bury the Filipino unless we got out of the war against an individualist at that time. And because it was of national interest and because the country was really… we were overborne thinking of how to solve the problem. The condition was that if we withdraw the forces then they would spare the life of the Filipino worker. And we decided to withdraw.
<…>
See also
Working visit to Peru. APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting
November 19 − 21, 2016
Geography
Philippines
Topics
APEC
Foreign policy
Persons
Duterte Rodrigo
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 19, 2016, 20:50
Text version