Events
Congratulations on the anniversary of State Inspection for Road Traffic Safety
Vladimir Putin congratulated workers and veterans of State Inspection for Road Traffic Safety on the 80th anniversary.
July 3, 2016
10:00
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends,
I congratulate you on the 80th anniversary of the State Inspection for Road Traffic Safety. I congratulate all those who ensured law and order on the roads, who do this today and who are doing this while we are meeting to celebrate this holiday.
The road traffic safety system developed in the 1930s practically from scratch. We are grateful to your veterans, who oversaw the smooth movement of military units and equipment to the frontline and the wounded to the hinterland and who helped bring about Victory in the Great Patriotic War, as well as those who were responsible for road traffic safety around our huge country after the war.
We commemorate those officers of the State Road Traffic Safety Inspection who died in the line of duty and those who defended the law, the interests of the country and the safety of people both during the war and in peacetime.
You are going to face new challenges. Russia’s transit infrastructure is developing at a fast rate, with new high-speed roads built and the number of car owners soaring. It is your duty to consistently improve the road situation, to help reduce the number of traffic accidents and, most importantly, to save the lives of drivers and pedestrians.
Road safety is a multifaceted task where preventive measures must play a major role. You must not only record violations but also prevent them and help improve the driving culture. I do not doubt that traffic inspectors will address these tasks responsibly and will set an example of professionalism, good organisation and uprightness.
On this fine day, I would like to express my gratitude to all those who honestly do their duty.I wish you success and all the best to your families.
Topics
Road safety
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 3, 2016, 10:00
Text version