Events
Award ceremony for winners of Black Sea Tall Ships Regatta second stage
Vladimir Putin took part in the awards ceremony for the winners of the international Black Sea Tall Ships Regatta’s second stage. The President presented the cup to Andrei Orlov, captain of the Mir sailing ship, winner of the Class A ships, and to Alexandra Nikiforova, winner of the Russian Geographical Society’s national contest.
September 24, 2016
15:10
Sochi
2 of 11
Speech at the awards ceremony for the winners of the Black Sea Tall Ships Regatta second stage.
Later Mr Putin toured the Nadezhda frigate, where he viewed Roskomflot and Sovkomflot cargo ship models.
The Black Sea Tall Ships Regatta has been held every year since 1956, in European ports for the most part. Russian sailing ships and yachts have taken part since 1978.
This year the regatta is being held from September 8 to October 4 with about 30 racers, including Russia’s Kruzenshtern, Mir, Nadezhda and Khersones tall ships. Bulgaria has entered the Royal Helena and the Kaliakra, Poland the Pogoria, and Spain the Atyla.
* * *
Speech at awards ceremony for the winners of the Black Sea Tall Ships Regatta’s second stage
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends,
Today in Sochi we greet again the winners of the international tall ships regatta’s stage and also the winner of the contest held by the Russian Geographical Society, a contest dedicated to the Russian exploration of the World Ocean.
Tall ships regatta is a very special event. Any person, both experienced sailors and rookie seamen, feels a special, intense thrill as they step on the deck of the ship, touch the helm, and sails for the first time.
And it is important that people not only learn seafaring, but also begin to understand that success depends on the skills of each crewmember, as well as on the precise crew integration.
The sea brotherhood does not know national borders. Cultural and ethnic differences fade into the background. What is more crucial is support, fellowship, and friendship. And such events play an important role in developing relations between nations.
You have another stage ahead of you. I wish you all success, and as they say in such cases, fair winds and a following sea! Good luck!
See also
Greetings to participants in 2016 Black Sea Tall Ships Regatta
September 8, 2016
Topics
Sport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 24, 2016, 15:10
Text version