Events
Meeting with President of the State of Palestine Mahmoud Abbas
Vladimir Putin met with President of the State of Palestine Mahmoud Abbas, who is in Russia on a working visit.
April 18, 2016
13:45
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 6
Meeting with President of the State of Palestine Mahmoud Abbas.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, friends,
Let me wish you all a warm welcome to Moscow.
I am very pleased that we meet regularly and have the chance to hold consultations and make adjustments to our bilateral relations and our reactions to events in the region.
I know that you are making vigorous efforts to get the peace process moving. Mr President, I can assure you that we will support all efforts you make to activate the conditions needed for paving the way to constructive dialogue.
It would be of great interest for us to discuss with you regional problems in general, and, of course, to examine our bilateral economic relations, given that we now have a framework in place, have established the intergovernmental commission, and launched its work.
Welcome!
President of the State Palestine Mahmoud Abbas (retranslated): Thank you, Mr President,
It is a great pleasure to be here, particularly at this time when important Middle East problems and security issues are being resolved.
As you just said, we are making active efforts to achieve a settlement with Israel on the basis of the principle of two states existing within the 1967 borders, and a Palestinian state with East Jerusalem as its capital.
As you know, Palestine and Israel are not holding political talks right now. On the agenda at the moment are particular matters of contacts with the Israelis on security matters regarding Area A, which is in Palestine. We will look at this in more detail later, and at other matters concerning the peace process.
Among the most important matters now is France’s initiative to convene an international conference on the Middle East peace process. We want to discuss this in more detail with you. This matter is of great importance for us.
As you know, a conference on a peace settlement in the Middle East took place in Annapolis. That conference was to be followed by a second conference on the peace process in Moscow, but this did not go ahead. Holding this international conference on the Middle East is therefore on the agenda now.
This initiative involves two elements. The first is to organise a meeting between the foreign ministers of the countries planning to take part in the conference, and the second element is to hold the conference itself.
This international conference requires us to define the principles upon which we will base the Middle East settlement. It also requires us to draft a provisional timetable for talks and for making the final decisions.
<…>
Geography
State of Palestine
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Abbas Mahmoud
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 18, 2016, 13:45
Text versionEvents
Working meeting with Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev
Dmitry Medvedev updated Vladimir Putin on key points of the report on the Government’s performance in 2015, which will be presented to the deputies of the State Duma on Tuesday, April 19.
April 18, 2016
20:50
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 2
With Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Medvedev, tomorrow you will present the Government’s annual report in Parliament. I know that you prepared a relevant message for the deputies.
Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev: Mr President, indeed the Government reports to the State Duma tomorrow in accordance with the Constitution. I brought the report and would like to discuss with you some of its key points. I’m referring to the work done by the Government last year, the results that were achieved last year and the prospects of work in the current year, considering both the current economic difficulties in the country and outlook that we of course have as well as the instructions given in the Presidential Address to the Federal Assembly and to the Government on key issues of the report: socio-economic problems, industrial development, import substitution and agricultural development. To sum up, the Government prepared a report on all these issues. I’d like to discuss with you the key points of the report.
Vladimir Putin: Let’s discuss them.
<…>
Persons
Medvedev Dmitry
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 18, 2016, 20:50
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Chairman of the Eurasian Economic Commission Board Tigran Sargsyan
Vladimir Putin met with the new chairman of the Board of the Eurasian Economic Commission (EEC) Tigran Sargsyan.
April 18, 2016
16:50
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 4
With Chairman of the Eurasian Economic Commission Board Tigran Sargsyan.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Sargsyan, we know each other well and we worked together when we both headed our countries’ governments.
You have an important new mission now and have become a senior-level international official. I hope very much that the Eurasian Economic Commission’s work will be a success under your direction.
Mr Khristenko
[Chairman of the Eurasian Economic Commission Board in 2012–2016] prepared the ground very well, I think. There are a lot of issues and problems ahead that we need to resolve together. Most important of all, of the work we need to do together, is to put this integration organisation’s advantages to maximum use in order to resolve the problems our countries face. We established this organisation in the first place in order to create new conditions for economic growth and for developing the social sector.
I wish you success. This is our first meeting in our current capacities. You only recently took up your new responsibilities. Soon, we will have the prime ministers’ meeting in Yerevan, and then the summit meeting in Astana, so we will be working together with you to prepare for these big events.
Chairman of the Board of the Eurasian Economic Commission Tigran Sargsyan
: Mr President,
Thank you very much for this chance to discuss with you the Eurasian Economic Union’s development prospects. As you said, the integration potential is great and we must put this to work in our peoples’ interests.
We have to ensure continuity in the board’s work, and at the same time, we also need to prepare suitable responses to the new challenges we see today.
We see that the trade and economic landscape and the global picture are changing, and the Eurasian Economic Commission and our union overall must be ready to find their place in the global transformations underway.
I can assure you that we will do everything possible to implement in full the priorities and policies set by our member countries’ leaders.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
<…>
Topics
EAEU
Persons
Khristenko Viktor
Sargsyan Tigran
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 18, 2016, 16:50
Text version