Events
Replies to media questions following APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting
Vladimir Putin answered media questions following the working sessions of the economic leaders of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum.
November 21, 2016
01:40
Lima
1 of 6
Vladimir Putin answered journalists’ questions following the APEC 2016 Leaders’ Meeting.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon. Or good evening. Or good night already in Moscow. Let us get straight to your questions, without any introductory remarks. Please.
Question: There was fear on the meeting’s sidelines over the consequences of Brexit and Trump’s election. Many people believe that these two events could have a negative impact on the APEC trade development plans. Do you share these fears?
Vladimir Putin: No, and I cannot say I saw any particular fear. I do not know which sidelines you mean. Of course, the matters exist, and my colleagues are obviously asking themselves these questions. However, there should be no fear. Things will settle down one way or another.
Regarding Brexit much will depend on the form of exit Britain chooses and its speed. There are certain challenges, but I believe all of us have enough common sense, including our colleagues in the EU experts. Britain has very good professionals.
Therefore, I am absolutely sure that the situation will develop calmly, and there is no need to whip up tensions. I do not believe that anyone in Britain or Europe will act contrary to their interests. Of course, there are certain challenges, but I do not doubt that we will overcome them.
Regarding the US President-elect. We all understand, and everyone knows, that there is a difference between election rhetoric and real policies in practically all countries.
Speaking about Mr Trump’s promise to bring manufacturing jobs back to the United States — what is bad about that?
The United States is a leading global economy, and global economic health largely depends on its development and the resolution of problems it is facing, including the problem of a huge sovereign debt.
I believe that other important conditions include what the FRS does, how it changes the interest rate, whether the dollar becomes stronger and, if it does, how quickly this happens. A lot depends on this in emerging economies and markets. The national currencies and financial resources of APEC member economies depend on this. We discussed all these issues in a calm and business-like atmosphere.
Question: Mr Putin, this is not the first year that much has been said, and certain actions have been taken within APEC to create completely closed economic blocs, despite criticism and opposition. As far as we know, a meeting was held here in Lima to discuss the Trans-Pacific Partnership. You have spoken on this issue repeatedly. Has your opinion changed? Can the Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU) somehow rival these closed blocs? Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: No, my opinion has not changed. Moreover, I have said yet again that we believe, Russia believes – and not just Russia, but also many other countries and the IMF believe, as Christine Lagarde has said today – that the development of international trade is a factor of global economic revival. I firmly believe that international trade cannot develop effectively without the free movement of goods, capital and the most skilled workforce. Unfortunately, there are many obstacles to this.
Our position is that regional associations are important and that we need them. This is a natural process. However, these associations should be created and developed based on universal standards accepted by the World Trade Organisation.
This is how the Eurasian Economic Union, the EAEU, was created, and this is how it is operating. Its goal was never to rival other regional organisations. Besides, considering the economic volume of the EAEU countries and the partnership that is being created in the Pacific region – they are incomparable, and we do not intend to compete with anyone in this sense.
However, you know that we are discussing the possibility of aligning the EAEU and China’s Silk Road Economic Belt initiative based on the ideas of the Chinese leadership and President Xi Jinping. This could be the first step.
A second step could be the development of cooperation within the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation and other Asian associations. By acting in this manner, we can create a broad Eurasian cooperation association.
If we opt for this path, our organisation will be comparable to what is being created within the framework or in the zone of Pacific partnership.
However, I believe that if we want to effectively influence global economic processes there should be no closed associations. If such associations are created, they will not boost the development of international trade or the global economy as a whole.
Question: As far as we know, you proposed economic cooperation on the Kuril Islands during a meeting with Prime Minister Abe of Japan. What kind of economic cooperation did you have in mind? This is my first question.
Second, Mr Abe has been highlighting the importance of a new approach to the issue of a peace treaty. What approach would you regard as new? And what is the old approach? Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: I do not want to get too far ahead of the main issue on our agenda, which is a peace treaty. I believe it is obvious to Japan and Russia that the absence of a peace treaty between us is an anachronism that is preventing us from moving on and from developing. Moreover, Russia and Japan are natural partners in the region, where they complement or could complement each other, if their relations were based on a peace treaty, which is, unfortunately, not the case.
Both Russia and Japan want to sign a peace treaty. The path towards it is not simple, but we have been working on it for a long time. I do not wish to go too far back into the history of the matter, but you know our position.
The ownership of the Kuril Islands was decided as a result of World War II, and we believe that now they are part of Russia’s sovereign territory, which was sealed in international documents following WWII.
However, we are ready for a dialogue on this issue with our Japanese partners. We said that there could be different options. I would like to remind you that the Soviet Union and Japan signed a document to this effect in 1956, under which two islands were to be returned to Japan. The framework for this was not stipulated; it was not decided which country would have sovereignty over these two islands, and the conditions for the transfer were not outlined. We know the position of our Japanese partners, who want all four islands. All of this is on our agenda.
I would like to stress yet again that both Russia and Japan sincerely wish to sign a peace treaty and are looking for ways to do this. As for which approach is new and which is old, this I do not know. I only know that this striving must be supported.
What can the basis for an agreement be? It can be greater mutual trust, and trust can be strengthened through broader cooperation. This is why Prime Minister Abe has proposed a programme for promoting business and economic ties. I believe it consists of eight points and includes the implementation of large projects, not only on the islands, but also between Russia and Japan in general.
At our latest meeting, we also discussed what we could do together on these islands. There are both economic and cultural issues. However, it would be premature to speak about this now, because we have not yet coordinated an agreement.
We will continue our contacts at the level of foreign ministers. The dialogue has been resumed at Japan’s initiative. We have agreed that the entire package of these issues will be also at the top of my agenda if I visit Japan.
Question: The affair with Mr Ulyukayev came as a surprise to many. Can you comment on this story? What impact could it have on the transfer of the state-owned Bashneft stock to Rosneft? When will a new minister be appointed, and who might it be?
Vladimir Putin: There is nothing to say here. Ultimately, comments should come from law enforcement agencies and the court. Only after that will we be able to express our opinion on the essence of the matter. However, the fact itself is very sad. Nevertheless, I would like to say that our intolerance to events such as this would not abate.
In my opinion, I firmly believe that such actions by law enforcement agencies not only do not damage the business environment, but that they are only improving the business environment in Russia. Everyone must know – including our partners and people in the country – everyone must understand and know that absolutely everyone is equal before the law irrespective of one’s official position.
As for the Bashneft deal, this sad event cannot have any impact on Rosneft’s action to buy into Bashneft. Moreover, we expect a big synergetic effect from this transaction. When we expressed our doubts regarding the expediency of Rosneft buying a Bashneft package, we said that the state holds a controlling stake in Rosneft, which is not a state-owned company. A foreign partner, British Petroleum, holds a large package in Rosneft, 19.5 percent, if memory serves. The next step – the privatisation of Rosneft – will involve the privatisation of the state-owned package. Therefore, we have not abandoned our privatisation plans in this respect. Of course, the Government and Rosneft management will be working to implement the second part of this plan, which is to sell the state-owned stake in Rosneft.
Remark: When will a new minister be appointed?
Vladimir Putin: Soon, I hope. There are candidates, of course, several candidates. I have been discussing this with the Prime Minister and several other members of the Government. There are at least three or even four candidates. We will settle the matter as soon as I return to Russia.
Question: We saw that you spoke today with President Obama, who is coming to the end of his term in office. Could you reveal the secret and tell us what you talked about with him? This was probably your final chance to speak with President Obama. Coming back to your conversation with President-elect Trump, did you reach agreement on a first meeting?
Vladimir Putin: What does one normally talk about in such cases? The usual matters. As you noted, our dialogue was not always easy, there were difficult moments and working together was not always a straightforward process, but nonetheless, as President Obama and I both noted, we always had respect for each other and for each other’s positions. I thanked him for these years of work together and said that we would be happy to see him in Russia at any time, whenever he feels the need or desire to visit.
As for my telephone conversation with the US president-elect, he reiterated his desire to normalise our bilateral relations. For my part, I said that we seek the same. We have always said this. We did not discuss a specific date for a meeting but said it could be useful, perhaps, to organise a meeting between representatives of our staffs. We see that the US president-elect is still in the active process of putting together his own team. It would be difficult to organise a meeting even between members of our staffs right now when he has not yet finished putting his official team together. Let us wait for now. There will be time.
Question: I would like to clarify my colleague’s question and put a question of my own. Do you still have confidence in the Government as a whole following Mr Ulyukayev’s arrest? My second question concerns the OPEC meeting scheduled for the end of November. How realistic is it in your opinion that they will reach an agreement on limiting production, how important would this be for Russia, and are there any plans or proposals for Russian companies to take similar steps on their side? Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Regarding the sad news about our Economy Minister’s arrest, this has not changed my view of the Government as a whole. The Government is doing its job professionally, despite the criticism it receives, which is only natural. The Government is always in the public spotlight, after all, with people analysing every step it takes. All of us make mistakes at times in our work. Perhaps that Government could do some things faster, but overall, let me say again, I believe they are doing quite an effective job and are producing results in the difficult conditions in which we have to work.
By the way, when I met earlier with Ms Lagarde, I discussed precisely this subject with her and the IMF’s assessment coincides with my own on the work of the Government economic and financial blocks and the Central Bank.
As for the upcoming OPEC meeting, our position remains unchanged. We have spoken on this matter before and have said that we are ready to freeze production at today’s level. We do not think that would create any problems for our energy sector. The Energy Ministry is in constant contact with the big energy companies, and they are ready to go ahead with this.
I cannot say for certain whether they will reach an agreement or not, but I do think it highly probably that they will. As I see it, the main differences that existed between the OPEC countries, perhaps not all the differences, but the bigger ones at least, if they have not been already settled, they can be. As far as we understand the situation, there are no serious issues remaining.
For our part, we will do everything our OPEC partners expect of us; in any case, it is not a problem for us to freeze production.
Question: Mr President, I think you might have had the chance to read the news or were briefed on the fact that the plane that brought officials and journalists here to the summit before your own arrival was escorted at very close range, even dangerously close, by the Swiss air force. Was this an act of aggression or a gesture of respect? Did F-18 fighter planes approach your plane as welll? Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Let us consider it an honour escort.
Thank you. Good luck.
Do you have any more questions? Go ahead.
Question: You are to visit Japan in December. How do you assess the current state of preparations for your visit? This is my first question.
And my second question. You said two years ago that the ball is in Japan’s court now. Do you think the ball is rolling a little now? Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: The fact that we can reach agreement on upcoming contacts, including with Japan, is already a sign that something is changing in our relations, I believe. As for the preparations, they have only just begun and it is too early to talk about them now. However, if we consider the renewed discussion with our Japanese friends on concluding a peace treaty, you could say that this already marks progress.
Question: You met with the new Philippine President. He spoke very positively about you on earlier occasions. How did the meeting go? Could you say that you have gained a new ally?
Vladimir Putin: You already know the situation with Russia’s allies. I will not repeat myself now.
Meanwhile, more productive and substantial cooperation, with the Philippines as well, is eminently possible. At any rate, the President of the Philippines said he is interested in developing relations of this kind. We seek, of course, to develop relations with all of the APEC countries.
The Philippines is a big country, a big economy, and we agreed to consider all the possibilities. We do not have a great amount of trade and economic ties at present, but the mutual interest is there and there are areas that we most certainly can develop. They include machine building, aircraft manufacturing, the space industry, some of the high-tech sectors, the energy sector, and military-technical cooperation. We could develop many interesting joint projects in these areas. We agreed to establish the necessary framework for talks and will set to work identifying the most promising and practical directions for work.
Thank you very much. All the very best and have a good journey home.
See also
APEC Economic Leaders’ working sessions
November 21, 2016
Additional
Working visit to Peru. APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting
November 19 − 21, 2016
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 21, 2016, 01:40
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Federal Taxation Service Head Mikhail Mishustin
On the Tax Worker’s Day Vladimir Putin met with Head of the Federal Taxation Service Mikhail Mishustin. The President congratulated him and all employees and veterans of the Taxation Service on their professional holiday.
November 21, 2016
20:05
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 3
With Federal Taxation Service Head Mikhail Mishustin.
The head of the Federal Taxation Service informed the President about its performance in the past ten months and implementation of the plan to establish a uniform system for administering tax and non-tax payments.
* * * 
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Mishustin, we will of course discuss matters pertaining to the performance of the Taxation Service, one of the most important of which is to ensure tax collection, but first I would like to congratulate you on your professional holiday, Tax Worker’s Day, and to convey my best wishes to you and the staff of your agency. The Taxation Service is a key element of the government because it contributes so much to the country’s financial stability and the revenue part of the budget – together with the Customs – but still your service plays the main role in this respect.
I would like to wish you success.
Head of the Federal Taxation Service Mikhail Mishustin
: Mr Putin, thank you for the greetings.
I will make a brief report on the current situation.
We have just summed up ten-month results on revenue collection rates for all levels of the budget. In the first half of the year we were concerned over some figures showing a 1.3 percent decline in the rate of incoming tax revenues as compared with the same period in 2015. However, we have since turned the corner. We have registered a 2.6 percent increase in revenues to the consolidated budget in the first ten months of 2016, which equals 300 billion rubles.
This increase was achieved by revenue generating taxes, primarily VAT. The growth rate is plus 8.6 percent. This was made possible by the work of the automated system of control over VAT reimbursement and integration with the Customs Service. I will tell you about this in more detail later.
Vladimir Putin: Is this what we wanted to achieve by bringing everything together under the aegis of the Finance Ministry?
Mikhail Mishustin: Yes. If you allow me, I will describe later how we are working on this on a more systematic basis, not only with the Customs.
The next revenue generator is the income tax. It has gone up by 7.6 percent or 2.3 trillion rubles. This also shows that salaries are moving to their former level.
Vladimir Putin: Salaries have increased a bit.
Mikhail Mishustin: Yes, this is absolutely true. I know the figure – plus 7.9 percent in nine months.
Then there is profit tax, which is also growing. At this point, we have the consolidated figure: profit tax grew by 2.9 percent compared to the first ten months of 2015 (including profit tax on dividends paid by major companies among others). There is a decrease, as profits in 2015 were not that large. However, today we can see that profit tax is growing by 7.4 percent at the 20 percent rate, which is an uptick in the regions.
Collection rates for the fixed excise duty, including on alcohol, are at a record high. Over the first 10 months of 2016, total excise duty amounted to 1.1 trillion rubles, which is a 26 percent increase compared to the same period in 2015, and a 25 percent increase for spirits.
This was also made possible by your instructions to create an interagency working group headed by Finance Minister Anton Siluanov, which involves the relevant law enforcement authorities, the Federal Service for Alcohol Market Regulation and the Tax Service. We worked hard on the accounting system for the alcohol industry.
I would like to say that we managed to eliminate a large-scale excise duty evasion scheme, and we are recording revenue growth in some regions, including a tenfold increase in the Republic of North Ossetia- Alania.
Vladimir Putin: A tenfold increase?
Mikhail Mishutin: Yes. In the Republic of North Ossetia – Alania, the growth over the corresponding previous period was about 300 million rubles, and now it is 3.1 billion rubles. In Kabardino-Balkaria, the increase is 40 percent. We can see that these dynamics also show that alcohol markets are coming out of the legal shadows.
Vladimir Putin: So, the measures taken in this area are producing results.
Mikhail Mishutin: Yes, they are.
The most important thing, Mr President, is the increase of 25 billion rubles for spirits for the corresponding period.
You spoke about creating a unified mechanism of tax and non-tax payment administration. In particular, you spoke about the customs service and integration. I would like to briefly report on the areas of work.
First, the integration itself with the Federal Customs Service’s information system. We are primarily interested in the fiscal effect. We have analysed related processes where tax and customs services overlap. There are about 90 such processes. We have conducted an analysis, following which we focused on the main vectors of our work in the following areas.
First, it is about obtaining information on the customs value of goods crossing the Russian border for further use in the automated control system for the purpose of value added tax refund. So, if someone wants to file for deductions or the like, we will see the entire chain from importing the goods, charging duties and fees all the way to retail sale. Importantly, we already have results. In particular, our combined credited amount following the receipt of information from the customs service stand at about 52 billion roubles. Customs have recorded a corresponding increase in the collection of their fees as well. We will continue this work, Mr President, this is just the beginning.
The second vector is represented by the risk management system. All foreign trade participants, which the customs service focuses on, are taxpayers as well. Just like the tax service, we see them as taxpayers with the corresponding risk, the risk of tax evasion.
The corresponding sharing of information gave us the opportunity to conduct coordinated inspections, but we always use the risk analysis model, that is, we come and explain the reason for coming and checking things. In this sense, too, work is underway, and we are pleased to see additional fiscal revenue without any increase in the corresponding taxes, fees or duties.
Insurance premiums are also about creating a single administrative mechanism. Starting on January 1, we will begin to administer insurance premiums, including the Social Development Fund, the Mandatory Medical Insurance Fund, and the Pension Fund.
I am here to say that we are prepared for the job. There will not be any changes for the taxpayers or employers. In addition, simplified reporting forms will be used. There will be four of them. One will be quarterly and will include all the calculations. We will have one controller, meaning that the offices will not have to go out and check the taxpayers. This was also in your instructions – to reduce the number of inspections. Basically, the administration of insurance premiums is similar to the imperative for administering personal income tax. Thus, we see this information base and will try to provide administration without unneeded inspections.
Finally, we hope that our citizens will be able to see the amounts credited to their insurance premiums when they sign in their respective online accounts. They will know how much their employer has paid for them to all the funds for the subsequent calculation of pension entitlements and they will be able to ask questions that they may have for the state.
The third point that I would like to report on is regarding your instruction to create legislative and enforcement measures for introducing the latest cashier’s desks for the tax service to have online access to retail transactions. Much has been done in this area. In accordance with your instruction and in conjunction with the Popular Front, we have done this work across the country working with business associations, such as Delovaya Rossiya, OPORA, the RUIE, and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Having worked through everything and addressed all the issues, the State Duma deputies adopted a law on cash register equipment in the summer. February 1 is approaching, when all newly registered cash register equipment (the cash registers, which, under the law, will be registered with the tax authorities) will follow the new procedure.
We have developed an online office. Now, you will not have to go to tax offices for paperwork. It is comforting to know that 40 such products have been manufactured, and the competition will be tough. It will reduce the cost of cash register equipment, which means reduced costs for businesses.
I hope that it will go fairly painlessly for businesses, but most importantly, all retail transactions will be transparent for the state. That way, we will cover the entire chain of goods entering Russia through the customs, then going through all conversion stages and sale at retail outlets. Finally, all tax receipts, including from those taxpayers who use the simplified online tax return filing system, will become transparent for the state. Put differently, we will no longer have to check them as we will see everything from the documents.
In a nutshell, Mr President, these are the results.
Vladimir Putin: Good.
<…>
Topics
Taxes
Persons
Mishustin Mikhail
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 21, 2016, 20:05
Text version