Events
Speech following a prayer service at St Panteleimon Monastery
May 28, 2016
18:15
Mount Athos
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Your Holiness, Reverend fathers, Father Jeremiah, fathers and brethren.
I am glad to have this opportunity to once again visit the Russian St Panteleimon Monastery. It had a lofty spiritual mission historically, and continues to perform it today, being cherished by Orthodox believers from Russia and other countries for that reason.
Unlike the Patriarch of Moscow and All Russia, I didn't come here 40 years ago, but I did come here in 2005 and I can say today that the changes are unbelievable, wonderful.
It was with great honour that I accepted your invitation to attend the 1,000th anniversary of the first written account of Russian monks on Mount Athos.
I want to stress once again that the anniversary preparations have been laborious. Events to mark this day are taking place in a coordinated fashion in Russia, Greece and on Mount Athos, and we are to thank both the Ecumenical Patriarch and the Church of Greece for this.
I want to highlight that Russia and Mount Athos have long shared close religious ties. The traditions of Mount Athos have played an important role in the life of Russians.
Today, Russia’s interest in Mount Athos remains strong. Recently, the historical sites linked to the Russian presence on Mount Athos have been preserved and renovated thanks to the enthusiastic efforts of the Russian Orthodox Church, and with the support and direct participation of the Patriarch of Moscow and All Russia himself, as well as the donors that the Patriarch has mentioned. I am especially glad to note the visible improvements at your monastery.
I am glad to see you in good health, your Reverence. You have made an invaluable contribution to the movement of the Russian pilgrimage.
As the Patriarch just said, Russian monks on Mount Athos had to live through difficult times in the 20th century. Out of several thousand monks who lived here in 1913, only dozens remained later, and only a few even later.
The first visit of Patriarch Pimen of Moscow and All Russia in 1972 marked the revival of the St Panteleimon Monastery. It was indeed very difficult to travel here from Russia at the time, and even more difficult to go visit our country. Today, numerous believers from Russia and other Slavic countries come to your monastery to venerate the relics of Mount Athos. It is important to continue doing everything to ensure that this little corner of Russia on Mount Athos continues to consolidate the spirit of all Orthodox believers.
I would like to thank you, your Reverence, and the brethren for the warm hospitality extended to our compatriots. You show us an example of adhering to the principles of humanity, goodness and justice. These traditional moral and cultural values are a benchmark and support for all of us, crucial for keeping peace, making Russia stronger, and preserving the unity of the Russian Orthodox Church.
I would like to wish your monastery prosperity, and I hope each and every one of you enjoys robust health and leads a long life.
So help us God. Christ has risen.
See also
Visit to Mount Athos
May 28, 2016
Geography
Greece
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 28, 2016, 18:15
Text versionEvents
Speech at a meeting with the Holy Kinot
May 28, 2016
16:00
Mount Athos
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, your Reverences, fathers,
I am happy to visit Mount Athos again. According to the Orthodox tradition, it is the earthly domain of the Mother of God, so everyone who steps on this sacred soil doubtlessly experiences special feelings.
The President [of Greece Prokopios Pavlopoulos] has said that Mount Athos is a unique centre of Orthodoxy and Christianity. For more than a thousand years, it has been carefully preserving and enriching spiritual traditions and our common values. I fully agree that the role played by Mount Athos is crucial at a time when Orthodoxy is growing stronger in Russia and other countries where it is practised. Orthodoxy is gaining ground and is helping a great number of people, including Russians, find inner strength.
The first written account of Russians on Mount Athos dates back a thousand years, which underscores the importance of this place for modern Russia. For centuries, Orthodox believers from our country have drawn spiritual strength and knowledge from here.
As we revive patriotic values, historical memory and traditional culture, we count on building a stronger relationship with Mount Athos. I am happy to note that each year more pilgrims are coming here from Russia, over 11,000 every year. I want to thank you for your warm hospitality towards our compatriots.
The relics that are brought to Russia for worship are an important testament to the deepening ties between Russia and Mount Athos. They include the Cincture of the Theotokos from the Vatopedi Monastery and the Holy Right Hand Remains of St George from the Xenophontos Monastery, which have been venerated by hundreds of thousands of Russian Orthodox believers. I want to thank you especially for this. I hope that this lofty and noble mission of the Athonite monasteries will continue.
In 2016, we are holding the reciprocal Year of Culture between Russia and Greece. For centuries our people have been united by a common faith and mutual affection, which, as has already been mentioned, have helped our peoples overcome difficulties and end up victorious. This was true during the liberation of the Balkans and at other stages of world history. Today’s generation fully shares these deep mutual feelings.
I am confident that Russia’s ties with Mount Athos and Greece as a whole will continue to strengthen, and spiritual kinship and trust will continue to set the tone of our traditionally close and friendly relations.
Christ has risen.
See also
Visit to Mount Athos
May 28, 2016
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 28, 2016, 16:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Russian media
Following the Russian-Greek talks, Vladimir Putin met with Russian media representatives.
May 28, 2016
01:30
Athens
Meeting with Russian media.
Question: Mr President, may I ask you a question about domestic policy rather than talks with Greece?
Vladimir Putin: Are you having trouble sleeping?
Remark: I am. The whole country is thinking about this issue.
Vladimir Putin: Go ahead.
Question: Mr Medvedev visited Crimea recently, where he spoke about pensions. His comment became a major source of public attention. In particular, one Crimean pensioner was very upset that there would be no indexation of pensions this year or in the short term. How do you assess the Government’s work in the social sphere?
Vladimir Putin: I can say for certain that the Government is determined to fulfil all social obligations. I did not see what Mr Medvedev said in this regard. You can always take some phrase out of context or from a general conversation. Everything can match word-for-word, but the meaning can be totally different if you look at the entire context of the conversation.
I know nothing about this but one thing I know for sure is that the Government pays a great deal of attention to fulfilling social obligations. Moreover, I regularly meet with Government members responsible for both the economy and finance, and the social sphere. Social commitments are among the priorities. First of all, measures are studied, including now, to support low income population groups. Of course, in the context of the current difficult situation with the budget, the Government is forced to look for different ways of addressing these issues.
What ways can there be? One option is to index social benefits, including pensions, with no regard for budget revenues, or alternatively, to try to limit the indexing to a certain amount while making every effort to keep inflation down. There are different ways to control inflation through various financial means. It can happen that efforts to help people lead to higher inflation, which reduces the effect to zero. This is a complicated and subtle task.
However, many countries, many economies are facing the same problems now. For instances, the country we are in right now, Greece, adopted a resolution on May 9 to reduce pensions instead of indexing them.
Or take our neighbours in Ukraine. We say that inflation was very high in Russia last year – 12.9 percent. While Ukraine had an inflation of 48.7 percent.
Or take the average pension: $200 in Russia, and $76 in Ukraine. Do you see the difference? We have at least indexed pensions by 4 percent. In Ukraine, there is no indexation at all, and the pension age was increased.
We are trying to retain the growth of rates: 4 percent this year, 4.5, maximum 5. Only in some regions, by decisions of local administrations, rates may be increased by 10 percent. And what about Ukraine? The cost of gas has gone up at least 3.3 fold. The average increase is 6.6 fold. Electricity has gone up by 60% to 70%. More than a 50% hike in hot water rates, up to 60%. And pensions have been frozen altogether.
This is why everything is relative. We have already said that if the economy allows it, if we have the funds, then of course we will be looking for an opportunity to help people with low incomes. And we will be thinking about pensioners among them, first and foremost. This is why there can be no doubt that the Government is working on this issue and doing so in earnest.
See also
Visit to Greece and Mount Athos
May 27 − 28, 2016
Topics
Pensions
Social services
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 28, 2016, 01:30
Text version