Events
Meeting with VTB Bank Chairman and CEO Andrei Kostin
Vladimir Putin met with VTB Bank Chairman and CEO Andrei Kostin.
April 15, 2016
13:45
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 3
With VTB Bank Chairman and CEO Andrei Kostin.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Kostin, we were going to talk about state support for small and medium-sized businesses. I know that VTB Group has developed large programmes for this purpose, which work. Let us discuss how they work and what they actually do.
VTB Bank Chairman and CEO Andrei Kostin
: Yes, Mr President. Working with small and medium-sized businesses is one of our Group’s priorities. Two years ago, we even introduced a special Global Line as part of VTB Group, which is directly focused on this area. Today, our SME loan portfolio is 870 billion rubles.
I must say that last year was difficult for work with small and medium-sized businesses. On the one hand, high interest rates held back the demand for small business loans, while on the other hand, the difficult economic situation led to a very high level of non-performing loans, so banks’ interest in providing these loans decreased.
However, I note with satisfaction that since the beginning of this year, the situation has begun to improve. In the first quarter, we have seen not only a growth of funds in the accounts of small and medium business customers, but also an increase in demand for loans. We believe that this the loan portfolio for this category of borrowers will grow by at least five percent.
It also helps that there is a state programme already fine-tuned by the Government and the Central Bank jointly with commercial banks. It involves the issue of special soft loans to small and medium-sized businesses through the Federal Corporation for the Development of Small and Medium Business.
Many people do not even believe that the interest rate under this programme is 11 percent for small businesses and 10 percent for medium-sized businesses, but it is true. It is refinanced by the Central Bank. VTB was the first bank to join this programme.
Vladimir Putin: Roughly, how many borrowers have taken out loans at such rates?
Andrei Kostin: We believe we will issue about 20 billion within a year, to about 200 borrowers. This is a relatively small percentage, maybe five percent of our portfolio. However, the mechanism is interesting. I think that if we continue to develop it, with your support, it should be of major help in working with small businesses.
Vladimir Putin: Very good.
How is your cooperation with the Central Bank? Are you getting along, or are there any difficulties or problems?
Andrei Kostin: No, there are not. The Central Bank is very understanding about our challenges. Of course, the regulator monitors the availability of the money in circulation and credit supply. As for such key programmes as support for investment projects, a programme started with your initiative, and the programme we call “6.5 plus” where the Central Bank is funding us at 6.5 percent for small businesses – these programmes are supported by the Central Bank, and I think we will continue to cooperate fruitfully with the regulator and the Government.
Vladimir Putin: Fine.
 <…>
Topics
Banks
Persons
Kostin Andrei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 15, 2016, 13:45
Text version1 of 2
With Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin.
Mayor Sobyanin reported to the President on the construction of the Moscow Smaller Belt Railway and plans for the development of the Moscow metro and suburban commuter trains.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, Mr Sobyanin.
Our capital occupies a special place among Russian regions: there are many questions and issues but it is developing well, intensively.
Today I would like to talk about, or at least start a conversation about what is probably the most important issue for city residents, Muscovites, and for economic growth – the development of the transport infrastructure.
Mayor of Moscow Sergei Sobyanin: Mister President, two years ago you issued instructions and approved the main measures on the development of the Moscow transit hub that includes all types of transport facilities – railways, the metro and motor roads – both federal roads that approach Moscow and regional ones.
We have made tangible progress over these few years, having built about 400 km of roads over the past five years. These were not simply roads but engineering facilities – overpasses, tunnels and intersections. We also built about 30 km of metro lines but, most importantly, we created the groundwork for construction over the next few years.
We plan to put into service about 30 metro stations in the near future. This is a very intensive pace of construction. I hope this will substantially improve the performance of the entire metro system. About one million Muscovites are already using new metro stations and this is good.
 As for the Moscow Smaller Belt Railway, you instructed the Government, the Ministry of Transport and Russian Railways to focus on the intensive development of suburban commuter trains and the surface railway being built in the middle of Moscow. Some 50 km of this railway has always shipped cargo. Now we are building a railway intended for passengers in addition to tracks for cargo shipments. We are building additional express tracks, expanding and rebuilding overpass crossings, and integrating new facilities with radial railways, the metro and surface public transport.
Basically, these are the largest infrastructure projects for a metropolitan city these days. There is no other project of this scale anywhere else. There was a project called Grand Paris, but it never got off the ground due to technical difficulties, management and political issues.
In line with your instructions, we are to finish the main construction work around September and launch the SMBR. The post-launch stage will deal with additional integration and the construction of transport hubs. However, the SMBR must begin passenger service this year. It is a very important project, and I would like to thank you for repeatedly issuing necessary instructions. Despite the economic crisis and budget issues, the funding remains in place and everything is going according to plan.
There is no doubt that this huge project will be completed this year. It will ease congestion on central metro stations and on the Circle Line by approximately 7 to 15 percent. Since the metro in the city centre is significantly overcrowded, this will definitely improve its operation and provide cross-over connections between various areas of Moscow. The railway will be integrated into the metro system. Thus, this aspect of the project is going quite well.