Events
Meeting with Rosneft CEO Igor Sechin
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with President and CEO of Rosneft Igor Sechin to discuss the company’s results for 2015 and its upcoming plans.
March 28, 2016
15:40
The Kremlin, Moscow
3 of 3
With Rosneft CEO Igor Sechin.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Sechin, Rosneft is one of Russia’s biggest companies. The state has a stake in this company too, and so we are not indifferent to the situation of what is one of our biggest taxpayers. We are nearly at the end of March and you have probably summed up last year’s results by now. Let’s start with this.
Rosneft President and CEO Igor Sechin
: Thank you, Mr President.
Yes, the crisis on the world markets and the fall in oil prices has made for a difficult situation over these past years, but I am happy to be able to tell you the company has coped with this market instability.
We will soon have our company’s public report of its activities ready. I can tell you that last year, we succeeded in increasing hydrocarbon production a little, by 1 percent, and produced a total of 254 million tonnes of liquid hydrocarbons.
In order to achieve this result, we increased drilling operations by 30 percent in 2015. This takes into account the fact that a number of factors had a restraining effect on our work in 2014. We have resolved the problem of a shortage of drilling services and have developed our own drilling services, and this meant that we were able to increase our drilling result by 30 percent last year.
Vladimir Putin: Who did the work for you and who is involved now – Schlumberger?
Igor Sechin: Mr President, Rosneft’s own subdivisions take care of 56 percent of the drilling services, and the rest is contracted out mostly to Russian producers: Eriell and other big companies.
Vladimir Putin: Very good.
Igor Sechin: This enables us to maintain our own service on the market and make use of the current situation too to get our colleagues more effectively involved in drilling service contracts. What’s more, the company processed around 96.7 million tonnes of oil at its own refineries last year.
Vladimir Putin: In Russia and abroad.
Igor Sechin: Yes, here and abroad. We processed 84 million tonnes in Russia, and slightly more than 12 million tonnes abroad.
Our reserves replacement coefficient stood at 168 percent. In this respect, we carried out successful geological exploration operations. We have largely completed the transition to producing Euro-5 petroleum products. To be more precise, all of our companies are already producing top-category products now.
Mr President, our collected assets and experience make it possible for us to increase our investment programme this year. It will be approximately 30 percent higher this year than in 2015, and comes to around 1 trillion rubles.
This will create new jobs and development opportunities, especially in Eastern Siberia, we plan to bring new facilities on line in two-three years, when the market stabilises.
Vladimir Putin: One trillion, is this the investment figure for the year?
Igor Sechin: Yes, it is. In 2015, the figure was around 660 billion, and this year it will reach around a trillion.
Vladimir Putin: Very good.
Igor Sechin: Mr President, we understand our responsibility for supplying oil products to the domestic market, and for bringing in export revenue. Last year, in order to stabilise the country’s currency market, we sold around $45 billion through the Central Bank’s system.
Vladimir Putin: Good.
<…>
Topics
Energy
Persons
Sechin Igor
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 28, 2016, 15:40
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Sverdlovsk Region Governor Yevgeny Kuyvashev
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Sverdlovsk Region Governor Yevgeny Kuyvashev to discuss the region’s socioeconomic situation.
March 28, 2016
14:20
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 3
With Sverdlovsk Region Governor Yevgeny Kuyvashev.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Kuyvashev, let’s start with the traditional question about the region’s socioeconomic situation.
Governor of Sverdlovsk Region Yevgeny Kuyvashev: Mr President, the results for 2015 show a stable situation in the region’s main economic sectors. We can say today that the region has adapted to the new economic situation and, most importantly, has maintained its growth potential.
The region is consistently in the top ten regions nationwide in terms of the main macroeconomic indicators. The gross regional product has increased to 1.811 trillion rubles.
Vladimir Putin: This an increase of how many percent?
Yevgeny Kuyvashev
: It is up by 13.6 percent on the 2015 result. In January 2016, we noted growth of nearly 1.3 percent compared to the preceding period.
The industrial output index has slowed down a little, but we analysed the first two months of 2016 and saw that we had growth of nearly 26 percent. This is a very good result and we are taking it as the basis for planning our budget policy.
The regional authorities worked with the federal Government to draft a package of measures to stimulate economic growth, and we had made bids for 111 projects as of the end of 2015.
We received real assistance from the Industrial Development Fund – three trillion rubles. This money is being spent on import replacement projects, which will be completed in the short term.
I think it has proved an effective practice that you introduced of targeted intervention and capital injections for specific projects. This gives a big boost to developing cooperation within and between regions and at the nationwide level.
We are doing quite well in the agriculture sector, with growth of almost one percent. We are known as an industrial region, but we are consistently one of the country’s leaders for growth in milk production. Our production now comes to a value of 75 billion rubles.
Let me say a few words about our biggest investment projects in 2015 and our plans for this year. With your help, in 2015, we launched the 4th BN800 fast breeder power unit at the Beloyarsk Nuclear Power Plant. Total investment in that project came to 142 billion rubles.
Then there is the Severouralsk bauxite mine, the deepest bauxite mine. Operations have already begun at the first section. We can supply in full all the needed bauxite for the aluminium industry for the next 25 years. Additional investment in this project in 2016 comes to 7 billion rubles.
The new cold rolled aluminium production facility at the Kamensk-Uralsky metallurgical plant required investment of 45 billion rubles. This new facility will give a big boost to our aircraft manufacturing industry and everyone who uses rolled aluminium.
The Seversky pipe plant was noteworthy in that it underwent modernisation without stopping production. Total investment in this project came to 17.3 billion rubles.
We thought that 2014 set our record for housing construction, but we beat this record in 2015 with a total of 2.483 million square metres of new housing on the market.
Vladimir Putin: Now you have to help people to buy it.
Yevgeny Kuyvashev: In 2015, we took measures to maintain the interest rate, and there is increased demand as a result. People are buying housing, and we see this, but people are not so active in all segments of the market. There is a seasonal factor too in buying housing, but overall, the demand is for housing in the cheaper segment.
We were the first region to take part in the programme you approved, Housing for Russian Families, which offers housing at a price of under 35,000 rubles per square metre. We built the first apartment building under this programme in Kamensk-Uralsky, and now all of the apartments have already been sold.
Vladimir Putin: Good.
<…>
Geography
Sverdlovsk Region
Topics
Agriculture
Housing
Industry
Regions
Persons
Kuyvashev Yevgeny
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 28, 2016, 14:20
Text version