Events
Security Council Meeting
Vladimir Putin held a meeting of the Security Council on improving Russia’s migration policy in the interests of protecting national security.
March 31, 2016
16:10
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
Opening remarks at the Security Council Meeting
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
Today we will discuss ways to improve the state migration policy in the interests of national security. Obviously, social stability, inter-ethnic accord and peace in this country rely on our professional and well-considered actions.
See also
Expanded meeting of Prosecutor General Office’s Board
March 23, 2016
Expanded meeting of Interior Ministry Board
March 15, 2016
We can see the serious consequences of the practically uncontrolled flow of refugees to Europe from countries in the Middle East, North Africa, from Afghanistan and other regions. It has caused an outburst of crime, ethnic and religious conflicts and social tension. Migrants, who have practically no opportunity to integrate into society, become the object of propaganda and are recruited by extremist and terrorist organisations. Radicalism among them is growing. However, there is growing radicalism among the local population as well.
We need a proper analysis of this situation to draw our own conclusions from the migration crisis in Europe, to adjust our actions where necessary with due account of existing and potential threats.
We can see the serious consequences of the uncontrolled flow of refugees to Europe from countries in the Middle East and other regions. We need a proper analysis of this situation to draw conclusions, to adjust our actions with due account of existing and potential threats.
We should also constantly monitor the situation in the Middle East and other regions of the world that could spark new waves of migration. Primarily this applies to regions close to Russia’s borders and the borders of our partners in the Eurasian Economic Union, CSTO and the CIS.
Colleagues,
Russia has traditionally been attractive for immigrants. We are open for those who are willing to respect our laws, culture, traditions and language and to work honestly.
Over the past year, we have simplified many procedures that allow foreigners to stay and work in Russia. Thus, for instance, migrants from the CIS states coming to stay for up to 3 months may submit their registration notifications at local post offices. We have simplified the procedures for obtaining work patents. At the same time, we have introduced requirements regarding the knowledge of the Russian language, legislation and history. We have simplified the procedures for obtaining medical insurance by migrants. All this is designed to help decent migrants to adapt in Russia.
Russia has traditionally been attractive for immigrants. We are open for those who are willing to respect our laws, culture, traditions and language and to work honestly.
I would like to note that in 2012 we approved the Concept of the State Migration Policy through 2025. The implementation of its first stage involved an improvement of migration laws, including in the interests of national security. We are working to prevent illegal migration and illegal employment and have taken measures to improve migration control.
At the same time, we are well aware that the situation with migration, particularly illegal migration, bears additional risks and requires close attention. Thus, many migrants exceed the duration of their permitted stay in Russia, being actually out of control of the state and law enforcement agencies and often getting involved in criminal or semi-criminal businesses.
Criminal groups, drug dealers, foreign special services and emissaries of international extremist and terrorist organisations are trying to use illegal migration routes. We need to firmly supress all such attempts through the active work of the relevant agencies. This includes stronger protection of state border sections in regions that pose an additional threat in terms of illegal migration. All possible ‘windows’ should be reliably shut.
Over the past year, we have simplified many procedures that allow foreigners to stay and work in our country. All this is designed to help decent migrants to adapt in Russia.
Next. We need to step up cooperation with relevant agencies in other countries and international organisations, using both the existing experience and contacts and new forms of cooperation in combatting illegal migration.
The steady crime rate among foreign citizens causes serious concern. This problem was raised at the recent board meetings of the Interior Ministry and the Prosecutor General’s Office. These are usually high-profile crimes that often lead to an outburst of xenophobic, nationalistic sentiments and serve as an excuse for all sorts of informational and propaganda attacks on Russia. I would like to ask our agencies to enhance their operational and crime prevention work among migrants.
Disrupting schemes to legalise migrants arriving in Russia in violation of the law remains a strong priority. Law enforcement agencies and special services need to identify and stop the activities of organisations involved in this criminal business and expose their corruptive ties.
Disrupting schemes to legalise migrants arriving in Russia in violation of the law remains a strong priority. Law enforcement agencies and special services need to identify and stop the activities of organisations involved in this criminal business and expose their corruptive ties.
Greater coordination between the ministries and agencies involved in this work remains a major issue.
Let’s begin our work.
<…>
Topics
Migration
National security
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Security Council
Publication date: March 31, 2016, 16:10
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of South Ossetia Leonid Tibilov
Vladimir Putin had a meeting with President of the Republic of South Ossetia Leonid Tibilov, who has arrived in Russia on a working visit.
March 31, 2016
15:10
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
The discussion covered a broad range of issues of bilateral cooperation, primarily in the sphere of South Ossetia’s socioeconomic development.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Tibilov, it is a pleasure to see you.
We maintain regular contact. I would like to note that our relations are growing stronger. This applies to all areas, including interparliamentary relations and the work of the intergovernmental commission.
However, it should be noted that along with the general economic developments there is a certain drop in our trade and economic relations as well. Limited as they are, they are also seeing a reduction. However, I am certain that this is temporary.
As you may know, since 2008 Russia has been providing assistance to the republic. This year we have earmarked 8.2 billion rubles, I believe, of which 3.6 billion are part of an investment programme designed through 2017. This programme includes housing construction, the Khetagurov Drama Theatre and a hospital, including children’s wind and maternity department. Overall, things are moving along and issues are getting resolved.
We also cooperate on the international arena, meaning the format of the Geneva consultations on the Caucasus. Our foreign ministries maintain regular contacts. Nevertheless, I am certain there are matters for us to consider at our meeting today.
Welcome.
President of South Ossetia Leonid Tibilov: Mr President, thank you very much for this meeting today. It is important because there are certain matters I would like to discuss with you.
I would like to note that thanks to Russia’s overall support, peace and calm have come to South Ossetia. The main job of the republic’s citizens and its leadership is to maintain the stability we have been working for over the past 4 years. As regards the republic’s rehabilitation, today we are steadily moving towards the completion of this process and are developing the economy and social sphere that were destroyed during the war.
I would like to note here that our republic is steadily and firmly moving along the path of coming closer with Russia. The treaty on alliance and integration that we have signed has brought us to a very high level of security and mutual cooperation.
The people of South Ossetia are very proud of acquiring the status of Russia’s ally, because the matter of security in case of external aggression is our number one priority.
We are doing a lot. Specifically I would like to brief you on the construction of certain facilities and to note that the assistance we are receiving is used in such a way that it always reaches its destination without any deviations. Different things happened before, but I can say that we have overcome all that and we are doing well.
I would like to assure you and Russia that we are moving along the path chosen by our ancestors. We maintain this approach, which is mainly linked to the significant support we are receiving from you personally, support for the republic’s development, and support for its people. I would like to convey the best wishes from our people – wishes of health to you and prosperity to the great Russia.
Vladimir Putin. Thank you.
<…>
Geography
South Ossetia
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Tibilov Leonid
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 31, 2016, 15:10
Text version