Events
The final game of the IIHF World Championship
Vladimir Putin attended the final game of the IIHF World Championship.
May 22, 2016
23:20
Moscow
6 of 10
With Vice President of the International Ice Hockey Federation (IIHF) Bob Nicholson, IIHF President Rene Fasel and Canadian team captain Corey Perry during the 2016 IIHF World Championship awards ceremony.
The Canada-Finland gold medal game was held at the VTB Ice Palace (Legends Arena) multipurpose complex in Moscow.
Canada won the game 2–0. Vladimir Putin congratulated the winning team and presented the IIHF World Championship cup.
The IIHF World Championship was held in Moscow and St Petersburg on May 6–22. Teams from Belarus, Canada, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Hungary, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Norway, Russia, Slovakia, Sweden, Switzerland and the United States, fought for medals. Russia won the bronze.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends, sport and hockey fans,
I would like to begin by congratulating the team of ice hockey’s home country, Canada, on winning the championship. We thank Canada for inventing this wonderful and energetic sport.
We are also grateful to Team Finland for a brilliant, beautiful and talented game.
I also congratulate the Russian team on winning bronze. I know that the fans wanted more, but sport is sport, and hockey is hockey. The players did their best and they did well, and I wholeheartedly congratulate them.
It was the 80th IIHF World Championship, and millions watched the games in 160 countries. We are grateful to the athletes who have made this festival of sport possible.
I also want to thank Mr Rene Fasel, President of the International Ice Hockey Federation, for choosing Russia for the 80th IIHF World Championship and to congratulate him on his re-election as President of the International Ice Hockey Federation.
I wish success and more victories to all athletes. Thank you.
Topics
Sport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 22, 2016, 23:20
Text version