Events
Meeting with Government members
Vladimir Putin held a meeting with Government members to examine the Government’s work on implementing measures to ensure Russia’s stable socioeconomic development in 2016.
July 14, 2016
14:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
Meeting with Government members.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon colleagues.
We are here to discuss the Government’s plans for this year, but I would like to start with several current matters.
As you may know, some of the laws and decisions recently passed by the State Duma, in particular the amendments to counterterrorism laws, have been the subject of much discussion. I would like to ask Mr Nikiforov [Minister of Communications and Mass Media] to comment on these decisions, including the instructions I gave the Government following consultations with you and with market players. You have the floor.
Minister of Communications and Mass Media Nikolai Nikiforov
: Mr President,
True, some of the Government’s proposals were taken into account during the law’s passage through parliament. Some issues concerning the implementation of the amendments are still open. If further amendments to the law are needed, they will be drafted, examined by the Government, and submitted to the State Duma during the autumn session. However, we do not share the various emotional assessments of those who have not fully understood the whole issue. I say this because, first of all, the most controversial new provision, on storing users’ data, does not come into force until 2018, and we therefore do not see any risk of growing costs now, in 2016.
Second, on your instructions, the Government immediately received the relevant instructions. The agencies concerned are now studying all of the details involved in implementing this law and will set out procedures for who has to store what, and how much time we will need to implement these antiterrorist measures. This will determine the requirements in terms of equipment and the obligations for telecommunications providers, and only then will we really be able to make an evaluation.
Pursuant to the instructions, data will be stored using Russian equipment and Russian software. Our colleagues from the Industry and Trade Ministry also support these proposals. We are working together with the telecommunications industry to draft the relevant terms of reference and will study these proposals together. As I have said, if further clarifications are needed in terms of implementing specific provisions, we will draft appropriate amendments and submit them for the autumn session. Let me add that Russia can be proud today of having some of the lowest telecommunications rates in the world thanks to high competition in this sector, and we will maintain and support the leadership we have here.
Vladimir Putin: Good. How do you plan to implement the instructions I mentioned?
Nikolai Nikiforov: The instructions concern specific details and matters concerned with the law’s application. In other words, the law is one thing and the rest is a matter of bylaws.
Vladimir Putin: But in practical terms, how will you carry out the instructions?
Nikolai Nikiforov: First of all, we are working on the specific volume of data that has to be stored, what has to be collected and stored and how this will be done. The second issue is what equipment will be used to store it. We are going to rely on Russia’s own industry here and will work out the optimal solution.
Vladimir Putin: Does our industry produce the necessary equipment?
Nikolai Nikiforov: Not yet in most cases, but together with our colleagues from the Industry and Trade Ministry, we are drawing up the terms of reference now to match as closely as possible the industry’s needs following this law’s adoption, and the companies’ capabilities. We are in full contact with our colleagues here.
Vladimir Putin: This needs to be done quickly. Companies need to be able to get to work on what is a good and guaranteed state contract.
Nikolai Nikiforov: This will be done.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Over the past years, we have been actively developing the professional qualifications system. A new law and amendments to the Labour Code were recently adopted with the passage of the federal law regulating the new qualifications evaluation system. I would like to ask Mr Topilin to say a few words about this matter.
You have the floor.
Minister of Labour and Social Protection Maxim Topilin
: Mr President, colleagues,
One of the key tasks we have been working on over these past years is to give people greater access to information on the labour market situation, on developing professions and employers’ demands regarding these professions. We are doing this to send the right signals to the education system and to the people when it comes to choosing a career, developing individual careers, and becoming more competitive on the labour market.
Our work involves several aspects. First, we are continuing our work on drawing up professional standards. We have more than 800 professional standards ready to date. We will continue this. We have reached agreements with employers’ associations and plan to draft around 200 more professional standards this year.
The most important task now with regard to the law that was passed is to implement the professional standards and make sure they are used. The law came into force as of July 1 and the Government has issued the relevant resolution. All public sector organisations, state corporations, and state-owned companies will have a transition period through to 2020. The main task will be to ensure that people can get retrained in order to develop their skills and knowledge.
The second aspect is the work on a reference book of professions. We have put quite a lot of time into this. We put together this reference book jointly with the Agency for Strategic Initiatives and with employers’ associations in different sectors. The task now is to make it accessible to all and ensure it is regularly updated, so that people can really use it as a reference tool. We have already drawn up a draft law that the Government will examine soon, and we hope it will be passed in autumn.
The third aspect is the new qualification evaluation system. The law was signed on July 3rd. What issues and tasks do we face in this respect? The law will require the Government to approve a large number of government regulations before the end of the year. People currently encounter the problem that as they move from one company to another they are required to prove their knowledge and skills: employers do not have enough trust in what is written in people’s record of professional employment alone.
The other problem is that people often have skills and experience simply by virtue of having worked somewhere, but do not have documents confirming education in that area, documents issued by the education system. The new law resolves this problem because under its terms, employers, working through their sector-based associations, will establish councils (this is already happening now) and set up qualification evaluation centres. Employers will be able to send their employees there, retaining their social protection guarantees and wages, and the employers will be able to include these expenses in the cost price. We have amended the Labour Code accordingly to ensure that this system is of interest to all sides. Employees will benefit from it in that they will be able to obtain all the confirmations of their skills they need, should they take this decision, and they will have broad possibilities for using this independent organisation.
As I said, we still need to adopt a large number of regulations, together with the employers and trade unions. We hope to have this system operating from January 1, though parts of it are already working now in trial mode. We think this system will give a new boost to raising qualifications, developing new skills and meeting new demand on the labour market.
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: It is very important to establish a qualifications system and approve standards, but we also need to use this qualifications system to train people, young people. This is why we decided to establish a network of training centres for the working professions most in demand. The first seven centres will open in Tyumen, Moscow, Ulyanovsk and Sverdlovsk regions, and the republics of Tatar Stan and Chuvashia. We have agreed to allocate substantial funding – 900 million rubles – from the federal budget for this purpose. The regions will add another billion, and the business community will invest 300 million into the project.
I now ask Mr Livanov to tell us more about this project.
Education and Science Minister Dmitry Livanov
: Mr President, we started setting up this network early this year. It is very important primarily as a platform for training our national team in professional skills as part of the Young Professionals movement.
Each interregional skills centre will have specialised training centres and practice facilities. They will have modern equipment with the latest education technology from Russia and abroad. This is the equipment used at the international WorldSkills competitions and is essential for ensuring we meet international standards in all working professions with good prospects, without exception.
As you said, there are seven centres working in professional fields such as machine-building and materials processing (Sverdlovsk Region), automation, radio technology and electronics (Chuvashia), information technology (Tatarstan), service, transport and logistics (Ulyanovsk Region), construction (Moscow Region), the service sector (Tyumen Region), and engineering and industrial technologies (Komsomolsk-on-Amur in Khabarovsk Territory).
Apart from ensuring our team’s rapid and effective training, these centres will also function as support points for spreading the latest practice and will become effectively operating internship centres for the entire vocational education system, thus helping to spread these standards throughout the system.
Let me add that at the Smena children’s centre in Krasnodar Territory, we are setting up a national professional skills training centre to train people in special skills such as personal efficiency, time management, foreign language or teamwork skills, creative abilities, psychological and physical training and so on. This is also where the expanded national team will hold its training sessions and where the team selection will be made. This is also a very important part of getting our team ready for international competitions, including the world championship that will take place in Kazan in 2019.
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: This is good.
An excellent big project is underway now: work began on building Russia’s collider in Dubna in July. It will be ready for operation in 2020, is that right?
Dmitry Livanov: That is right.
Vladimir Putin: As far as I know, 26 countries are taking part in this work.
Dmitry Livanov: First of all, I would like to say that it was back in 2011 that you chaired a meeting of the Government Commission on Innovation and High Technology that examined the several dozen Russian projects for establishing mega-level scientific facilities here, that is to say, large-scale scientific research platforms. This project, known as NICA, was one of the projects selected. It is a heavy ions collider. This is important for science because this facility will make it possible to study quark-gluon plasma. This is a state of the high-density substances that were produced, for example, during the first moments of the universe’s development following the Big Bang, and is what you find in neutron stars. None of the existing colliders in the world – and there are quite a few – nor those currently in the project stage will have the physical parameters that this facility will offer. This will give Russia a unique advantage. It will offer a platform not only for our scientists but also for scientists from around the world. We already have more than 1,000 scientists from 36 countries taking part in international cooperation. This cooperation is certainly set to expand. All of the experts say that they expect this facility to produce research results of the kind that win the Nobel Prize.
We think it is extremely important to develop this project now. It has all the necessary financing and construction work is going full steam ahead. The first stage will be completed in 2018, and the facility will be ready for operation by 2020.
Vladimir Putin: Do you remember how many institutes are taking part?
Dmitry Livanov: 36 countries in total.
Vladimir Putin: No, how many Russian institutes are taking part?
Dmitry Livanov: We have around 90 taking part. Our organisations are certainly involved in the design and production of the equipment, which is most important and valuable for the facility’s work.
Vladimir Putin: What is the financing involved?
Dmitry Livanov: The financing comes to around 17 billion rubles overall. The Joint Institute for Nuclear Research will cover roughly half of this through the contributions it receives from different countries, including Russia, and roughly half will come from the federal budget. The relevant financial decisions have already been made for the next three years and Russia has earmarked the funding of its share. In other words, construction is fully funded through to 2018.
Vladimir Putin: Dubna offers a good base for this work.
Dmitry Livanov: Yes, it offers an excellent intellectual environment. World-renowned scientists work there, and they also have a very good engineering team, because this is not just a construction task, after all, but is above all an engineering and scientific task. We are certain of this project’s success.
Vladimir Putin: Wish them success. I would like you to give this project the administrative backing and support it needs. Thank you.
The summer vacation season is at its height now. Mr Safonov, how are things going? What problems and issues have people encountered this year?
Please, go ahead.
Head of the Federal Tourism Agency Oleg Safonov: Mr President, colleagues,
The preliminary results of the first summer months of this year’s tourist season show positive dynamics for domestic tourism products and a high level of occupancy rates at Russia’s resorts.
This year, we have expanded sales of package tours. Previously, package tours usually involved flights out of Moscow and St Petersburg, but this year, the choice has expanded considerably and now includes tour packages with flights from Yekaterinburg, Izhevsk, Kazan, Ufa, Samara, Nizhny Novgorod and other cities.
Selling package tours has made it possible to bring the cost of domestic tourism products down by 20–30 percent, which is an important result. These package tours are very popular with Russian tourists. People used to buy package tours mostly when travelling abroad, but now this practice has become widely used here at home as well.
This year, together with Russian Railways, we have developed and implemented the practice of using charter trains and charter carriages for destinations in the south, and this has also made it possible to bring tourism product costs down for the general public. Minimum costs are now around 15,000 rubles a week. These new products have also become very popular.
I would like to say that domestic package tours are the most popular products now and account for 22 percent of sales. This is the first time we have had such a result; previously, tours in Russia accounted for a much smaller share.
Let me also say that we think that opening Turkey as a tourist destination will gave a big additional incentive to Russian resorts to raise the quality of the services they offer to Russian tourists. Prices immediately fell, both here at our resorts, and at foreign resorts. I think this is something important and positive.
The Russian regions are active now in offering our tourists a wide variety of holiday options. Crimea is a very popular holiday destination: more than 1.5 million people have already holidayed there, up more than 20 percent. Krasnodar Territory is also popular, with the figures up 7 percent at more than 4.6 million people holidaying there now. Various kinds of alternative holiday options are also very popular this year, in particular in the North Caucasus Mineralniye Vody area, which offers a wide range of health resort options. We have seen a growth of slightly more than 5 percent here this year. There is also Altai Territory, which offers a variety of activities focused on health, excursions, and environmental tourism. The figures are up 10 percent this year with more than 700,000 people having already come there. The tourist centres of Moscow and St Petersburg are very popular, with a growth of around 6 percent. The Far East is extremely in demand this year and the vacation sector is completely sold out there, with Kamchatka at 100-percent capacity.
We expect this positive trend in domestic tourism growth to continue and predict an increase in tourism figures of around 15 percent. Our most important job now is to continue modernising and building the tourism infrastructure, increasing the number of hotels, and raising the quality of service. These measures are all being carried out as part of the federal targeted programme to develop domestic and foreign tourism.
We believe that raising the quality of services, introducing new tourism products, and actively promoting our tourism products at home and abroad will help to bolster Russia’s position on the global tourism market.
Vladimir Putin: Is the number of foreign tourists increasing?
Oleg Safonov: Mr President, the number of foreign tourists increased by 5 percent last year. This year, the statistics show that we still have work to do because there has been a slight drop in the number of foreign tourists.
Vladimir Putin: Why is this, in your opinion?
Oleg Safonov: We have seen an increase in the number of tourists from some countries, and a drop in the number from others. We probably need to make some further effort to encourage more foreign tourists to visit Russia. We have seen an increase of 50 percent in the number of tourists from China, for example, which has been promoted by the introduction of visa-free travel for tourist groups.
Vladimir Putin: Good, thank you.
<…>
Persons
Nikiforov Nikolai
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 14, 2016, 14:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with US Secretary of State John Kerry
Vladimir Putin received in the Kremlin US Secretary of State John Kerry.
July 14, 2016
22:10
2 of 6
With US Secretary of State John Kerry.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Secretary, colleagues, let me welcome you to Moscow once again.
I would like to note our mutual efforts to settle conflicts that we consider important and that must be resolved.
My latest conversation with President Obama convinced me that we are sincerely striving not only to maintain and develop our cooperation but also to achieve positive results.
I hope you will report to him – and please send him my best regards – that during our consultations today we also made headway in discussing and resolving the issues we are meeting to address.
United States Secretary of State John Kerry: Well, Mr President, thank you very much for taking time. I appreciate the opportunity to be able to meet. President Obama sends you his regards. He thought it was a constructive conversation, and hopefully we will be able to make some genuine progress that is measurable and implementable, and that can make a difference to the course of events in Syria. So I look forward very much to a serious conversation this evening and again tomorrow with Sergei. We have a lot of work to do.
The President and I both believe, Mr President, that the United States and Russia are in a position to make an enormous difference in the course of events, not just in Syria but obviously in Ukraine and even in other potential areas of cooperation. And so we are anxious to get to work. We have done a lot of groundwork but we’re not where we need to be yet and we hope to be able to get there.
So I’m ready to work. I know you are. Let’s go.
Vladimir Putin: President Obama drew my attention to the fact that we helped in the release of one of your citizens. I would like to say that we continue working in this area at your request and also hope the US side will reciprocate with constructive efforts if need be.
<…>
Geography
United States
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Lavrov Sergei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 14, 2016, 22:10
Text versionEvents
Meeting with leaders of parliamentary parties
Vladimir Putin met with the leaders of parties represented in the State Duma. The agenda included the work of the parliament over the past five years, and progress of the election campaign.
July 14, 2016
18:20
The Kremlin, Moscow
5 of 7
Meeting with leaders of parliamentary parties.
Excerpts from transcript of meeting with leaders of parliamentary parties
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
Not long ago, I met with all the deputies of the State Duma at the end of the session and the end of the work of the current parliament. I have already mentioned the vast amount of work performed by you over the years, and expressed my gratitude to all the deputies for their cooperation.
We agreed to have an additional separate meeting with some of you. I reiterate that you have done a great deal of work. Despite different approaches to resolving numerous social, economic and domestic issues, the current Duma still managed — under your leadership, of course, because you are the leaders of the parties represented in the Duma — to find compromises on key issues, and achieve consensus. This is important, and I wish to thank you specifically for that as the leaders of the State Duma parties.
A new election campaign is, in fact, already underway. There will be elections to legislative assemblies in 39 regions, 11 municipal assemblies of major administrative centres, and elections of nine governors of Russian regions. This is a major campaign and an important event in this country.
I took note of the fact that you have decided to have all candidates to the State Duma be personally involved in the election campaign, the debates, and the meetings with eligible voters, which is extremely important and very useful, because both the administrative authorities and the representative bodies must use this period for delving even deeper into the issues that concern our citizens, to be able to better understand them and, based on this understanding, to set the right priorities in our future work.
Of course, major and powerful political forces, such as the parties that you represent, expect to not only make it to the new parliament, but also to improve their respective positions. This can be done only if we rely on the will of the people who put their faith in all of us, and provide us with a mandate to do the work in question.
As you are aware, we are back to using the mixed system, including single-seat constituencies, which, in my opinion, should help foster competition, in a good way. I strongly hope that this political competition will help active, effective and goal-oriented people get elected to the State Duma.
Let us first talk about how you see the upcoming period of our joint campaign. Then we will discuss the priorities, which I have already mentioned and which will certainly have to be adjusted depending on the mandates Russian citizens give to the future deputies.
In particular, I would like to thank the Speaker of the State Duma for managing — amid the heated passions that occasionally arose in parliament — to steer confidently this unwieldy ship to its final destination, which we are all working toward.
One other important and noteworthy point is that the deputies and the citizens must be pleased with not only a higher level of competition, but also with an improved political culture. When we see what is happening in some countries, we know that the outrageous behaviour, brawls and profanity in those parliaments are designed to advance not the legitimate interests of the citizens, but their self-serving interests, which is, of course, inevitable in politics — there's no way around it. However, we should focus primarily on the interests of the people for whom we work.
Let us discuss the issues that you consider important.
Mr Naryshkin, please.
State Duma Speaker Sergei Naryshkin
: Mr President, thank you for convening this meeting and for addressing the State Duma on June 22. In that address, your assessment of the work of the Sixth State Duma was rather high and you formulated fundamental tasks for the parliament related to the upcoming September election, the further development of the parliamentary system of government and its structures, and the prestige of the parliament in the country.
It is true that there is still much to be done in this area, primarily in improving the law-making process. I believe that the main stages of this process, its procedure and duration should be formalised in a special law. This has been done in European countries and in some CIS countries. A well-planned and systemic legislative process, about which you spoke in your June 22 address, will serve the interests of all branches of power. I believe that the Seventh State Duma we should focus on this objective.
Second, I am convinced that public opinion should be the main criterion of the success of the legislative branch, more so than in the case of other branches of power. No other convocation of the State Duma was given such a mixed assessment, even including suggestions to dissolve it, which contradicts the Constitution, than the Sixth State Duma in the initial period of its work. You may remember that this is how it was in late 2011 and early 2012.
But we managed to overcome this, proving with our work that it is better to hold discussions in the State Duma than to take them to the streets and squares, and that the so-called “street democracy” cannot replace the professional and consistent work of all the political forces that are represented in the country’s supreme legislative body. I would like to remind you that as a result of this parliament’s approval rating increased nearly twofold by the final stage of its work, according to opinion polls.
Third, the September 18 election will be a major stage in the development of the country’s political system and possibly another trial for the Sixth State Duma, because polls show that the four political parties that are represented in this Duma can achieve the 5 percent barrier and win seats in the next State Duma. In a way, the Sixth State Duma was unique because of the unprecedented external challenges that Russia faced at that time.
I have already said and would like to repeat once more that at the times of trial all four parliamentary parties managed to rise above their narrow party interests and pool their efforts to resolve major strategic tasks facing our society. Mr President, I would like to thank their leaders in your presence for constructive cooperation in key areas of our work.
I am convinced that the ability to maintain constructive cooperation will help us in the upcoming election campaign. I think there is every opportunity to hold it today without public quarrels, squabbling and so-called black PR. It can and should be based on honest competition and a positive agenda.
I hope very much that other parties that have already announced their participation in the elections will also act positively. I know personally many activists of non-parliamentary parties with whom I worked in the Council for Non-Parliamentary Parties that was established for the first time under the State Duma Speaker. There are smart and responsible people among them that are concerned about their homeland and understand the value of professional work over populism.
I would like to make a general conclusion that I already mentioned to my colleagues at one of the closing State Duma sessions, that parliament is always stronger in a country where the might of a state and the role of civil society are growing. Conversely, active civil society and a durable state are impossible without a strong parliament.
And the last point. Deputies of the State Duma of the sixth convocation continue working. Literally every day I receive new bills submitted by Duma deputies, and they will be reviewed in detail by the Duma of the seventh convocation. International parliamentary diplomacy is as active as ever.
Two weeks ago we held a session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation (PABSEC) as its Chair. Our delegations took part in the session of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly and the Interparliamentary Assembly on Orthodoxy. Today a group of our deputies is working at the venue you established – the Petersburg Dialogue. The deputies will continue exercising their powers until the State Duma of the seventh convocation holds its first session.
Vladimir Putin: You have repeated one of the points I have described already. To be more precise, we managed to come to an agreement on all the key issues. I must say that the efficiency of this country’s parliament was a great help with the problems of 2008–2009 and all the complications in the run-up. This was very important.
While there are, rightly, different approaches to addressing the key challenges related to development, parliament must be able to get things done. The absence of a functioning parliament is a huge threat to internal stability, to our ability to maintain the level of public wellbeing, and to economic development. It is a disaster. That is why I sincerely hope the next parliament will consist of people who are professional, responsible and who know why they are in the State Duma of Russia.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: We really need to approach our past carefully. It should be analysed calmly, carefully and thoroughly as we draw our conclusions. We should not overlook anything positive in our past, while also understanding where we have made mistakes and how and using that as we move forward. All this is our past, good or bad. It is something special that can reassure us, because we have experience, and experience is precious.
Levelling is certainly bad. That is clear. However, we cannot do away with free education and healthcare now, and we will not do so. First, they are guaranteed by the Constitution and, second, quality paid services should expand solely in parallel with rising prosperity in general.
We must understand how we got here, and what state our economy and social services are in. That is why we will work together on public utilities with the Liberal Democratic and Communist parties, with United Russia and A Just Russia. If some of the present contenders for parliamentary seats make it to the Duma, we will work with them all. However great the difference in our approaches to the challenges facing our country, we will seek to meet each other halfway and arrive at the most effective solutions to problems. Working together is the only way for us to address the problems that people expect us to solve.
Topics
Parties
Persons
Mironov Sergei
Naryshkin Sergei
Vasilyev Vladimir
Volodin Vyacheslav
2 more
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 14, 2016, 18:20
Text version