Events
Meeting with Russian business community representatives
Vladimir Putin met with business community representatives, heads of the biggest private companies and companies with state participation, heads of banks, and representatives of public organisations and business associations.
December 19, 2016
19:15
1 of 3
Meeting with Russian business community representatives.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon colleagues. It is a great pleasure to greet you all with the New Year holidays just around the corner. I wish you all success, prosperity for your companies, and all the very best to your staff, the management and the ordinary employees.
We (by ‘we’, I mean the Presidential Executive Office and the Government) are in constant contact with you. The Government and the Presidential Executive Office do not simply share their plans regarding decisions under preparation, but in many cases, prepare these decisions together with you.
Today marks the 25th anniversary of the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs
, which has done a lot over these last 25 years to support dialogue between the authorities [and the business community] at the federal and regional levels, and, as I said, to help prepare conceptual decisions for developing our economy.
We all give a lot of attention to improving the business climate. I want to thank you for the proposals you have drafted, and which have contributed to the final decisions. As we know, these are not decisions without substance, but are steps that have brought about noticeable changes for the better.
I am not talking about ratings now. Ratings are not the issue. The issue is for our business to work in a more comfortable environment so that the overall result will be better than what we have seen so far. We see that despite the unfavourable situation on the global markets and in the political sphere, we have indeed seen changes for the better. We have succeeded in stabilising the situation in the economy. This is a clear and evident fact today. We need now to set in place a strategy for confident growth, and this is something we can achieve together.
Of course, there are still many outstanding problems and many reasons for dissatisfaction. There is still much to change and improve in order to feel more confident. But at least we all agree what we need to do, how we need to do it, and what timeframe is realistic.
As I address to you my holiday wishes and congratulations, I hope very much that we will continue working together in just this same fashion.
Please, Mr Shokhin.
Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs President Alexander Shokhin: Mr President,
Ladies and gentlemen,
Today, the 25th anniversary Congress of the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs took place. We not only, and not so much reviewed the results of 25 years of activity, as formulated guidelines for future activity. During the congress we took a poll on what directions for improving the business climate are the most significant in the medium term.
We divided our poll into two blocks. In the block related to enhancing the effectiveness of the management system, priority is clearly given to expanding the sphere of assessing regulatory impacts. Forty four percent were in favour of enhancing its effectiveness. The idea is that draft laws submitted to the State Duma for a second reading also undergo this public procedure. We also considered the possibility of including into the assessment of the regulatory impact elements of the business climate that are currently excluded from this mechanism, primarily the tax system. We are building an effective dialogue on the tax system, but it is the result of the Government’s good intentions, rather than the result of some formal procedure.
The second and third positions are the review of oversight-control activity and improving the regulation of natural monopolies. Regarding oversight and control, we hope that within the framework of a strategic priority project, we will be able to work actively with the Government. Right now business has already become involved in this work through the Public Business Council.
Within the block related to eliminating impediments to the development of production activity, economic activity, we have identified an obvious priority: reducing the fiscal burden on business. Even though our basic principle today is a moratorium on increasing the fiscal burden, nevertheless, the business community expects in 2017–2018, as part of your directive, clarification of the parameters of the tax system to ensure its stability. Next years, we also expect to achieve a certain reduction in the fiscal burden, including not only taxes but also so-called non-tax public payments.
The business community is also concerned over access to funding. Today we discussed this issue with Central Bank Governor Elvira Nabiulliuna. We trust the assessment of the Central Bank on the reduction of pro-inflation risks next year. We hope the Central Bank will decrease its key interest, which will be followed by a reduction of loan interest rates.
But credit resources are not the only problem. It is necessary to develop the instruments of the financial market. Thus, we hope that, as part of the implementation of your instruction that follows from your address to the Federal Assembly, there will be more mechanisms of access for medium-range dynamic companies to such loans as bonds. If the bonds of medium-range dynamic companies are included into the Central Bank’s Lombard List, this is bound to help them develop quickly. This will also help them with their IPO. The Moscow Stock Exchange is working on such issues with the Central Bank as a regulator.
We also revealed the need to develop a system of professional qualifications as a priority. The National Council on Professional Qualifications, which you established two and a half years ago, summed up the results of its performance just ten days ago. We are now approaching the mass-scale use of independent assessment of qualifications. Let’s hope this will help bridge the gap between the level of training of specialists and the demand of the labour market.
I must mention such a priority as exports of products with high added value. Needless to say, it is important to join global chains of added value and also to form added value chains in the Russian Federation.
We hope these areas will be covered by the Government’s Plan of Action for 2017–2025. We will also work on the plan of action that will allow us to surpass average global economic growth rates in 2019–2020.
Four leading business associations – the RUIE, the CCI, Delovaya Rossiya and Opora – have already agreed to work together. We will prepare proposals in a roadmap format. Today, as we addressed the issue at our congress with First Deputy Prime Minister Igor Shuvalov, we agreed that neither will we expect proposals from the Government, nor will the Government expect proposals from us, but that we will work together to develop this roadmap.
The areas on which we are ready to submit proposals are certainly broader than the problems and direction that I have identified. I believe my colleagues will talk about these areas today.
This brings me to the end of my opening remarks. I would like once again to thank you for your high evaluation of the RUIE’s activity and for the appreciation that you have expressed for our organisation in your directive.
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
There are a lot of issues that we are addressing together. We discuss tax policy, personnel training and the development of small and medium-sized businesses.
Let us now talk about export support and the implementation of the Customs Code of the Eurasian Economic Union. Incidentally, this is a separate topic, for which I would like to thank many of you, considering that many of you or your experts have participated in working out particular decisions. This especially applies to our joint work on the Customs Code. This is an extremely important and sensitive area, in terms of practical activity, practical application. We have worked quite effectively with you here.
Please, Mr Mordashov.
Severstal Board of Directors Chairman Alexei Mordashov: Mr President,
Ladies and gentlemen,
Thank you very much for recognising the importance of the Customs Union for all of us. And thank you for your evaluation of our participation in this matter.
As we know, in a week, a full stop is expected to be put on this years-long work. And you, Mr President, together with your colleagues – the EAEU heads of state – will sign a new code that will go into effect. This important document should establish a legal framework for regulating the foreign economic activity, foreign trade, of the EAEU member countries, and our bilateral trade.
At the same time, it seems to us that because of the cooperation that has evolved in the course of drafting the code between representatives of the Government and business representatives, as you have just said, on the whole, we have ensured that the code reflects the best foreign economic activity and customs administration practices that exist in the world. The code contains a number of important principles, such as the creation of a “one stop shop” system, the possibility of paying customs duties after clearance, issues related to the transit of goods, refunding excess payments, free customs zones and so on.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank you, the entire Government, the Ministry of Finance and the Federal Customs Service, for this cooperation. I would also like to ask you not to reduce the level of your cooperation, because we have a lot of work to do on reflecting the Code’s provisions in Russian law and several hundred acts of delegated legislation.
First, the Code itself contains many reference norms that resulted from a compromise between different interests. This means that these reference norms, of which there are about 300, must be formalised. We believe this work will give us, the Russian Federation, a favourable economic regime for foreign trade.
Today, in his opening remarks, Mr Shokhin spoke about the importance of including Russian business and the Russian economy into international labour division chains. Speaking at our meeting today, Igor Shuvalov said we are hearing increasingly more positive assessments of the development of the business climate in Russia. But at the same time, we are continuously hearing from our entrepreneurs that it would be good if customs procedures were simplified. In this context it would be useful to continue the practice of their close coordination with the Ministry of Finance and the Federal Customs Service. We are very grateful both to the Ministry of Finance and the Federal Customs Service for the level of their cooperation with the business community, and would like to ask for your support to continue it.
In addition, there are many important issues, such as the formation of a “one stop shop.” The Russian Federation has not even determined an authorised government body, as the rules of the Federal Customs Service require. Moreover, under the agreement on promoting trade that Russia signed and ratified, we are supposed to fulfil a number of commitments, including the formation of a “one stop shop.”
In general, we are hoping that the work that has been conducted will be continued, that you will support it and that this work will make a good contribution to easing foreign trade, which will create a favourable business climate and economic upsurge in this country.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
<…>
Topics
Support for business
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 19, 2016, 19:15
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Chairperson of the Central Election Commission Ella Pamfilova
Vladimir Putin had a meeting with Chairperson of the Central Election Commission Ella Pamfilova.
December 19, 2016
16:15
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 3
Meeting with Chairperson of the Central Election Commission Ella Pamfilova.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ms Pamfilova, I know that you have worked hard, analysing all events during the State Duma elections, how everything was organised, working with complaints and claims from participants in the process. Let’s start with this, shall we?
Chairperson of the Central Election Commission Ella Pamfilova
: Yes, Mr President. Exactly three months have passed since then and we have been very busy over this time. We made a thorough analysis of the mistakes, concentrating not on what went well, but on where there are still problems, working with a view to the next big election cycle, including the presidential election in March 2018.
Next year will also see a big election campaign period involving perhaps 40 million voters, as 15 regions will elect their regional heads and six regions will hold legislative elections. In total, big election campaigns will take place in some 30 regions. In this respect, it is very important to not just maintain, but also develop and consolidate the very clear policy you have set of holding transparent, open, competitive and free elections.
In this respect, there are three points I want to make.
Regarding the State Duma election campaign, what is very important here is that no violator should escape punishment, in order to clear the road for the next election.
We tried to identify practically every violation that took place, and most important, ensure that punishment would inevitably follow. We really did a very thorough job in our analysis. Of the 85 regions, there were practically no violations in 62 regions. In these regions, the campaigns were conducted in proper fashion, there were no complaints, and neither the observers nor the experts found any problems.
Violations of one kind or another took place in the remaining 23 regions, and in some regions, they were very serious indeed. I would lay the blame here above all with the regional authorities, who, regrettably, abused the administrative resources at their disposal. I have prepared reports and will give them to you later. It is up to you to decide.
As for what lies within our powers, we have done all we could in the regions where violations occurred and handed out penalties to our colleagues. In some cases, we expressed our lack of confidence and proposed that they resign.
Thirty-two heads of territorial electoral commissions have been dismissed from their posts for violations, and a further 4,398 people – heads of local commissions and commission members – have also been dismissed. Some commissions were dismissed entirely. I said to them, “You can get whoever you like calling you, but you will have to answer.” Well, they have answered in full measure with the rules, and I think we will continue this line.
We have set a course of renewal and carried out a rotation of personnel, so that now, new people account for at least 30 percent of commission heads and more than half of their deputies. Furthermore, the average age of commission members has come down by 6–9 years. People from the administration now make up a smaller contingent, down by 8.5 percent. In other words, we have fewer representatives from official quarters and more representatives from the political parties.
Party representation has increased greatly since 2011. The representatives of 28 different parties now take part in the commissions at all levels. This is unprecedented. That is my first point.
The second very important point I wanted to bring to your attention is technical re-equipment. I want to thank you for your support here, because only thanks to you, the Government and the Prime Minister were we able to organise video monitoring at nearly a third of polling stations in such a short time, and this played a big part in guaranteeing open and free elections.
I drafted a proposal and I hope that you will support continued efforts to develop the video monitoring system for the upcoming presidential election.
As far as the technical re-equipment goes, I wanted to show you what we have planned. (Viewing of presentation). We have 52 regions that now operate on digital channels. We have done this using our own resources. We do not need anything here and plan to have all regions go digital this year. This will make it possible to speed up our work, which will improve the entire electoral system’s performance.
The second important issue on which we will need your help concerns the vote processing systems. They have proven their worth and the regions are asking for them, especially the regions that want to ensure honest elections. But we have few of these apparatuses to cover the entire country’s needs. The Central Election Commission, which saved around 500 million roubles during the last campaign by optimising internal resources, therefore asks that the Finance Ministry not simply takes this money back from us, but lets us use it instead to buy vote processing systems. Our policy is to have every polling station using modern vote counting systems. But we will need your help here. You know this yourself.
Next, using our own resources, we will introduce a QR code for instant reading of the protocols. This will enable us to eliminate the biggest complaints and minimise falsification attempts during the process of drawing up the protocol. We will sort this all out ourselves, but I simply wanted to brief you on our plans.
Another very important aspect is that we have analysed all of the electoral legislation, organised a scientific-practical conference, collected all proposals from the independent expert community, observers, parties, the Presidential Human Rights Council, and the human rights commissioners. We worked together with everyone concerned and summarised the material that I will present to you. I ask you to issue the directive to establish a working group under the Presidential Executive Office’s aegis, with representatives from the Federal Assembly, the Government and the Central Election Commission taking part, so as to transform all of this into concrete amendments and get this important work moving.
Finally, an issue that would seem to be of a more particular nature but is actually very important is that of voting possibilities for people with disabilities and people with limited mobility.
We have a good programme – Road to the Polling Station – which fits in with the objectives of the Accessible Environment federal programme. Implementing this programme in full would make it possible to increase dramatically the voting activeness of people with disabilities, and this is an important part of integration into society in general.
In principle, we have already made plans and accomplished what we can using the real possibilities at our disposal. But there is one problem. Unfortunately, we do not have a unified base with all the needed information on these people (who want to vote too) depending on their type of disability: blind, visually impaired, deaf, hearing impaired, or with skeletal and muscle problems. We only get statistics from the Pension Fund, giving the numbers of people with different types of disability, but this does not help us to properly organise the polling stations.
Starting on January 1, the Government is opening access to the information system Federal Register of People with Disabilities. I ask for your support to have us included in this programme too. This will help us to organise a better quality of work in more targeted fashion. After all, no matter how you look at it, this group accounts for around 12 million voters. In this respect, I would be very grateful if the Presidential Commission for the Rights of People with Disabilities, together with the Central Election Commission, the Justice Ministry, and the Ministry of Labour and Social Protection, could examine measures to ensure disabled people’s electoral rights. If you have no objections, we will work on this issue over the next year, with your help.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Ms Pamfilova,
You know my position. The cleaner and more transparent are elections, the greater the legitimacy of the state bodies elected with their help. We will thus continue working. Of course, you will need to calculate the needed financing and approve it with the Government and the Finance Ministry. But we will certainly work on carrying out your proposals.
Ella Pamfilova: Thank you very much.
<…>
Persons
Pamfilova Ella
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 19, 2016, 16:15
Text version