Events
Meeting with Sergei Ivanov and Anton Vaino
Vladimir Putin had a meeting with Sergei Ivanov and Anton Vaino.
August 12, 2016
12:45
The Kremlin, Moscow
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Ivanov, we have been working together for many years, and working successfully. I am pleased with your performance in the areas you have supervised. I remember very well our agreement when you asked me to not extend your appointment as Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office for over four years, and I respect your wish to employ your expertise in another line of work. I do hope that your knowledge and experience will be useful for efficient performance in your new job.
Mr Vaino has been your deputy for several years now and also quite successfully. Mr Ivanov recommended you as his successor in the post of Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office. I would like to offer this job to you.
I hope you will do your best for the Executive Office to continue operating as productively as before and with great professionalism. I would like to see as little bureaucracy as possible and a more hands-on approach to solving everyday problems faced by the Executive Office, as well as in the key areas of economic development and social issues.
Sergei Ivanov
: Mr President, first I would like to thank you for your high regard of the work I have done over the past 17 years.
Indeed, in early 2012, you and I had a conversation, where I asked to entrust me with this difficult, even troublesome area of work for four years. It so happened that I headed the Presidential Executive Office for four years and eight months.
I recently looked up some historical facts. The Presidential Executive Office turned 25 years old; I served as the 11th chief of staff, and to my surprise I found I broke a record by serving for as long as four years and eight months.
I will do my best to work as actively, dynamically and, most importantly, effectively in my new position.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Anton Vaino
: Thank you for your confidence, Mr President. I think the main task of the Executive Office is to support your work as the head of state. This involves legislative work, control over the execution of your executive orders and directives, including the May Executive Orders. Of great importance is also the analytical work carried out by the Executive Office, such as monitoring and evaluation of internal political processes and socioeconomic issues, and developments on the international arena.
I think highly of the work that Mr Ivanov started on your instruction during his term at the Executive Office. I am referring to his anti-corruption efforts, improvement of the personnel policy and the foundations of the state civil service.
We will continue this work in close cooperation with the Government, both chambers of the Federal Assembly, regional leaders, public organisations and associations.
Sergei Ivanov: I would like to add a few words, if possible.
Mr Vaino and I have known each other for a long time, since we both served in the Government under your leadership. We have talked virtually on a daily basis for almost five years, and I am absolutely confident that Mr Vaino is more than ready for this work in terms of his leadership skills and professional and personal qualities.
Vladimir Putin: Good.
Mr Vaino, I wish you success in your new job. I hope that you will work efficiently, professionally, and vigorously. Apart from assisting me as the head of state, you will also help your subordinates. You will make sure that the Executive Office and the Government continue to have the kind of ongoing working contacts that are so necessary for effective cooperation.
I also hope that non-governmental organisations and associations will see the new Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office as a reliable partner.
Anton Vaino: Thank you for your trust.
See also
Sergei Ivanov has been appointed Special Presidential Representative for Environmental Protection, Ecology and Transport
August 12, 2016
Anton Vaino has been appointed Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office
August 12, 2016
Topics
Civil service
Persons
Ivanov Sergei
Vaino Anton
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Executive Office
Publication date: August 12, 2016, 12:45
Text version