Events
Meeting with heads of major foreign companies and business associations
Vladimir Putin met with heads of major foreign companies and business associations on the sidelines of the St Petersburg Economic Forum.
June 17, 2016
20:30
St Petersburg
Top executives of over 40 corporations from Europe, the US, Canada, China and other Asian countries attended the meeting.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good evening, colleagues, friends. Let me welcome you once again.
At a plenary session today, we talked about specific areas of Russian economic development, about the principles our country intends to build its relations on with our partners within integration associations, in trade, in mutual investment and project development. I expect that our meeting will become a natural extension of the work of the entire forum.
I see a lot of our long-time economic partners here, our friends from different countries, and also the heads of companies that are showing interest in the Russian market for the first time.
We appreciate the pragmatic and constructive approach of business. Despite the current political environment, many have come, and I would like to say that nearly 13,000 (12,700) companies from Europe alone continue to work in Russia.
Importantly, businesspeople seem keen to return to a positive agenda in relations between Russia and our Western partners. I want to say this again: we see cooperation as a crucial development factor both for the Russian and global economies, and we are open for partnership, both on traditional and new markets where Russia has serious technological and research achievements that could become the basis for products on a global level.
Of course, we welcome any proactive foreign business participation in import replacement programmes here in Russia, in projects involving local manufacturing. These programmes seek to develop national enterprises capable of manufacturing high quality products and increasing non-mineral exports. Moreover, the current ruble rate and the economic situation make Russian exports quite profitable.
We offer comfortable conditions, a good choice of investment instruments with long-term guarantees and preferential treatment. We offer special investment contracts, special tax regime for starting projects – the so-called greenfields – and in the Far East we offer priority development areas and a free port regime.
We will definitely persevere with creating a favourable business environment in the Russian economy. We have already made substantial progress here. We are determined to keep further improving state management, customs, tax and administrative legislation and technical regulations. We are working in close contact with business, responding to its requests.
Colleagues, I met with heads of major investment funds yesterday, some of them are present here today. Describing the present state of affairs, I said yesterday and would like to repeat it now: I very much hope that people like me will not interfere with the work of people like you. Our hopes are with you.
<…>
Topics
Economy and finance
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 17, 2016, 20:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with heads of international news agencies
Vladimir Putin had a meeting with heads of leading international news agencies.
June 17, 2016
23:55
St Petersburg
The meeting was attended by representatives of news agencies from France, Spain, the United States, Great Britain, Canada, Germany, China, Japan, India and Italy.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen,
I have delivered so many speeches today that I think I will skip any introductory remarks, as you have likely attended some of the events here and have already heard a great deal. There is no point in repeating things. If I have missed something and you have questions or want me to give additional comments or information, it will be my pleasure.
I just want to say that I'm happy to see so many of you here representing so many international news agencies. I will not mention how many publications are based on your news feeds every day, you know that better than myself. The importance of your work does not need spelling out. I hope you will continue to try to be as unbiased as possible in your Russia reporting.
That is all for the introduction. I will now answer your questions. Please, go ahead.
TASS Director General Sergei Mikhailov: Mr President, first of all, congratulations on the forum’s success. We all are certainly very impressed by your remarks and the remarks of your colleagues.
Thank you for allowing time in your very tight schedule to meet with the world’s major news agencies for the third year in a row. I believe about 90 percent of global information distribution is present.
As these meetings have already become a tradition, we have our conventions, one being that we give the floor to a woman first. We have only one woman at this table today, and I am happy to pass the floor to Alessandra Galloni, Global News Editor at Thomson Reuters. Please.
Alessandra Galloni: Thank you very much, and also thank you, I think, on behalf of all of us for hosting us after a busy day. Now we understand why there is lemon tea for the throat.
Today we are at the St Petersburg International Economic Forum, and today in your speech, you spoke about the effect of sanctions on Russia and on Europe. I would like to ask you a question on Russian economy. Recent figures show that capital investment by Russian companies in Russia fell 5 percent year-on-year in the first quarter and have been falling at least for the last eighteen months. This would seemingly have little to do with falling oil prices, and would suggest that Russian companies are not willing to invest in their own country. Does that not point to some structural problems that need to be tackled, and if so, how do you plan to tackle them? Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Both. This does have something to do with oil prices because revenue from the oil industry and the energy industry in general are declining as a result of slumping oil prices, while substantial investment in recent years has been in oil, gas, energy and the related infrastructure. Therefore, there is a direct connection, no doubt.
Look at the investment programmes of our major energy companies. Do you think they can invest in expanding production as much as they planned before, now that demand is lower? This is why investment is decreasing. Certainly, this situation affects a country that is so dependent on the energy sector. Although you are correct in saying that this is not the only reason.
One of the key tasks of our economic policy is to diversify our economy. This has been on the agenda for years. I cannot say that we have been very successful, but we are getting there.
There is a Russian saying: if it were not for bad luck, there would be no luck at all. What do I mean by that? When revenue from the energy sector is declining, companies start looking for better opportunities to use capital in other areas – and they find them, much to our relief. Our job is to support this approach. We have and we will continue to create the most favourable conditions for a diversified economy, as I said.
Of course, we have seen some decline in investment, for the reasons I stated. This is not just a result of companies wishing or not wishing to invest. When an industry that used to be profitable is suddenly less so, they would rather not invest. I already said that. However, obviously, we need to create conditions for investment in other areas. Our focus now is on attracting more investment, both domestic and foreign.
Look, capital outflow has declined dramatically. I am not sure if I mentioned this today, but in my opinion, it did slow down to a trickle. It is about one-ninth of what it was – I would not want to mislead you, so you need to look up the figures. Please look them up to get the numbers straight. What does this mean? It means that the money remains in Russia because it has become more attractive here.
However, there are formal indicators as well. What do they say about further diversification? It is still slow, not as fast as we would like, but still: our exports decreased in absolute numbers, including equipment and technology products, but they have grown in terms of percentage. I mean the overall volume went down, but the export structure has improved, we have been seeing this trend for a few months.
By the way, we had projected a small recession at the end of this year, but we are actually seeing growth, 0.6 percent in the manufacturing industries, and 2.2 percent in agriculture, about 0.5 percent on average. Therefore, we have had some success, but we intend to continue to move along, toward further diversification and a greater inflow of investment.
We have developed a set of tools for this, including, for example, what we call priority development areas, as well as certain incentives and benefits relating to specific projects we consider a priority – primarily high-tech projects – an entire range of government policies we have prepared and backed with the appropriate resources. These policies stimulate the manufacture of high-tech products in Russia, but they also encourage domestic companies to research foreign markets and ensure that the products they make are competitive. We need to commercialise our scientific discoveries, the work of our technical researchers, primarily in the applied sciences.
Yet, when attracting foreign investment, like many countries, we insist on using as many local resources as possible. I have met with leading global manufacturers, our partners, today. We agreed, for example, that in one sector, as much as 70 percent of the product components would be manufactured domestically. Our partners generally agree with this, which indicates that this is adequately lucrative. So these are the projects we will tend to select, this is what we will focus on.
Sergei Mikhailov: Mr President, I am pleased to introduce and welcome to this conversation our good friend, Mr Gary Pruitt, the President and CEO of the Associated Press. This is the first time Gary has attended SPIEF. It is also his first time in St Petersburg. Last year, Gary made a very important proposal on behalf of the media community to establish a new international legal convention for protecting journalists, which would equate the murder and kidnapping of journalists to war crimes. The Associated Press is the oldest news agency, marking 170 years this year. Please, Gary.
Gary Pruitt: Thank you Sergei. Thank you very much for giving us this time to meet with the world’s leading news agencies and congratulations on the successful forum. Today, after you spoke, the IAAF upheld the ban on Russian track and field athletes participating in the Rio Olympics. I was wondering what your reaction to that decision is and do you think Russia is being treated fairly or unfairly?
Vladimir Putin: I spoke about this here at the forum. Of course, this is unfair.
There are commonly recognised rules of law, one of which states that liability must be personalised. If a member of your family commits a violation, is it fair to hold the entire family accountable, including yourself? This practice does not exist.
People who have nothing to do with a violation should not suffer for others. This is beyond civilised behaviour. The doping issue is outrageous and we do what we can to prevent it and hold the guilty parties responsible. However, clean athletes should not suffer. This is completely beyond my comprehension.
I hope we can find a solution to this problem but it does not mean we are going to take offence and say that we will not do anything about doping. On the contrary, we will take tougher measures against doping. I have said this and there was a statement from our law enforcement agencies. The Prosecutor General’s Office and the Investigative Committee are looking into the media reports on this issue. We will thoroughly investigate all the allegations.
Let us go back to this infamous meldonium, which I had not even heard of before, although it was invented in the Soviet Union, specifically, in Latvia. What is doping? According to the World Anti-Doping Agency, doping is any substance that gives you an advantage in competition. Meldonium does not give any advantage. It only helps maintain the cardiac muscle during strenuous physical activity. It had never been considered doping and had been used without any consequences for years. It was also very well known that meldonium was invented in the former Soviet Union and was used almost exclusively by Eastern European athletes. This was a commonly known fact. But no, they had to single out this drug.
There had never been any clinical research on its washout period. First, it was claimed that meldonium is expelled over two weeks, then one month. Then suddenly, it is claimed the drug can remain in the system for six months. Nobody knows yet.
I believe the decisions regarding this were premature. Only after clinical research can you say that if meldoinium was detected after a certain period then the athlete is guilty. How can you claim that if you do not know its washout period? Everybody can make a mistake and our partners may have, too.
As far as today’s decision is concerned, over the past six months, our athletes have been tested by foreign doping officers. The samples were examined at foreign labs. Do they not trust them? If I am correct, the tests were conducted by UK Anti-Doping. We agreed to that as it was recommended by WADA. For the last six months, our athletes were tested by foreign experts and each time the samples were taken for evaluation. My question is: who is supposed to take samples so that everybody trusts the results? We can ask our Chinese colleagues to do that. We do not mind. We agreed to cooperate with international organisations and our foreign partners. We agreed to all their terms. We never argued about it.
Let me finish my answer with what I said in the beginning. Responsibility must be personalised. Those who have nothing to do with a violation should not suffer. Therefore, I expect that we will have an opportunity to discuss this issue with the anti-doping agency again. I also hope for an appropriate response from the International Olympic Committee.
That is it, I believe.
Sergei Mikhailov: Italy is the honorary guest of this year’s forum. We heard Matteo Renzi speak at the plenary session. Now, I am pleased to pass the microphone to CEO and Managing Director of the leading Italian news agency ANSA, Giuseppe Cerbone. At our media session today, we discussed when artificial intelligence might finally replace human journalists and robots would do the writing. Giuseppe is engaged in this area professionally and holds a degree in artificial intellect development. Go ahead, please, Giuseppe.
Giuseppe Cerbone: Thank you Mr President for this yearly appointment and thank you to Sergei for his kind words and for inviting us, every year. The young St. Petersburg Economic Forum which today is the 20th birthday of the forum and in which Italy, as Sergei said, is participating as a guest of honour thanks to the good relationship, looks like a new beginning of good traditional relations that exist between Moscow and Rome. To this end, Russia and Italy have both declared a strong interest in the southern gas pipeline. Is this, Mr President, a way to find the balance in light of the completion of the northern pipeline, Nord Stream 2 project, or Russia has a new long-term strategic interest in the furniture in the Mediterranean given that this project has had alternative fortunes in years? Thank you very much Mr President.
Vladimir Putin: I have to remind you how the South Stream project to transport gas under the Black Sea to Bulgaria started.
We in Russia believed that access to the EU from the south would diversify energy shipment to Europe. However, before that, the European Parliament had adopted a decision dismissing this route as inconsistent with the interests of the EU, and the European Commission had sent a letter to the Government of Bulgaria, confirming the European Parliament’s decision and demanding that the Bulgarian government stop all preparatory work. The Bulgarian government complied.
Look, how could we even start laying a pipeline system in the sea, how could we spend 9 billion euros just to have all this metal sink into the sea, without having secured the right to enter Bulgarian territory? But of course, as soon as we realised what was happening, we shut down any further work. We did not abandon the project, we were stopped from implementing it.
Then the international consortium proposed continuing the Nord Stream project and building a second line, Nord Stream 2. I must say that it is not an alternative to South Stream and in this sense, they are not competing, because Nord Stream is designed to compensate for declining production in Northern Europe and to meet growing demand in the northern and central European economies, including Germany.
Furthermore, we need to bear in mind that Germany has announced publicly that it is phasing out nuclear power. If I remember correctly, nuclear energy accounts for 34 percent of power generation in Germany. What will replace it? No matter how attractive wind turbines and solar energy are, they will not be enough, and they are too expensive today.
I understand the German leadership’s concerns over its energy future. The weakening of the German and European economies and the loss of competitiveness will not benefit the global economy either. However, one should consider this well in advance.
But this is not a Russian-German project alone. It also involves our French and Dutch partners, and Britain has shown interest too. I do not know what decisions were made, but I know that some time ago experts discussed — I do not follow it too closely – the possibility of a branch-off to the UK. Resources are dwindling and needs are growing. How can they be met?
There is always shale gas from the US of course. However, think about it, first it needs to be produced, God knows how – it is a complicated process, and the cost of production is higher than the extraction costs in Siberia and Yamal. Then it needs to be liquefied, transported across the ocean, regasified and then delivered to the consumer. Funny, I do not know if it will be competitive in Europe. If it is – good, it will revive the market, and we are not worried about it.
Therefore, first of all, we do not think of Nord Stream 2 as an alternative to South Stream. Second, this is a purely commercial project; the government is not directly involved. Third, the shareholders agreed on a second Nord Stream line at the start of Nord Stream 1. So having completed the first part of the project, and having done this well and efficiently, they moved on to the second part, which, I repeat, had been agreed on earlier.
Of course, it is unfortunate that we were prevented from completing South Stream. But today I asked our colleagues: why didn’t you fight for this project before? Couldn’t the countries that were interested in it, particularly Bulgaria, have said anything? They could have appealed to the European Parliament, met with the parliamentarians to explain how important the project is for their countries and have an open debate. I am not saying that they should have been aggressive, but they could have explained things. They could have appealed to the European Commission. However, everybody kept their mouths shut. All we heard was Russia did this and Russia did that as if Russia was plotting another conspiracy.
A good friend of mine from Germany told me: we had this flood in Bavaria and I got the impression they could blame you for the flood, too. This cannot continue forever. They stopped us, we suspended the project. Now they say, oh, the project failed, how so? Well, where were you when this happened?
regarding our interest in Mediterranean projects, it is still there. As you know, Gazprom signed a memorandum with an Italian company and a Greek one to look for cooperation options. We are considering this opportunity as well.
We have also not completely given up on transit via Ukraine. The question is how much and where it will run. Recent experience has shown that a monopoly is not a great idea. When somebody holds a monopoly over something, it is immediately abused. If Ukraine comes to understand that it does not have exclusive rights to shipping Russian energy to Europe, certain officials in this country will not be blackmailed anymore and we will be able to cooperate in a normal businesslike manner.
In this regard, I would like to emphasise that, in general, we may still consider involvement in Ukraine’s gas transit system. We suggested that ourselves at the time. Moreover, there is a memorandum signed by President Kuchma, Chancellor Schroeder and myself. We suggested establishing an international consortium involving our European partners. In order to comply with Ukrainian law, we proposed leasing the Ukrainian gas transit system through an international consortium instead of buying it, committing also to the maintenance and improvements. The memorandum was signed but then discarded. Then the crises of 2008 and 2009 followed. As you may recall, it came down to their demand that we drop the price to the lowest rate and offer Ukraine a non-market rate, or they will shut down transit. They will just cut it off.
We must secure ourselves against issues like this and continue normal cooperation with Ukraine. By the way, if our Ukrainian partners offer us an economically feasible project today that would guarantee secure supplies and economic efficiency we would work with them.
As a matter of fact, despite our difficulties, we did not suspend distribution to Turkey for a day. Blue Stream is in full operation between the two shores of the Black Sea and the supplies are running smoothly along the on-shore leg. This is how we will keep working. We will continue pursuing attractive opportunities, mainly based on economic parameters.
Sergei Mikhailov: Mr President, you are soon to visit China. Today, we have here Mr Liu Siyang, Vice President of the Xinhua News Agency. This year marks Xinhua's 85th anniversary, as well as the 80th anniversary of cooperation between TASS and Xinhua. It is a year of anniversaries, actually.
Mr Liu Siyang, you are welcome.
Liu Siyang (retranslated): Mr President,
You have just mentioned that the Russian economy's growth is 0.5 percent. Actually, many countries are experiencing difficulties with economic growth. We also believe that the general economic recession at the global level can only be tackled through joint, collective efforts. This forum has focused on seeking solutions to the current situation in the global economy.
How would you describe Russian-Chinese cooperation in science and technology, in innovation?
Vladimir Putin: I have just spoken about this to your colleague, we thoroughly discussed it, but I will say it again.
We highly value the level of our cooperation. It should be noted that both Russia and China need new technologies. However, we can complement each other in this regard. The scientific and technical groundwork for fundamental science with prospects for further application in Russia is rather extensive.
We discuss cooperation in various areas with our Chinese partners, including nuclear power, missile technology and aviation, with further prospects in both civil and military applications. We have a high level of trust with China in this area, and we will continue to cooperate.
What pleased me, as I have just mentioned, is the fact that for many years, we have been speaking of the need to change the structure of our exports to China, and now I am pleased to note that despite a slight decrease in the overall export volume, Russia's exports of machine and technical products to China have increased considerably. This is a very positive fact that indicates that we have a great opportunity for growth in these areas.
Speaking of cooperation in science, we consider it a priority and expect to turn it into high technology production. Again, there is nothing new here: we are perfectly aware that within the next decade drastic transformations based on the latest scientific and technical achievements will take place in production.
You know well about the production process and how it has always been. As Michelangelo and Rodin said, to produce a work of art one has to choose a block of marble and chip away at whatever is not needed. Then, there is stamping — a method of production that is similar but more technical. And now we have ”cloud“ technology, which is quite similar, but with even less material waste. The transformation in production will be massive, there will be a real revolution in this field.
Today, we have discussed transportation methods, and our colleague from the United States mentioned the introduction of tube train technology, with speeds of up to 1,000-plus km per hour.
This will be a new chapter, a new life, new spheres of application, with a vast number of inefficient jobs being eliminated. People will have to be provided with jobs — and this is what we should work on with China today, and this is what we will set our minds to.
Sergei Mikhailov: Mr President, let us go back to Europe now and give the floor to our friend and a regular participant in our meetings, Mr Clive Marshall, Chief Executive of PA Group, parent company of the Press Association, the UK's leading multimedia news agency. Mr Marshall is well known in our media world. He is also President of the European Alliance of News Agencies (EANA) where Russia is represented by TASS, and on May 23, he was elected President of the News Agencies World Congress.
Vladimir Putin: Listening to you I get the impression that all we have is friends. Where do all the questionable articles in the Western media come from, I wonder.
Sergei Mikhailov: Well, this is the way it works in the media world.
Mr Marshall, welcome.
Clive Marshall: Mr President, in six days’ time the British people will vote on whether to remain or leave the European Union in a referendum that the British Prime Minister David Cameron has described as one of the biggest decisions this country will face in our lifetime. President Obama and Chinese President Xi have both publicly supported Britain remaining in the European Union. The British Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond has said that Russia is the only world power that would welcome a British exit from the European Union. Mr President, what is the Russian position on Brexit and your advice to the British voters? And if the UK does decide to leave the EU how will that affect its relationship with Russia and Britain’s position on the world stage?
Vladimir Putin: I think I mentioned our ”guilt“ in the floods in Europe. I think this is another such joke. Actually, I think it is indecent to mention Russia when speaking of any issue, even those we have nothing to do with, to make our country out to be some kind of scarecrow. This not what intelligent people would do, I think.
As for the British Prime Minister: Brexit is now a very big issue, but why did he initiate this referendum, why did he do it? To intimidate Europe, or to threaten someone? What is the point of this if he himself opposes the idea?
I should say that this is absolutely none of our business. This is the choice of the British people. I have my own opinion on it, I do not know the results and no one does until they are made public, sentiments are split about 50/50 with a narrow margin. Who knows at this point? Nobody.
I do have a personal view as to whether this is good or not, but I will refrain from expressing it now because I think it would be inappropriate. Whatever I say will be interpreted in favour of a certain decision. This referendum is a matter for the EU and the British people.
Various experts have given different opinions as to whether the UK's withdrawal from the EU will do good or harm. Most of them agree that it will damage Europe, but some say that Europe will only get stronger and more stable.
For the UK itself… You have fishermen running fishing boats on the Thames and saying they have issues due to fishing restrictions. Yes, they have their problems, but there are advantages in other sectors. It is not easy to consider all the implications.
It is important that the voters receive objective information to make their own decision being fully aware of the consequences — both negative and, possibly, positive as well. This is all I want to say and have the right to say on the matter.
Sergei Mikhailov: Let us now go back to the American continent. Malcolm Kirk has been representing Canadian Press, Canada’s national news agency, for three years at our meetings. On September 1, the agency will celebrate its 100th anniversary, and I hope that being a huge fan of hockey Mr Kirk will use this centenary as an opportunity to play hockey, and maybe you would even invite him to play in the Night Hockey League.
Vladimir Putin: With pleasure, but only if he plays on my team, since Canadians are so good at ice hockey.
Malcolm Kirk:Thank you. We look forward to welcoming Russia and other countries to Toronto and to Canada later this summer for the World Cup of Hockey so it should be a great event. I’ve seen a few of your hockey moves. You know how to score a few goals, Mr President. So your stats are pretty good. Thank you again for inviting us to this meeting with you. It is a privilege and we certainly appreciate the opportunity to spend some time with you. I am going to ask you: there are some reports that Canada is under pressure from the United States to join Britain, Germany and the US in the NATO initiative that would see four troop battalions stationed in Poland and other Baltic states. These countries may feel this is perhaps an act of deterrence in the event that Russia was to perhaps invade their territory. How would you view Canada’s participation in NATO plans should the Canadian government make the decision to do so? And I guess generally how would you characterise Russia’s relations with Canada now that we have a new government? Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Let me start with the last part of your question. Since the new Prime Minister took office in Canada, there has been a chance that relations between Russia and Canada could improve. This is what the Prime Minister told me in person at the G20 Summit in Antalya. He said he wanted to think of ways to fully restore our relations. We welcome initiatives of this kind and are ready to combine our efforts in delivering on this objective. We will work together, but there are specific steps that should be taken by both sides before we get there.
As for the missile defence system, look, people in this audience are all adults and are very experienced. I am not asking you to mirror everything I am about to say word for word in your coverage or to influence press coverage. I just want to tell you something in person, and remind you of some things. After all, the world is free of large-scale wars or military conflict, and we all know that. This is due to the so-called strategic balance that emerged when two nuclear super powers agreed to limit their offensive and missile-defence arsenals. Everyone understands that if one side is more successful in developing its missile defence than the other, it gains an edge and has the temptation to be the first to use these weapons. It is for this reason that missile defence and agreements in this regard are one of the cornerstones of international security.
It is not at all my intention to berate or accuse anyone of anything, but when our US partners unilaterally withdrew [from the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty], this was a major blow. In fact, this was the first blow to international stability in terms of upsetting the strategic balance of power. I said back then, “We are currently unable to develop this technology due to the high costs, and secondly, it has yet to be seen how it will work. Instead of simply siphoning off money, we will go the other way by improving Russia’s offensive weapons in order to maintain the balance. This was the only purpose, and it had nothing to do with threatening anyone.” Here is what we heard in response: “It is true that our missile defence system is not intended to oppose Russia, and we assume that what you do is not against us, so you may do as you please.”
I can explain this by saying, as I did at the plenary session today, that it was the early 2000s when Russia was in a very complicated situation, with a ruined economy, an actual civil war and the fight against terrorism in the Caucasus, the defence industry collapsing and the Armed Forces dramatically weakened. Who could imagine then that Russia would build up its strategic weapons? They probably thought that the weapons Russia inherited from the Soviet Union would eventually become degraded. And so they told us to go ahead and do what we wanted. However, we informed them about our plans, which we are implementing. Trust me: Russia has moved a long way on this path. I will not read out the entire list, but I can tell you that we have modernised our weapons and are creating new-generation systems, not to mention the weapons that are designed to penetrate ballistic missile defence systems.
Despite all our objections and offers of real cooperation, our partners do not want to cooperate with us; they have rejected all of our proposals and are working to their own plans. I believe it inappropriate to say certain things in public, but I can assure you, and you can choose to believe me or not, that we offered practical cooperation alternatives that were rejected.
Eventually, they built a BMD system in Romania. They kept saying that they were doing this to protect themselves against an Iranian nuclear threat. But where is this threat now? It does not exist. We have signed a treaty with Iran, and it was the United States that initiated it. We did our best, helping as much as we could, but the treaty was only made possible through the position of the US. This success should be credited to President Obama. I believe it is a good treaty, which has eased tensions around Iran, and President Obama should definitely give himself the credit for this.
Anyway, there is no Iranian threat, but the BMD system is being built nevertheless. This might mean that we were right when we suspected our partners of being insincere, of deceiving us with references to an alleged Iranian nuclear threat. Yes, this is how it was; they attempted to cheat us again.
They have built this system and are now delivering missiles there. You probably know that the launch systems of the Tomahawk sea-launched intermediate-range missiles will be used to launch anti-missiles with an effective range of 500 kilometres. However, technology does not stand still, and we know more or less precisely when the Americans will create a new missile that will have a range of 1,000 kilometres or more. From that time on, they will be a threat to our nuclear arsenals.
We know what will happen and in which year, and they know we know it. They are just throwing dust in our eyes, as the saying goes, and you in turn are throwing dust in the eyes of your people. What bothers me is that people are not aware of the danger. We fail to understand that we are dragging the world into a completely new dimension. This is what this is all about. They are pretending as if nothing is going on. I do not even know how to put my message across.
We are being told that this is part of a defensive, not offensive, capability, that these systems are intended to ensure defence against aggression. This is not true. This is not the way things are. A strategic missile defence system is part of an offensive strategic capability, and is tightly linked to offensive missile strike systems. Some high-precision weapons are used to carry out a pre-emptive strike, while others serve as a shield against a retaliatory strike, and still others carry out nuclear strikes. All these objectives are related, and go hand in hand with the use of high-precision conventional weapons.
All right, even if we put aside the interceptor missiles that will be developed in the future, increasingly threatening Russia, but the launch tubes where these missiles are stored, as I said, are the same that are used on navy ships to carry Tomahawk missiles. You can replace interceptor missiles with Tomahawks in a matter of hours and these tubes will no longer be used to intercept missiles. How do we know what is inside them? All they need is to change the software. This can be done seamlessly; even the Romanians would not know what is going on, since they cannot access these facilities, right? No one will know, neither the Romanians, nor the Poles. I know how this is done. In my opinion, this is a major threat.
When we discussed this with our US partners, they had the idea of creating nonnuclear ballistic missiles. We said, “Listen, do you understand what this would be? Imagine that you fire a submarine-launch or land-based missile. A ballistic missile is launched. How do we know whether it is carrying a nuclear warhead or not? Do you understand the kind of threat this would create?” As far as we know, this programme is currently suspended. They have stopped it for now. However, they are still working on it.
I do not know where this will take us. However, Russia will definitely have to retaliate. I know already that we will be accused of acting aggressively, even though all we do is respond. It is clear that we will have to ensure security, and not just in Russia, since ensuring the strategic balance of power globally is a matter of great importance for us.
I would like to conclude my answer with what I started with: it is the strategic balance that ensured and guaranteed peace on the planet, sparing us from major military conflict over the last 70 years. This should be viewed as good, even though it is based on mutual threat. However, this mutual threat brought about global peace for decades. I do not know how anyone could want to destroy it. I believe that this would be very dangerous. Not only do I believe it, I am certain of it.
If Canada wants to join, go ahead, what can we say? We cannot order you. Do as you please, and we will do as we deem necessary in terms of ensuring our security.
Sergei Mikhailov: Thank you, Mr President.
Spain’s biggest news agency, EFE, headed by Mr José Antonio Vera, is the Spanish-speaking world’s biggest information agency. Mr Vera took over as the head of EFE not so long ago, in 2012, and one of the main professional issues he has been focusing on is terrorism, which is also a subject very close to our own hearts, a sensitive issue for all of us.
Mr Vera, you have the floor.
Jose Antonio Vera: Thank you very much, Mr President, for the invitation and for the opportunity. You know that this week we have in Spain a repetition of annual votation, political elections. You know too that we have a new party, Podemos. The name is Podemos. You know that it has some special allies and friends like for example Alexis Tsipras in Greece. Would you like that Podemos get the power in Spain? How do you see the next election in Spain? And in the same sense, another short question, please: who would you prefer to see as the president of the United States, Hillary Clinton or Mr Trump?
Vladimir Putin: I already gave a detailed account of my views on Mr Trump and Ms Clinton today. Should I repeat now what I said earlier? Please refer to what I said at the panel discussion earlier.
We will work with whoever is elected president. It is regrettable to see that the Russian card gets played the way it does during nearly every US election campaign, and I think that this is very counterproductive, but no matter what the campaign rhetoric, we will look not at the words, but at the deeds of whoever takes office in the White House, and we will look for ways to normalise relations of course, and set our cooperation in the economy and international security back on track.
There are many issues that we can resolve effectively only by working together. This includes the issue to which you devote your professional efforts, as Sergei said, the fight against terrorism. However, we will judge by concrete action.
As for the election campaign in Spain, this is not our affair. It is no secret, and I mentioned at the discussion earlier that I already said to my European friends 10 years ago that regarding the European model of social development, I do not know if a model that builds society with an emphasis on immigrants’ interests is a liberal model or not. Certainly, it all sounds very attractive, but ultimately, it could end up arousing discontent among the local people. It is better to take a gradual approach and not try to do things in a hurry. You can only take in as many immigrants as the country is able to absorb into its local labour market and help adapt to the local language and cultural traditions.
There are people who have lived in Spain for decades but do not speak Spanish. Is this normal? You are surely aware of these facts. You can let in more and more people who will live 15-odd years in Spain and still not speak the language, but it seems to me that this will sooner or later lead to the kinds of problems we are seeing now. But it is up to you yourselves to respond to this and take decisions on what to do about this issue.
We have no shortage of problems of our own in this area and we ourselves are far from always finding effective solutions, even though we all live within one unified country and have developed together as a multi-ethnic state over a thousand years. Nevertheless, it is not an easy task. Now we have large flows of people coming in from the former Soviet republics, making it even more difficult to resolve the problems that arise.
We feel no malicious joy of any sort observing this situation, and we are not blaming anyone, after all, we ourselves have problems in this area too. However, I believe that your problems are even more serious because the immigrants arriving in your countries are people from a completely different background altogether. This is not the case here, as the people coming here, even from the former Soviet republics, once shared a connection with the common country we used to live in. Most of them speak Russian, not always very well, but they generally know the language, and they share a similar understanding on what constitutes our common values, although there are nonetheless quite a few problems here.
We need to step up our efforts in this area, but you have an even harder task. It is up to you to decide how to go about it. We have no preferences in this respect. As with the US, we will work with whichever party and whichever leaders win the elections.
Unfortunately, I have to get going; otherwise, I will not be able to leave this venue for a number of technical reasons. Perhaps we could take a concluding question?
Sergei Mikhailov: Let us give the floor to our Indian friends. Raj Chengappa, chief editor of India’s biggest media group, India Today, is taking part in our meeting for the first time. He is one of India’s best-known journalists and says that he owes his career to an interview you gave him in 2000. Back then, when the interview was over, you said to him “see you later”. Sixteen years have gone by, and now here he is together with you again.
Vladimir Putin: I kept my word: here we are again, just as agreed.
Sergei Mikhailov: That whole issue of the magazine sold out. Mr Chengappa asked me to show you a photocopy to show that it was all just like I said.
Vladimir Putin: Who is this young man?
Sergei Mikhailov: Mr Chengappa, go ahead with your question.
Raj Chengappa: Thank you Sergei, thank you Mr President. You are still looking as young as ever since I saw you in 2000. My question number one is: India recently applied for membership of the Nuclear Suppliers Group. Russia has always backed India. But China is opposing India’s membership. Will you speak to the Chinese President and persuade him to drop the objections?
The other question is: Prime Minister Modi had a successful visit to the US last week. Is India being on the right side of the US putting it on the wrong side of Russia? How do you see relations between India and Russia? Many say it hasn’t reached its full potential.
And finally, a fitness question: will you be doing yoga on World Yoga Day? Have you tried yoga before? You are extremely fit, I know.
Vladimir Putin: Let me start with your final point. With yoga, I am certainly more of a spectator than a practitioner. I greatly envy those who achieve tangible results here, genuinely envy them. That they can achieve these results says a lot about their character. Sometimes you can hardly believe what you are seeing.
In general, we love Indian culture here. Russia is probably the only country that has a rental channel where you can watch Indian films all the time.
Regarding our relations, they go back a long way, as you know, and we treasure them greatly. We have a very trusting relationship and all of our political forces, and I believe all political forces in India support continued development of our bilateral ties.
We see that the opposition and the parties in power have their differences, they quarrel on occasion, but both support developing relations with Russia. We see this and we value it very much. Let me assure you that the political consensus is the same here in Russia on the subject of developing relations with India.
However, we most certainly need to transform this positive historical and political capital into concrete cooperation projects. Our level of bilateral trade is still too low and really does not at all match our potential.
It is good that we are helping India to develop its civilian nuclear energy programme, but this is not enough; we need to further diversify our relations. We should develop and expand investment flows and projects. It is not enough to limit ourselves to generic medicines in the pharmaceuticals sector, for example. We should build production facilities and develop our own formulas and components in this sector. This is what we should be doing, taking this cooperation to a deeper level. The main thing is that we can do this. We have everything we need. The same applies to a wide range of high-tech sectors. I will not list them all now.
As for our nuclear sector cooperation, Russia’s work with India in this field is entirely within the limits of international law. We think that a country like India with its huge population, considerable economic problems, and the challenges it faces in the energy sector and in national security cannot be put in the same category as other countries. We must work within the framework of international law, but at the same time look for ways to guarantee India’s interests.
Regarding India’s rapprochement with the United States, we think this is a perfectly natural process. I am not sure who is getting closer to who here: India to the US, or is it the US trying to build closer ties with India? At one point, the US imposed sanctions on the current Prime Minister, Mr Modi, and banned him from entering the country, but later they said that bygones should be bygones and after he was elected Prime Minister, they lifted the sanctions. This suggests that the US sometimes make decisions rather spontaneously and without giving consideration to the long-term consequences and results. However, we see now that the US seek to develop relations with India, and we welcome this too.
In general, it would be absurd for us to imagine we could have some kind of exclusive relationship with a vast country like India with its population of more than a billion people. India has its own interests and it has the right to these interests. We are respectful of this. We know that our cooperation involves some very sensitive areas, and in developing our cooperation, including in these sensitive areas, we should take other countries’ interests into account too. Is this possible? I think it is. I believe we can gradually assuage others’ concerns and I am confident that we will succeed in this.
Raj Chengappa: On the Nuclear Suppliers Group, would you speak to the Chinese President to back India’s claim to be a member?
Vladimir Putin: Have I not answered all of your questions yet? You want me to go even deeper? I think we can say that I have answered your questions, all right?
Of course, we must discuss issues such as these. We discuss all issues very openly. Our Chinese friends and we have no secrets from each other. We make it our general rule to always discuss things openly, all cards on the table. I said this already, but if you want to hear it again, I will repeat it now.
Of course, we must take everyone’s concerns into account because if we do not do so in a timely fashion, otherwise we would not solve problems but only create new ones. Can we resolve problems in this way? I think that we can, provided we are careful in our actions and work to reach agreement with each other.
Please, forgive me for not being able to take everyone’s questions, but technical reasons really oblige me to leave this building right now. We have some problems of our own with transportation.
Let me thank you for your attention to our joint work and wish you all success. I am sure we will meet again, at any rate, we will certainly try to make this happen.
Thank you very much.
Sergei Mikhailov: Thank you very much, Mr President.
See also
Official website of St Petersburg International Economic Forum
Topics
Foreign policy
Media
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 17, 2016, 23:55
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi
Vladimir Putin met with Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi on the sidelines of the St Petersburg International Economic Forum.
June 17, 2016
16:50
St Petersburg
1 of 5
With Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi.
Following the talks, a package of documents has been signed in the presence of the President of Russia and the Prime Minister of Italy, including a memorandum of understanding between the Roscosmos State Corporation for Space Activities and the Italian Space Agency on cooperation in remote probing of the Earth’s surface; an agreement on basic conditions of cooperation between Rosneft and ENI; an agreement on the development of strategic partnership between Rosneft, Russian Helicopters and Leonardo-Finmeccanica; an agreement on basic conditions for establishing a joint venture between Rosneft and Fincantieri; and an agreement on strategic partnership and cooperation between NOVATEK and SAIPEM S.p.A. and NOVATEK and Nuovo Pignone.
Agreements on LNG and construction and a number of other documents were also signed.
See also
Joint news conference with Prime Minister of Italy Matteo Renzi
June 17, 2016
Vladimir Putin and Matteo Renzi gave a joint news conference.
Beginning of meeting with Prime Minister of Italy Matteo Renzi
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister, friends,
Allow me to greet you once again, now in a perfectly business-like atmosphere. Thank you for accepting our invitation.
We have been talking about the depth of Russian-Italian contacts. This depth is there, and it is hard to find objections to it. As we know, Russian-Italian relations are going through some tests. However, the very fact that the Italian Prime Minister is now in Russia – in St Petersburg – shows that we have a shared desire to analyse our problems, overcome them and move forward.
Welcome again!
Prime Minister of Italy Matteo Renzi
(retranslated): Thank you, Mr President.
Thank you for your invitation and for the opportunity to participate in this wonderful forum, which has allowed me to visit this superb city.
I started the day jogging along the streets of your lovely city and saw with my own eyes the excellent state it is in, how clean and beautiful it is. After that, I reached out to the sublime, by visiting the Hermitage Museum. So I had a really wonderful morning.
Now it is with great pleasure that I will take this opportunity to discuss issues of Russian-Italian relations.
Thank you again for your invitation.
Vladimir Putin: I would like to thank you for your kind words about St Petersburg. It was very nice to hear them.
<…>
Geography
Italy
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Renzi Matteo
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 17, 2016, 16:50
Text versionEvents
Joint news conference with Prime Minister of Italy Matteo Renzi
June 17, 2016
20:00
St Petersburg
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, friends, colleagues,
I would like to note right away that the visit of Prime Minister of Italy Matteo Renzi turned out to be very dynamic and intensive. First, we had a detailed, constructive conversation on key issues of bilateral cooperation at a meeting in narrow format, and then we held an expanded-format meeting with the participation of Government members and a broad cross-section of the business community.
We discussed practically the entire range of bilateral issues with Mr Renzi. Our meetings on the sidelines of major economic events are becoming a good tradition. A year ago, on June 10, we opened the Day of Russia at the World Universal Exhibition EXPO-2015 in Milan. This year we are receiving Italy as the main guest of the St Petersburg International Economic Forum. Mr Renzi’s personal participation in this event ensured that the Italian business community was well represented. In all, over $1.3 billion Euros worth of contracts have been signed with Italian businesses on the sidelines of the forum. The latest one – I understand it’s the largest – is worth about one billion dollars.
Italy is fifth among Russia’s foreign trade partners. At the same time mutual trade decreased in 2015. Regrettably, the recession continued into the beginning of this year. Understandably, the ups and downs of the economic situation and different political restrictions have played a role in this.
During the talks we paid special attention to developing specific steps to bolster trade and economic cooperation. We understand how difficult this task is but will consistently work to resolve it.
We see that our Italian friends are also ready to normalise business relations. The talks showcased a common desire to revive the work of the main mechanisms of practical bilateral cooperation. Energy remains the strategic area of Russian-Italian cooperation.
Italy is one of the largest consumers of Russian natural gas. Despite lower price value last year, deliveries grew 12 percent in physical volumes. Russian and Italian companies continue to work together on large-scale joint projects. You have seen the contracts that, on our side, were signed by Rosneft and NOVATEK. The agreements centre on geological exploration, oil extraction and refining, condensed gas production and transportation. Production in Russia of cutting-edge equipment for the energy industry is also in the deals.
We see on the whole great opportunities for Italian companies to base production in Russia. The talks with our Italian partners showed us that they are interested in that, too.
See also
Meeting with Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi
June 17, 2016
Expanding interregional ties and promoting cooperation in such high-tech industries as the aircraft engineering and space could have a positive effect.
You were present during the signing of the relevant documents, but the road towards them did not start today. Finmeccanica, for instance, has been on our market for a long time and has achieved a good reputation. We talked with them today about ways to deepen our cooperation and make it more stable.
Russia and Italy are working together to explore near-Earth space. An Italian astronaut is currently in training for an ISS mission in 2017.
Italian companies readily engage in large-scale infrastructure projects in Russia. For example, here in St Petersburg, Italian companies are building the Western High-Speed Diameter, while they also are engaged in the Moscow-St Petersburg motorway, and the M5 Ural federal motorway projects in the Chelyabinsk Region.
Russian-Italian dialogue also continues in the humanitarian sphere. Mr Prime Minister emphasised this during our talks today. Our countries are making a great contribution to the preservation of world cultural heritage. We have agreed that our experts should coordinate their efforts on the preservation and restoration of historical monuments in Palmyra. When talking about international issues, we paid special attention to the threat of terrorism. Both Russia and Italy share a view that an adequate response to this global challenge can only be found through a common effort of the international community. Of course, we discussed the settlement of crises in Ukraine, Syria and other areas, where there is no peace yet.
I would mention one more fact. Traditionally and historically, Italy is deeply involved in North Africa, and, particularly Libya. We discussed this as well with Prime Minister Renzi today.
In conclusion, I want to thank our partners for an interested and constructive conversation and express my hope that all the projects that we mentioned today will be implemented.
Thank you.
Prime Minister of Italy Matteo Renzi
(retranslated): President Putin, my heartfelt thank you for the invitation. It has been a pleasure and honour for us, for Italy, to visit the forum, to be among the guests of the St Petersburg International Economic Forum.
I would like to once again express my appreciation to the organisers and to the city, and to stress the high level and quality of the discussion. This is a new contribution to our bilateral relations.
As to us, this is our fifth bilateral meeting; we met previously in Milan and in Turkey on the sidelines of the G20 summit. Even the sixth meeting, I forgot about Australia. And at all of our meetings we tried to work together on all the dossiers, as we did today.
I am grateful to President Putin for his sensitivity regarding North Africa issues, which are priority issues for us. We have discussed the challenges of international magnitude, including publicly, I stress, and including those we disagree on, on the issues of European and international politics and geopolitics. But whatever the case, we had a chance to discuss everything quite frankly, in depth, and I hope, very fruitfully.
Regarding our bilateral relations, we have emphasised, on our side, the points highlighted by Mr Putin in his speech: the extraordinary significance of our energy partnership and everything arising out of it for all our companies, and not just a few companies; opportunities opening up in agriculture. We would like to put a stake on the Made with Italy model in agricultural sector to uncover its potential because both Russia and Italy can make mutually beneficial steps forward. This also undoubtedly includes everything concerning scientific research, as Mr Putin reminded us, and overall issues my colleague has mentioned.
Our position is that it is building bridges rather than walls that has strategic importance. I am saying this because Italian journalists have participated today and have seen how the Astaldi company works. It has nearly completed, in strict observance of the schedule, the construction of a 14-kilometre long bridge here, in St Petersburg. I believe Mr Putin will open the bridge in a few weeks’ time. I also believe that this is not so much a matter of infrastructure as a symbolic act. Today, we need to resume building bridges.
And one more small detail in conclusion. It does not happen every day that you learn from President Vladimir Putin that Team Italy scored a goal on the 88th minute, as it happened to me today. I hope this will bring us good luck. Let me remind you that the next match is on Tuesday, and I will be waiting for very good news from you.
All right, jokes aside, let us hope that it will bring good luck, including good luck to Russia in holding the 2018 FIFA World Cup.
Question (re-translated): A question forboth leaders, if I may.
While recognising Russia’s fundamental role in the search for acceptable solutions on all the international dossiers, from the Iran dossier to the military intervention in Syria, is it possible to suggest that Russia will also get involved in looking for a general solution of the Libya issue?
Prime Minister of Italy Matteo Renzi: We have been talking about it for a long time, and Russia is already working together with the international community. Russia is not only a large international power, it is also one of the countries that have a permanent membership in the UN Security Council. That is why everything, Libya included, passes via President Putin’s and Minister Lavrov’s desk, and Mr Lavrov has an excellent relationship with Italy’s Foreign Minister Paolo Gentiloni.
I believe that at the moment efforts are aimed at minimising tensions in Libya, trying to arrive at a government that would be capable of running the country and influencing the reality so as to finally bring peace to that nation after many years since the interference began. It was probably not the best type of interference, let’s be straight about it, it was a mistake to organise military involvement in such a way. We hope that the nation will finally see peace. We were looking for Russia’s involvement, and Russia never spared efforts for us.
Vladimir Putin: I share Mr Prime Minister’s opinion on the fallacy of the actions in Libya and in some other countries of the region. I also agree with him that in this case we should not so much look back but rather look forward in search of a solution. The situation is very complicated: the government, the parliament, armed groups, the tribal concerns, economic, ethnic and other issues – it is fairly difficult to narrow all that down to a common denominator.
In the course of our conversation I assured Mr Prime Minister that Russia will be working in a very constructive way with the international community in the interests of the Libyan people, of course, and not with the aim of causing any kind of dissonance in the joint work but to look for a solution acceptable for all the parties.
Question: At the opening ceremony, former President of France Nicolas Sarkozy, speaking about the sanctions, said that, in his opinion, Russia should make the first move and abolish the counter-sanctions, which in fact were introduced in retaliation to European sanctions. His reasoning is that the stronger opponent is always first to extend his hand – and the stronger one is Russia and you personally, he said – and Europe will reciprocate. How would you comment on this proposal? Do you see this compliment about you being stronger a disguised dare for you to act?
Vladimir Putin: There are many ways to characterise people and countries. Some may be strong, others less strong; some are smart, and others not so smart. Some are clever. Mr Sarkozy is certainly very friendly to our country, and we can be sure that he supports a rapprochement between Russia and the EU.
We had a lengthy discussion on the subject at the meeting the day before yesterday, and I think there is a constructive aspect to his proposal, something we should listen to. We would be willing to take this step if we were more confident that they would not pull a fast one on us, to use a popular term, as has happened before. We need to be sure that any unilateral moves by Russia will be followed by reciprocal steps, real steps, not, as a well-known classic said, “one step forward, two steps back.”
It is hard to say at this stage who could even convince us that our partners are geared to such work. I would say that here and now, we are not the ones who need to be convinced, but rather it is necessary to convince our partners in Kiev to perform the clear obligations they have undertaken by signing the Minsk Agreements. You know, I do not even want to talk about this again. These are not some secret agreements; the entire text is available online. What does it say?
Kiev agreed to amend the Constitution by the end of 2015. We cannot do it for them.
To adopt the amnesty law. It has been adopted, but never signed. I am not the President of Ukraine, so I cannot sign the law for him.
To implement the special status law. The legislation was adopted, but never put into effect; instead it was postponed in a clever way: by adopting another amendment, Article 10 or something, which delayed its enforcement.
Well, they could manoeuvre endlessly, but they cannot expect us to do something we cannot do.
I understand that it is not easy to make such decisions in Ukraine now, that they require a lot of political courage and support of the public and key political forces. But if they signed the agreement, it means they made a commitment.
As for our European partners, knowing all this, they should not shift all responsibility for the current developments onto us, especially for things that are beyond our control. Why don’t they work with their allies in Kiev instead, if they really mean well for the Ukrainian people.
They need help to get out of this never-ending spiral. The conflicting parties must finally establish a direct dialogue, direct contact and direct negotiations. And if we see at some point that everything is, in fact, being done, we will be willing to take the first step – to amend various restrictions on trade and the economy.
Question (re-translated): Italy was a country that treated the sanctions with a lot of reflection, for example, it insisted on a non-automatic extension of the sanctions. In the past few days a proposal emerged worded by Italian entrepreneurs, among others, on extending the sanctions for three rather than six months which means the next date for the decision on extending sanctions will be closer. What do you think about this proposal? Do you think you could get it across to our partners?
Mr President, good evening. I would also like to ask you a question about Russia’s good relations with a set of political parties and movements of Eurosceptics, who do not support political integration. They include a movement in Hungary and Marine le Pen’s National Front in France. The question I want to ask is whether you prefer to have a dialogue with a strong integrated Europe with a united voice, or with a weaker and more diffused Europe, let’s put it this way.
Matteo Renzi: Italy’s position is very simple. The sanctions are not extended automatically as if it were usual business. Mr Putin has stated his position a number of times saying that the longer the sanctions last, the longer it will take to find different solutions. But the fundamental question is whether there is an active stance on what is going on, and it is discussed, there are political debates, or the sanctions turn into a routine, both sanctions and counter-sanctions, for the reasons President Putin has just stated. So I can assure you that we shall ask the ambassadors at their next meeting in Brussels not to automatically extend the sanctions and to find out what stage the implementation of the Minsk Agreements has reached.
We shall ask regarding the Minsk Agreements, and they are not secret, as Mr Putin has said, one can read their text online, to state who has done what and by which date. In this case the discussion will be conducted by the foreign ministers. But the central issue is that all the parties must be urged to implement the Minsk protocols.
We are doing it with our European partners who are responsible for the project, we are doing it with our Russian friends and with Ukrainians as well, we say clearly to them, and Mr Putin has already said so, that the agreement should be implemented not just by one party but by all the parties. This is a very serious stance, and I think it is also very logical. We have been saying this since day one.
Vladimir Putin: As to your question: it is made up of several parts, and some of it repeats the widespread European cliché that Russia supposedly supports certain nationalist parties and has special relationships with them. As far back as ten years ago, I told my European friends that the policy they pursued would lead to inevitable rise in popularity of nationalist movements and parties, which is precisely what is happening today, amid the growing inflow of refugees and migrants. But we have nothing to do with it, so you would have to ask those who are involved in this work in Europe. This is an extremely sensitive humanitarian issue, and people fleeing from war do need help. But it is also clear that, while offering help, a country should primarily think of its own citizens.
But we are not going to interfere in these matters, and we maintain contacts with all political forces in Europe: those in power and those in opposition. This is my answer to the first part.
The second part seems to be related to the so-called Brexit. Do you really want me to tell you how Russia feels about this, or if Russia prefers to deal with a strong or a weak Europe? Of course, Russia wants to interact with a strong Europe, because a dialogue with a weak partner is more trouble than it is worth: they can always be pressured by a third party, and all agreements and cooperation plans go down the drain. A strong partner would never allow this.
But what would we call a strong Europe? This problem is waiting for a painstaking researcher, and I would rather it is you, not us. Will Europe be stronger if Britain votes to leave or to stay? Some experts say that Europe will be more focused, others that it is the first step towards the collapse of the rest of Europe, and so on and so forth.
I certainly have my own opinion on this matter. We discussed this with my European colleagues, both yesterday and the day before. I heard different points of view, different approaches. I am not going to express my opinion publicly today. I believe that we must respect the choice of the British people, whatever that choice is. We just need to wait a few days and see what happens.
Question: Mr Prime Minister, my congratulations on the victory, your advancement to the play-offs, the Italian team has a lot of female fans in Russia.
But I would like to ask a serious question. Italy has traditionally been Russia’s long-term and reliable partner in energy projects, in particular, in increasing Russian gas supplies to Europe. Meanwhile, a number of projects have been frozen: first the South Stream, then the Turkish Stream.
Is Italy still interested in Russian gas? Can the frozen projects be revived, or is there a discussion of some new projects comparable with the South Stream and the Turkish Stream?
Vladimir Putin: Let me be the first to answer. Yes, our Italian partners do have an interest in continuing our cooperation, including cooperation in the infrastructure sphere. We had a very lively discussion about it today. We spoke about the mistakes we made in the past, we spoke about what can be done to avoid them in the future, and about what is of interest to us in the near and mid-term future.
This is an opportunity to work further in the southern direction as well. As you know, just recently Gazprom, Italian and Greek partners signed a memorandum on searching for such joint projects. We spoke about Nord Stream 2, and I will be frank, there is nothing classified about it. We spoke about expanding our interaction to new areas in the energy sector.
In fact, we think none of the issues have been closed. We, the Russian side, are ready for this cooperation, yet we are still waiting for our European partners, including Italian ones, will adopt the same attitude, so that we can work to implement the plans on our agenda. There are many plans. You witnessed the documents being signed today at this desk, very important documents, for example, on Yamal, or Rosneft’s cooperation with its partners in the Barents or Black seas. This is also in one way or another related to infrastructure development. Gazprom has been and will continue cooperating with ENI. We are generally satisfied with how the work is progressing. As to some complexities, say, Europe’s third energy package and the like, I think we will gradually find solutions and resolve those complicated issues as well.
Matteo Renzi: In the course of our almost four-hour talk, we certainly addressed energy issues more than once. Italy's position is as follows. We have traditional friendly relations with the Russian authorities. As President Putin said, the agreements signed here during these hours convey the idea of what we think and do. We have signed agreements worth more than a billion euros, and potentially, these agreements will open up opportunities for partnerships worth another four to five billion. This suggests we have given attention to this sphere.
I would prefer the South Stream project to continue. This is not the case. But neither Russia nor Italy is responsible for that. This is what I think. In the next 20 years, going back to what I said in my speech, Russia and Italy will have several areas of cooperation. I could bet that the energy sector will remain a priority and that, using common sense, as President Putin said, we will be able to find a solution. Efforts should be made by the Russian authorities, and certainly by European governments as well.
In conclusion, I would like to make this point, and I will try to be very clear, also in the European context. As you may have noticed today, at the end of his speech, President Putin sounded more like an Europeanist than I did, because he said: ‘True, Europe can have problems, and I believe that Europe has a future if it looks towards that future. I think we have taken a small step in that direction today.’
Thank you.
Geography
Saint Petersburg
Italy
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Renzi Matteo
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 17, 2016, 20:00
Text versionEvents
Plenary session of St Petersburg International Economic Forum
Vladimir Putin spoke at the plenary session of the St Petersburg International Economic Forum.
June 17, 2016
16:20
St Petersburg
President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev
and Prime Minister of Italy Matteo Renzi
took part in the plenary session.
* * *
Excerpts from transcript of the plenary session of the St Petersburg International Economic Forum
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ladies and gentlemen, friends,
I am very glad to welcome all of you to the 20th St Petersburg International Economic Forum.
To start with, looking at this hall I cannot but recall how such forums began. I cannot but recall that it was initiated by the first mayor of this city, Anatoly Sobchak. Twenty years, or even more, have passed since then. It started as a regional forum although we organised it then as members of the city administration. Today it has turned into a major venue where people can meet, talk about problems and exchange opinions.
First of all, I would like to thank the heads of international organisations, leaders of states, respected political figures and business representatives who responded to our invitation.
The St Petersburg Forum has traditionally served as a venue for discussing strategic issues. Such conversation is all the more important now that the world is undergoing a serious transformation, when deep changes are affecting practically all areas of life.
I would like to take this opportunity to share with you my assessments and thoughts, to tell you how we view Russia in a changing world. And I would like to start with the systemic problems that are besetting the global economy and practically all countries.
See also
Official website of St Petersburg International Economic Forum
True, after the 2008–2009 crisis, we managed to partially balance our financial accounts, limit but not overcome the debt increase problem and make cash flow more transparent and manageable.
However, the structural problems accumulated by the global economy still persist, and we have not yet put our economy on the growth trajectory.
Incidentally, current geopolitical tensions are related, to some extent, to economic uncertainty and the exhausting of the old sources of growth. There is a risk it may increase or even be artificially provoked. It is our common interest to find a creative and constructive way out of this situation.
The world’s leading economies are looking for sources of growth, and they are looking to capitalise on the enormous existing and growing potential of digital and industrial technologies, robotics, energy, biotechnology, medicine and other fields. Discoveries in these areas can lead to true technological revolutions, to an explosive growth of labour productivity. This is already happening and will happen inevitably; there is impending restructuring of entire industries, the devaluation of many facilities and assets. This will alter the demand for skills and competencies, and competition will escalate in both traditional and emerging markets.
In fact, even today we can see attempts to secure or even monopolise the benefits of next generation technologies. This, I think, is the motive behind the creation of restricted areas with regulatory barriers to reduce the cross-flow of breakthrough technologies to other regions of the world with fairly tight control over cooperation chains for maximum gain from technological advances. We have discussed this with our colleagues; some say it is possible. I think not. One can control the spread of certain technologies for a while, but in today's world it would be next to impossible to keep them in a contained area, even a large area. Yet, these efforts could lead to basic sciences, now open to sharing of knowledge and information through joint projects, getting closed too, with separation barriers coming up.
However, the scale of technological, economic problems and the objective situation we are in – their scale and nature suggest that we can develop effectively only together, by building cooperation. We believe that such cooperation can be effectively built as part of a flexible and open integration environment that encourages competition in scientific research, a variety of technological solutions that allow the participating countries to fully employ their competence and their potential. In 2011, with Belarus and Kazakhstan, and relying on the dense network of cooperative relationships we inherited from the Soviet Union, we formed a common customs space, and then upgraded it to the Eurasian Economic Union. The initiator of this project is here with us today, on this very panel. It is President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev.
We are deepening our integration gradually, and are removing obstacles to commerce and the movement of investment, technology and workforce. We are implementing an industrial and technological cooperation programme already, and are forming a common service market incrementally. Common energy, oil and gas and financial markets will emerge by 2025.
We are aware of the impressive prospects of cooperation between the EAEU and other countries and integration associations. Over 40 states and international organisations have expressed the desire to establish a free trade zone with the Eurasian Economic Union. Our partners and we think that the EAEU can become one of the centres of a greater emergent integration area. Among other benefits, we can address ambitious technological problems within its framework, promote technological progress and attract new members. We discussed this in Astana quite recently. Now we propose considering the prospects for more extensive Eurasian partnership involving the EAEU and countries with which we already have close partnership – China, India, Pakistan and Iran – and certainly our CIS partners, and other interested countries and associations.
To start, we might streamline and unify the regulation of departmental cooperation and investment, nontariff measures of technology and phytosanitary control, customs administration and protection of intellectual property. Further on, we should move gradually to the reduction and eventual abolition of tariff restrictions.
We might proceed from a network of bilateral and multilateral trade agreements that envisage a varying pace, extent and level of interaction and the extent of market openness, depending on specific national economies’ readiness for teamwork, with understandings on joint research, educational and high-tech projects. All these agreements should be future-oriented and provide the basis for harmonious joint development resting on equal and effective cooperation.
As early as June we, along with our Chinese colleagues, are planning to start official talks on the formation of comprehensive trade and economic partnership in Eurasia with the participation of the European Union states and China. I expect that this will become one of the first steps toward the formation of a major Eurasian partnership. We will certainly resume the discussion of this major project at the Eastern Economic Forum in Vladivostok in early September. Colleagues, I would like to take this opportunity to invite all of you to take part in it.
Friends, the project I have just mentioned – the “greater Eurasia” project – is, of course, open for Europe, and I am convinced that such cooperation may be mutually beneficial. Despite all of the well-known problems in our relations, the European Union remains Russia’s key trade and economic partner. It is our next-door neighbour and we are not indifferent to what is happening in the lives of our neighbours, European countries and the European economy.
The challenge of the technological revolution and structural changes are no less urgent for the EU than for Russia. I also understand our European partners when they talk about the complicated decisions for Europe that were made at the talks on the formation of the Trans-Atlantic partnership. Obviously, Europe has a vast potential and a stake on just one regional association clearly narrows its opportunities. Under the circumstances, it is difficult for Europe to maintain balance and preserve space for a gainful manoeuvre.
As the recent meetings with representatives of the German and French business circles have showed, European business is willing and ready to cooperate with this country. Politicians should meet businesses halfway by displaying wisdom, and a far-sighted and flexible approach. We must return trust to Russian-European relations and restore the level of our cooperation.
We remember how it all started. Russia did not initiate the current breakdown, disruption, problems and sanctions. All our actions have been exclusively reciprocal. But we don’t hold a grudge, as they say, and are ready to meet our European partners halfway. However, this can by no means be a one-way street.
Let me repeat that we are interested in Europeans joining the project for a major Eurasian partnership. In this context we welcome the initiative of the President of Kazakhstan on holding consultations between the Eurasian Economic Union and the EU. Yesterday we discussed this issue at the meeting with the President of the European Commission.
In addition, it would be possible to resume dialogue between experts at the technical level on a broad range of issues, such as trade, investment, technical regulation and customs administration. In this way we could create the groundwork for further cooperation and partnership.
Naturally, we consider it important to continue cooperation on major research projects, such as the ITER thermonuclear plant and the x-ray free electron laser, to name a few. Joint efforts will allow us to seriously increase the technological competitiveness of both Europe and Russia. It is enough to note that in 2015 Russia invested 1.2 billion Euros in high-tech joint projects with Europe.
Colleagues,
In formulating the strategy for Russia’s economic development, we certainly consider the current trends in the world and intend to make use of global technological changes, the formation of new markets and the opportunities of integration and cooperation to advance our own development.
Russia has managed to resolve the most urgent current problems in the economy. We hope growth will resume in the near future. We have maintained reserves and substantially reduced capital drain – by five times compared with the first quarter of 2016. Inflation is going down as well. It has fallen almost in half if we compare several months in 2014–2015 with the same period in 2015–2016. I believe that it is possible to bring inflation down to 4–5 percent as early as in the mid-term perspective.
In addition, it is necessary to gradually decrease the budget deficit and the dependence on revenues from hydrocarbons and other raw materials. This includes cutting our non-oil and gas deficit at least in half in the next 5 to 7 years.
I am sure that the Government and the Central Bank will continue their balanced and responsible efforts to ensure macroeconomic stability. Our goal is to achieve economic growth rates of no less than 4 percent a year. Yes, of course, I remember what we were saying in previous years. Today, we are talking about far more modest targets. The objectives are not as high as were outlined only a few years ago, but, to reiterate, the situation has changed not only for Russia but for the entire global economy. The current slowdown is a global trend.
A key factor that predetermines the overall competitiveness of the economy, market dynamics, GDP growth and higher wages is labour productivity. We need higher labour productivity at large and medium-sized enterprises: in industry, in the construction and the transport sectors and in agriculture – no less than 5 percent a year. This appears to be a challenging and even unattainable goal, if we look at what is happening here today. At the same time, the examples of numerous enterprises, as well as of entire manufacturing sectors, such as the aircraft industry, the chemical industry, pharmaceutics and agriculture, show that this goal is quite feasible and realistic.
We will develop legislation, tax regulators and technical standards to incentivise companies to raise labour productivity and introduce labour and energy saving technology. Enterprises that are ready and willing to achieve such goals should receive broad access to financial resources, including through development institution mechanisms such as Vnesheconombank and the Industry Development Fund.
With the growth of labour productivity, inefficient employment will inevitably shrink, which means we will need to substantially increase the labour market’s flexibility, to offer people new opportunities. We will be able to resolve this problem primarily by creating more jobs at small and medium-sized businesses. The number of people (what I am going to say is very important) employed at small and medium-sized businesses should grow from today's 18 million by at least 1.4 million by 2020 and by more than 3 million by 2025. It will be difficult to increase support for small and medium-sized businesses, and still harder to consistently build a niche for its operation. But it needs to be done.
We have already taken an important step toward that end, which has generated some initial results. For example, large companies co-owned by the government have tangibly increased their orders from small and medium-sized businesses. By the end of the year – and this is, I think, an achievement by the Government – large companies will place 1 trillion rubles worth of orders with small and medium-sized businesses, a nearly nine-fold increase on last year.
High-tech industries could provide another niche for small and medium-sized businesses. It is important to create favourable conditions for small companies, start-ups entering the market with breakthrough products. Finally, there is yet another significant niche – services, the development of consumer services, essentially creating a comfortable, supportive environment for people living in the cities and towns of Russia.
In July, the Federal Corporation for the Development of Small and Medium Enterprises will launch a free online service – the Business Navigator – containing information on promising areas for starting a business, by region, as well as which products and services are in demand and what financial and property support options are available there. The government has already started dedicated work to promote exports and has created the Russian export hub.
Still, we need to go further, building on the results achieved. We need to put together a support system for export-oriented companies, which would embrace the entire value chain from R&D and export financing to helping companies with certification, marketing, maintenance arrangements and generally gaining a foothold in foreign markets.
I should add that our import replacement programme is also aimed at manufacturing goods that are competitive on the global market. And in this sense, I would also like to stress that import replacement is an important stage for expanding exports in sectors other than raw materials and finding a place for our companies in global manufacturing and technological alliances – and not in secondary roles, but as strong and effective partners.
Friends, we will continue to further liberalise and improve the business climate. I know a great deal has been said about this at forum events today and yesterday. We will tackle systemic problems, of which we still have plenty. This includes improving transparency and balancing relations between government agencies and businesses. These relations should be built on understanding and mutual responsibility, meticulous observance and compliance with laws and respect for the interests of the state and society, and the unconditional value of the institution of private property.
It is essential to drastically reduce illegal criminal prosecutions. Furthermore, representatives of security and law enforcement agencies should be made personally liable for unjustified actions leading to the destruction of a business enterprise. I believe that this liability can be criminal.
I realise that this is a very sensitive issue. We cannot and should not bind our law enforcement agencies hand and foot. However, without a doubt, there is a need for balance here, for a firm barrier to any abuses of power. The leadership of the Prosecutor General’s Office, the Investigative Committee, the Interior Ministry and the Federal Security Service should continuously monitor the situation on the ground and, if necessary, take measures to improve legislation.
I ask the working group on law enforcement in entrepreneurial activity, which is headed by Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Sergei Ivanov, to focus on these issues as well. I should add that I have already submitted to parliament a package of draft laws prepared by the working group, designed to humanise the so-called economic statutes [of the Criminal Code]. That said, it is also important to guarantee businesses and all citizens the right to fair and impartial defence in court.
The Russian judicial community has done a good deal recently to improve the quality of the court system. The merging of the Supreme and the Higher Arbitration courts has played a positive role in ensuring the uniformity of law enforcement. I believe it is necessary to move further toward enhancing the responsibility of judges and making the judicial process more transparent.
A major role in creating a favourable business environment, without a doubt, belongs to Russian regions. I know that this was discussed at forum events in the morning, and the results of the annual national investment climate ratings were announced. I would like to join in congratulating the winners and remind you that these are Tatarstan and the Belgorod and Kaluga regions. I would also like to note the significant progress made by the Tula, Vladimir, Tyumen, Kirov, Lipetsk and Orel regions, and the city of Moscow.
What stands out here? Judging by the results, a core group of leaders has already emerged, who are invariably at the top of rankings. The natural question is: Where are the others? I ask the Government, in conjunction with business communities, to consider additional mechanisms to reward the best regional administrative teams. On the other hand, we will take serious measures, including dismissals, with regard to regional leaders who do not understand that business support is a major resource for regional and national development. I would like my colleagues in the regions, above all, regional leaders to hear me. We will seriously analyse what is happening in this sphere in each Russian region and discuss the issue in depth in the autumn.
Ladies and gentlemen, I have already talked about Russia’s participation in cooperative scientific research projects, in particular with European countries. It is essential to add that we have a core advantages in physics, mathematics and chemistry. As you know, recently we honoured scientists who won the National Award, who have made brilliant breakthroughs in biology, genetics and medicine. Russian microbiologists have developed, for example, an effective vaccine against Ebola. National companies are going to bring an entire line of unmanned vehicles to the market and are working on energy distribution and storage, and digital sea navigation systems. We have practically put in place a technological development management system. What does this entail and what would I like to say in this context?
First. The recently formed Technology Development Agency will help apply current research to real manufacturing and set up joint ventures with foreign partners.
Second. Another mechanism will be in use starting in 2019. Major manufacturers will be made legally bound to use the most advanced technologies meeting the highest environmental standards. Hopefully, this will give a serious boost to industrial modernisation. Many neighbouring countries introduced such requirements long ago. We have had to put off these changes due to problems in the real economic sectors, but we can’t keep postponing it any more. Our business colleagues know this and must be prepared.
And finally, third. The National Technology Initiative covers projects of the future based on technologies that will create fundamentally new markets in a decade or two. I would like to ask the Government to promptly remove administrative, legislative and other obstacles blocking the development of future markets. It is essential to back up technological development with financial resources. Therefore, the key task facing the overhauled Vnesheconombank will be to support long-term projects, attractive projects in this high-tech sector.
We clearly understand that it is people who create and use technologies. Talented researchers, qualified engineers and workers play a crucial role in making the national economy competitive. Therefore education is something we should pay particular attention to in the next few years.
We are witnessing revived interest on the part of young people in engineering and natural sciences. Russia already holds a leading position in the world in the number of students training to become engineers. Professional training standards in engineering are improving. Universities and colleges are consolidating ties with the real economy, both state and private sectors, and the demand for future professionals is therefore growing.
We have to continue to upgrade the material resources of universities and colleges, improve teachers’ qualifications, work to improve university and college curricula in line with modern updated professional standards and use the expertise we received when working with the WorldSkills international movement.
Beginning with school and extracurricular programmes, we create conditions to enable children throughout the country to work on technical and scientific projects, learning to work creatively in a team from childhood. These skills are essential to a modern specialist in practically any sphere.
Colleagues, obviously the issues that we are facing call for new approaches toward development management, and here we are determined to make active use of the project principle. A presidential council for strategic development and priority projects will be created in the near future. It will be headed by your humble servant, while the council presidium will be led by Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev.
The council will deal with key projects aimed at effecting structural changes in the economy and the social sphere, and increasing growth rates. I have spoken about some of these projects today: raising labour productivity, the business climate, support for small and medium-sized business, and export support, among others.
These projects are comprehensive. They span various economic sectors and social spheres, go far beyond the competence of one agency and require the active participation of regions and municipalities. At the same time a project related segment will be singled out in socially oriented state programmes, such as healthcare, education and housing, with clearly designated targets that we plan to achieve by 2020 and by 2025, and what measures need to be taken to achieve these results.
By the middle of the next decade the world will obviously be a different place. To overlook, to ignore on-going processes means to fall by the wayside of development. To maintain leadership positions [we] should work to make these changes happen.
This is the 20th time St Petersburg welcomes the forum guests. During these years Russia has made great progress, showing its ability to meet the challenges of the times and in certain respect remain ahead of the curve, while preserving its identity and spiritual roots, which I consider to be extremely important. We are confidently looking ahead, linking our future and our success to [our] openness to the world and wide-ranging cooperation in the interest of development.
Dear colleagues, friends, ladies and gentlemen, I am sure that you share this approach, and we certainly appreciate this and invite you to work together with us.
Thank you.
<…>
Plenary session moderator, CNN host Fareed Zakaria: Thank you to all three of you: two presidents, one prime minister, though in Italy, you are allowed to say ”President Renzi“ also. By the format we have agreed upon, what I will do is we will begin this discussion first with our host president, President Putin, and then I will widen that conversation to include Prime Minister Renzi and President Nazarbayev. We started a little bit late, so we will go a little bit longer.
President Putin, let me ask you a very simple question. Since 2014, you have had European Union sanctions and US sanctions against Russia. NATO has announced just this week that it is going to build up forces in states that border Russia. Russia has announced its own buildup. Are we settling into a low-grade, lower-level cold war between the West and Russia?
Vladimir Putin: I do not want to believe that we are moving towards another Cold War, and I am sure nobody wants this. We certainly do not. There is no need for this. The main logic behind international relations development is that no matter how dramatic it might seem, it is not the logic of global confrontation. What is the root of the problem?
I will tell you. I will have to take you back in time. After the collapse of the Soviet Union, we expected overall prosperity and overall trust. Unfortunately, Russia had to face numerous challenges, speaking in modern terms: economic, social and domestic policy. We came up against separatism, radicalism, aggression of international terror, because undoubtedly we were fighting against Al Qaeda militants in the Caucasus, it is an obvious fact, and there can be no second thoughts about it. But instead of support from our partners in our struggle with these problems, we sadly came across something different – support for the separatists. We were told, “We do not accept your separatists at the top political level, only at the technological.”
Very well. We appreciate it. But we also saw information support, financial support and administrative backup.
Later, after we tackled those problems, went through serious hardships, we came to face another thing. The Soviet Union was no more; the Warsaw Pact had ceased to exist. But for some reason, NATO continues to expand its infrastructure towards Russia’s borders. It started long before yesterday. Montenegro is becoming a [NATO] member. Who is threatening Montenegro? You see, our position is being totally ignored.
Another, equally important, or perhaps, the most important issue is the unilateral withdrawal [of the US] from the ABM Treaty. The ABM Treaty was once concluded between the Soviet Union and the United States for a good reason. Two regions were allowed to stay – Moscow and the site of US ICBM silos.
The treaty was designed to provide a strategic balance in the world. However, they unilaterally quit the treaty, saying in a friendly manner, “This is not aimed against you. You want to develop your offensive arms, and we assume it is not aimed against us.”
You know why they said so? It is simple: nobody expected Russia in the early 2000s, when it was struggling with its domestic problems, torn apart by internal conflicts, political and economic problems, tortured by terrorists, to restore its defence sector. Clearly, nobody expected us to be able to maintain our arsenals, let alone have new strategic weapons. They thought they would build up their missile defence forces unilaterally while our arsenals would be shrinking.
All of this was done under the pretext of combatting the Iranian nuclear threat. What has become of the Iranian nuclear threat now? There is none, but the project continues. This is the way it is, step by step, one after another, and so on.
Then they began to support all kinds of colour revolutions, including the so-called Arab Spring. They fervently supported it. How many positive takes did we hear on what was going on? What did it lead to? Chaos.
I am not interested in laying blame now. I simply want to say that if this policy of unilateral actions continues and if steps in the international arena that are very sensitive to the international community are not coordinated then such consequences are inevitable. Conversely, if we listen to one another and seek out a balance of interests, this will not happen. Yes, it is a difficult process, the process of reaching agreement, but it is the only path to acceptable solutions.
I believe that if we ensure such cooperation, there will be no talk of a cold war. After all, since the Arab Spring, they have already approached our borders. Why did they have to support the coup in Ukraine? I have often spoken about this. The internal political situation there is complicated and the opposition that is in power now would most likely have come to power democratically, through elections. That’s it. We would have worked with them as we had with the government that was in power before President Yanukovych.
But no, they had to proceed with a coup, casualties, unleash bloodshed, a civil war, and scare the Russian-speaking population of southeastern Ukraine and Crimea. All for the sake of what? And after we had to, simply had to take measures to protect certain social groups, they began to escalate the situation, ratcheting up tensions. In my opinion, this is being done, among other things, to justify the existence of the North Atlantic bloc. They need an external adversary, an external enemy – otherwise why is this organisation necessary in the first place? There is no Warsaw Pact, no Soviet Union –who is it directed against?
If we continue to act according to this logic, escalating [tensions] and redoubling efforts to scare each other, then one day it will come to a cold war. Our logic is totally different. It is focused on cooperation and the search for compromise. (Applause.)
Fareed Zakaria: So let me ask you, Mr President, then what is the way out? Because I saw an interview of yours that you did with Die Welt, the German newspaper, in which you said, the key problem is that the Minsk Accords have not been implemented by the Government in Ukraine, by Kiev, the constitutional reforms. They say on the other side that in Eastern Ukraine, the violence has not come down, and the separatists are not restraining themselves, and they believe Russia should help. So since neither side seems to back down, will the sanctions just continue, will this low-grade cold war just continue? What is the way out?
Vladimir Putin: And it is all about people, no matter what you call them. It is about people trying to protect their legal rights and interests, who fear repression if these interests are not upheld at the political level.
If we look at the Minsk agreements, there are only a few points, and we discussed them all through the night. What was the bone of contention? What aspect is of primary importance? And we agreed ultimately that political solutions that ensure the security of people living in Donbass were the priority.
What are these political solutions? They are laid down in detail in the agreements. Constitutional amendments that had to be adopted by the end of 2015. But where are they? They are nowhere to be seen. The law on a special status of these territories, which we call “unrecognized republics”, should have been put into practice. The law has been passed by the country’s parliament but still hasn’t come into effect. There should have been an amnesty law. It was passed by the Ukrainian parliament but was never signed by the president, it has no effect.
What kind of elections are we talking about? What sort of election process can be organised during an anti-terrorist operation? Do any countries do that? We do not talk about it, but does any other country hold election campaigns when an anti-terrorist operation is taking place on its territory?
They [elections] have to be cancelled and our work should focus on economic and humanitarian restoration. Nothing is being done, nothing at all. Postponing these problems over on-going violence on the frontlines is just an excuse. What is happening in reality is that both sides are accusing each other of opening fire. Why do you think it is separatists who are shooting? If you ask them, they say, “It is Ukrainian government forces, the Ukrainian army.”
One side opens fire, the other side responds – that’s what exchanging fire means. Do you think this is a good enough reason to delay political reforms? On the contrary, political reforms that will constitute the foundation of a final settlement on security are a pressing priority.
Some things have to be done in parallel. I agree with Mr Poroshenko that the OSCE mission has to be reinforced to the point of authorizing OSCE observers to carry firearms. Other things can be done to improve security. But we cannot afford to continue putting off key political decision by citing the lack of security in the area. That’s it. (Applause.)
Fareed Zakaria: There are so many areas to cover with you, Mr President, so let me go to the Middle East, where Russia has had a forceful intervention to bolster the Assad regime. President Assad now says that his goal is to take back every square inch of his territory. Do you believe that the solution in Syria is that the Assad regime should take back and govern every square inch of Syria?
Vladimir Putin: I think that the problems of Syria, of course, concern primarily the anti-terrorist struggle, but there is more to it. It goes without saying that the Syrian conflict is rooted in contradictions within Syrian society, and President Bashar al-Assad understands this very well. The task is not just to expand control over various territories, although this is very important. The point is to ensure the confidence of the entire society and trust between different parts of this society, and to establish on this foundation a modern and efficient government that will be trusted by the country’s entire population. And political negotiations are the only road to this. We have urged this more than once. President al-Assad also spoke about this – he accepts this process.
What needs to be done today? It is necessary to join more actively the process of forming the new Constitution and to conduct, on this basis, future elections, both presidential and parliamentary. When President al-Assad was in Moscow, we spoke about this with him and he fully agreed with this. Moreover, it is extremely important to conduct the elections under strict international control, with the participation of the United Nations. Yesterday we discussed this issue in detail with Mr de Mistura and the UN Secretary-General. They all agree with this, but we need action. We hope very much that our partners, primarily from the United States, will work with their allies that support the opposition to encourage constructive cooperation with the Syrian authorities.
What do we mean by this? In general, when I ask my colleagues: “Why are you doing this?” they reply: “To assert the principles of democracy. President al-Assad’s regime is not democratic and the triumph of democracy must be ensured.” Fine. “Is democracy everywhere there?” “No, not yet but democracy should exist in Syria.” “Ok. And how do you make society democratic? Is it only possible to achieve this by force of arms or simply by force?” “No, this may be done only with the help of democratic institutions and procedures.” And what are they all about? There is no more democratic way of forming a government than elections on the basis of fundamental law: a Constitution that is formulated in a clear way, that is transparent and accepted by the overwhelming majority of society. Pass the Constitution and hold elections on its basis. What’s bad about this, especially if they are held under international control?
Occasionally we hear that some countries of the region do not fully understand what democracy is. Do we want to replace one undemocratic regime with another undemocratic one? And if we still want to promote the principle of democracy let’s do this by democratic means. But considering this is a complicated process and results will not come tomorrow or the day after tomorrow but will require time, while we still need to do something today, I agree with the proposals of our partners, primarily our American partners that suggest (I don’t know, maybe I’m saying too much although, on the other hand, this US proposal is known in the region, and the negotiators of both sides – the government and the opposition – are familiar with it and I consider it absolutely acceptable), they suggested considering the possibility of bringing representatives of the opposition into existing power structures, for instance, the Government. It is necessary to think about what powers this Government will have.
However, it is important not to go too far. It is necessary to proceed from the current realities and to refrain from declaring unfeasible, unrealistic goals. Many of our partners are saying that Assad should go. Today they are saying no, let’s restructure governing institutions in such and such a way, but in practical terms it will also mean his departure. But this is also unrealistic. Therefore, it is necessary to act carefully, step by step, gradually winning the confidence of all sides to the conflict.
If this happens, and I think this will happen in any event and the sooner the better, it will be possible to go further and speak both about subsequent elections and a final settlement. The main point is to prevent the country’s collapse. And if things continue to go as they are today, collapse will become inevitable. And this is the worst-case scenario because we cannot assume that after the country’s collapse some quasi-state formations will co-exist in peace and harmony. No, this will be a destabilising factor for the region and the rest of the world.
Fareed Zakaria: Let me ask you, Mr President, about another democracy that is having a very different kind of drama. You made some comments about the American Republican presumptive nominee, Donald Trump. You called him brilliant, outstanding, talented. These comments were reported around the world. I was wondering, what in him led you to that judgement, and do you still hold that judgement?
Vladimir Putin: You are well known in our country, you personally. Not only as a host of a major TV corporation, but also as an intellectual. Why are you distorting everything? The journalist in you is getting the better of the analyst. Look, what did I say? I said in passing that Trump is a vivid personality. Is he not? He is. I did not ascribe any other characteristics to him. However, what I definitely note and what I definitely welcome – and I see nothing wrong about this, just the opposite – is that Mr Trump said that he is ready for the full-scale restoration of Russian-US relations. What is wrong with that? We all welcome this! Don’t you?
We never interfere in the internal politics of other countries, especially the United States. However, we will work with any president that the US people vote for. Although I do not think, by the way, that… Well, they lecture everyone on how to live and on democracy. Now, do you really think presidential elections there are democratic? Look, twice in US history a president was elected by a majority of electors, but standing behind those electors was a smaller number of voters. Is that democracy? And when (sometimes we have debates with our colleagues; we never accuse anyone of anything, we simply have debates) we are told: “Do not meddle in our affairs. Mind your own business. This is how we do things,” we feel like saying: “Well then, do not meddle in our affairs. Why do you? Put your own house in order first.”
But, to reiterate, indeed, this is none of our business although, in my opinion, even prosecutors there chase international observers away from polling stations during election campaigns. US prosecutors threaten to jail them. However, these are their own problems; this is how they do things and they like it. America is a great power, today perhaps the only superpower. We accept this. We want to work with the United States and we are prepared to. No matter how these elections go, eventually they will take place. There will be a [new] head of state with extensive powers. There are complicated internal political and economic processes at work in the United States. The world needs a powerful country like the United States, and we also need it. But we do not need it to continuously interfere in our affairs, telling us how to live, and preventing Europe from building a relationship with us.
How are the sanctions that you have mentioned affecting the United States? In no way whatsoever. It could not care less about these sanctions because the consequences of our actions in response have no impact on it. They impact Europe but not the United States. Zero effect. However, the Americans are telling their partners: “Be patient.” Why should they? I do not understand. If they want to, let them.
Matteo, why should they be patient? Now Matteo will explain why they should. He is a brilliant orator, we’re seeing it now. His remarks were excellent. I am saying this sincerely, honestly. Italy can be proud of its Prime Minister, really. Just beautiful.
We do not lavish praise on anybody. It’s none of our business. As Germans say, “this is not our beer.” Because when they make their choice, we will work with any president who has received the support of the American people, in the hope that it will be a person who seeks to develop relations with our country and help build a more secure world.
Fareed Zakaria: Just to be clear, Mr President, the word ”brilliant“ was in the Interfax translation, I realize that other translations might say ”bright,“ but I used the official Interfax translation. But let me ask you about another person you have dealt with a great deal. Mr Trump, you've never met. Hillary Clinton was Secretary of State. In your very long questions and answers with the Russian people, you made a joke when somebody asked you about her – you said, I think that the Russia idiom is, the husband and wife is the same devil. And what it means in the English version is, it's two sides of the same coin. What did you mean by that, and how did she do as Secretary of State? You dealt with her extensively.
Vladimir Putin: I did not work with her, Lavrov did. Ask him. He is sitting here.
I was not a foreign minister, but Sergei Lavrov was. He will soon tie [Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei] Gromyko. (Addressing Sergei Lavrov.) How long have you been in office?
I worked with Bill Clinton, although for a very short time, and we had a very good relationship. I can even say that I am grateful to him for certain moments as I was entering the big stage in politics. On several occasions, he showed signs of attention, respect for me personally, as well as for Russia. I remember this and I am grateful to him.
About Ms Clinton. Perhaps she has her own view on the development of Russian-US relations. You know, there is something I would like to draw [your] attention to, which has nothing to do with Russian-US relations or with national politics. It is related, rather, to personnel policy.
In my experience, I have often seen what happens with people before they take on a certain job and afterward. Often, you cannot recognise them, because once they reach a new level of responsibility they begin to talk and think differently, they even look different. We act on the assumption that the sense of responsibility of the US head of state, the head of the country on which a great deal in the world depends today, that this sense of responsibility will encourage the newly elected president to cooperate with Russia and, I would like to repeat, build a more secure world.
Fareed Zakaria: President Putin, let me finally ask you one question about news reports about Russian athletes. There are now two major investigations that have shown that Russian athletes have engaged in doping on a massive scale, and that there has been a systematic evasion and doctoring of testing and lab samples. And I was just wondering what you reaction to these reports is.
Vladimir Putin: I did not understand what kind of programme it is – to tamper with the samples that were collected for tests? If samples are collected they are immediately transferred to international organisations for storage and we have nothing to do with them. Samples are collected and taken somewhere, to Lausanne or wherever, I do not know where, but they are not on Russian territory. They can be opened, re-checked, and this is what specialists are doing now.
Doping is not only a Russian problem. It is a problem of the entire sports world. If somebody tries to politicise something in this sphere, I think this is a big mistake, because just like culture, for example, sport cannot be politicised. These are the bridges that bring people, nations and states closer together. This is the way to approach it, not try to forge some anti-Russian or anti-whatever policy on this basis.
As for the Russian authorities, I can assure you, we are categorically against all doping for several reasons. First, as a former amateur athlete, I can tell you, and I think that the overwhelming majority of people will agree with this: if we know there is doping, it’s not interesting to watch the event; millions of fans lose interest in the sport.
Second, no less important, and maybe even most important, there is the health of the athletes themselves. You can’t justify anything that damages health. This is why we have combated and will continue to combat doping in sport on the national level.
Furthermore, as far as I know, the Prosecutor General’s Office and the Investigative Committee have been closely looking into all facts reported in the media, among others. Simply, this must not be turned into a campaign, especially a campaign disparaging sport, including Russian sport.
Next, the third point I would like to make. There is a legal concept that says responsibility can only be individual. Collective responsibility cannot be imposed on all athletes or athletes of a certain sports federation if certain individuals have been caught doping. An entire team cannot be held responsible for those who have committed this violation. I believe that this is an absolutely natural, correct approach.
However, doping is not the only problem today. There are plenty of problems in sport. Euro 2016 is underway. I believe that less attention is being paid to football than to brawling between fans. This is very sad and I regret this, but here too we should always proceed from some general criteria. To reiterate, responsibility for misconduct should be individualised as much as possible and the approach toward perpetrators should be the same.
Euro 2016 began with a high-profile case: a fight between Russian and British fans. This is absolutely outrageous. Granted, I do not know how 200 Russian fans were able to pummel several thousand Britons. I do not understand. But in any case, law enforcement agencies should take the same approach toward all perpetrators.
This is the way we have organised this work and will continue to combat doping and enforce discipline among fans. We will work with these fan associations. I very much hope that there are plenty of intelligent, sensible people among the fans, who really love sport and who understand that violations do nothing to support their team but, on the contrary, cause damage to the team and to sport. However, a great deal has yet to be done here, including in conjunction with our [foreign] colleagues.
I would like to stress that there has been absolutely no support and can be absolutely no support for violations in sport, let alone doping violations, at the state level. We have worked and will continue to work with all international organisations in this sphere. 
<…>
Fareed Zakaria: Well, we've had a very wide-ranging discussion, and there have been points of disagreement, and then points of profound agreement, such as on the quality of Kazakh-qualified women to rule the world. President Putin, I was wondering if you may have some closing thoughts that you could give us and then we will wrap up the session.
Vladimir Putin: First of all, I would like to thank all those who came to St Petersburg.
I would like to thank our moderator. I think we have had a very lively discussion. We agree on some points and disagree on others but there are still more things that unite us – this is absolutely clear.
Our Italian friend scared me a bit toward the end by saying that unless it changes, Europe will be no more. This sounds alarming, but to be honest, I don’t think it’s the case – after all, Europe is Europe. The foundations of its economy don’t give us reason to believe that Europe will come to an end at any point, no matter what internal processes are playing out. It is our leading trade and economic partner. It is clear that European leaders want to gain some momentum, just like we in Russia certainly want to do the same. In my speech I described how we are going to achieve this.
You know, it is so symptomatic that today we have here the leader of a European country (and one that is developing fairly rapidly) – Italy, and the leader of Kazakhstan – our closest partner and ally with which we are building an integration association. Today we have gathered everyone together. This is symptomatic because we must focus our attention on joining forces for the sake of development if we want to achieve it.
For its part, Russia will do everything to follow this very road, actively developing at home and remaining open to cooperation with all of our partners.
Many thanks to all of you and best of luck.
Geography
Saint Petersburg
Topics
Economy and finance
Persons
Nazarbayev Nursultan
Renzi Matteo
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 17, 2016, 16:20
Text version