Events
Meeting with Customs Service Head Vladimir Bulavin
Vladimir Putin met with Federal Customs Service Head Vladimir Bulavin on Customs Officer’s Day. The President congratulated customs officers on their professional holiday and the 25th anniversary of the service.
October 25, 2016
14:20
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
2 of 3
With Federal Customs Service Head Vladimir Bulavin.
The Federal Customs Service Head updated the President on the Service’s performance in January through September and the planned improvements of customs procedures.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Bulavin, first I would like to congratulate the Federal Customs Service personnel on the 25th anniversary of the service and to wish them successful careers, happiness and health.
Your personnel have complicated and responsible tasks that are connected with proper organisation of foreign economic activities, which is very important in a market economy, as well as with budget performance.
The Customs Service has been working very effectively, fulfilling all the plans and tasks set before it. I hope it will continue in the same spirit.
Let us talk about your basic results and plans for this year.
Federal Customs Service Head Vladimir Bulavin
: Mr President, thank you for congratulating us.
While preparing for our professional holiday – Customs Officer’s Day – and the 25th anniversary of the Customs Service, we summed up the results of the customs agencies’ performance in the first nine months of the year.
We have achieved all the planned targets and have transferred 3.156 trillion rubles to the budget, which is 3 percent more than the Finance Ministry stipulated.
I have to say that this is the first time that import revenues exceed export revenues by 52 percent. Considering changes in the specific volume characteristics of imports, this could point to the overall effectiveness of the customs agencies’ performance.
Our immediate task is to achieve the planned targets for the transfer of customs payments to the federal budget, assist foreign trade, improve the business and investment climate and create comfortable customs conditions for foreign economic operators.
We believe that our customs agencies must be rapid in terms of service speed, smart – to use digital systems, have access the necessary information resources and efficient in terms of replenishing the federal budget. Taken together, this should win it respect among foreign economic operators and the nation as a whole.
The further development of our customs agencies is directly connected with the progress of telecommunications and information systems. I am proud to say that we have made considerable headway in this area.
Foreign economic operators submit their customs declarations online, with the exception of a small share of declarations that are submitted on paper in accordance with special Government regulations.
Absolutely all foreign economic operators submit their customs declarations online. They can do this right from their offices by using a new information resource called Foreign Economic Operator’s Personal Account.
In addition, we have introduced a system of prior notification of imports delivered by road or rail, which has reduced the duration of customs procedures considerably: to two hours at railway border crossing points and to 18 minutes on automobile border crossing points.
We are also experimenting with automated customs declarations registering and clearance. Every third export declaration is recorded in automatic mode. This has significantly reduced import customs processing times.
Over the past few years, since 2013, we have seen a 30-fold reduction, and now all import customs formalities take about an hour and 35 minutes. Export clearance times have been reduced 5-fold, to an average of 47 minutes.
Following your instructions, this year we started working with the Federal Tax Service, under the coordination of the Finance Ministry, to organise a single system to administer tax and customs duties.
This process involves the integration of our information resources and claims management systems, coordination in the categorisation of areas of entrepreneurial activity, the introduction of product tracing mechanisms and top-to-bottom monitoring, as well as joint and coordinated inspections, especially with regard to monitoring after goods have been cleared.
We already have the first results of our joint inspections. As many as 514 inspections have been conducted, which led to additional fees totaling 1.5 billion rubles. According to the Federal Customs Service, the tax authorities have also imposed additional charges that added up to more than 1.9 billion rubles.
Vladimir Putin: Are you saying that merging the Customs and Tax Service is justified and yielding results?
Vladimir Bulavin: It is justified, with the coordinating role of the Ministry of Finance, and even now, there are very tangible results. We intend to further increase our cooperation.
I would like to note that we are interacting not only at the level of our central departments, but also at the district office level, and most importantly, at the regional level. At this point we are cooperating at every level.
Vladimir Putin: Good.
<…>
Topics
Budget
Customs
Persons
Bulavin Vladimir
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 25, 2016, 14:20
Text versionEvents
Working meeting with Dmitry Medvedev
Vladimir Putin held a working meeting with Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev. The discussion focused on the Government’s work on the draft federal budget for 2017 and the planning period of 2018–2019.
October 25, 2016
12:35
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
With Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Medvedev
, the Government has put a lot of effort into drafting the budget. I believe that even those who know little about the budget process can see how challenging this was in the current situation. But work on the budget is nearing completion. What parameters have you coordinated?
Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev
: Mr President, I can tell you that the Government has finished working on the budget and will submit it to the State Duma this week. As the Government reported to you, the draft is based on conservative estimates, which appears to be a wise decision in the current socioeconomic situation.
This means, first, that the budget is based on oil prices of $40 per barrel, even though they are higher now, but we have opted for a lower price to be able to honour our social obligations.
Second, the budget envisages financing for all social projects of a normative nature. Not a single social obligation has been cancelled or reduced. On the contrary, we have indexed some of them both for 2017 and for the planning period of 2018–2019.
We plan revenues at 13.5 trillion rubles and expenditures at 16 trillion. It is a deficit budget.
Vladimir Putin: It is not a big deficit.
Dmitry Medvedev: Yes, we plan the deficit at some 3 percent [of GDP]. Therefore, the parameters we have discussed with you will not be affected.
In addition to the draft budget, we are submitting the main points of the customs, tax and fiscal policies and – as agreed – our projections for the social and economic development for 2017, 2018 and 2019.
Vladimir Putin: We know that those projections have caused debates between the Finance Ministry and the Economic Development Ministry. It is also important to take into account the Central Bank’s position. As I understand, the colleagues have finally reached an agreement.
Dmitry Medvedev: Yes, indeed, there were debates, but ultimately they did agree on a common position on the key macroeconomic parameters, including the inflation forecast. As you know, inflation has slowed down significantly in recent years, and is even lower than expected this year.
Next year, we assume (a common, consolidated projection of the Finance and Economic Development ministries, and the Central Bank) a 4 percent price rise, or inflation. We will continue working to keep inflation down to this rate, and to further decrease the budget deficit by an average one percentage point per year.
Vladimir Putin: As we agreed, the 2017 spending will include funds for a one-time indexing – well, not indexing, exactly, but a payment of 5,000 rubles for pensioners in all categories – and resources for indexation to compensate for this year’s real inflation.
Dmitry Medvedev: Exactly. We have allocated over 220 billion rubles for a one-time payment to all pensioners, both employed and non-employed, as well as funds for the indexation based on the 2016 results, which will be done at the beginning of 2017. So we are back to the indexation level we originally planned, which is at the rate of inflation.
Vladimir Putin: What about other social expenses? Were they included as planned, as requested by ministries and agencies?
Dmitry Medvedev: Yes. All the social expenses, all the expenses related to payments, compensations, pensions – all the social expenditure in its entirety has been planned to the extent required. They will not be reduced and will remain at the target level. All our social obligations under the law will be funded in full through 2019.
It was not an easy task. Thank you for your high assessment of our hard work. We have managed to get back to more stable figures, which is very important for the state’s commitments.
Vladimir Putin: Now we are entering another stage, which is just as difficult. This stage involves discussing the budget with the State Duma. These discussions always reveal new ideas and requirements.
You will have to work carefully with the parliament members in order to preserve the balance of the macroeconomic indicators. And, of course, you will need to listen to the suggestions and recommendations of the parliament.
Dmitry Medvedev: The Government will, by all means, have an open discussion with all the parliamentary parties in the State Duma. We are ready to review the budgetary framework based on the assumptions that you have just mentioned to maintain the balance of the main budget indicators.
At the same time, in all likelihood, during the first and second readings, the budget will be subject to some adjustments, as it always happens.
After the review, the budget will be presented to the President for signing.
Vladimir Putin: Good.
<…>
Topics
Budget
Persons
Medvedev Dmitry
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 25, 2016, 12:35
Text version