Events
Meeting on developing online trade
Vladimir Putin held a meeting on developing online trade in Russia.
November 2, 2016
17:15
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
Meeting on developing online trade.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues,
I propose discussing development of online trade today. This is one of the fastest-growing economic sectors; it has a big impact on the effectiveness and profitability of a business, and opens up new opportunities for people to obtain the necessary goods and services quickly and conveniently.
In Russia and all around the world, online trade is a fast-growing sector. Experts assessed its worth at 760 billion rubles in 2015 and they predict that this figure will increase to around 850 billion rubles this year.
However, this rapid growth of online trade has its issues as well. Laws and regulations do not always keep up with the rapid pace of change in the sector, and Russian and foreign players in this sector often end up in unequal conditions.
Our position is that there should be a level playing field for all players on this market. This applies to Russian businesses and to our foreign partners. Our foreign colleagues should rest assured that they will always benefit from conditions that are as good as those that Russian businesses enjoy. However, Russian businesses should not be in a worse position than their foreign colleagues. This is something we need to reflect on.
I think it important for Russia to have its own strong and influential online trading platforms. This would also help us to promote Russian goods and services more effectively not only at home but on markets abroad as well.
We have addressed this subject before and we discussed it in spring and in the summer. I know the Government is working actively on this issue and is drafting a package of measures to improve the online trade environment in Russia. Let us discuss these matters now.
<…>
Topics
Economy and finance
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 2, 2016, 17:15
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Mikhail Fradkov and Sergei Chemezov
Vladimir Putin met with Mikhail Fradkov and Rostec State Corporation CEO Sergei Chemezov.
November 2, 2016
20:40
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
3 of 3
Meeting with Mikhail Fradkov, left, and Sergei Chemezov.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: (addressing Mikhail Fradkov) We agreed that you will head the Supervisory Council at Russian Railways but Mr Chemezov came to you with a request, and he also contacted me about using your services at Almaz-Antey, as this is a defence enterprise, and your experience as prime minister and head of foreign intelligence would be quite appropriate.
I am ready to consider this. I would like to once again hear your arguments and your positions.
Rostec State Corporation CEO Sergei Chemezov
: Mr President, I believe that Mr Fradkov’s expertise from his previous positions will be quite useful at our Almaz-Antey concern, especially since they have a number of classified design projects there. Mr Fradkov is quite familiar with that. And the information he possesses, I think, will be helpful for him.
Mikhail Fradkov
: Mr President, I think it is a tempting offer, it is interesting and suits me, that is, you came to the right person.
After working in the positions you assigned me to earlier, I feel familiar with the subject, it is to my liking. I believe the subject matter is important and worthwhile in all respects.
Vladimir Putin: So you are more interested in that.
Mikhail Fradkov: I am.
Sergei Chemezov: And it will make things easier for me, as my workload is too high.
Vladimir Putin: All right.
Then I have one more request for you. You know about it, we discussed it. I would like to ask you to head the Russian Institute for Strategic Studies.
Mikhail Fradkov: Mr President, thank you very much. It is a very interesting offer. This is like a package deal – strategic research, and military industrial matters.
Vladimir Putin: To ensure that the findings of the Institute lay the foundation for government agencies in their activities and are communicated to the media and the public.
Mikhail Fradkov: Thank you. I shall do my best.
<…>
See also
Mikhail Fradkov appointed Director of Russian Institute for Strategic Studies
November 2, 2016
Topics
Industry
Science and innovation
Persons
Chemezov Sergei
Fradkov Mikhail
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 2, 2016, 20:40
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Head of the Federal Service for Financial Monitoring Yury Chikhanchin
Vladimir Putin had a meeting with Head of the Federal Service for Financial Monitoring Yury Chikhanchin.
November 2, 2016
20:20
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Chikhanchin, we marked the 15th anniversary of the Financial Monitoring Service yesterday. I would like to congratulate all the employees. However, we agreed that you would tell me about the results of the service’s activities in greater detail.
Head of the Federal ServiceforFinancial Monitoring Yury Chikhanchin
: Thank you very much, Mr President, for your congratulations. Indeed, we had a staff gathering yesterday and watched your video address. It was a gift and an assessment of our work.
Looking back, 15 years ago we probably never expected to achieve such results. You remember that our country was blacklisted back then; there were two attempts to pass the law, but first it failed in the Federation Council and later it was vetoed by the President. Some international contracts were terminated, we were not allowed to carry out transactions, some officials were even arrested at the time. What I mean to say is that we managed to fix everything.
Vladimir Putin: These are very revealing numbers – as of June 15, 2006, organised crime controlled 50 percent of private business, 60 percent of government-owned enterprises and 80 percent of the banks.
Yury Chikhanchin: That was taken from a report by the international community, when we were being blacklisted. Yes, indeed, things were really like that.
Today, of course, we have corrected the situation. Today we have met the standards required by the FATF [Financial Task Force on Money Laundering]. We are now active members of all international organisations dealing with preventing money laundering and funding terrorism.
We were able to assist our neighbours from the Eurasian group, the Central Asian nations, to set up similar systems. In fact, we have created a financial security belt.
We have been actively working on drugs, our requirements have been noted at the UN venue, we are working on ISIS, we have set up an anti-ISIS group, these are international activities.
We have achieved much in raising the financial literacy of the population. I can say that about 10,000 people engaged in banking and law enforcement have been trained in Russia. We also teach foreigners even from such remote countries as Peru, Afghanistan, Argentina and Mongolia.
We have established a networking institute uniting over 20 colleges both in Russia and abroad, where we have our chairs and teach students. At present, we have 200 foreign nationals studying with us.
We participate in different inter-agency commissions that have begun to operate, there over 30 of them. These are governmental commissions that allow us to apply the legislation and achieve real results.
If we look at the dynamics, the number of financial institutions in the country has decreased since 2000, which testifies to compliance with the law, and the volume of data provided has increased. This also is a result of compliance with the law, which we managed to achieve.
Currently, to improve the quality of our work with financial organisations, we have set up the so-called “personal office” which shows how law-abiding an enterprise is according to certain indicators, around two dozen of them. We have resolved several issues. Firstly, we have established information exchange with them, and secondly, the key thing is that we have formed a system of anti-corruption relations. That means we have separated those who do checks from the organisations being checked and monitor them remotely. If a violation occurs, we signal them, and they rectify the situation.
We have set up a compliances council where we work out major risks with bank representatives. Here are a few graphs that show how the rights we gave to the banks to independently suspend suspicious-looking transactions are working out. As a result, this year alone over 500,000 transactions were suspended, accounts closed. This shows that banks have started ridding themselves of shady schemes, cleaning out shell companies.
 To be continued.
See also
Congratulations on the 15th anniversary of the Federal Service for Financial Monitoring
November 1, 2016
Topics
Economy and finance
Fight against terrorism
Persons
Chikhanchin Yury
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 2, 2016, 20:20
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Government members
Vladimir Putin held a meeting with Government members to review implementation of the 2014 and 2015 Presidential Addresses to the Federal Assembly.
November 2, 2016
16:30
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 4
Meeting with Government members.
The President began the meeting with a question to Emergency Situations Minister Vladimir Puchkov
on inspections of the work performed by regional gas services, along with assistance to the victims, following household gas explosions in Ryazan and Tyumen regions in late October. Mr Putin stressed the need for tighter demands on the organisations involved in this sector.
Mr Puchkov said that more than 10,000 inspections have already been carried out in different regions and more than 8,000 violations brought to light. Preventive measures are underway now, as is work to inform the public.
Construction and Housing and Utilities Minister Mikhail Men
briefed the meeting on laws being drafted to set requirements for gas distribution organisations and housing inspectors’ rights to monitor gas equipment in residential buildings.
Healthcare Minister Veronika Skvortsova
, Education and Science Minister Olga Vasilyeva
and Labour and Social Protection Minister Maxim Topilin
made reports on the main item on the meeting’s agenda.
Chairperson of the Accounts Chamber Tatyana Golikova
, Minister of Finance Anton Siluanov
, Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Anton Vaino
and Deputy Prime Minister Olga Golodets
took part in the discussion of issues raised in the reports.
Closing remarks at a meeting with Government members to review implementation of the 2014 and 2015 Presidential Addresses to the Federal Assembly
Vladimir Putin: We have concentrated only on the social sector today, and this is very valuable, as it enables us to assess the results of the work directed at our citizens.
However, the presidential addresses contained other tasks too, tasks related to the economy, industry sectors, finance, privatisation and more. We will most certainly come back to these matters as well, because, as I have just said, the economy is really the key to resolving social matters.
Nevertheless, the social sector itself requires close attention. It should not simply swallow the resources the economy produces. Resources should be spent rationally and effectively.
Let us agree to proceed as follows then. We will summarise everything that was said at the meeting today and then examine carefully where we still have problems or have overlooked things, or need to take further measures, and we need to concentrate our attention on eliminating these problems rapidly, in order to, as I said, resolve the issues facing our country. Our people are waiting for these solutions.
Let us be more attentive, and show our utmost professionalism and responsibility in this work. I ask the Presidential Executive Office to summarise this information and draft the relevant instructions so that we retain the pace of overall work in this area.
Thank you.
Topics
Regions
Social services
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 2, 2016, 16:30
Text version