Events
Meeting with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
Vladimir Putin met with Prime Minister of Japan Shinzo Abe. The two leaders exchanged opinions on the current state and prospects of bilateral trade, economic and humanitarian cooperation and on current international issues.
May 6, 2016
16:00
Sochi
2 of 6
With Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.
Prime Minister of Japan Shinzo Abe is in Russia at the Russian President’s invitation.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister, friends. Let me warmly welcome you to Sochi and Russia.
Japan is not only Russia’s neighbour but also our very important partner in Asia Pacific.
In view of the ongoing developments in politics, trade and the economy, there are issues that should be given priority attention. It is probably in light of this that we should focus more on developing our relations and maintaining them at a high level.
Mr Prime Minister, we see your visit as an opportunity to work together on issues of mutual interest.
Welcome to Russia.
Prime Minister of Japan Shinzo Abe
(retranslated): The warmth of this wonderful city, Sochi, reminds me of my meeting with you in 2014.
As I recalled the beautiful sights of Sochi, I looked forward to our meeting today, our first meeting with you since November last year. I am happy to be able to meet with you today.
Since the summit meeting last September, our bilateral relations have actively moved forward. This April, Minister [of Foreign Affairs Fumio] Kishida met with Mr Lavrov
, who is also present here today, and I was told that their meeting was productive in terms of preparing our meeting in Sochi today.
Moreover, we have not just held productive talks at the UN General Assembly and G20 but also talked on the phone. I greatly appreciate such contacts.
Today I would like to have a frank exchange of opinions with you on bilateral political issues, including the signing of a peace treaty and issues pertaining to diplomacy, the economy and culture, as well as current international issues facing our countries and the rest of the world.
Thank you
<…>
Geography
Japan
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Abe Shinzo
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 6, 2016, 16:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Minister of Foreign Affairs of Qatar Mohammed bin Abdulrahman bin Jassim Al-Thani
Vladimir Putin met with Minister of Foreign Affairs of the State of Qatar Mohammed bin Abdulrahman bin Jassim Al-Thani at his Bocharov Ruchei residence in Sochi. The discussion focused on bilateral cooperation issues and prospects for the Syrian settlement.
May 6, 2016
15:15
Sochi
1 of 3
Meeting with Minister of Foreign Affairs of Qatar Mohammed bin Abdulrahman bin Jassim Al-Thani.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Minister, colleagues, good afternoon,
We are very happy with our good bilateral relations with Qatar. I recently had a telephone conversation with the Emir of Qatar, during which he suggested that we meet with you today. Please give my best regards to him. I hope he and his family are in good health and doing well.
We know that Qatar is playing a major role in the processes that are underway in the region. We maintain regular contact with you, and we will be glad to discuss the current situation today.
Welcome to Russia.
Minister of Foreign Affairs of the State of Qatar Mohammed bin Abdulrahman bin Jassim Al-Thani (retranslated): Mr President, thank you for the warm welcome.
His Highness the Emir of Qatar is sending his best regards. He has sent me to Your Excellency with a verbal message on the developments in the region and in particular in Syria.
<…>
See also
Telephone conversation with Emir of Qatar Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani
April 19, 2016
Geography
Qatar
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 6, 2016, 15:15
Text version