Events
Meeting on the main parameters of the State Armaments Programme for 2018–2025
Vladimir Putin chaired a meeting on government spending under the State Armaments Programme for 2018–2025 project.
September 9, 2016
15:10
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 2
Meeting on the main parameters of the State Armaments Programme for 2018–2025.
The discussion covered issues of financial and resource support for the programme for large-scale technical re-equipment of the Russian army and navy, taking into account the analysis and evaluation of possible threats to Russia's national security.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues, good afternoon,
Today we will discuss the basic financial and economic parameters of the new state armaments programme for 2018–2025, which will continue the large-scale technical re-equipment of the army and navy.
Back in January 2015, we decided to postpone its development from 2016 to 2018. The Military-Industrial Commission repeatedly raised the issue of funding resources for the new state armaments programme at its last meeting.
Working on its financial parameters, we need to proceed from the fact that the Armed Forces and other services should be provided with modern weapons and equipment at a relevant level to fully and effectively solve tasks for our country’s reliable defence from potential military threats.
We need to ensure the continuity of existing and new programmes, something we will also discuss today. All the earlier budgetary commitments and plans in the field of defence and security should definitely be honoured.
We need to complete the aggregation of proposals in the new draft of the state armament programme later this year; after that I will ask the Government to submit a draft programme for approval before July 1, 2017.
Finally, according to the instruction given earlier to the Military-Industrial Commission’s board, we need to give a comprehensive assessment of government spending on the future the state armaments programme.
Let's discuss all of these issues today.
<…>
Topics
Armed Forces
National security
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 9, 2016, 15:10
Text version