Events
Third Forum of Russian and Belarusian Regions
Vladimir Putin and President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko took part in a plenary session of the third Forum of Russian and Belarusian Regions.
June 8, 2016
18:10
Minsk
1 of 6
Speech at the third Forum of Russian and Belarusian Regions.
The forum’s theme is Implementation of a Coordinated Economic Policy in the Union State: Achievements, Obstacles, Solutions and Prospects.
Speaker of the Federal Assembly Federation Council Valentina Matviyenko
, Speaker of the Council of the Republic of the National Assembly of Belarus Mikhail Myasnikovich, Vologda Region Governor Oleg Kuvshinnikov
, and Chairman of the Mogilev Regional Executive Committee Vladimir Domanevsky took the floor at the meeting.
By tradition, the forum is attended by the heads of key ministries and agencies, executive and legislative heads of Russian and Belarusian regions, and representatives of big business and public and research organisations. The previous two forums took place in June 2014 in Minsk and in September 2015 in Sochi.
Speech at the third Forum of Russian and Belarusian Regions
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Lukashenko, colleagues, friends,
Meetings of representatives of regional administrations, the business community and civic organisations of the two countries are playing an important role and becoming an increasingly tangible factor in our relations, strengthening them in the spirit of alliance, friendship and neighbourliness.
Speaking here, Mr Domanevsky, Governor of the Mogilev Region, primarily credited the presidents with this. Rightly so, but first and foremost credit goes to Boris Yeltsin and the graduate with honours of Mogilev State University.
Belarus is our major economic partner – it is Russia’s biggest trade partner among the CIS states. Belarus sends half of its exports to the Russian market, and could export even more.
Today we had a discussion with our colleagues from the governments of both countries. If our Belarusian partners take certain steps required to meet the interests, primarily, of their own domestic agricultural producers, they will be able to export even more products to the Russian market. It is necessary to use the current situation in order to boost production, including for the needs of the Russian market. If we do not do this today, and instead allow products under sanctions to reach the Russian market, Belarusian producers will find it more difficult to make progress on the Russian market. Meanwhile, we want to get apples, meat, milk and other products of Belarusian origin rather than those that transit Belarusian territory.
This is in the interests of Belarusian producers. I believe we discussed this issue in detail today, and I hope that our governments will find ways of resolving all questions we talked about today.
Despite last year’s decline in bilateral trade caused mainly by volatile commodity prices and currency fluctuations, we managed to expand our trade in terms of physical volume. The physical volume of commodity supplies increased by 2.6 percent in the first quarter (Russian exports to Belarus edged up by 1.6 percent, while Belarusian exports to Russia grew by 4.4 percent). That may be an immodestly high number for Belarus, but it’s good for Belarusian producers.
Mutual capital flows are expanding. In January-March, Russian investments in Belarus exceeded $1.5 billion. Belarus invested $500 million in Russia, which is a sizable amount of money. There are over 2,400 companies with Russian participation in Belarus, including 961 companies that are fully owned by Russia.
In a collaborative effort, Russia and Belarus work to deepen integration processes in Eurasia. As members of the Union State, we are carrying out about 40 programmes and are jointly developing advanced technology programmes, primarily, for the aerospace industry, satellite navigation, geological exploration, and agriculture.
We are forming the Eurasian Economic Union’s common market for goods, services, capital, and labour, thereby facilitating sustainable economic growth of the member countries and enhancing the competitiveness of our producers on domestic and foreign markets.
Friends, this year the Forum focuses on interaction between Russia and Belarus in the sphere of social policy, and our countries place special emphasis on this area of cooperation.
This year, about 1.2 billion rubles will be allocated from the Union State budget alone to promote bilateral educational, medical and other humanitarian programmes.
Much has been done to harmonise legislation of both countries in the social sphere. Issues such as pensions and maternity support have been properly addressed. Qualifying employment is mutually recognised. Uniform requirements for workplace safety have been established. It's all boring stuff, but it is critical for organising practical interaction.
We have considerable experience working together in the sphere of healthcare. This year 425 citizens of Belarus studied in Russia’s higher medical institutions. We have joined efforts to introduce modern medical technology. A rehab therapy project with the use of stem cells was successfully implemented. A programme for treating children with congenital spinal disorders is being developed.
Much is being done to ensure equal opportunities in the sphere of education for Russian and Belarusian citizens. Secondary school graduates can now apply to institutions of higher learning in both countries based on uniform rules and requirements. Interuniversity and academic exchanges are expanding.
We enjoy close cooperation in the sphere of culture and tourism. Touring Russian and Belarusian music and theatre groups, joint art exhibitions and song festivals, including the annual Slavic Bazaar in Vitebsk, which will be held in July, have always been popular with audiences. I attended this festival once. It is a really good show. Mr Lukashenko, you did a great job making it a popular and a really exciting event. As you may be aware, central Russian television channels always broadcast it.
Joint programmes for patriotic education of youth and preserving the memory of the Great Patriotic War are being implemented.
In closing, I would like to thank our Belarusian friends for their traditional warm hospitality, and wish every success to all the participants of today's event and all future participants of similar events.
Thank you.
See also
Second forum of Russian and Belarusian regions
September 18, 2015
Geography
Belarus
Topics
Foreign policy
Regions
Persons
Kuvshinnikov Oleg
Lukashenko Alexander
Matviyenko Valentina
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 8, 2016, 18:10
Text versionEvents
Russian-Belarusian talks
Vladimir Putin held talks with President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko in Minsk.
June 8, 2016
15:15
Minsk
7 of 9
Russian-Belarusian talks in expanded format.
The talks were held before a plenary session of the third Forum of Russian and Belarusian Regions.
* * *
Beginning of Russian-Belarusian talks in expanded format
President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko: Mr Putin, friends,
Mr Putin and I agreed that, since we have a big programme ahead, we will first hold an informal meeting, and if our delegation members have any questions later on, we will openly and frankly answer them but only briefly, without going into detail or engaging in polemics, after the heads of state deliver their remarks.
Mr Putin, friends, I am happy to welcome you to Minsk, a city dear to you all. We are meeting before the third Forum of Belarusian and Russian Regions. This year, its agenda includes social and cultural issues. It was to improve the living standards of our people that we launched the main Belarusian-Russian union project 20 years ago.
We are glad that these forum meetings have become regular. Interregional cooperation has huge potential, which we can used to more quickly restore the volume of Belarusian-Russian trade.
The discussions of these issues at the top level should provide an example of constructive and productive cooperation. In other words, we must set the trajectory at the top level.
We make no secret of the fact that, unfortunately, neither Russia nor Belarus has managed to reverse the negative trend in bilateral trade, even though there have been positive changes about which I will speak later.
Bilateral trade in January to April of this year totalled $7.6 billion, which is 12 percent less than in the same period of last year. Exports from Belarus were about $3 billion, a decrease of 6 percent over January-April. Imports from Russia exceeded $4.5 billion, but that’s still a 15 percent decline.
It is gratifying that the decline in trade has slowed substantially thanks to our coordinated efforts to overcome the consequences of global economic instability. In January-April 2014, bilateral trade fell by 30 percent, while the decline in the first four months of this year was about 12 percent.
I strongly hope that we will be able to combine our efforts and find the resources necessary to strengthen this positive trend.
The lifting of the remaining restrictions in bilateral trade will help stabilise our economies and improve the wellbeing of people in Belarus and Russia.
In general, the current economic crisis should rally all parties participating in integration and encourage them to develop cooperation and internal production chains. We must not compete but act together on foreign markets.
The attainment of these goals in relations between Belarus and Russia will also promote the development of other integration formats. We have always said that our relations are the most advanced in the post-Soviet space, and other integration associations draw from our experience.
We are open to discussing current issues of bilateral relations today. There are no issues that Belarus and Russia cannot discuss. I am confident that we can find solutions to any problem in the spirit of our allied relations.
Thank you for your attention.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much.
I do not have much to add. It is true that bilateral trade somewhat declined last year. However, this year it is recovering, with Belarusian exports to Russia growing faster than imports to Belarus from Russia. Overall, there is nothing extraordinary about it. Moreover, the physical volumes are increasing. Trade in value terms has slightly decreased, even though there are improvements even on that front with the decline slowing down, while physical volumes are increasing. This is a positive signal.
Today, we need to use the time allocated for our meeting to think together about ways to maintain and reinforce positive momentum.
Overall, I fully agree with the assessment by Mr Lukashenko regarding the nature of our relations: this is truly the most developed relationship in the post-Soviet space.
We pay a lot of attention to addressing social as well as economic issues. All in all, there is no doubt that these efforts benefit our citizens. Not only is Russia committed to continuing its work along these lines, but is also ready to step up its efforts so that we move together towards the objectives that we set for ourselves many years ago.
Thank you very much for the opportunity to have this meeting and work together.
<…>
Geography
Belarus
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Lukashenko Alexander
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 8, 2016, 15:15
Text version