Events
Meeting with Sergei Naryshkin and Mikhail Fradkov
Vladimir Putin met with Sergei Naryshkin and Mikhail Fradkov.
September 22, 2016
18:40
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 6
Meeting with Sergei Naryshkin and Mikhail Fradkov.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Naryshkin, the State Duma elections are over, we know the results. You have made a significant contribution to this joint effort. You have been the Speaker of the State Duma for years, and prior to that worked as Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office.
Everything is moving on, everything is changing for us. I believe that in your previous positions, including such an important one as State Duma Speaker, you have successfully discharged your duties and justified the confidence placed in you by the deputies when they elected you Speaker of the State Duma.
With this in mind, I would like to offer you a job in the executive branch, to be more precise – in one of our leading special services. I would like to propose that you head the Foreign Intelligence Service of Russia.
Mr Fradkov has been heading the Service for nine years. As we recently discovered, this is a record term in that office. Throughout those years, while operating in absolutely new conditions, the Service made great strides toward consolidation, by which I also mean consolidating the staff and feedback from such a critical component of the state mechanism as intelligence, from the point of view of ensuring the operation of the supreme bodies of power.
I would like to thank you, Mr Fradkov, for your work. You are actually well known: you used to be a Government minister, and Prime Minister, and you performed your duties in this critical position in the best possible way. Thank you very much.
Mikhail Fradkov
: Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: As we discussed earlier, I expect that all your skills and expertise will be employed for the benefit of the country, of the state, in a different place. Let us talk about it in greater detail.
Mr Naryshkin, I would like to wish you success. You are well aware, just as we all are, of the situation we are now in and how important the success of the Service is for this country’s reliable development. How important it is for addressing threats against Russia before it is too late, for preventing their proliferation, averting them, neutralising these threats at early stages and working toward positive goals. I am referring to cooperation with our partners in the main areas, primarily in fighting terror and of course providing quality, reliable information to the President and the Government of the Russian Federation so that we can make well thought-out and balanced decisions in the interest of the Russian people. I hope that you will cope with your tasks as successfully as you did in your previous positions.
Sergei Naryshkin
: Mr President, first, thank you very much for your positive appraisal of my work in the position of State Duma Speaker over the past five years.
I regard your offer as an assignment from the head of state and the Supreme Commander in Chief. I understand very well the non-public character of the Foreign Intelligence Service’s activity, especially compared to the State Duma. At the same time, I realise that the scope of tasks and the Service’s contribution to ensuring the state’s strategic interests is enormous. Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Naryshkin, everybody knows that you followed a difficult path during the election campaign and had no plans to surrender your seat. I would like to apologise to your voters who put their trust in you by electing you a State Duma deputy.
I hope that people will understand. The area that is being offered to you is no less important than a deputy’s work. We should think of the people who voted for you as having, in a sense, delegated you to this highly responsible position.
Sergei Naryshkin: Mr President, thank you for saying this as well. I would like to use this opportunity to once again thank my countrymen, my voters, Leningraders, for the trust they have placed in me – twice now. Thank you.
Mikhail Fradkov: For my part, Mr President, I would like to thank you for your high assessment of the Foreign Intelligence Service as a whole and of my humble contribution, as well as for the trust that you have given me over the many years that I have held high positions of authority, including as director of the Foreign Intelligence Service.
It is an exciting and important job. I am pleased that you have chosen Mr Naryshkin with whom I have worked side by side in the Government for a long time and who is a friend. As part of this trust-based and non-public relationship – which is also not an insignificant factor – I will pass on everything I know to Mr Naryshkin, and I believe that he will work in this sphere just as effectively as he has up to now. Thank you very much.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
<…>
Topics
Civil service
Persons
Fradkov Mikhail
Naryshkin Sergei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 22, 2016, 18:40
Text versionEvents
Meeting with KAMAZ-Master team
Vladimir Putin met with KAMAZ-Master team and organisers of the 2016 Silk Way Rally.
September 22, 2016
23:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
13 of 13
With KAMAZ-Master team and organisers of the 2016 Silk Way Rally.
The KAMAZ-Master team has won the Silk Way Rally this year taking the first and second place in the truck division.
KAMAZ-Master is a Russian car racing team from Naberezhnye Chelny competing in KAMAZ trucks. The team was set up in 1988. KAMAZ-Master drivers won the Silk Way Rally in 2009, 2010 and 2012. In addition, the team is a 13-time winner of the Dakar Rally (Paris – Dakar).
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends,
I am happy to welcome you to Moscow, to the Kremlin, and to congratulate you on your strong victory in such a tough competition as the Silk Way Rally. Did you win the first two places?
Remark: Yes, we did.
Vladimir Putin: It is fascinating that this is the first time you have employed the mixed crew format of cooperation and competition. One of the vehicles had a crew made up of Russian and Chinese racers. This is also a very good sign, of course.
Judging by what I saw and read, the Silk Way Rally turned out to be even more difficult that the Paris – Dakar. The vehicles were faultless, as much as it is possible. I saw that there were a number of hard situations on the track.
I sincerely, from the bottom of my heart, congratulate you and wish you new success.
Will you please tell me your thoughts about the race? What do you think of the track and the vehicles?
Vladimir Chagin: If I may, I will say a few words. Mr President, first of all, we are grateful to you for finding the time to meet with us despite your extremely busy schedule. Your appreciation of our work, our efforts and results is very important to us.
We are very happy that this year the KAMAZ-Master team did not disappoint its fans and partners: we won the first and second places. And, of course, it has a special significance to us that we managed to complete a race on such a long route embracing two continents and three countries.
You will remember that the previous five Silk Way races, which were held from 2009 to 2013, ran on Russian territory. We are very grateful to you for supporting the route Mr Miller [Gazprom CEO] stretched to the east, saying let us have more, let us go bigger.
The territory of Kazakhstan and China are excellent for the rally. This is not just a sports event; the race has a geopolitical significance. We have had good administrative support all the way – both in Kazakhstan and in China. The three nations’ governments gave us all the necessary assistance, and within a few months a tremendous amount of work had been completed on the organisation of the project. Everything went well.
The participants in the race are very pleased. Over 40 countries and 125 crews toed the starting line on Red Square. The world’s leading rally raid crews took part in trucks and cars. All were under a very good, positive impression and are preparing for next year.
Russia has always attracted travellers and tourists, and, of course, contests like rally raids combine sport, tourism and travel. These people were highly impressed by the diversity of routes, because at first it was Russia and its forest and steppe expanses, next came Kazakhstan’s steppes, and then China’s sandhills. Dakar lacks the diversity you have mentioned.
Vladimir Putin: How many kilometres was the route?
Vladimir Chagin: 10,700 kilometres, two weeks. We started off on Red Square.
Vladimir Putin: And Paris–Dakar – how many kilometres?
Vladimir Chagin: Eight or nine thousand.
Vladimir Putin: That route is shorter than the one here, isn’t it?
Vladimir Chagin: Yes, it is shorter. It runs through four South American countries: Argentina, Chile, Bolivia, and Paraguay will be added this year. Our route was even more packed and difficult. Of course, there are those who failed to make it to the finish line. But those who did will talk about having done the Silk Road for the rest of their lives.
Vladimir Putin: What about you, guys, did you like it? How did the vehicles perform? Do tell me.
Airat Mardeyev: Yes, the race was very interesting indeed. The Silk Way is a real rally raid. While Dakar is more like a classic rally – there are many winding and rapid routes, but the Silk Way has taken in what is lacking in Dakar: sands, mud-locked roads and winding routes, too. All routes are very interesting, and special stretches are very long. Cold weather alternated with hot weather – this race had a bit of everything.
The vehicles performed very well; we had practically no technical problems and, in principle, this is what influenced our result: we won the top two positions. The vehicles performed very well.
Vladimir Putin: Does the plant analyse how the vehicles perform in such an extreme environment?
KAMAZ Director General Sergei Kogogin: Of course, we do.
After a certain cycle that a vehicle completes during a race, we use this on production vehicles. These are mostly special elements: parts of the suspension, engine boost… We take all that into consideration because we need both power and reliability at the same time.
Vladimir Putin: A testing ground like this cannot be invented on purpose, can it?
Sergei Kogogin: You cannot invent anything better. Now we are facing difficult tasks. We are planning to make a new engine and a new vehicle. This is also a technical challenge for designers, crews and KAMAZ as a whole.
Sergei Savostin: A race is a final product – just two weeks that cap off a huge amount of work involving the whole of KAMAZ. The plant is engaged in a lot of work, too, and this is why the crews are doing so well.
Vladimir Chagin: Not only KAMAZ. We place orders all over the country.
<…>
Topics
Sport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 22, 2016, 23:00
Text versionEvents
Security Council meeting
The President chaired a meeting of the Security Council. The discussion focused on ways to improve the state regional policy.
September 22, 2016
16:15
The Kremlin, Moscow
4 of 5
Security Council meeting.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
Today we will look at regional policy, which is a key governance issue. We will look into ways of improving it and making it more efficient, as well as removing obstacles that stand in the way of dynamic growth in the Russian regions.
The main goals and objectives in this area were identified in the Fundamental Provisions of Regional Policy in Russia approved more than 20 years ago. The implementation of that document helped consolidate our country's territorial integrity, Russia’s unity, and to streamline the relations between different levels of government and the territorial organisation.
The federal and regional targeted programmes have become more effective and to the point, which allowed us to resolve many economic, infrastructural and social problems.
I would like to note that the Gross Regional Product (GRP) also increased substantially: 25 times from 2.2 trillion in 1998 to 58.7 trillion rubles in 2014. The demographic situation has markedly improved. The population base and life expectancy have been growing since 2009. Thus, average life expectancy in Russia amounted to 64 years in 1995 and increased to 71 years in 2015. The infant mortality rate per thousand decreased from 18 in 1994 to 6.5 in 2015.
The Government created and launched mechanisms for encouraging the priority development of the Far East, Russia’s Arctic, the North Caucasus and later on Crimea and the Kaliningrad Region, which play a special role in safekeeping our national interests and security.
At the same time, the process of forming a solid system of federal relations and efficient local self-government has not yet been completed.
The risks related to the imbalance of the budget system and disproportions in territorial development and the labour market are still there. There are still many problems in education, healthcare and culture. Meanwhile, we all understand that these areas ensure the integrity of the country’s socio-economic space, not to mention that their condition, just as that of the economy, exerts a direct influence on the social wellbeing of the population.
The difference in the economic development of the regions is still tangible and the trend towards drawing the economy into the country’s central regions has not yet been overcome. This leads to disproportions in budget allocations, and, hence, to a gap in the level of incomes and social guarantees of the people living in different regions of the Russian Federation.
These indicators fluctuate even within the same federal district. The aggregate incomes of the five wealthiest regions are 43 times higher than the poorest regions. While comparing the wealthiest region to the poorest one – I would not even want to go there; it is hundreds of times higher.
Obviously, we need to specify the current regional policy priorities and tasks. With this aim in view, the Government has elaborated a draft basis for Russia’s regional development policy to 2025, which we will discuss today.
I would like to draw your attention to several important points. First, it is important to identify in the new document the economic mechanisms that will help us more fully realise the industrial, scientific and technological, educational and entrepreneurial potential of the regions, and use their competitive advantages in a flexible way, to create new growth areas and thus ensure additional revenue streams to the budget. Only such an approach will help us to reduce the socioeconomic differences between our regions, and to create proper conditions for improving the quality of life across Russia.
Secondly, we need to improve budget-to-budget relations, to achieve steady financial support for the regional and municipal authorities.
The regions and the municipalities must balance their budgets properly. It is imperative to more efficiently use fiscal tools in order to facilitate economic growth and to boost gross regional product.
In turn, at the federal level, it is necessary to improve the system of targeted subsidies and grants, and to monitor and analyse how effectively they are used by the regions. Of course, it is important to offer solutions that will enhance the independence of the regions and municipalities as they expand their taxable revenue base.
In general, budget-to-budget relations are among the key issues. We will consider it at a separate meeting with representatives of the Government and the regions.
Next, it is imperative to ensure that there is coordination between the federal and regional programmes that are designed to develop the territories. Of course, this applies to the investment plans of state-owned companies and major private companies. In other words, all the funds raised for a particular project should be concentrated in order to create synergy.
Let us discuss all of these issues.
<…>
Topics
Budget
National security
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Security Council
Publication date: September 22, 2016, 16:15
Text versionEvents
Presentation of state decorations
State decorations were presented at the Kremlin.
September 22, 2016
14:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 39
Presentation of state decorations.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends.
Presenting state decorations is one of the most solemn ceremonies that take place here, at the Moscow Kremlin. It brings together outstanding citizens of this country, merited individuals who are, of course, extraordinary, and whose achievements are particularly valuable for Russia. Each of you has the highest achievements in your particular line of work. Your efforts and creativity, courage and wisdom serve to multiply Russia’s glory and pride.
Many of you have devoted years of hard work, impeccable government or military service to our Fatherland. However, it so happens that fate gives a person only a few minutes, if not moments, to accomplish something truly outstanding and to make a choice: either back out, or take a step into immortality.
I am talking about Magomed Nurbagandov, the police lieutenant from Dagestan, who is awarded the Star of Hero of the Russian Federation posthumously. His parents are here today.
I would like to tell you again, Mr Nurbagand Nurbagandov, and you, Mrs Kumsiyat Nurbagandova: you have raised a real man, a true warrior.
Our life comes to an end sooner or later, and this is not debatable, as they say. The issue at hand is something different, though. The issue is about how we live our lives, or, as in this case, how we pass from this life. Our officer showed what true officer’s honour is all about. Our entire country is grateful to you for your son.
Friends,
Such lofty and poignant examples once again show the enormous importance of family, parents, and education. You tend to realise how important it is, from a young age, to instil in people a sense of duty, willingness to help and patriotism, and to raise honest, caring and generous people. These qualities form the basis of our national character.
It is not surprising that we have such strong traditions of labour dynasties and professional continuity. The Gagarin Cosmonaut Unit is a case in point, where not only professional experience and skills are passed on from generation to generation, but, most importantly, the spirit of brotherhood and selfless mentoring.
I am confident that Alexander Misurkin, head of the unit of cosmonauts, who was awarded the title of Hero of Russia, and his colleagues, cosmonauts Mikhail Tyurin and Maxim Surayev, will back that up. They have also been presented with high state awards.
Our religions are steeped in traditions of service, and spiritual and moral education. I am sincerely pleased to welcome the distinguished representatives of the Russian clergy — Metropolitan Juvenaly of Krutitsy and Kolomna, and Metropolitan Hilarion of Volokolamsk.
I should also note the great educational power of art. I would like to pay special tribute to the figures of culture who generously share their talent and expertise with their numerous students. Renowned masters, such as Boris Eifman, a brilliant director, Sergei Roldugin, an excellent musician, and our outstanding conductor and musician Valery Gergiev, who is loved, without any exaggeration, by millions of people around the world, provide remarkable examples.
Of course, those who work in the sphere of education are making a huge contribution to educating our younger generation. In this audience, they are represented by President of the Russian Academy of Education Lyudmila Verbitskaya, and Rector of Bauman University Anatoly Aleksandrov.
There is a place for mentoring and loyalty to traditions in any line of work. Progressive-minded and spiritually and morally strong people are well aware of it and are doing their best to promote their endeavours and to make sure that those who come to replace them will preserve and multiply their heritage.
Today, we have precisely such people in this audience. Your success and your great attitude to what you do, your personal involvement in the life of your students and young colleagues, help maintain continuity as they establish links between times and generations, and serve as an example of the utmost professionalism and loyalty to your calling and civic duty.
You definitely deserve the recognition of the state and society, and are worthy of high Russian awards.
I cordially congratulate you, and wish you all the best.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: Friends,
A member of a miner's family spoke to us a few minutes ago of our achievements in this area. They are, indeed, visible, considerable, and undeniable. However, he mentioned losses, as well. Perhaps, they are unavoidable.
Let us wish each other the fewest losses possible, and enjoy as many successes as we can.
Thank you for your good work!
Topics
State decorations
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 22, 2016, 14:30
Text version