Events
Presentation of senior officers appointed to command positions
Vladimir Putin met with senior officers promoted to higher positions and awarded higher military (special) ranks.
December 7, 2016
14:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 4
Presentation of officers appointed to senior command posts.
The President congratulated the officers on their new appointments and outlined the tasks before the Armed Forces’ and special services’ commanding officers today.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Comrade officers,
I welcome you to the Kremlin and congratulate you on your appointment to senior positions and conferment of higher military and special ranks. I hope that your new status and powers will help you to resolve more complex and large-scale tasks and achieve in your respective areas the results the country needs.
It is important to continue – and we will do this – our efforts to bolster the country’s defence capability and modernise and re-equip our armed forces.
The military operation against the terrorists in Syria is convincing evidence of our armed forces’ growing potential. This operation has demonstrated well-coordinated work between the different units, and most importantly, the service personnel’s high combat spirit. Risking their lives, our service personnel are doing all they can to help the Syrian army to fight terrorism in order to save civilian lives.
As you know, on December 5, two doctors at the military hospital, Sergeant Nadezhda Durachenko and Sergeant Galina Mikhailova, were killed at their post, and yesterday, Colonel Ruslan Galitsky died after suffering serious injuries the day before as a result of shelling by terrorists.
Let’s honour their memory with a minute of silence.
(Minute of silence.)
Presentation of officers appointed to senior command posts.
I ask the Defence Ministry to propose all of these colleagues for state decorations and do everything possible to give their families the support they need at this difficult time.
Comrade officers,
The many generals and admirals here today took part or are taking direct part in the operations in Syria. The commanding officers’ direct responsibility is to take into account in full the experience gained during these operations and use it in your further work to develop the military and supply the Army and Navy with advanced arms and equipment.
It is important to raise the level of training and raise performance quality during training exercises. We will discuss this and other areas of work at the Defence Ministry Board’s annual meeting at the end of December.
Comrade officers,
Russia’s security and our people’s tranquillity depend on effective work by the entire armed services and law enforcement agencies. I have no doubt that the intelligence service officers and law enforcement personnel are very conscious of this.
The Federal Security Service has been taking a pro-active and decisive approach. It completed with excellent results one of the year’s most important tasks – organising security during the parliamentary election campaign and the election itself.
Over the first 10 months of this year, the Federal Security Service has prevented the execution of more than 30 terrorism-related crimes, including 10 terrorist attacks.
The Foreign Intelligence Service plays an important part in safeguarding Russia’s national interests. I hope that the Service’s new leadership will take full account of the rapid changes in the international situation and focus on reinforcing the Service’s technical and analytical potential.
We established the National Guard in order to improve the country’s military organisation. They are responsible for protecting our constitutional foundations, fighting extremism, maintaining public order and overseeing the circulation of arms. I am sure that the National Guard will be entirely up to these tasks.
Our society also has high expectations of the Interior Ministry’s work. The priorities here include a determined fight against crime and corruption and improved safety on our roads.
The tasks for the Prosecutor General’s Office include ensuring that laws are respected in the social sector. You also need to keep constant watch on matters concerning timely payment of wages and benefits.
Presentation of officers appointed to senior command posts.
The Investigative Committee has an important role to play in the law enforcement system. Its responsibilities include investigating the most dangerous types of crime. I hope that its employees will carry out their work effectively and provide the courts with a thoroughly prepared evidence base in order to hand down objective and fair decisions.
The Federal Guard Service makes a big contribution to ensuring national security, and I am sure that you will continue to work effectively and responsibly.
As always, the Emergency Situations Ministry has performed with excellent results and its employees showed their professionalism and competence this year when fighting wildfires in the Siberian Federal District and ensuring emergency power supply for social infrastructure facilities in Crimea and Sevastopol.
Thanks to their work, humanitarian aid cargoes were delivered to more than 10 countries. Russia’s rescue personnel helped in disaster relief efforts in Portugal, Italy, and other countries, and have provided great aid to civilians in Syria.
For the Federal Penitentiary Service, it is essential to ensure unfailing compliance with requirements concerning detention conditions for sentenced persons. Let us never forget that they are also Russian citizens, whatever their faults. You must also improve security at detention centres and prisons through the use of modern technology.
Comrade officers, let me congratulate you once more on your new appointments and ranks. I am sure that you will live up to our high expectations. I wish you health and success in your work.
Topics
Armed Forces
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 7, 2016, 14:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Rosneft CEO Igor Sechin
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Rosneft CEO and Chairman of the Management Board Igor Sechin to discuss the results of a deal to sell a stake in the Russian oil company Rosneft.
December 7, 2016
22:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 2
With Rosneft CEO Igor Sechin.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Sechin, I would like to congratulate you on the conclusion of a privatisation deal to sell a large stake in our leading oil and gas company Rosneft: 19.5 percent. The deal was made on an upward trend in the price of oil and it therefore reflects on the value of the company itself.
In this respect, the timing is very good and the overall value of the deal is significant: 10.5 billion euros. Together with the Bashneft company that you acquired recently, this amounts to $17.5 billion. Even the first by itself is the largest privatisation deal, the largest sell-off and acquisition in the oil and gas sector in the world in the outgoing year 2016.
I very much hope that new investors – a consortium of the Qatar state fund and Glencore, a major international trading company – I hope that their participation in managing bodies will improve corporate procedure and the company’s transparency and will ultimately increase its capitalisation. Meanwhile, the company’s controlling stake will remain in the hands of the Russian state: over 50 percent.
Overall, this is a very good result. I would like to congratulate all of you, your colleagues who have worked on it. And naturally, the question arises: when will the money come to the Russian budget?
Rosneft CEO Igor Sechin
: Mr President, allow me to update you on the results of the work to fulfil your assignment to sell a 19.5 percent stake in Rosneft oil company.
As part of our effort to enlist potential investors and conclude this sale, we have conducted commercial talks with over 30 companies, foundations, professional investors, sovereign funds and financial institutions in Europe, the Americas, the Middle East, and the Asia Pacific region.
Today, I am reporting to you the conclusion of these talks, the completion of the consideration of proposals submitted, and the signing of the comprehensive privatisation deal, including Bashneft, as you rightly said. This amounts to over 1 trillion rubles, which will come to the budget, including 10.5 billion euros for Rosneft’s 19.5 percent stake.
The consortium that will become Rosneft’s shareholder was established by the Qatar Sovereign Wealth Fund and Glencore trading company, which is our long-standing partner. The consortium participants hold equal stakes: 50 percent each.
Payment to the state budget will be made both with our own resources and with a loan organised by one of Europe’s largest banks.
Therefore, it was a market transaction based on Rosneft’s stock exchange quotations. We believe that we got the highest possible price with the minimum discount of 5 percent to the exchange quotations as of December 6.
This transaction is not a simple portfolio investment but a strategic deal with additional elements, such as the signing of a long-term offtake agreement with Glencore, the coordination of our market positions and the creation of a joint venture, which will work both in Russia and under international projects.
As you said correctly, this transaction is the largest privatisation deal in Russia. Overall, the privatisation of 49 percent of Rosneft in a series of transactions has earned us $30 billion, no, nearly $34 billion, which is four times more than returns from all other privatisation transactions in Russia’s oil and gas sector.
This transaction is also important for the global oil sector and, as you have said correctly, is the largest asset sales transaction in the global sector in 2016.
I am sure that the high standards of our investors and Rosneft’s transition to a new dividend payment system, which the Government has approved at 35 percent, will definitely improve the company’s capitalisation, including the state-owned stake. We estimate the state-owned stake after the transaction at approximately 80 billion rubles.
Mr President, considering the foreign economic challenges, I can tell you that we have signed this transaction so quickly exclusively thanks to your personal contribution and support. Also, I would like to say that we received the necessary amount of assistance from the Government while preparing the deal.
I am honoured to convey our sincere gratitude to you on behalf of the company and all those who were involved in this transaction.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
A large amount of foreign currency will be supplied to the financial market, but the budget must receive the full sum in the ruble equivalent, in rubles. Therefore, we must devise a method that would preclude a negative impact on the market and prevent any hikes on the exchange market.
We know that Rosneftegaz, which will ultimately transfer the money to the budget, has considerable ruble resources. First, we should use these funds, and second, we should work jointly with the Finance Ministry and the Central Bank to plan a system of measures for currency conversion that would prevent market hikes. I ask you to coordinate these issues with the Government, including top Government executives, as well as the Finance Ministry and the Central Bank.
Igor Sechin: Certainly, Mr President, we will do as you say.
We will receive the first money transfers from our foreign investors in the next few days. We also maintain contact with the Central Bank and the Finance Ministry. We will certainly report to the Prime Minister and will devise a system under which the impact on the market will be the smallest possible.
Vladimir Putin: Please invite our investors and new Rosneft shareholders to Russia. We will organise a government reception for them.
<…>
Topics
Budget
Energy
Persons
Sechin Igor
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 7, 2016, 22:00
Text versionEvents
Security Council meeting
Vladimir Putin held a Security Council meeting to discuss the draft Economic Security Strategy.
December 7, 2016
14:45
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 5
Security Council meeting.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
Today, we will discuss the draft of Russia’s Economic Security Strategy. This document outlines the most important areas of work to ensure our country’s economic, technological and financial sovereignty.
Only recently, it seemed that there was no need for such documents, but judging by what is happening today, we do need to reflect on the various challenges we will discuss at this meeting.
We are witnessing profound and large-scale processes underway in the world. New centres of global economic growth are emerging. Every year brings more competition for markets, technology and capital. Economic restrictions, pressure, and sanctions are being used more often in political aims, and under the guise of pursuing political objectives are being used quite simply as a means in the competitive fight.
We must take these trends into account and pre-empt these risks and threats. Our fundamental, principle response here is to develop our own economic potential. This does not mean that we will shut ourselves from the global economy, but that we will bolster our own effectiveness. This will give us the resources we need to resolve social tasks and will enable us to provide reliable guarantees of our national interests and security.
We must achieve growth rates higher than the global rates. Yes, only a short time ago, we were talking of higher growth rates, but we are conscious of the situation in the global economy and in our economy and we must adjust our plans accordingly. We must, however, reach growth rates higher than the global rates by 2019–2020. To achieve this goal, the Annual Presidential Address to the Federal Assembly contains an instruction issued to the Government of the Russian Federation to draft a concrete action plan.
The global competitiveness of all of various economic sectors and companies, business climate, and our state management and governance should be the cornerstone of this growth. Equally important – and I want to particularly emphasise this – is to have a competitive science and education system. We must be flexible, be the first to respond to changes in global development, and take part in forming promising new markets.
Security Council meeting.
The explosive development of technology, which amounts to a veritable technological revolution, radically changes production, finance and banking process and impacts on people’s way of life and on the situation in entire economic sectors.
Possessing original home-grown technology is becoming one of the most important factors for ensuring a country’s sovereignty. This is something discussed in detail at a recent meeting of the Council for Science and Education and in the annual Address to the Federal Assembly.
To raise our civilian sectors’ competitiveness, we should make use of the scientific and technological potential our defence industry offers. This is also something we have discussed on past occasions.
Growing protectionism is another of today’s trends. We must be more active in promoting our companies’ interests on global markets, protect them from unfair competition, and make use of the opportunities that regional integration organisations offer.
We should create the best possible conditions for developing non-commodities exports, cut the costs for Russian exporters, and optimise tax and customs control, including through using information technology. We also need to improve the financial mechanisms for supporting exporting contracts.
Overall, we must continue to put in place a favourable investment and business climate. I stress that our national jurisdiction’s competitiveness is also one of the most important guarantees of our country’s economic security.
Finally, we must ensure that our big companies do not leave for foreign jurisdictions. There is no point in simply hectoring them for this. They do this because they feel more secure there and find the instruments used there to organise and support economic activity better regulated. We must offer the same here, and our country has all the conditions needed to do this.
Colleagues, we must pay particular attention to balanced development of our country’s territory. We must make maximum use of each region’s potential. We need to open new production facilities and create new jobs, and thus provide the basic conditions for demographic development and raising living standards.
It is in this logic that we are working on developing the Far East. Given this region’s proximity to the big Asia-Pacific economies, we are putting in place the best possible competitive conditions in the full sense of the word for doing business. We will respect in full these conditions that we are offering investors, whether Russian or foreign.
National and federal targeted programmes now have special sections on the Far East, and financing for specific areas should be calculated in such a way as to make it possible not just to make up the gap, but also to ensure rapid growth in these regions and strengthen their human capital. Yury Trutnev [Deputy Prime Minister and Plenipotentiary Presidential Envoy to the Far East Federal District] will brief us today on the state of progress with these tasks.
Security Council meeting.
Finally, macroeconomic stability is another essential condition for sustainable development. I hope that the Government and the Central Bank will continue to pay particular attention to ensuring our banking system’s financial stability and making credit resources more accessible for the real sector of the economy. I also spoke about this in quite some detail in my annual Address.
More important still is that I discuss these issues with the country’s financial authorities at our meetings behind closed doors, but meetings should take place behind closed doors only up to a certain time, until a decision has been drafted. In principle, it is clear what we need to do and how we need to do it. We just need to work hard.
We also need to reduce our national monetary and credit system’s dependence on fluctuations on the global financial and goods markets, and continue our efforts to clean up the banking sector. Of course, in this area too, we must take a careful approach and always keep the possible social consequences in mind.
We must take measures to prevent the unlawful capital flight and improve measures for preventing cyber-attacks on our financial infrastructure.
Let us now start the concrete discussion.
<…>
See also
Security Council News
Topics
National security
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 7, 2016, 14:45
Text version