Events
Meeting with UN Secretary-General-designate António Guterres
Vladimir Putin met with Secretary-General-designate of the United Nations António Guterres at the Kremlin.
November 24, 2016
15:50
The Kremlin, Moscow
5 of 8
Meeting with UN Secretary-General-designate António Guterres.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Guterres, welcome to Moscow.
This is not your first time in our country. We met back in 2000 when you were the prime minister of Portugal, and then several other times.
I would like to take this opportunity to personally congratulate you on your election to the important position of UN Secretary-General. This is a very responsible and complex job.
Russia, as one of the founders of the United Nations, has always supported its leading and central role in international affairs and has been in favour of it taking on a greater role in resolving conflicts and upholding human rights.
We are in constant touch with your predecessor, who will transfer his authority to you in January 2017, and we look forward to establishing a similar constructive dialogue with you.
Welcome.
UN Secretary-General-designate Antonio Guterres (in Russian): Thank you very much.
(In English.) President Putin, it is a great pleasure for me to be back.
As you very kindly remembered, I had a chance to meet with you at the time of the EU-Russia summit, but also the Russian-Portuguese summit that you asked us to have after the EU-Russia summit. Also, as a High Commissioner for Refugees, I had not only the pleasure and the honour to meet you but also to have very important, constructive and effective relations with your government that is something that I will obviously never forget.
I fully recognise decisive role of the Russian Federation not only in the UN but in all aspects of international relations. And I would say that an absolutely fundamental condition for me to be able to be useful to the international community is to be able to have a very constructive and positive dialogue and relationship with the Russian Federation.
We live in a world with multiple threats from the multiplication of new conflicts, the old conflicts that never die, from the spread of a new form of global terrorism to all challenges related, from climate change to food insecurity and to many other threats to the wellbeing of mankind.
I am a strong believer that global problems only can have global solutions, that there is no way a unilateral approach can solve them and I am a strong believer in the role of multilateralism. But I know that the role of the United Nations Secretary-General is not to be the leader of the world. It is a much more modest one. I will have plenty of things to do just to make sure that the machine is able to work much better than in the past. But looking at the enormous challenges in peace and security, I would like to have to offer my good services and as an added value to what necessarily is the leadership of the member states.
Topics
UN
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 24, 2016, 15:50
Text versionEvents
Russian Geographical Society’s award presentation
Vladimir Putin took part in a ceremony at the Kremlin presenting the Russian Geographical Society’s award. 
November 24, 2016
15:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
4 of 9
Vladimir Putin presented the Russian Geographical Society’s award in the category Popularising Russia’s Historical, Cultural and Natural Heritage to the makers of documentary film Vostok Station. On the Threshold of Life Olga Stefanova and Alexander Zhukov.
The President presented the award in the category Popularising Russia’s Natural, Historical and Cultural Heritage. The award went to the documentary film The Vostok Station. On the Threshold of Life(director and camerawoman Olga Stefanova, script by Sergei Khovenko).
Prizes were also awarded in the categories Expeditions, Scientific Research, Education, and Public Recognition.
In the Expeditions category, the award went to the project Hydrographical research to build a digital model of the Russian sector’s seabed relief in the Central Arctic, carried out by Yekaterina Gordeyeva and Nina Chervyakova from the State Navigation and Hydrographical Research Institute. Their project presented for the first time, detailed photography of the seabed relief in difficult icy conditions.
The winners in the nomination Scientific Research were Svetlana Malkhazova and Varvara Mironova from Moscow State University with their project Medical Geographical Atlas of Russia. Natural hotbed diseases. This 2015 publication is unique in its kind in presenting information on natural hotbed diseases in Russia and was designed to help doctors in their efforts to prevent mass disease outbreaks.
The award in the Public Recognition category was presented to the officers of the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia) Emergency Service Nikolai Nakhodkin and Afanasy Nikolayev for their comprehensive expedition project Cold Pole Joins the Oceans. This expedition marked a world first as its participants travelled by boat via natural waterways from the Pacific Ocean to the Arctic Ocean. The aim was to obtain information on little known territories and evaluate the route’s tourist potential.
The RGO award in the Education category went to the project Tatarstan at your Fingertips, carried out by workers at the Tatarstan Republic Special Library for the Visually Impaired Nail Safargaleyev and Gelyusa Zakirova. Their project publishes books on geographical, historical and cultural sites in Tatarstan in the Tatar language in special format for the visually impaired. They have already published 27 books.
During the ceremony, Mr Putin spoke briefly with two young geographers. Timofei Tsoi, aged 5, and Miroslav Oskirko, aged 9, took part in two TV programmes, where they demonstrated extraordinary geographical knowledge. Timofei Tsoi has learned the names of all of the world’s countries and their capitals and recognises their flags, while Miroslav Oskirko has been dubbed “the person with satellite vision” for his ability to recognise any country in the world or any Russian region by its outlines on the map.
Later, the President visited an exhibition of works that won the RGO competition The Most Beautiful Country. Over 4.5 months, 23,000 photographers from Russia and abroad sent in more than 110,000 photos to the competition.
The Russian Geographical Society award recognises work in national geography, ecology, and preserving and popularising Russia’s natural, historical and cultural heritage. The award is presented once every two years and has international status. It was first presented in 2014.
* * *
Speech at a ceremony presenting the RGO’s award
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends, let me say a bit more than would usually be said about this last category.
First of all, I want to take this opportunity, which does not come up so often, to thank everyone without exception who is practically involved in the Russian Geographical Society’s life, everyone who under this wonderful organisation’s aegis carries out scientific research, lectures, environmental monitoring, search work and expeditions, everyone working in all the different categories. Of course, I also thank those without whom these projects could not go ahead – the trustees.
You are all engaged in very important and tremendously interesting and fascinating work. Your work offers us examples of constructive and useful participation in our country’s life. I hope that the number of people taking up this kind of activity will keep growing.
The Russian Geographical Society’s volunteer projects and educational projects and its educational films and competitions are gaining ever greater popularity. One of them, the photo competition The Most Beautiful Country (you mentioned it today and I will certainly take a look), attracted more than 23,000 participants from Russia and abroad.
There is also the national geographical dictation. Last year, around 70,000 people took part in it. This year, preliminary figures suggest that the number of participants has already doubled.
Over these last years, the Russian Geographical Society has taken its activity to the national level. It is enough to recall the geography teachers’ congress, the draft concept for teaching geography in schools, and the work to develop educational standards and a new textbook. This is all a positive example of how public initiatives and the initiatives of specialists and enthusiasts can resolve important tasks at the national level.
This kind of active and engaged participation in Russia’s destiny was always one of the RGO’s distinguishing features. It is important that this organisation continues to attract dedicated and purpose-driven people who quite literally broaden the horizons of our knowledge and help millions of people to discover Russia’s history, culture, traditions and natural wealth.
Today, we are recognising those who have achieved significant, exceptional, I would say, results in this mission.
I am sure that the Russian Geographical Society’s award will further encourage the winners to continue their work in science, discovery and education.
Now I want to fulfil the mission that has been entrusted to me and name the winner in the category Popularising Russia’s Natural, Historical and Cultural Heritage.
Opens the envelope
The winner of the Russian Geographical Society’s award in this category is the documentary film Vostok Station. On the Threshold of Life.
* * *
Let me congratulate all of the winners once again and wish you further success. I was very impressed by what was said just now. We will never be far from geography, science, and educational work, and will never be far in these efforts from our history’s glorious pages. Our last winner mentioned Marshal Rokossovsky. This shows that the idea of reviving the Russian Geographical Society has proven its worth.
Thank you very much. I wish you success.
Topics
Environment
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 24, 2016, 15:00
Text version