Events
Meeting with VTB Bank Chairman and CEO Andrei Kostin
Vladimir Putin met with VTB Bank Chairman and CEO Andrei Kostin to discuss the group’s performance in the investment banking services market and participation in large PPP infrastructure projects, as well as consumer lending.
September 27, 2016
13:50
The Kremlin, Moscow
With VTB Bank Chairman and CEO Andrei Kostin.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Kostin, I suggest discussing the bank’s investment activities and your contribution to public-private partnership projects. I know that you are working on this.
VTB Bank Chairman and CEO Andrei Kostin
: Mr President, seven or eight years ago Russia’s investment banking services market was dominated by foreign banks, predominantly US banks.
The situation has changed radically since then. VTB Group has become the leader in investment banking services not only in Russia but also in Eastern Europe.
This year, the bank has helped attract over 810 billion rubles to the national economy, mostly through the placement of stocks and bonds issued by Russian companies.
The largest placement transactions involved Finance Ministry bonds and bonds for Russia’s largest private and state-owned companies, including state-owned companies like State Transport Leasing Company and Sovcomflot. Large placements in the Russian market were made on behalf of RZD and RusHydro and the privately owned company Magnit. The latest placement was made on behalf of Russian Post.
We conduct these transactions in both the home and international markets, lately focusing on Russian infrastructure facilities, specifically the Moscow Exchange and the National Settlement Depository. In this way, we are strengthening the national infrastructure, which I believe will eventually become the basic platform for attracting investment to the national economy.
Vladimir Putin: This is good. What about public-private partnership?
Andrei Kostin: As for PPP, we participate in nearly all major PPP projects. Our aggregate investments in these have reached 320 billion rubles.
I have to mention this major project that we will complete by the end of the year, according to plan – the Western High-Speed Diameter, the world's largest toll road project being built through a public-private partnership.
It is worth 210 billion roubles, but as you recently mentioned at a meeting in Crimea, it is not about money, but about building the road. The project will be completed on schedule.
To be honest, I recently flew over the construction site in a helicopter, and I can say that the three bridges that are part of the system are not only technically perfect, but they will further beautify the great architecture of St. Petersburg. I have absolutely no doubt.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, I have seen it. It is beautiful.
Andrei Kostin: I would like to say that we are certainly using those forums that have been established, including the St. Petersburg Economic Forum and the Eastern Economic Forum in Vladivostok. Preparations for VTB’s eighth financial forum Russia Calling! are now in full swing.
I would like to invite you to speak at that forum on October 12. Your speech is already a tradition. It is central to the forum and always arouses great interest among investors from around the world.
Vladimir Putin: All right.
I know that your bank has participated in the placement of government securities.
Andrei Kostin: Yes, Mr. President. It was a success in spite of all the difficulties that we encountered, and we can continue this work if needed; we are prepared for it.
Vladimir Putin: How is your work with individual clients?
Andrei Kostin: The retail loan portfolio is growing now, the situation has improved and we are seeing increased demand.
The reduction in the Central Bank refinance rate is certainly a positive factor, which will lead to a reduction in the cost of loans to individuals, among other things.
Thus, the business is growing, and we are now building up these activities through our subsidiaries – VTB Group as well as its subsidiary Pochta Bank. We expect this work to continue.
Vladimir Putin: Good.
<…>
Topics
Banks
Persons
Kostin Andrei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 27, 2016, 13:50
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Agriculture Minister Alexander Tkachev
Vladimir Putin met with Agriculture Minister Alexander Tkachev. The Minister briefed the President on the planned grain harvest and the Russian agricultural industry’s export potential.
September 27, 2016
14:40
The Kremlin, Moscow
With Agriculture Minister Alexander Tkachev.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Tkachev, harvesting is gradually moving towards completion. What result will you report this year?
Agriculture Minister Alexander Tkachev
: The outlook is better than ever. Actually, we have a unique opportunity to gather in the largest harvest in the past 25 years: between 110 and 115 million tonnes. As of now, we have finished harvesting about 80 percent of the farmland.
We had a similar harvest in 1990, but this was due to several factors, including the area cultivated, which was 10 million hectares larger. The average yield is now 24 centners per hectare, thanks to higher yield and farming standards and improved farming technologies. Back then, we only harvested 10 to 15 centners per hectare. In other words, government investment in agriculture…
Vladimir Putin: The yield has almost doubled.
Alexander Tkachev: Yes, it has almost doubled. Some years, say in the 1950s and 1960s, the yield was 7–8 centners across the country, both in the southern regions and in the Russian Far East.
We can gather in large harvests in Russia thanks to unprecedented state support – unprecedented is the right word here – and the dedicated efforts of the agricultural workers, including farm equipment operators, researchers and other professionals. In addition, the weather was quite cooperative this year.
I should say that we need not be alarmed by the figures. According to global practice, the grain balance in wealthier countries is one tonne per person. For us that would be about 150 million tonnes. We will harvest about 115–116 million tonnes this year, and so there is still room for improvement.
If we continue to improve our performance, there are grounds to believe that the yield will grow, because we used amelioration and other faming technologies to develop new land and to reclaim the areas that were overgrown with trees or have become deserts – we will be able to gather in 150 million tonnes in 10 or 15 years at the most. We will be able to feed the country and export the larger part of the harvest.
Vladimir Putin: Is our export potential growing?
Alexander Tkachev: Yes, Mr President. We increased grain exports by 30 to 40 percent over the past 5–7 years. We are gaining a foothold in new markets, not only in the Gulf area but also in North Africa and Asia Pacific. We have a presence there, and we will continue to strengthen our positions.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Tkachev, we should take several factors into account here; you are well aware of them.
First, when planning exports we must not forget about our national interests and the domestic market of fodder and food grains. Despite growing exports, our priority task is to satisfy the domestic demand.
The second factor is the market situation. You know about the situation in global markets, where grain prices have decreased. We should take note of this, and we probably should not hurry to market more grain but instead keep up the grain prices in the interests of our farmers.
As far as I know and can see from documents, we are increasing not only grain exports but also the export of livestock produce, such as pork and poultry. Do you see any positive change in this area?
Alexander Tkachev: I will start with the first point, if I may. Of course, the Agriculture Ministry must maintain the balance. We are monitoring this, and I can assure you that meeting the demand for fodder and food grain is our top priority.
Only surplus grain – I stress, only surplus grain is exported. There can be no other way. Exports are a source of revenue, of foreign currency, which is making our farmers richer and giving them an income.
As for other products, you are absolutely right that our livestock exports are growing. Over the past five months, we increased pork exports threefold to some $10 million, and this is only the beginning.
Actually, we have barely entered this market. You know better than I do that we used to import huge amounts of livestock produce, starting with US chicken quarters, pork and beef, as well as dairy products. We have increased poultry exports 3.5 times to some $25 million.
I am sure that our exports will reach hundreds of millions of dollars. We must certainly increase that. The exportable grain should be used to produce fodder that will be supplied to our livestock breeders, so that we ultimately export finished products, earning much more.
Vladimir Putin: Good.
<…>
Topics
Agriculture
Persons
Tkachev Alexander
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 27, 2016, 14:40
Text version