Events
Meeting with President of Transneft Nikolai Tokarev
Board Chairman and President of Transneft Nikolai Tokarev briefed Vladimir Putin on the company’s current activity.
September 12, 2016
18:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
Meeting with President of Transneft Nikolai Tokarev.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Tokarev, let us begin with the company’s results over the first nine months of the year and then move on to some specific matters.
President of Transneft Nikolai Tokarev: Mr President, the company’s operations are stable, activities are proceeding as planned and we are set to meet our targets for this year. This concerns all areas — production, financial and economic activity, new construction, and the complete overhaul, reconstruction and modernisation of existing facilities.
We have allocated a total budget of 349 billion rubles for this work this year. Of this, 159 billion rubles is for new construction and the rest is for the complete overhaul and modernisation of existing facilities.
Taxes and wages are paid on time. By the way, the average wage in the company is around 75,000 rubles. Wages are lower in the central regions. In Bryansk Region, for example, the average wage for the region as a whole is 28,000 rubles, but our company’s workers in this region earn 38,000–39,000 on average, and in the northern regions our workers earn 110,000–115,000 rubles.
Vladimir Putin: It is tough work they do up there.
Nikolai Tokarev: It is, and the conditions are completely different there. We pay special rates for working in the Far North. This is why wages are higher there.
Overall, we can guarantee that the facilities we planned to complete this year will be ready by the end of the year. This includes our biggest projects that we have been carrying out over these last four years. The Zapolyarye-Purpe project is in itself a unique undertaking that will give oil workers access to new fields in the Far North, beyond the Polar Circle.
Our developers and designers received a state prize from the Government for new and very original engineering solutions that were used in building this oil pipeline.
We have already defended more than 30 international patents for these developments. In general, when this pipeline starts operation, it will make it possible to compensate in a large part for the noticeably reduced volumes produced at the West Siberian fields today. Planned capacity is 45 million tonnes and the first stage will give us a capacity of 32 million tonnes. The oil producers have already started delivering oil. We received our first batch from Lukoil. Now we will test all the equipment in start-up mode.
We thought at first that we would encounter problems with ensuring sufficient oil supplies for the pipeline given the delays in developing new fields, but we think things are moving along at a good pace now and the oil pipeline will be working at a comfortable level.
Vladimir Putin: Which of the new facilities do you consider the most important?
Nikolai Tokarev: We have spent four years on the Zapolyarye-Purpe project and it cost more than 200 billion rubles. In December this year, we will complete another mainline pipeline, the Kuyumba-Taishet pipeline, which will also give oil workers access to a region of abundant fields and will link up with the East Siberia–Pacific Ocean (ESPO) system. We have been working on this project for three years and it is now in commissioning and start-up phase. This is a major contribution to increasing production volumes and maintaining them at the level the Energy Ministry planned.
This year, we plan to ship around 482 million tonnes of oil. This is 1.5 million tonnes more than in 2015. Of this total, 238 million tonnes are to be exported, while 244 million tonnes will go to refineries here in Russia. Our domestic refining volumes have somewhat increased after new capacity was added through reconstruction, and then this is a market with a good premium.
At the same time, we are also increasing the throughput capacity of the East Siberia–Pacific Ocean pipeline, bringing it up to design capacity. By 2020, we plan to have 80 million tonnes going through ESPO-1, and 50 million tonnes going through ESPO-2, from Skovorodino to Kozmino. This is the maximum capacity for which the project was designed and built. This involves the construction of ten new pump stations, with construction and assembly work already underway on four of them, and project and prospecting work underway for the rest.
In this respect, we are fully meeting our obligations to the People’s Republic of China. We are ensuring work for our refineries in the region. Overall, the project makes it possible to develop capacity at Kozmino more intensively. Today, our Chinese partners take around 60 percent, even 67 percent, of the oil at Kozmino. Fifteen percent go to Japanese consumers, and then come Malaysia and Singapore, and in small amounts of 1.5 percent — other consumers in the region.
We are working today and have increased Kozmino’s capacity. It will be possible to load 150,000 tonne tankers there now, and this will make it possible to work more intensively.
As far as construction of petroleum product transport routes goes, in accordance with Government instructions, we have redirected freight flows from the Baltic ports of Ventspils and Riga to our own Baltic ports of Ust-Luga and Primorsk, and also to Novorossiisk.
Last year, around 9 million tonnes were shipped through the Baltic ports, while this year the figure was 5 million tonnes. By 2018, we will reduce this flow to the Baltic ports to zero and will direct it to our ports instead, as we have surplus capacity.
The refineries currently provide up to 32 million tonnes of petroleum products for shipping through our mainline system, and capacity currently not needed for crude oil transport will be re-profiled to ship petroleum products. This will enable us to ship up to 25 million tonnes of diesel fuel to Primorsk, and to Novorossiisk from the Volgograd refinery within the Krasnodar Territory group of refineries.
Vladimir Putin: Good.
<…>
Topics
Energy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 12, 2016, 18:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Head of Rosatom State Corporation Sergei Kiriyenko
Vladimir Putin held a working meeting with Head of Rosatom State Atomic Energy Corporation Sergei Kiriyenko.
September 12, 2016
15:30
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
With Head of Rosatom State Corporation Sergei Kiriyenko.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Kiriyenko, I have the usual questions: what is the situation in the sector, how is your work going, and how is work with our partners abroad going?
CEO of Rosatom State Atomic Energy Corporation Sergei Kiriyenko
: We have several major achievements as far as work in Russia goes, in particular, the launch of new facilities. We had a key event this summer that was a first not only for our nuclear energy sector but for the world in general — the launch of a new unit at the Novovoronezh nuclear power plant. This is the world’s first generation 3+ power unit. There was much discussion of the ‘post-Fukushima’ requirements following the events at Fukushima. There were many projects, and construction has begun in many places, but it was Russia that completed the first new generation power unit. Overall, this confirms our leadership in the sector.
This is important for us as a benchmark power unit, of course. We are building units of the same type and design in Belarus, Hungary, Egypt and Bangladesh. We have completed this first project and we now have people coming on a pilgrimage as it were, foreign delegations asking to let them take a look at the new face of nuclear energy.
The second important event in Russia was that the BN-800 sodium-cooled fast breeder reactor in Sverdlovsk Region is now working at full capacity. This is a new generation reactor to appear on the commercial market somewhere around the end of 2020, we think. This is the next step in fast breeder technology. Russia is the absolute leader in this sector. We operated the BN-600 reactor with success for more than 30 years, and now we have the BN-800, which is the most advanced reactor in the world. As it is a fast breeder reactor, it uses uranium isotope U-238, which is 100 times more abundant in nature and leaves us with less waste at the end. In other words, this is a much safer and cleaner technology. Here again, Russia was the first to make this a reality.
As for the situation abroad, Mr President, as you may remember, you and the Indian Prime Minister inaugurated the first power unit at the Kudankulam nuclear power station on August 10. The Indian Prime Minister asked us on that occasion to speed up the launch of the second power unit. I can report now that the second unit came on line on August 29 and is now gaining capacity. We are now working actively on the third and fourth units. We have just settled the details with our Indian partners and will be ready this autumn to sign an agreement to build the fifth and sixth units.
They are happy with the product and this seems to have prompted them to want to take the project further. The power unit’s technical characteristics are better than what was in the contract. It was a case of us delivering more than we promised. The unit’s efficiency is 2.5 percent higher than what was set out in the contract, capacity is 2.5 percent higher, and the availability factor is 8 percent higher.
Vladimir Putin: Is the price the same as before?
Sergei Kiriyenko: Concerning the price, we met our obligations, but this first unit we built there was much better than originally promised. This is important for our other projects in third countries. Everybody was watching the implementation of this project. The fact that the product was better than what we promised is important.
Finally, Mr President, a ceremony took place at Bushehr in Iran on September 10, the groundbreaking ceremony for the second and third power units. The first unit, overall, was not a straightforward project.
Vladimir Putin: It had to be redone.
Sergei Kiriyenko: No one in the world had undertaken such a project. The Germans started building the first unit 30 years ago but then abandoned it. When we took on the commitment to complete it, it had a hole in the roof from a direct missile hit. We rebuilt and completed the unit and won ourselves great trust from our partners in Iran and other countries. We have now signed a framework agreement to build a series of reactors in Iran.
We had a ground-breaking ceremony on September 10 in Bushehr for the second and third units, and then work will shift to another site. In other words, the Bushehr power plant will have three or four units, and then work will continue at another site in Iran. The Iranians have already said the first unit at Bushehr has already saved them 27 million barrels of oil and that each unit will save them 11 million barrels a year. They think the project has already paid itself off and is now generating revenue.
We are also building up a good pace in service and maintenance work. It is important to build new power plants, of course, but we built a large number of plants around the world during the Soviet period, so we set the objective of increasing the services we provide for these facilities. This is bringing in good revenue. The volume of services we provide in this area has increased by around 74 percent, from 17 power units to 24. This year, we want to bring the number of power plants we service to 34. Most important is that this is a long-term job.
We are signing new contracts now not only for construction, but for the whole life cycle, including services, operation, and fuel supplies. In terms of the revenue this generates for Russian industry, this is even greater than the cost of building power units. A power plant will work for at least 60 years. We provide contractual guarantees of 60 years for the new power units we are building, but we know that in reality, they will work for at least 80 years.
Then there are our additional export products, primarily isotope products. Sales here have had a 2.5-fold increase.
Vladimir Putin: Products for use in medicine?
Sergei Kiriyenko: Primarily for use in medicine, also in material studies and scientific research. We export to a wide range of countries. Australia and Europe are among our traditional markets. We have started exporting to Brazil, Argentina, Vietnam, Indonesia, Malaysia, even Japan. Our exports are increasing every year and this is good for revenue and also for giving our institutes work.
We are moving further now. We began with isotopes but are now moving into radiopharmaceuticals. As you heard at the meeting in Tula, a complete technological chain of Russian-made medical equipment is in place now. Our objective was to supply not only isotopes or produce radiopharmaceutical products, but to ensure the entire range of Russian-made medical equipment as well.
Vladimir Putin: The resulting equipment is good, modern and very promising.
Sergei Kiriyenko: Yes, the technical characteristics are just as good as and sometimes even better than those of foreign equivalents, and the cost is at least twice lower.
<…>
Topics
Energy
Persons
Kiriyenko Sergei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 12, 2016, 15:30
Text version