Events
Meeting with parents of Hero of Russia Magomed Nurbagandov
Vladimir Putin met with the parents of Dagestani police officer Magomed Nurbagandov who died a hero’s death. The meeting was attended by Minister of the Interior Vladimir Kolokoltsev and Head of Dagestan Ramazan Abdulatipov.
September 21, 2016
18:00
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
2 of 3
Meeting with the parents of Hero of Russia Magomed Nurbagandov.
The President signed an executive order awarding Magomed Nurbagandov the title of the Hero of Russia posthumously.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Welcome.
I know that you are now going through hard times and would not like to take part in any official meetings or conversations. Please forgive me for inviting you here at such a difficult moment but I wanted very much to shake your hand and thank you for your son.
He was a real hero, which is why yesterday I signed an executive order awarding him the Star of the Hero of the Russian Federation. He is a hero because far from every person remains committed to his oath and duty and to his people, to the point of risking his life in the face of gunfire.
Only cowards can shoot an unarmed person, only cowards. And only real heroes, real men like the son you brought up, can look death in the eyes without fear. This is an example for many of us. And his words “Do your duty, brothers” is an order to all his fellow officers.
I am deeply indebted to you. I recall how Dagestani militiamen fought against terrorism when they faced this threat. He is a hero of that order. I know that no words can alleviate your grief, of course. However, I want you to know that the people of Moscow and Russia, all people who have a heart, a conscience and any sense at all, understand very well what happened. All of us, and you should know this.
Again, I am deeply indebted to you, and I thank you so much for your son.
<…>
See also
The President signed Executive Order to award title of Hero of Russia (posthumously) to Magomed Nurbagandov
September 21, 2016
Geography
Republic of Daghestan
Topics
Armed Forces
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 21, 2016, 18:00
Text versionEvents
Vostochno-Messoyakha oilfield launched
Vladimir Putin launched operations at the Vostochno-Messoyakha oilfield, Russia’s northernmost onshore deposit. The launch ceremony for the largest Arctic project took place via a video linkup.
September 21, 2016
13:45
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 5
Vostochno-Messoyakha oilfield launched.
Gazprom CEO Alexei Miller
and Rosneft CEO Igor Sechin
reported on the project’s progress to the President.
The Vostochno-Messoyakha oilfield is operated by Messoyakhaneftegaz, a joint venture between Gazprom Neft and Rosneft. The project was implemented in complete isolation from transport and other infrastructure. Oil from the field will first enter the Zapolyarye-Purpe mainline pipe system through a 98-kilometre long pipeline.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
Today we are launching commercial production at the Vostochno-Messoyakha oilfield in the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area. This is the northernmost major onshore oilfield in Russia. It is a result of the hard, I would say, massive effort of many teams. The work began decades ago after the geological survey was completed.
The discovered oil-bearing areas are located in a region with extreme weather conditions. Extracting oil from Messoyakha and its transportation required thousands of experts, the most complex technology and huge investment. The project involved our leading energy companies, Rosneft and Gazprom.
Let me note that the economic development of the Arctic territories and the launch of new large deposits were possible thanks to large infrastructure projects. As you may remember, on April 22, 2010, the Government signed an order to design and begin construction of the Zapolyarye-Purpe main oil pipeline.
This pipeline and the adjacent Eastern Siberia-Pacific Ocean pipeline are the main pathways for the oil to be delivered to the domestic and global markets. It will serve the development of Russian enterprises and contribute to the stability of the global energy market.
I would like to add that after the Vostochno-Messoyakha oilfield, we plan to develop the Zapadno-Messoyakha oilfield, which means there is a lot of very ambitious work ahead that our country needs.
Congratulations on today’s milestone. I wish you success in the future stages of the project. Good luck.
Gazprom CEO Alexei Miller: Mr President, the Messoyakha oilfield is located on the Gydan Peninsula in the Arctic, 350 kilometres north of Novy Urengoi. Eighty-five billion rubles was invested in its development. The operation of the oilfield until 2040 will bring a total of one trillion rubles in taxes to the budgets at all levels.
Viewing a video about the oilfield.
Mr President, we have Rosneft CEO Igor Sechin and Gazprom Neft Chairman Alexander Dyukov on the line.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Sechin, please.
Rosneft CEO Igor Sechin: Mr President, the first commercial oil from the Vostochno-Messoyakha oilfield will enter the Russian main oil pipelines today. It is a great honour for the teams of Rosneft and Gazprom Neft to launch this oilfield into commercial production under your supervision.
The main deposits of this oilfield are located in complex geologic structures, and each of them has its specifics. Therefore, we used the most advanced technology to model and carry out the drilling. Fifty-one oil wells were built, including technology-intensive horizontal directional wells with side tracks that increased the well rate by 40 percent.
Facilities have been built for oil treatment and shipping in the absence of an industrial and transport infrastructure. Our company, in particular, provided access to the latest technologies employed in such major Arctic projects as the Vankor oil and gas field.
Mr President, I would like to report that we are finishing the development of the Vankor cluster in general, and we hope that next month we will report the launch of the Suzunskoye field located 150 km from Messoyakha at the same latitude. This year, Suzun will give us 1,200,000 tonnes of oil. It will eventually produce 4.5 million tonnes per year. The next stage is the Tagulskoye field in Eastern Siberia.
With high competition in the global hydrocarbon market, it is essential for the Russian oil industry to maintain production at the same level and launch more new fields. Our industry needs tax incentives in order to remain competitive on the global scene. As Mr Miller said, we invested 250 billion rubles in this field alone. We believe the tax incentives that are being developed must use a versatile approach based on oil reservoir properties, chemical and physical properties of the crude oil, the water cut of deposits and the available infrastructure.
Mr President, the success of our large-scale projects is, without doubt, a result of your support for and attention to our companies and projects. I would like to thank you on behalf of the Rosneft and Gazprom Neft teams for your attention, involvement and support.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: Colleagues, congratulations on this important milestone in the Russian energy industry. Congratulations to the construction workers, experts, engineers and managers. I wish you all success.
Thank you.
Geography
Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area
Topics
Energy
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 21, 2016, 13:45
Text versionEvents
Meeting of Council for Strategic Development and Priority Projects
Vladimir Putin chaired a meeting of the Presidential Council for Strategic Development and Priority Projects. Participants discussed support measures for small businesses and comprehensive development of the transport infrastructure.
September 21, 2016
16:20
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 5
Meeting of Council for Strategic Development and Priority Projects.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
Today, there are two main items on our agenda: small businesses, and road quality and traffic safety.
I will begin with roads. Much has been done in recent years. We talk about it constantly, but a lot has also been done. Federal highways are being brought up to standard, and this work is funded almost in full.
Of course, roads are always a challenge, and we need to do even more in that area than has already been done. I will say more on that later. With regard to federal highways, the work is moving in the right direction. According to the Ministry of Transport, the financing of federal roads stands at about 91 percent of the amount of standard expenses involved in major overhauls, repair and maintenance.
Notably, a drop in the traffic-related death rate is the most important outcome of the upgrading of federal roads. By the way, we have not yet achieved the benchmark set for 2018 in accordance with the May executive orders. As you may recall, the goal is to reduce traffic-related deaths to 10.6 per 100,000 by 2018. We have witnessed a certain decline, but this figure has yet to be reached.
I would also like to point out that, when it comes to road safety, the law now draws a clear line between the responsibility of the federal, regional and municipal authorities, and that of the owners of private roads.
I would like to make one more point. As we know from the direct lines with our citizens, the condition of regional and local roads is often criticised. Many of them, even in cities with one million or more residents have remained without proper maintenance for a long time now. This problem needs to be resolved, and at a much faster pace than has been done until now. To do so, we need to fully utilise the resources of the regional road funds. All the more so, since we decided to allocate additional funds from excise taxes on petrol to these funds.
According to the Transport Ministry, this decision will make it possible to allot an additional 40 billion rubles to the regional budgets for further crediting of regional road fund accounts.
For your reference, I would also like to say that at present, financing of regional roads in the Russian Federation on average does not exceed 15 percent of the normative funding levels for major repairs, servicing and maintenance.
I also consider it important to ensure the maximum possible informational transparency with regard to road construction and the use of road fund resources. Citizens certainly have the right and should be able to see how the collected resources are spent.
I would like to reiterate that we should drastically improve the situation with regard to regional roads. As a first step, efforts could be focused on so-called agglomerations, where the largest number of the country’s citizens live.
It is necessary to set a coherent, clear task: by 2018, no less than half of the roads in these agglomerations should be brought up to standard, to a state that meets modern requirements, while by 2025, the share of such roads should reach about 85 percent, no less. In fact, these are feasible tasks, because at present, about 65 percent of federal and only 39 percent of regional roads meet the normative requirements. Generally, as I said, these are quite realistic tasks.
In this regard, I would like to ask the Construction Ministry to expedite the adoption of regulatory acts and standards, which will make it possible to build roads by using advanced technologies and materials.
Special attention should also be paid to road safety. There are dangerous road sections where, because of potholes and bumps, and a lack of guardrails, markings or warning signs, road accidents with serious and very serious, including fatal consequences happen time after time. It is necessary to eliminate such sections, including in large agglomerations, where traffic is especially intense.
At the same time, it is certainly important to continuously receive information about dangerous, accident-prone road sections from citizens, so that they can oversee what the authorities and road owners are doing to rectify the situation.
I will ask the Minister of the Interior to tell us in more detail about what is being done to enhance safety on the roads. It is a disaster. I do not even want to talk about it – I would rather hear from you – because there is so much rough stuff and it is such a mess. The authorities must respond to cases of such behaviour.
Colleagues, one more topic of our meeting is support for small businesses and individual entrepreneurs.
We have addressed this subject more than once and are implementing the decisions that have been adopted. The development of small and medium-sized businesses is effective and much in demand. During this year alone, purchases by natural monopolies and companies with public ownership increased more than ten-fold and exceeded a trillion roubles, which is a significant amount. As a result, over 110,000 jobs have been created in small companies. This is a good indicator.
By 2018 the number of peopled employed by small companies and individual entrepreneurs should increase to 20 million. In the long-term, the level of employment in small companies and their share of the GDP should catch up with those countries where business, primarily small and medium-sized, is the backbone of the economy. We must continue creating a favourable environment for business, focusing our efforts on supporting key small business sectors.
There is something I would like to add. First, we must primarily pay attention to the development of manufacturing, high-tech small business. Such companies should not only be guaranteed demand for their products and orders from large corporations with public ownership. It is necessary to help them supply quality and competitive products.
Today small companies often find it difficult to certify their products, as we said many times, and to get access to equipment, technology and loans. We must create a whole infrastructure of support for small-business producers, including a network of regional leasing centres that will be ready to provide entrepreneurs with modern equipment.
Second, it is necessary to take a large step forward in terms of developing business in rural areas, primarily by helping owners of household plots to sell their produce, providing them with guarantees and loan support and assisting them in organising production.
A number of areas, for instance Lipetsk and Tyumen regions, have successful experience in developing agricultural cooperation. I suggest elaborating mechanisms for spreading the best regional practices.
Third, services are a large niche for small companies. It is necessary to make greater efforts to expand throughout the country of the step-by-step support system for entrepreneurs who wish to work in this sphere.
The so-called “business navigator” that has already been launched should become a major instrument in this respect. It provides, free of charge, more or less complete information on what services are required in a city or village, how to set up a business faster and what assistance is available.
I would like to mention in particular those who work independently in different spheres – from small repairs and construction to auto care. As you may understand, I am referring to so-called self-employed individuals. We have millions of them. People are simply compelled to remain “in the shadows” so as not to deal with the red tape, exaction, constant inspections and pressure that are probably excessive for the type of work involved.
I think that self-employed citizens should be offered an understandable and convenient instrument for cooperating with the state in order to enable them to calmly and legally run and expand their small but private business and to earn a living honestly through their labour and abilities.
We have repeatedly discussed, and I have just spoken about this to Mr Medvedev, and at forums of the United Russia party and Russian Popular Front events the need to relieve the self-employed from taxes and mandatory fees for a certain period, for instance a couple of years, so as to enable them to get into a normal rhythm of legal operations without too many burdens.
In addition, of course, it is necessary to rule out any possibility of qualifying the work of self-employed citizens as illegal entrepreneurship. If need be, special amendments should be introduced in the legislation.
<…>
See also
News of Council for Strategic Development and Priority Projects
Topics
Support for business
Transport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Commissions and Councils, Council for Strategic Development and National Projects
Publication date: September 21, 2016, 16:20
Text versionEvents
Meeting with German Vice Chancellor and Economy and Energy Minister Sigmar Gabriel
At his Novo-Ogaryovo country residence, Vladimir Putin met with German Vice Chancellor and Economy and Energy Minister Sigmar Gabriel.
September 21, 2016
20:00
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
5 of 5
Meeting with German Vice Chancellor and Economy and Energy Minister Sigmar Gabriel.
On the Russian side, the meeting was also attended by Presidential Aide Yury Ushakov
, Economic Development Minister Alexei Ulyukayev
and Gazprom Board Chairman Alexei Miller
.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Vice Chancellor, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to welcome you to Moscow once again. I am very pleased to see you.
The Federal Republic of Germany remains one of our most important trade and economic partners. Unfortunately, our trade balance is falling. Last year it was minus 35 percent and even more, over minus 40 percent. In the first six months of this year, it was again minus 35.
We are making certain efforts – at least we are trying to on both sides now. We know that the Days of Russia forum took place in Rostock, which was attended by more than 600 business representatives from both Germany and Russia. We can see that businesspeople are inclined to develop relations.
In this context, we consider your visit to be very important. I hope that we will be able to talk and search for ways to solve the problems that we are facing.
Welcome to Moscow.
Vice Chancellor and Minister for Economic Affairs and Energy Sigmar Gabriel (retranslated): Thank you, Mr President. I am glad that I managed to visit you in Moscow.
As you know, we had already fixed the date, but in connection with Britain’s decision, Europe is in a predicament. This is why this visit was postponed, and I am glad that we managed to make it happen. Our delegation includes representatives of the business community. You rightly said that there are interested parties on both sides: Russian and German entrepreneurs want not only to maintain the existing cooperation, but also to expand it.
I personally attended the Russian Economy Days in Rostock and met with the Russian Minister of Industry there. I can say that this interest exists not only in the East of Germany. The entire economy and all business quarters of Germany are very interested in developing and expanding all contacts despite the existing crises.
Thank you for the opportunity to meet with a representative of your Government tomorrow. Over 5,000 German companies are represented here, in the Russian Federation. Therefore, we are grateful for the opportunity to continue our dialogue.
We are meeting in very difficult times. We always meet during hard times. I visited the Soviet Union for the first time in 1980, when the West boycotted the Olympic games. It so happens that I always come here during times of trial.
There are complicated issues related to Syria and Ukraine. I would be grateful if we could discuss them, especially the most recent incidents, such as the attack on the humanitarian convoy in Syria. Naturally, this is making the situation much more complicated. I would be grateful if we could find an opportunity to discuss these issues.
Vladimir Putin: By all means.
As for the German entrepreneurs who came this time, we have very many friends in Germany, and despite all the difficulties arising in politics, our friends remain our friends and we know and feel this.
Our German friends also know that we remain their friends. Therefore, I think that relying on this positive potential, we should seek solutions to all complicated issues. We will find them eventually, but the sooner the better.
<…>
Geography
Germany
Topics
Economy and finance
Energy
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 21, 2016, 20:00
Text version