Later today, Vladimir Putin and Alexander Lukashenko will take part in a meeting of the Supreme State Council of the Union State of Russia and Belarus.
: Mr Putin, Mr Medvedev, friends,
Mr Lukashenko, you were there at the very start of this process. I would like to thank you for this, because it was thanks to you and Boris Yeltsin that the process was launched, and, I repeat, we are now able to make new steps in developing our special relationship. I am certain that our work today will serve as an impetus for this positive process that is of such importance for our countries and peoples.Events
Statements for the press following the meeting of the Supreme State Council of the Union State of Russia and Belarus
February 25, 2016
19:35
Minsk
Statements for the press following the meeting of the Supreme State Council of the Union State of Russia and Belarus. With President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko.
President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko
: Mr Putin, ladies and gentlemen,
First of all, I want to once again welcome the President of Russia, Mr Putin, our Russian colleagues and friends, and the Russian leadership to Belarus. Many of you have been here before, but there are one or two people who have come to Minsk for the first time. We are very happy to see you.
Today’s meeting of the Supreme State Council once again proved the exceptional significance of our Union agenda. Time and history put everything in its place, and we are even more aware of the unfading value of Belarusian-Russian friendship.
I said that time has proved it, and this is not just a phrase. At some point, you and I heard suggestions like, “Well, what’s a Union State, as a project? Let’s take a broader perspective,” – and we sat there and discussed the issue and probably made the right decision then, that this Union State project was not hindering anyone at the time, and we were at the forefront with it. And as you noted today, and I want to repeat it again, we were right in sticking to this Union State project, which we use to work on many issues that will be useful to any integration association, including our integration within the Eurasian Economic Union.
Today, we had a detailed review of all the current issues pertaining to various areas of our cooperation. One of the most important questions was the result of the trade and economic cooperation between our two countries last year. True, we are under the influence of external threats to our economies. There is no point in discussing the reasons behind them; we all know them.
But we came to the common understanding that today, we must give even more attention, working closely together, to economic issues and give our utmost efforts to increasing mutual trade, strengthening our cooperation ties, developing a common industrial policy, cutting barriers and eliminating exceptions in the common market. I am absolutely certain that, working under the new conditions, we will nevertheless overcome the problems we currently face.
Today, we adopted the Union State’s budget for 2016. It is important that even in this complicated financial and economic situation, we approved the budget in the amount of over six billion Russian rubles. A significant part of these funds will be used to implement Union programmes and host events that are absolutely essential for us.
See also
Meeting of the Union State Supreme State Council
February 25, 2016
We examined the implementation of priority projects, top priority objectives for further developing our Union State project through 2017. We set forth clear indicators for next steps, aimed at maintaining the positive momentum in our union building.
We also discussed the results of carrying out the coordinated foreign policy action programme and outlined key areas and directions of our actions through 2017 as regards foreign policy.
By the way, the absence of any kind of misunderstanding or mistrust in our interaction on the international arena is the best demonstration of Belarusian-Russian unity and strategic partnership in these difficult times; our foreign ministers spoke about this as well.
We gave attention to issues of international and regional security. Moreover, we developed a clear action plan for the regional group of Belarusian and Russian troops. They are in line with modern standards. We spoke for strengthening mutual understanding in all areas, first and foremost in broadening and developing integration processes.
Our nations have a great deal of potential. And in this respect, the Union State must operate as a powerful platform for developing the full spectrum of mutual cooperation, and provide effective support for the formation of the Eurasian Economic Union.
I hope that the agreements reached at the highest level will allow us to dynamically step up our cooperation and overcome any contradictions or disagreements as partners, in the spirit of a genuine alliance, as it befits the Union State.
Once again, Mr President, I thank you and all our Russian colleagues, members of the Government Cabinet, Mr Medvedev
, and the head of the upper chamber of the Russian parliament for coming to Belarus today, thus demonstrating support for the course we are on, which we have committed to in these recent years together with the Russian Federation.
Thank you.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: In addition to what Mr Lukashenko has said, I would like to tell you that in the course of our talks and the Supreme State Council meeting we covered the entire range of issues of Russian-Belarusian cooperation, which is of a strategic and truly allied nature.
We gave special attention to developing a future agenda pertaining to economic development and furthering trade and investment ties. We agreed to coordinate our macroeconomic regulation efforts, as well as measures to ensure the Union’s stable economic growth in conditions of an unfavourable external market situation.
We have made an important decision regarding the further alignment of national legislations, eliminating the remaining barriers and improving our business climates. I would also like to note that Russia is the main economic partner for Belarus. We accounted for about 50 percent of its trade in 2015. More than 2,500 companies with Russian participation operate in Belarus, and more than a 1,000 Belarusian companies work in Russia.
In the course of our talks, we had a detailed consideration of opportunities for further enhancing production cooperation. We agreed to step up our efforts to develop a single industrial policy, including within the framework of the import replacement working group set up last November. We also planned specific measures to prevent illegal trade in industrial products. An appropriate joint statement was approved on the sidelines of today’s meeting.
We also had a frank exchange on current world and regional affairs. Within this context, we discussed further strengthening foreign policy cooperation and heard reports by our foreign ministers.
We spoke of enhancing the defence potential and security of the Union State, as Mr Lukashenko has just said. We approved a programme of coordinated actions on the international arena. This will make it possible to more efficiently coordinate our efforts and develop a single approach to acute regional and global issues.
Mr Lukashenko has already mentioned the important resolutions we have passed. They are directed at further enhancing Union State activities. We approved the 2016 Union budget. Despite the negative macroeconomic tendencies we managed to retain its volume at the same level. We will continue implementing more than 40 inter-state economic, social and humanitarian programmes. I am convinced that the agreements reached today in Minsk will serve to strengthen the Union State.
Thank you for your attention.
Geography
Belarus
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Lukashenko Alexander
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 25, 2016, 19:35
Text versionEvents
Addresses at Supreme State Council meeting of the Union State of Russia and Belarus
February 25, 2016
18:35
Minsk
At the meeting of the Union State Supreme State Council.
President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko
: Mr Putin, friends, allow me to welcome you to Minsk, to Belarus.
We continue to build our Union, to implement our projects in difficult conditions. The global economic instability, crisis of confidence in international relations, escalation of armed conflicts and flare-up in information warfare are challenging our integration. However, the current situation should not affect our priorities in the Union State’s work. The most important among them is comprehensive cooperation for the good of our peoples.
Constructive dialogue in politics, the economy, security, and the social and cultural sectors remains the key to achieving common integration goals. I am confident that we have all the conditions to achieve it.
Recently, when meeting with the President of Russia in Sochi, we reiterated our desire to strengthen Belarusian-Russian cooperation in all areas, to resolve any problems that occur.
Today, the most pressing issues in union-building will be discussed at the Supreme State Council meeting, issues that should be to that high level without affecting our bilateral relations, where we resolve current issues.
Priority attention should be given to the economic aspect. Unfortunately, we are not taking full advantage of the potential our bilateral trade and economic ties hold. In a global economic downturn, I doubt this is justifiable. We must think together – and the President and I have already agreed to do so – about how to coordinate our resources and use them to the maximum degree.
See also
Meeting of the Union State Supreme State Council
February 25, 2016
Unfortunately, this is the third year when we are seeing a drop in mutual trade: in 2015, it decreased by more than a quarter. We can and must overcome this negative trend through our joint efforts.
Any imbalances in the relationship between our nations or inconsistencies in how we conduct our economic policies are sensitive for our mutual trade; we just discussed this, as well. So we are both interested in eliminating barriers, ensuring the effective functioning of a common market for goods, services and capital, and providing mutual support.
During today’s meeting, we will also discuss ways to meet the Union State’s proposed priority development targets and objectives for the medium-term. Having identified them a year ago, we must clearly understand where we have made progress and where we are lagging.
Leading global powers and neighbouring nations are paying close attention to Belarus and Russia’s foreign policy activities and the military aspects of our cooperation. Another important issue on our agenda is examining and approving a coordinated action programme in foreign policy of the states – parties to the Treaty Establishing the Union State through 2016–2017. It is imperative for us to fully take into account the effective experience we acquired when working to implement the previous similar document.
The ongoing military and political crises, the return of many nations to a bloc-oriented mentality and widespread use of sanctions as an instrument of political pressure are forcing us to keep our powder dry, so we gave particular attention to defence building today.
Overall, our main objective is to make the best use of all the platforms and formats for further development of cooperation and effective decision-making. I think you will agree that we have all the necessary conditions to work in coordination, consistently, like clockwork, within the framework of the integration association we have created.
Colleagues, as we open our meeting, I would like to follow the tradition and give the floor to President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Lukashenko, colleagues, friends,
In the course of today’s Supreme State Council meeting, we are to make a number of important decisions on the further development and strengthening of the Union State of Russia and Belarus.
Over the past years, since the decision to launch this process, we have achieved a great deal, particularly to strengthen close trade and economic ties, as well as those in science, technology, education and culture, and enhance the contractual and legislative basis in various areas of cooperation.
Successful cooperation between Russia and Belarus has promoted the development of integration in the entire CIS space. Our achievements have been extensively used in the creation of the Customs Union and later the Common Economic Space and, finally, the Eurasian Economic Union.
Currently, as Mr Lukashenko said, our Union State has come across certain challenges caused by the instability on global markets and a drop in the prices of energy resources, raw materials and foods. Unfavourable external factors caused a reduction in our mutual trade in 2015, as it was already mentioned. It did not drop significantly in physical terms, by only 4 percent, but in monetary terms, the reduction was more noticeable. We do understand, of course, that this drop is also linked to a drop in the prices of our traditional goods.
At the same time, I am convinced that both Russia and Belarus have sufficient internal reserves that will allow us to restore the stable economic development of the Union State and return mutual trade onto a path of stable growth. This is what we should focus on while implementing certain provisions in the programme documents approved in March 2015, which are also reflected in the action plan to create conditions for trade and economic cooperation and the list of priority development targets for the Union State until 2017.
It is important to organise the work of our economic agencies, focusing them on improving the business and investment climate, and promote the activities of the working group on macroeconomic coordination. We should also continue the practice of joint board meetings of the two countries’ economic ministries.
We must enhance our multifaceted industrial cooperation and conduct a more coordinated economic policy. During our discussion in a narrow group, we noticed certain issues that occur in practice and that could be avoided.
We also agreed to achieve greater harmony in norms and regulations in industry, currency and finance and the services sector. The development of cooperation, primarily in high technology, should become the key factor of Union State economic growth. We must increase the share of high technology products and replace foreign-made components, especially in sensitive industries that directly affect the security of our countries.
We have certain achievements in this area. In December 2015, we created a joint Union company Stankoengineering and launched the joint production of microelectronics within the framework of special programmes.
There has been further progress in the creation of a single navigation space of Russia and Belarus based on the GLONASS system. We are implementing Earth remote sensing projects.
Energy cooperation between our countries is of a strategic nature. The construction of a Belarusian nuclear power plant is progressing rapidly. This is one of our flagship projects. I would like to remind you that Russian capital investment amounts to $10 billion. The fist power unit is to be launched in 2018, the second – in 2020.
Russia is helping Belarus to modernise its gas transportation system. In addition to the investment already made, by 2020 Gazprom intends to invest an additional $2.5 billion into the economy and this project in particular – the Belarusian section of the Yamal-Europe gas pipeline, and over $1 billion into increasing underground storage capacity.
Inter-regional cooperation can also be beneficial for economic ties. In 2015 more than 40 delegations from Russian regions visited Belarus, 14 of them led by heads of the corresponding regions of the Russian Federation.
I would like to thank Mr Lukashenko for giving so much attention to this area of cooperation and personally receiving our colleagues from the regions. I intend to take part in the 3rd Forum of the Regions to take place in Minsk in June.
Joint social and humanitarian cooperation programmes play a special part in strengthening ties within the Union. Significant resources are allocated from the Union State budget for these purposes in the coming year as well. I would like to highlight the successful implementation in 2015 of the Union State plan of events to mark the 70th anniversary of Victory in the Great Patriotic War and the liberation of Belarus from Nazi occupation. I am convinced that we should always focus on preserving the memory of the most important events in our common past, preventing any attempts at falsifying history and educating the younger generation in the spirit of patriotism.
Among the traditional issues that we discuss almost constantly is greater coordination on the international arena. We intend to analyse the implementation in 2014–2015 of the coordinated foreign policy programme of action and approve a new draft programme for the following two years.
In conclusion, I would like to say that Russia is intent on moving ahead along the path of mutually advantageous integration with Belarus within our Union State. I am certain that we will see the same resolve on the part of our Belarusian friends.
Thank you for your attention.
Geography
Belarus
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Lukashenko Alexander
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: February 25, 2016, 18:35
Text version