Events
Inauguration ceremony of Unit 1 of Kudankulam Nuclear Power Plant
Vladimir Putin took part in the inauguration ceremony of Unit 1 of Kudankulam Nuclear Power Plant. The ceremony took place in videoconference format.
August 10, 2016
13:35
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 2
At the inauguration ceremony of Unit 1 of Kudankulam Nuclear Power Plant. The ceremony took place in videoconference format.
Taking part in the videoconference were Prime Minister of India Narendra Modi
, Chief Minister of the State of Tamil Nadu Jayaraman Jayalalithaa, Chairman and Managing Director of the Nuclear Power Corporation of India Satish Kumar Sharma, and Head of the Atomstroiexport Group Valery Limarenko.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister, Ms Minister [Jayaraman Jayalalithaa, Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu],
ladies and gentlemen, dear Indian friends,
Today, in accordance with the agreements we reached in Tashkent, we are witnessing the start of full operation of Kudankulam Nuclear Power Plant Unit 1 in India. This is a big event for our Indian partner, for the Russian company that carried out this project, and for all of us. The power plant was built using the most advanced world technology, Russian technology, and was built by Russian and Indian specialists working together.
Cooperation in nuclear energy is an important part of the privileged strategic partnership between our countries. Our work together in this sector has great importance for our countries’ development. This is not just about building a nuclear power plant and putting it into operation, but is a large-scale project to develop a new high-tech nuclear sector in India. This work involves transfer of skills and training of personnel and specialists in this area.
Russia is well known as a leader on the international market for nuclear technology and services. The nuclear power plants built by Russian specialists are reliable and meet the very highest safety standards. We are sharing with our Indian colleagues our experience and developments in this priority high-tech sector.
Unit one is starting work at its nominal capacity and a second unit will also come on line in the not so distant future, and this will substantially boost India’s energy supply and bolster its economic position. Peaceful nuclear energy development will be essential for a vast, powerful and rapidly growing country like India to resolve its social and economic tasks.
Together with our Indian friends we have big plans in this sector. Work began on the power plant’s third and fourth units in February this year. We plan to sign a general framework agreement and loan protocol for the construction of the third stage of the project by the end of this year. I would like to remind you that this project is being carried out using funds provided by the Russian Federation. Of the total project financing, 85 percent is in the form of a state loan provided by Russia.
I congratulate everyone on today’s event. I thank everyone who took part in implementing this project, and once again, I wish you success and all the very best. I am certain that our work together in this and other economic and high-tech cooperation areas will produce tangible and noticeable results and will contribute to our economies’ rapid and effective development.
Prime Minister of India Narendra Modi
: His Excellency President Vladimir Putin, Honourable Jayalalithaa ji, Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, Sushma Swaraj, Minister of External Affairs, Minister Pon Radhakrishnan, my dear friends, welcome!
Today is indeed a special day. Today, Excellency Putin and I have the honour to dedicate Kudankulam Nuclear Power Plant Unit 1. I am particularly grateful to President Putin for his presence at this event. And I am delighted that Jayalalithaa ji, Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, is also present with us on this occasion.
Friends,in dedicating Kudankulam 1, we mark another historic step in India-Russia relations. Its successful completion is not just another fine example of the strength of our special and privileged strategic partnership. It is also a celebration of our abiding friendship. And it is only a start of our collaboration in this field.
It is perhaps not commonly known that at 1,000 megawatt, Kudankulam 1 is the largest single unit of electrical power in India. In years ahead, we are determined to pursue an ambitious agenda of nuclear power generation. At Kudankulam alone, five more units of 1,000 megawatt each are planned. In our journey of cooperation, we plan to build a series of bigger nuclear power plants.
Friends, today’s event is also a joyful occasion for the team of Indian and Russian engineers, scientists and technicians. We salute their dedication and hard work and congratulate them for the fruits of their labour.
Friends,the story of human development has been of wide spread technological advancement and growing economic prosperity.
But, as we all know, it has not been without burden on our environment. I have a vision for India where achievements of our economic development are respectful to mother earth, and where the engines of our industrial growth are increasingly driven by clean energy. Kudankulam 1 is an important addition to India’s continuing efforts to scale up production of clean energy in India. It also signals our joint commitment to build pathways of partnership for green growth.
Excellency President Putin, the success of our joint efforts in nuclear power generation is a proud achievement of our cooperation. It demonstrates our common resolve to grown and build on new dimensions of our ties.
Above all, it showcases your personal commitment, consistent support and strong leadership in transforming the substance and character of our relationship. For this I am grateful to you, Mr President.
The people of India associate naturally and with great ease with the people of your great country. And personally, I have always deeply valued our friendship. It is, therefore, only fitting that today we join together to dedicate the Kudankulam Nuclear Power Plant unit one to the strength and vigour of our friendship and cooperation.
Long live Indo-Russian friendship!
I once again thank you, Excellency Putin, for joining me in this dedication and I look forward to meeting you at G20 in China. Also, my sincere thanks to Dr Jayalalithaa for being with us. Thank you. Thank you very much.
Geography
India
Topics
Energy
Foreign policy
Persons
Modi Narendra
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 10, 2016, 13:35
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Government members
Vladimir Putin met with Government members to discuss measures to develop Russia’s Far East and a number of routine matters, in particular, the results of this year’s national final school exam and support measures for single-employer towns.
August 10, 2016
15:20
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 4
At a meeting with Government members.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon colleagues,
We agreed to discuss matters regarding the development of the Far East today and to look at the progress in implementing our plans in this area and the development measures for this very important part of the country.
But before we move on to the main item on our agenda, I would like to ask [Education and Science Minister] Mr Livanov to say a few words about the results of this year’s national final school exam and the university application period, and then I would like to hear from [First Deputy Prime Minister] Mr Shuvalov on the situation with single-employer towns. This is an important issue, after all, and we should keep it in our sight, all the more so as I know the Government has recently taken some new decisions in this area.
You have the floor.
Education and Science Minister Dmitry Livanov
: Mr President, colleagues,
On August 8, our universities concluded admissions for full-time undergraduate students. This year, as we decided on the non-fee-based student numbers and distribution, we put the emphasis on engineering, medical and teacher-training specialities. Why did we?
We chose these fields because graduate employment monitoring showed that these particular areas are in demand with employers, the employment rate is higher, and the salary in the first year following graduation is higher than in other areas.
Universities will be taking on more than 507,000 non-fee-based students this year and we have a situation where around 60 percent of school graduates can opt for an affordable university course in their first year. This has been the case over the past 5 years and we plan to maintain this level in the future.
Labour market demand determines non-fee-based education distribution among particular universities, specialities and regions. This also influences the student numbers coming into this or that field of study. This year, student numbers have risen considerably in engineering and natural sciences, chemistry and biology, for example, and also in information security, nuclear energy, aircraft construction, shipbuilding – up 20 percent, nanotechnology – up 18 percent, and medicine. This year, nearly half of all the new students are future engineers, 9 percent are future teachers, and 8.5 percent are future doctors.
I would also like to note that applicants to universities show growing interest in these particular fields of study, and although we have greater admission numbers and expanded opportunities in these areas, the number of students competing for each opening continues to grow. In the technical fields, this year, it was eight applicants for one opening.
As concerns the national final school exam, it was very well organised this year, transparent, with a minimum of breaches of the rules. There were no leaks of exam material to the internet this year and no cases of mass copying or cheating at the exams.
The fact that we now make very wide use of a video surveillance system has helped a lot to improve the situation. This year, around 80 percent of examination venues were equipped with this system. Next year, we will have 90 percent of venues equipped.
Honest exams are a very important indicator of the quality of education in our view. When we first held this exam in the proper open and transparent conditions three years ago, we saw that in a number of regions, students’ results were substantially lower than the national average.
We then began taking targeted measures to improve teaching quality in Russian language and maths in these regions. Our top teacher-training universities have been involved in this project and we are beginning to see the results now.
This year, for example, the number of students who did not receive the minimum threshold mark dropped considerably and is now less than one percent. These are the students who failed the exam and thus did not receive their school-leaving certificate. However, this year, for the first time, they will have the chance to re-sit the exam in September and will then be able to enter a vocational education programme this year and not lose an academic year.
Let me note that the structure of the exams is changing too. In the foreign language exams, we are reducing the test part of the exam and introducing an oral section. Over the next two-three years, we will test this same model for the Russian language exam as well, and will then introduce it for Russian and perhaps other subjects in the humanities. Students in their 11th year of school have shown growing interest in the possibility of choosing which natural sciences exams to sit. This year, for example, we had 21,000 more students than last year sitting the physics exam.
International competitions are currently underway in the different school subjects, and our national teams have achieved some very good results. Four such competitions (in maths, physics, chemistry and biology) are currently underway and all of our teams have demonstrated much better results than over past years.
Our teams came in second in the world in chemistry, fourth in physics and were the best team from Europe, they earned a high score in biology, and won four gold medals in maths, a much better result than last year.
I would like to note that our maths team had a training session at the Sirius Centre, and the trainers said that this had an excellent effect on the results. We have many talented young people. Let me give one example.
Alexander Artemyev from Kirov Region scored a unique result in the national final school exam with full marks in three subjects – maths, physics, and informatics. He won the national physics competition, is a member of our national physics team, and at the international competition in Zurich in August, he not only won a gold medal but also a prize as the best theoretician. In other words, he outperformed all other competitors in the theoretical round of the competitions and was recognised as the top participant from Europe. Our education system’s task is to give each child, each student, the opportunity to develop their talents as much as possible.
We are now actively preparing for the start of the new school year, inspecting schools’ readiness for the Day of Knowledge [the start of the school year on September 1], inspecting school safety, and we are certain that all educational establishments will be ready for the new school year.
I would also like to note that we launched a large-scale programme this year to add capacity to the school system. Ninety-two new schools will be ready to open their doors on September 1 this year. This is unprecedented for these last years. Overall, we have nearly 200 schools under construction. They will open their doors next year. Of course, this programme will continue.
This ends my report. Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Good. Is the average mark around the country higher than 7?
Dmitry Livanov: The average mark in the national final school exam has increased slightly in all subjects but is overall close to last year’s level.
Vladimir Putin: That was a slip of the tongue and I did not mean the exam grades but the average number of students competing for each place in the universities.
Dmitry Livanov: The average is around 7.
Vladimir Putin: Is it around 7 or higher than 7?
Dmitry Livanov: It is 7.3. We are only just clarifying the results now because the universities finalised their admission results for this year only on August 8, and we will have the final figures ready within the next two weeks, but overall, the competition was higher than last year.
Vladimir Putin: Good.
Mr Shuvalov, let us hear from you now on the single-industry towns.
First Deputy Prime Minister Igor Shuvalov
: Mr President, colleagues,
The government has been actively monitoring the situation in the single-industry towns since autumn 2008. We have come to a realisation that of the 319 single-industry towns, around 100 are in a very difficult situation. Monitoring concentrates on these 319 towns, and we have around 100 towns in the red zone.
These towns are home to 9 percent of Russia’s population, more than 7 million people of working age. The level of registered unemployment is slightly higher than the national average. The national average is 1.3 percent, and in these towns the rate is one percent higher.
Now, what we are doing today, Mr President. When you held a meeting of the Council for Strategic Development and Priority Projects, you identified areas in which the Government would work together with parliament and national and regional governments on particular projects.
Comprehensive development of the single-industry towns was designated as one of the priorities. As far as work on this project goes, the Prime Minister will chair a meeting of the council’s board in the upcoming weeks, which, acting on your instructions, will set the key performance indicators for this project.
Having studied the preliminary material we receive from the Economic Development Ministry (which is responsible for the comprehensive development of single-industry towns), we propose taking the most important parameters for these towns as the key performance indicators. These include the number of new jobs not linked to the town’s main employer, the amount of investment attracted to new job creation at businesses other than the main employer, and how the urban environment in these towns has changed.
We think that we can develop this project, coupling the administrative and financial possibilities to other priority projects that we will carry out over this same time, such as small business development and support for self-employed entrepreneurial initiatives (this is another priority area).
International cooperation and export – many businesses will develop export-oriented activity and produce goods that will sell with success on markets abroad. Then there are mortgage loans, rental housing, the housing and utilities sector, and the urban environment. We will make a comprehensive examination of each of these areas to see how we can support the project in such a way as to make the overall effect much greater than if we simply considered the project as a separate undertaking.
We are studying the towns in the most difficult situation now. By the end of this year, the Fund for Developing Single-Industry Towns will make decisions worth a total of around 20 billion rubles. This will concern the 20–25 towns that are in the most serious situation.
At the same time, we decided that the Fund, which Vnesheconombank set up with your support (it operates under the Economic Development Ministry’s supervision), will need to examine the best methods for freeing these towns from dependence on a single industry. This goes not only for the towns in the red zone but also for those that are taking a new approach to municipal management and are creating new jobs and a modern new urban environment.
(Mr Shuvalov went on to describe specific projects underway in small towns and their development goals).
We are now discussing with the Economic Development Ministry and the Fund for Development of Single-Industry Towns which project model we should use for developing the new management system. This is another task you set at the council meeting.
We plan to use the Fund as a base for setting up an institute of managers outside of the ministries and agencies, each of whom will be responsible for 8–10 towns.
We held a training event in spring, when we invited the heads of all of the single-industry towns to the Skolkovo Business School. There is a big demand now, coming from regional heads as well as heads of these towns, for the Government to organise another such seminar.
Now we are negotiating with Sberbank of Russia to hold the proposed seminar at Sberbank’s Corporate University after endorsing key performance indicators for this project in October. In other words, we will discuss the indicators and ways of achieving them and how we are going to work with project teams in this area in the next 1.5–2 years.
Vladimir Putin: We have 319 single-industry towns with a total population of 13.5 million, so this area is vital for us. We know how their economies react to mishaps in domestic economic affairs and developments in the world markets. We saw this way back in 2008.
At that time, we started purposefully diversifying the economies of these single-industry towns and we should press on with this. What you have just described is a good example of purposeful efforts. The main point is not to take your eye off these issues and to consistently implement the plans you have mentioned.
Igor Shuvalov: We will work toward this and report back to you.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Mr Galushka. Let us start with you. Go ahead please.
Minister for the Development of the Far East Alexander Galushka
: Mr President, colleagues,
First of all, I would like to note that this year the demographic dynamics in the Far East have been the best since 1992. From January 1 to June 1, 2016, population outflow fell four times, whereas natural population growth amounted to 935 people (1.7 times more than during the corresponding period of the previous year) and out-migration went down 3.2 times.
Population growth was registered in three regions of the Far East: Yakutia – 1,463 people, Khabarovsk Territory – 913 people, and Chukotka Autonomous Area – 131 people. Population outflow stopped on Sakhalin Island – its numerical strength did not decrease in the first five months of this year.
Socioeconomic improvements in the Far East facilitated these positive demographic trends. In the first half of this year industrial production grew by 5.4 percent, while in the first quarter of this year investment increased by 1.8 percent. Total investment in the Far East amounted to 885 billion rubles in 2015.
New mechanisms – priority development areas, the Vladivostok free port, long-term (up to 7 years) financing of the Far East Development Fund at 5 percent annual interest, and subsidies for infrastructure investors – were launched in the second half of last year and are already contributing to the development of the Far East.
Just this year, 51 new enterprises will be opened with the help of these development mechanisms, with 80 billion roubles invested in them – up to 10 percent more than in 2015.
We also count on a durable trend of investment and economic growth, based on 61 projects worth 617 billion rubles in total investment at the building and assembly stage and another 28 projects worth 113 billion rubles in total investment at the stage of design estimating.
All told, investment raised to date will make it possible to implement 295 projects worth 1.16 trillion rubles and create 67,000 new jobs by 2024. Resting on our laurels is the last thing we intend to do. We are working steadily to attract more investment and expect its total volume in the Far East to hit the two trillion ruble mark by the end of the year.
The Eastern Economic Forum is doing quite a bit to promote these endeavours, helping to find new investors and bring them to the Far East. The forum will gather in three weeks. We have selected 111 projects worth a total of 2.2 trillion rubles in investment to present on the forum’s sidelines. The forum is generating considerable interest: 1,647 people from 24 countries have registered to participate so far, and we expect more than 2,500 guests.
 The free allotment of land in Russia’s Far East will also strengthen the positive developmental trends there. The applicable law is being implemented in nine Far Eastern municipal districts in pilot mode, as the legal basis, work processes and related electronic services are still being streamlined.
Only local residents of the Far East will be entitled to free land before February 1, 2017, which is quite fair. From February 1, 2017 on, however, every Russian citizen will have the right to receive a land plot in the Far East. Many take an interest in these one-hectare plots, as demonstrated by the high traffic on the надальнийвосток.рф [nadalniyvostok.rf] website, through which land is allotted. The number of visits has exceeded 400,000 so far.
It is critically important to develop the social sphere along with the economy. A number of goals have been met over these three years. For example, there are no more kindergarten waiting lists in the Far East, 152 new educational facilities have been built, 58 cultural projects are up and running, 36 sport facilities have been built, and seven major hospitals have opened.
Moreover, new development programmes have been launched this year and are being implemented for the Kuril Islands and Komsomolsk-on-Amur. The social aspect of these programmes is the main focus. In general, the new quality of social development throughout the Far East is to come from the new system-wide approach to the region’s development in Russia’s state programmes that the Government is implementing on your instructions, Mr President.
Within the framework of this approach, Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev has approved a list of 27 state programmes to form special Far Eastern sub-programmes oriented toward specific local problems and the need to boost the development of the Far East region.
These are, above all, socially oriented state programmes for healthcare, housing construction, and the transport and social infrastructures – the issues of greatest public concern in the Far East, as we see from opinion polls and regular meetings with residents. It is possible to complete the job within twelve months through the targeted implementation of relevant sub-programmes on the key aspects of the Far East’s development.
Mr President, we would like to request your support so that this work goes smoothly, without delays, and we would like to ask you to issue the relevant instructions to finish before July 1, 2017, the drafting of sub-programmes on the priority development of the Far East as part of the 27 state programmes and guarantee their funding, including within the framework of the implementation of the comprehensive plan for the development of Komsomolsk-on-Amur.
Among the problems that traditionally worry the residents of the Far East I would like to mention affordable air travel, that is, the cost of air tickets. Several decisions are being carried out in this area. First, Aeroflot has established a flat rate for the Far East for all groups of the population. A one-way Aeroflot ticket costs 12,000 rubles and a round-trip ticket is 20,000. In 2015, 1.4 million passengers used this rate, and 1.6 million are expected to do so this year.
Second, there is a programme to support regional air travel under which the federal budget subsidises 20 routes and regional budgets subsidise 233 routes in the Far Eastern Federal District. About 225,000 benefited from this programme in the first half of this year.
Third, the federal budget provides over three billion rubles in subsidies for air travel by young people and pensioners residing in the Far East. In all, 52 routes to European Russia and back fall under this programme. The cost of a one-way ticket ranges from 1,800 to 12,500 rubles, depending on the distance of the flight. Some 158,000 passengers travelled under this programme in the first half of the year.
Mr President, we would like to ask you to support our request for bigger subsidies for flights to European Russia and back. The number of routes has more than doubled since the start of this programme – from 24 to 52 – but the funding was not increased accordingly.
There is one more issue that impedes the development of the Far East and that is being resolved now. I am referring to the reduction of electricity fees in the regions of the Far East where they are above the national average. The draft law that makes it possible to implement the decisions you adopted is fully ready for consideration by the State Duma, which will allow us to start reducing these fees in the Far East as of January 1, 2017.
And the last point. Yesterday Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev endorsed the new version of the government programme for the development of the Far East to 2025, which takes into account the new mechanisms that must be used and all the work that has to be done for the Far East to make progress.
The budget funding for this programme is 46.7 billion rubles a year in 2017–2019, which will allow us to continue working to develop the Far East. These are the key results as of today.
Vladimir Putin: Okay. Thank you very much.
<…>
Topics
Industry
School
Social services
Persons
Livanov Dmitry
Shuvalov Igor
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 10, 2016, 15:20
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of Armenia Serzh Sargsyan
Vladimir Putin met with President of Armenia Serzh Sargsyan, who is on a working visit in Russia at Mr Putin’s invitation.
August 10, 2016
17:40
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 4
Meeting with President of Armenia Serzh Sargsyan.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Sargsyan, friends, it is a great pleasure to see you here in Moscow.
Armenia is Russia’s strategic partner in the Trans-Caucasus region, and we work consistently to develop our alliance in all, even the most sensitive, areas, and on the international stage, in particular in the CIS
region, where we work together in the CSTO [Collective Security Treaty Organisation
] and now in the Eurasian Union too.
I would like to congratulate you and say what a pleasure it is to see that over the year since Armenia joined the Eurasian Economic Union
, your GDP has increased by 10 percent, as documents show. This is a very positive result, of course. I hope that this positive dynamic will continue.
We have many other bilateral matters to discuss, therefore I am very pleased to see you. Welcome!
President of Armenia Serzh Sargsyan
: Thank you, Mr Putin.
I am very pleased to see you again. We have made it a tradition to meet at this time of the year to discuss the state of our alliance and exchange views on the most topical issues on the bilateral and regional agendas, and of course, examine the state of progress on our earlier agreements.
I am pleased to see that despite the regional and global economic difficulties, our bilateral trade has increased by 12 percent over the past six months and Armenian exports to Russia are up by 90 percent and have set a historic record over this period. Of course, the opportunities the Eurasian Economic Union offers have played a big part in this. This is very good to see.
Over this time, we have carried out an intensive programme of high-level visits and we have no serious problems in our bilateral relations. All issues that do come up are settled rapidly.
Mr Putin, I would like to express my personal gratitude for the efforts Russia makes in finding a diplomatic solution to the Nagorno-Karabakh issue. It is absolutely crucial here to ensure that all agreements reached are implemented. We are ready to do this.
Thank you for that meeting, it was a pleasure.
Vladimir Putin: You know that we had to discuss this important and sensitive issue you just mentioned during my meeting with President of Azerbaijan Aliyev in Baku. We discussed the settlement in Nagorno-Karabakh. It will be my pleasure, of course, to brief you on the results of my meeting in Baku.
Serzh Sargsyan: Thank you.
<…>
Geography
Armenia
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Sargsyan Serzh
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 10, 2016, 17:40
Text versionEvents
Joint news conference with President of Armenia Serzh Sargsyan
Following the talks, Vladimir Putin and Serzh Sargsyan gave a joint news conference.
August 10, 2016
18:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
3 of 5
Joint news conference with President of Armenia Serzh Sargsyan.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen.
We have just finished the main part of our meeting with President of Armenia Serzh Sargsyan. As always, it took place in a friendly, trusting and constructive atmosphere.
We have discussed topical issues of bilateral cooperation and a number of key regional problems. Mr Sargsyan told me about the recent events – I would say tragic events in Yerevan – related to the hostage situation.
See also
Meeting with President of Armenia Serzh Sargsyan
August 10, 2016
I would like to emphasise and reiterate that Russia strongly condemned this action by militants right from the start. We consider unacceptable any attempts to resolve difficult domestic political issues through illegal, unconstitutional actions.
During our talks today, we discussed ways of further developing our bilateral relations, including our trade and investment ties.
Russia is Armenia’s leading partner. We account for a quarter of the republic’s trade. Regrettably, in 2015 our bilateral trade fell by a little more than 11 percent. This was mostly due to unfavourable developments in the global raw materials and financial markets.
However, analysts noted positive signs in January-May of this year, notably an increase in trade. Although small, it still constitutes a trend and, as I said, we are happy about it. Now we must keep it going.
Imports of food and other agricultural products from Armenia have grown considerably, by 86 percent. Investment cooperation is going strong – Russia’s total investment in the Armenian economy has exceeded four billion dollars. It amounts to 40 percent of all foreign investment in Armenia.
About 1,300 Russian companies are operating in Armenia – around one third of all joint ventures with foreign capital. They are working in key sectors of the economy – gas, transport, telecommunications and finance.
I will mention our major domestic investors: this is primarily Gazprom, which invested about $800 million in Armenia’s energy projects; Rosatom, which is modernising the Armenian nuclear power plant using a Russian government loan of $270 million; and Russian Railways
, which is carrying out a large-scale programme on upgrading Armenia’s railway infrastructure to the tune of over $500 million.
Armenia’s entry in the Eurasian Economic Union
in January 2015 gave fresh impetus to bilateral contacts. The republic has already felt the advantages of membership. In 2015, as I said in the beginning of our meeting, the GDP of the Republic of Armenia grew by more than 10 percent, while revenues from import customs duties increased by 23.6 percent.
We have seen a high level of cooperation in educational, scientific and cultural exchanges. About 3,500 students study at the Russian-Armenian University and at eight affiliates of Russian universities.
The first academic year has come to an end at Moscow State University’s affiliate in Yerevan.
The founding of a Russian-language grammar school in Yerevan is under consideration.
Ladies and gentlemen,
Naturally, we paid considerable attention to the Nagorno-Karabakh settlement, taking into account the results of the Armenia-Russia-Azerbaijan trilateral summit in St Petersburg on June 20 and my latest meeting, as you know, with President of Azerbaijan Ilham Aliyev
, which occurred just recently – on August 8.
I would like to stress that Russia is interested in decreasing tensions in relations between our neighbours. We will continue doing all we can to help undo the Karabakh knot in the framework of the OSCE
Minsk Group and through direct contacts with Yerevan and Baku. We hope that Armenia and Azerbaijan will be able to settle their disagreements through compromise – without winners and losers.
We also discussed some issues of cooperation within the CSTO
now chaired by Armenia. The next CSTO summit is scheduled to take place in Yerevan in October and Russia is certainly planning to attend it.
In conclusion, I would like to repeat that the talks went very well. I am confident that their results will facilitate the continued development of the multifaceted Russian-Armenian strategic partnership and the consolidation of regional stability and security.
Thank you very much for your attention.
President of Armenia Serzh Sargsyan: Ladies and gentlemen,
To begin with, I would like to thank President of Russia Vladimir Putin for his wonderful hospitality.
Our active political dialogue at the highest level is a testament to the state of our bilateral relations, which span all fields of government activity – from the OECD allied partnership to economic integration in the Eurasian Economic Union and close humanitarian cooperation.
We are expanding ties between our regions. The now regular interregional Armenian-Russian forums and direct contacts between our regions are playing a major part in this. We appreciate Russia’s role in the world and in our region where a host of processes affecting stability and security are taking place simultaneously.
Armenia closely followed President Vladimir Putin’s intensive foreign policy contacts during the past week, which is absolutely understandable considering that Azerbaijan, Iran and Turkey border on Armenia.
I would like to thank the President of Russia for the information he provided about these meetings and I am confident that Armenia will only gain from Russia’s invigorated role in the region. Today we discussed the considerable success we have had in increasing Armenian-Russian trade. This is a direct response to those sceptics who said that Armenia would not gain anything from membership in the Eurasian Economic Union.
Suffice it to say that despite all the international complications and obstacles our trade grew substantially, and Armenian exports to Russia increased by almost 90 percent in the first half of this year. I am convinced that we will be able to maintain and strengthen this trend since we are far from fully using the existing potential of our trade and economic ties even today.
Naturally, during the talks today we focused on the Nagorno-Karabakh settlement and the implementation of the agreements reached during the summits in Vienna and St Petersburg. This includes, first and foremost, the unequivocal fulfilment of the 1994–1995 indefinite trilateral agreements on cessation of hostilities, the formation of a mechanism for investigating incidents and the expansion of the mission of the personal representative of the OSCE Chairperson-in-Office.
I have again thanked the President of Russia for Russia’s efforts as the co-chair of the OSCE Minsk Group in partnership with the United States and France, and for his significant personal contribution to the peace process. We discussed in detail the main principles and approaches to the resolution of this complicated issue in Sochi two years ago and they have remained unchanged since then.
It is impossible to resolve such a conflict by seeking to address its consequences rather than its root causes. The core of the Karabakh issue lies in the struggle of the people of Karabakh for self-determination – an inalienable right of all nations in resolving such issues, which should be respected and guaranteed. This is what we discussed in detail with the President of Russia today.
Peaceful negotiations on such a sensitive issue can never be simple. But all attempts to upset the balance of forces or create winners and losers are doomed to fail. Each side should benefit from realistic, clear-cut and feasible solutions that are rooted in mutual respect and trust rather than hatred and xenophobia.
The question of peace and accord is particularly relevant during the Olympic Games. We would like to wish success once again to the Russian and Armenian teams and to celebrate together the successes your and our athletes have already achieved. We are very proud that Russian athletes of Armenian origin have done very well.
The Ice Palace named after Irina Rodnina, a legend in world figure skating, opened in Yerevan several months ago. I am convinced that shared victories and achievements in sport fully reflect the mutual feelings of our nations. As the saying goes, a sound mind in a sound body.
Thank you very much.
Question: This question is for President Putin.
Mr President, you are certainly aware that Karabakh is the most sensitive issue for Armenians, and we all have a great deal of hope for a peaceful settlement now that a trilateral meeting was convened in St Petersburg at your initiative.
However, shortly after the meeting, the President of Azerbaijan issued a statement saying that the Armenian side had allegedly promised to return five districts of Nagorno-Karabakh, and then three more districts. How do these statements correspond to the spirit of the negotiation process in St Petersburg? Do you think they are creating grounds for another round of escalation, with Azerbaijan obtaining a large number of weapons, whereas the supply of Russian weapons to Armenia remains, to put it mildly, questionable?
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: First of all, I don’t believe it is my job to comment on the statements of my colleagues, whether in Azerbaijan, Armenia, or anywhere else. I think that if you want to get a complete answer to your question, you should ask the person who made the statement.
However, I think everyone understands that whenever there is a difficult process of searching for reconciliation and compromise underway, all political and diplomatic means are used in the course of these rather complex activities, including the media, in order to stake out the positions of the sides. There is nothing unusual about it. It is, in fact, common practice.
In fact, I believe that both Armenia and Azerbaijan really want to find a way out of this situation in order to live in peace and harmony, to cooperate, and to grow their respective economies. Armenia is also interested in removing all infrastructural and economic restrictions in order to develop its economy, improve life for its people, and consolidate the Armenian state. This is our goal, the goal of a settlement. And the goal is to achieve these results.
Azerbaijan has similar goals. My recent contacts with President Aliyev in Baku bear this out. However, it is necessary to find approaches and arrangements where, as I mentioned, no one feels like a winner or a loser. There must be a solution developed by the leaders of Armenia and Azerbaijan that is accepted by the societies of both countries. That is the most important thing. Russia, as well as other countries of the Minsk Group, could act as a guarantor, and adopt corresponding UNSC resolutions, if necessary.
As for the weapons, we have a programme on this with Armenia. Armenia is a CSTO member and our ally. We have certain mutual obligations, and Russia has always kept its obligations, has always fulfilled them.
In today's arms market, any country can buy almost any weapon. A country such as Azerbaijan, an oil-producing country of almost 10 million people with a fast-growing economy, as well as sufficiently large gold and currency reserves can, of course, buy weapons anywhere it likes. You see? Anywhere. However, I would rather not focus on the military side of things now. If we want to resolve this problem, we should use peaceful means.
Question: I have a question on settlement too, though on a somewhat different subject.
Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov
spoke in Baku of the possibility of a Normandy format meeting taking place on the sidelines of the G20 in China. Mr President, what is the likelihood of such a meeting taking place, particularly when, as reports say, the Russian intelligence services have just prevented the Ukrainian intelligence services from carrying out terrorist attacks on Crimean soil?
Vladimir Putin: Yes, these are very worrying reports. Indeed, our intelligence services prevented a sabotage and reconnaissance group from the Ukrainian Defence Ministry from infiltrating Crimean territory. In this situation, a Normandy format meeting would not make much sense right now, all the more so in China.
Judging by the situation, those who seized power in Kiev back then and still hold it now are not seeking the sort of compromise solutions I spoke of with regard to the Nagorno-Karabakh settlement process, and instead of working towards a peaceful solution have decided to turn to terror.
This brings to mind the attempt on the life of the head of the Lugansk People’s Republic, which seems to fit into this same context. And now we have this attempt to infiltrate Crimea. I think that the media have already reported that Russia has casualties and lost two military servicemen in this incident. We cannot ignore such matters, of course.
However, I would like to appeal to our American and European partners too. I think it is now clear to all that the authorities in Kiev today are not looking for a solution to the problem through negotiations, but are resorting to terror. This is a very worrying development.
What we have seen just now in Crimea looks like a foolish and criminal action. It is foolish because you cannot have a positive impact on the people in Crimea in this manner, and it is criminal because people have lost their lives.
However, I think that the situation is actually even more worrying because acts such as this have no sense other than to divert the people in Ukraine itself from the lamentable economic situation and the serious difficulties in which many people there live today.
This attempt to provoke a flare-up of violence and spark a conflict is nothing other than a desire to divert public opinion at home from those who seized power in Kiev and who continue to hold it and to rob their own people in order to remain in power as long as they can and create conditions for continuing to rob their people. This was an act committed using low and base means, and it is a very dangerous game.
We will do everything we can, of course, to ensure security at infrastructure facilities and protect people, and we will take additional security measures, serious additional measures, technical and others.
Most important of all, those who support the current authorities in Kiev must decide just want they want. Do they want their clients to continue carrying out provocations of this kind, or do they want to genuinely reach a peaceful settlement? If they do want this, and I very much hope they do, it is time to finally take some real steps to put the needed pressure on the current authorities in Kiev.
Geography
Armenia
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Sargsyan Serzh
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 10, 2016, 18:30
Text version