Events
Meeting with FIFA President Gianni Infantino
Vladimir Putin met with FIFA President Gianni Infantino.
April 20, 2016
19:20
The Kremlin, Moscow
3 of 7
Meeting with FIFA President Gianni Infantino.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President,
My warm and personal congratulations to you on your election as FIFA President. We followed closely the events surrounding your organisation. I am not going to comment on anything, I will only mention that, as far as I know, you were on the FIFA reform Committee.
Of course, your expertise as a lawyer, who immediately after graduation for many years focused on legal support for international football organisations — this knowledge and expertise will definitely be of use.
I hope that by now you already have at least a general idea of how Russia is preparing for the upcoming World Cup. We fought for the right to host this major event in an open and honest manner, driven by the desire to promote the wonderful ideas behind football, probably, the world’s most popular sport. We hope the championship that we are preparing will be held at the highest level.
You know that we have good, if not extensive, experience in holding major international competitions. We will use all of it, and we look forward to having your support to promote the popularity of football in the post-Soviet space — across Eastern Europe as a minimum, and in a broader sense, in the region where this country is located — the vast region of Eurasia.
For us, holding and preparing for the World Cup also has an internal dimension. We hope to use preparations for and the hosting of the world championship as an avenue to build relations with the countries participating in this major event.
We are confident that football will create more bridges for cooperation, and we are going to do our best to advance your ideas and FIFA ideas to promote this wonderful sport.
Thank you.
Gianni Infantino: Thank you very much. I have to apologise first of all, because I don't speak Russian. Ya ne govoryu po-russki. Yet. But after two days here in Moscow, I've already learned to say a couple of things. Ya lyublyu futbol.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, to my knowledge, you speak five languages. Learning Russian should not be a problem for you.
Gianni Infantino: I will, I will. And I feel at home. I have seen the progress, which is made in terms of preparation for the World Cup. I visited Luzhniki Stadium yesterday, Spartak today, I went to the Upper House, the Senate, this morning as well. I went to the Russian Football Union, to the local organising committee.
I have been in football now for many years. And even if I've not organised a World Cup, I have organised four European Championships, so I know what is behind, I know the work that it takes. And what I've seen here makes me feel very optimistic, very confident. The work, which is carried out by Minister Mutko, the work, which is carried out by the Russian Government is absolutely fantastic.
But there is still some work to do. Rabota? And football is a team sport. We are a team. We are a team that will organise the greatest event in the history of football. The best World Cup ever, in a fantastic country like Russia. The world will look at Russia, and we will spend a fantastic summer in 2018 with the World Cup, and in 2017 with the Confederations Cup. And we will work hard together to make sure everything will happen in a fantastic way.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, I take this opportunity to invite you to two events. First, the launch of the World Cup volunteer programme, which will be held in late May. If you cannot make it in May, please come for the Confederations Cup draw in Kazan in late November.
Gianni Infantino: I wanted to invite you to join me for these events. It's a joke, of course I'll come, and with great, great pleasure.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: I take it as a yes.
Gianni Infantino: Definitely. They are two important events, especially the volunteer events. We need the population of Russia to be fully behind this event.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much.
<…>
Topics
Sport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 20, 2016, 19:20
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Government members
Vladimir Putin held a meeting with Government members.
April 20, 2016
15:40
The Kremlin, Moscow
4 of 5
Meeting with Government members.
Subjects discussed included wage arrears and implementation of decisions taken following the Direct Line with the President on April 14.
Minister of Labour and Social Protection Maxim Topilin
briefed the meeting on action taken to resolve the wage arrears issue.
Transport Minister Maxim Sokolov
spoke about response measures to complaints from residents of several regions about the poor state of roads.
Many of the questions put during the Direct Line concerned the need to improve the laws on trade and on trade in medicines. Deputy Prime Minister Arkady Dvorkovich
made a report on this subject.
Agriculture Minister Alexander Tkachev
briefed the meeting on measures regarding the labelling of foodstuffs, in particular dairy products containing dairy substitutes.
Deputy Agriculture Minister and Director of the Federal Fisheries Agency Ilya Shestakov spoke about planned amendments to the law on fisheries.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues,
The Prime Minister addressed the Duma yesterday. In my opinion, he held a very substantive conversation with Duma deputies and told them about the Government’s plans and what has been done.
However, now I would like to talk with you about the results and the course of the direct line. You know that many questions were asked and they are most assuredly vital for each citizens of the country.
A list of instructions has been drafted. I asked Mr Medvedev to follow up on the implementation of everything that is described here but, of course, it would be appropriate for us to talk about the most sensitive issues at today’s meeting.
 <…>
See also
Direct Line with Vladimir Putin
April 14, 2016
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 20, 2016, 15:40
Text versionEvents
Meeting with participants in United Russia primaries
Vladimir Putin met with participants in the United Russia political party’s primaries.
April 20, 2016
18:50
Moscow
4 of 7
Meeting with participants in United Russia primaries.
In the run-up to the United Russia party primaries on May 22, the President, together with Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev, visited the party headquarters.
* * *
Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev
: Mr President, friends, colleagues,
Today, a very interesting event is taking place here at the United Russia headquarters – an event related to the party’s upcoming primaries.
These primaries are something new for this country and they give people a chance to take part in elections, to see if a political career is really for them, to get involved in elections and take part in them, to nominate themselves.
This is certainly an interesting international practice, but this is the first time we are trying it, and United Russia made the conscious choice to do so, in order to draw as many new people as possible into the party.
Mr President, around 3,000 candidates were selected during the preliminary voting. Around 2,000 of them are United Russia members, and around 1,000, making up the balance, are unaffiliated, but they sympathise with United Russia’s policies and the President’s course and would like to take part in political life.
Various events are taking place now, and debates have been held. Our colleagues are meeting, debating, learning the skills required for political competition and work, and discussing the biggest issues in our life, such as housing and utilities, transport, various taxes, corruption and a broad range of other issues of concern to the people in this vast country’s numerous regions.
We have today the unique opportunity to welcome the Russian President, United Russia’s founder, Vladimir Putin.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Medvedev, friends, it really is a great pleasure to be here.
Primaries are something new for Russia, but United Russia has already held them before, it has already started making use of this instrument. True, this is the first time that such broad primaries are taking place nation-wide and according to common rules.
I hope that this will prove a good way of finding new, promising and interesting people, new politicians who will make their first steps at these upcoming primaries and will go on to work for the good of society.
We need such people. Above all, we need professionals. But this is not enough to be engaged in politics. You also have to be sincere and motivated by a genuine desire to change things for the better and to work for society’s good and for the good of every individual.
This year, the State Duma elections coincide with gubernatorial elections and elections to municipal councils and regional parliaments. Nearly half of this country’s regions will be holding these different elections at the same time. In this respect, I want to ask you all to set an example of honest competition.
Over these past years, United Russia really has become Russia’s leading political force. This is obvious, and is reflected not only in the number of seats you hold in parliament, but also in the nature of your policy. We see this in your responsible approach, your balanced policies that work for the public good, without excessive pathos and the unnecessary noise and fuss that at times screens ambitions to simply win votes without looking and planning any further. United Russia does not do this, and I hope it never will.
This kind of responsibility is also a heavy burden however, because you need to explain to people, explain with professionalism and sincerity, reach out to people, especially when it comes to taking difficult decisions that are painful, but necessary for the economy, and thus, ultimately, for the social sector too.
I hope very much that these primaries will help to reveal exactly the kind of people we need today in political and public life. I wish you success.
Let me say again, United Russia must set an example of honest and open competition, and I, as Mr Medvedev has just said, as the person who was behind this party’s founding, I wish you success. Thank you.
<…>
Topics
Parties
Persons
Medvedev Dmitry
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 20, 2016, 18:50
Text versionEvents
Presentation of foreign ambassadors’ letters of credence
Vladimir Putin received letters of credence from 16 new foreign ambassadors in a ceremony at the Grand Kremlin Palace’s Alexander hall symbolising the official start of their work as heads of diplomatic missions in Russia.
April 20, 2016
13:50
The Kremlin, Moscow
Letters of credence were presented by Joanna Rose Mamaka (Republic of Gabon), Dumitru Braghis (Republic of Moldova), Kriangsak Kittichaisaree (Kingdom of Thailand), Toyohisa Kozuki (Japan), Sirilo Alex Dias Mamani (Multinational State of Bolivia), Laurie Stanley Charles Bristow (United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland), Pankaj Saran (Republic of India), Bakhrom Ashrafkhanov (Republic of Uzbekistan), Enrique Juan Delgado Jenta (Oriental Republic of Uruguay), Peter Martin Tesch (Australia), Qazi Mohammed Khalilullah (Islamic Republic of Pakistan), Banzragchiin Delgerma (Mongolia), Bolot Otunbayev (Republic of Kyrgyzstan), Mohammed Vahid Supriyadi (Republic of Indonesia), Kwami Christophe Dikenu (Republic of Togo), and Faalawaau Perina Jacqueline Sila-Tualaulelei (Independent State of Samoa).
* * *
Address at the presentation of foreign ambassadors’ letters of credence
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ladies and gentlemen,
It is a pleasure to welcome you at the Kremlin today for this presentation of letters of credence. It is our hope and desire that your work in Moscow will help to strengthen relations between Russia and the countries you represent. You can count on the support and understanding of Russia’s leadership, ministries and agencies, and of our business and public circles.
The heads of diplomatic missions usually closely follow current international and regional issues. In this respect, let me note that several major steps have been taken recently to open the way to a peaceful settlement in Syria and to combat the international terrorists there.
Russia’s assistance to Syria’s legitimate government has helped to prevent this country from collapsing as a state, to maintain the government institutions, and to avoid new mass-scale victims among the civilian population.
Russia’s Aerospace Forces provided the support needed for Syria’s army to be able to regain the strategic initiative and liberate a number of towns, including Palmyra. With support from Russia’s aircraft, Syrian troops liberated more than 400 towns and killed thousands of terrorists, among them bandits who had come from Russia and other CIS countries.
Together with the United States of America and other partners, we have launched a political process in which representatives of the Damascus government and the opposition forces are taking part, and have created conditions for getting humanitarian aid to people in need in Syria.
Most importantly, the situation in Syria has reaffirmed that the international community can achieve tangible results if we work together on the basis of international law and recognising the United Nations’ central role.
Ladies and gentlemen,
I have no doubt that your diplomatic missions will be paying great attention to the Russia-ASEAN anniversary summit that will take place in Sochi on May 19–20. We are preparing actively for this big international event, which will give us the opportunity to look back over 20 years of productive cooperation between Russia and the countries of Southeast Asia, and to outline promising new projects.
We also intend discuss the prospects for developing cooperation between the ASEAN countries and the Eurasian Economic Union. I am sure that this summit will help to generally bolster the spirit of trust and cooperation throughout the whole Eurasian area.
Ladies and gentlemen,
Taking part in today’s ceremony are the ambassadors of Indonesia and Thailand, which are both ASEAN member states. We have here today representatives of countries from other parts of Asia, and from Europe, Africa, the Americas, and Australia.
I want to stress the point that we seek to develop our relations with all countries on all continents.
Russia’s relations with Gabon are traditionally friendly and we look to expand our political, trade and economic cooperation. We will continue to provide assistance in training specialists in different areas for your country.
We will continue developing our relations with Moldova on the basis of the agreement on friendship and cooperation, which celebrates its 15th anniversary this year. I am sure that we have all the possibilities we need to more fully disclose the potential for our bilateral cooperation and work together more closely within the Commonwealth of Independent States. Russia will continue to support the efforts to find a settlement to the Trans-Dniester situation, including through the international mediators’ group.
Our diplomatic relations with the Kingdom of Thailand go back nearly 120 years. Our bilateral cooperation is developing well in all areas, including in the economy, energy sector, military and military-technical areas, and in humanitarian and tourist exchanges. We maintain active political contacts at all different levels.
Developing a multifaceted dialogue with Japan is one of our foreign policy priorities. I hope that Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s working visit to Sochi on May 6 will help to expand our bilateral ties on the basis of mutual benefit and consideration of each other’s interests.
We are satisfied with our cooperation with Bolivia. Following up on the agreements reached with the President of your country last November, we started implementing major fuel-and-energy and scientific-and-technical projects. We agreed with Mr Morales to step up cooperation between the business communities of both countries in many different areas, including the mining industry.
We believe that, regrettably, the current condition of political dialogue as well as trade and investment cooperation with Great Britain does not meet the strategic interests of both countries. More active bilateral cooperation in the international arena could make a positive contribution to the world community’s efforts to resolve the key issues of our time.
India is our specially privileged strategic partner. Russia and India are intensively developing their cooperation, which is traditionally constructive and mutually beneficial. It rests on the mutual sympathy of our two nations, their identical long-term national goals and development tasks, and close positions on key global and regional issues. During the talks with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi last December, we reached agreement in a wide range of issues. Importantly, both countries are vigorously carrying them out. We are closely cooperating with our Indian partners in the context of India’s BRICS presidency.
We highly value our relations with Uzbekistan that are of a truly allied nature. The forthcoming official visit by President Islam Karimov to Russia in April is bound to facilitate their further development. Naturally, we support Tashkent’s efforts in the context of its presidency at the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation to implement the decisions taken at the SCO summit in Ufa and to expand the organisation.
Uruguay is Russia’s reliable partner in Latin America. We hope to strengthen bilateral cooperation in many areas. We are maintaining an intensive dialogue with representatives of Uruguay at different international venues, primarily the UN, considering its status of a non-permanent UN Security Council member in 2016–2017. We welcome Uruguay’s initiative in developing integration processes in South America and its striving to consolidate ties with Russia in the Eurasian Economic Union-MERCOSUR format.
Our relations with Australia could be more productive and mutually beneficial, primarily in trade and the economy. The business communities of our two countries have a vested interest in this.
We are actively working to strengthen multifaceted relations with the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, including trade and economic cooperation and efforts to combat terrorism and drug trafficking. We are satisfied with our relations at the UN, which are based on our common commitment to international law and similar positions on key issues of the global and regional agendas.
Russia and Mongolia are bound by neighbourly and friendly relations of long standing. The further development of bilateral cooperation will be promoted by the implementation of the mid-term strategic partnership programme adopted last year. We will continue our dialogue with President Elbegdorj at the SCO summit in Tashkent, Uzbekistan, in June. We also plan to hold a trilateral Russia-Mongolia-China meeting.
Kyrgyzstan is our strategic ally and partner in the Eurasian integration project. We regularly meet with President Almazbek Atambayev and maintain a constructive business dialogue with him. We will continue to provide assistance to the socioeconomic development of Kyrgyzstan and its adjustment to the requirements set to members of the Eurasian Economic Union. We will take part in preparing and holding events to mark the 25th anniversary of the Commonwealth of Independent States, to be held in Bishkek in September.
We are interested in further strengthening our political, trade and economic relations with Indonesia, the biggest Muslim country playing a large role on the international stage. We intend to implement joint investment projects in energy, mining and transportation, as well as to strengthen our cooperation in the fight against international terrorism. We are expecting President of Indonesia Joko Widodo to come for a visit in May.
We are ready to expand our traditional relations of friendship with the Republic of Togo. We can cooperate in various spheres such as geological exploration and military technology. We will continue to train personnel for Togo.
There are solid opportunities for developing ties and international cooperation with the Independent State of Samoa and other South Pacific island states. We are willing to strengthen our cooperation, provide assistance and develop relations in areas of mutual interest.
Ladies and gentlemen,
This is only a short review of the multifaceted nature of Russia’s relations with the states you represent. I hope that these relations will develop dynamically and grow with your active assistance in the interests of our peoples and international stability and security.
Again, I wish you success. Thank you for your attention.
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 20, 2016, 13:50
Text version