Events
Working meeting with Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev
Prospects for establishing a unified system for administration of tax and non-tax payments of the Federal Tax Service, Federal Customs Service, and Federal Service for Alcohol Market Regulation was the subject of discussion.
January 15, 2016
15:40
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 2
Working meeting with Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Medvedev, we have discussed different aspects of implementing the Presidential Address [to the Federal Assembly], which I delivered at the end of last year. Consolidating budget resources and optimising this work is one of these aspects, all the more so in the present circumstances, when it is imperative to guarantee our budget revenue. I know that the Government had some proposals of its own regarding this matter. I would like to hear about what you have finally settled on in this regard.
Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev: Mr President, the Government took the instructions set out in the Presidential Address as its guideline, and proposes the following steps to improve the current system of tax and non-tax payments administration.
The Finance Ministry is responsible for this area, and so we propose setting up a unified system for administering tax and non-tax payments (equivalent to tax payments) within the Finance Ministry system. This would be organised in such a way as to maintain the functions of the Federal Taxation Service, which is responsible for the general methodological direction and tax administration and collection. We also propose including in this system the Federal Customs Service, which collects customs payments, and set it on practically the same methodological track that the Federal Taxation Service uses. The same applies too to the Federal Service for Alcohol Market Regulation, which oversees the accounting system for production and sale of alcohol in Russia.
Vladimir Putin: We also discussed pension system payments.
Dmitry Medvedev: Yes. This is included in the draft executive order that the Government is submitting for your examination. We propose that payments to the pension system and social funds could also be included in the unified system so as to have the Federal Taxation Service oversee their administration and apply the same administration methods that are used for other taxes.
We would thus create a unified core system for administration, collection and subsequent use of all tax and non-tax payments in the country.
Vladimir Putin: Good, thank you.
<…>
Topics
Taxes
Persons
Medvedev Dmitry
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 15, 2016, 15:40
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of Greece Prokopis Pavlopoulos
Vladimir Putin met with President of Greece Prokopis Pavlopoulos.
January 15, 2016
13:30
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
2 of 6
Meeting with President of Greece Prokopis Pavlopoulos.
The subjects of discussion covered bilateral relations, including organisation of the Year of Russia in Greece and Year of Greece in Russia in 2016, and current international affairs.
Mr Pavlopoulos
arrived in Moscow to take part in the forum Russia and the World: A Look into the Future.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, I am very pleased to meet you in person.
You have a busy programme in Moscow. Today, your visit gives us this excellent opportunity to declare the opening of the Year of Russia in Greece and the Year of Greece in Russia. These programmes will see more than 30 different events take place, nearly 40 in fact, 37 events in all. There will be Greek exhibitions at the Hermitage, at the Historical Museum in Moscow, Russian companies will take part in the Thessaloniki International Trade Fair, and we will organise a round table as part of the 20th St Petersburg International Economic Forum.
Mr President, it is a great pleasure to welcome to Moscow the head of state of Greece, a friendly country with which we share unique historical ties. Welcome!
President of Greece Prokopis Pavlopoulos (retranslated): Mr President, thank you for your hospitality and for this reception. I thank you too for the fact that our meeting effectively opens the Year of Greece in Russia and the Year of Russia in Greece. The planned events can and will build closer ties between our close and friendly peoples.
I think that this year will bring us the pleasure of having the opportunity to receive you in Athens. It is your turn to come to Athens now.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Prokopis Pavlopoulos: Mr President, on behalf of the Greek people, the Greek government, and all democratic forces in Greece, I want to say that we value most highly Russia’s contribution to resolving the world’s current problems and confronting challenges that are not so much economic as humanitarian in nature.
I believe that no matter what the differences between Russia and the European Union, they can be resolved through dialogue. I think that no matter what these differences may be, they are of little significance compared to the challenges we face at the global level: the need to end the war in the Middle East, in Syria, restore peace, protect people, fight terrorism, which threatens the entire international community, and defeat ISIS.
<…>
Geography
Greece
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Pavlopoulos Prokopis
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 15, 2016, 13:30
Text version