Events
Presentation of state decorations
In a ceremony at the Kremlin’s Catherine Hall, Vladimir Putin presented Russian Federation state decorations and honorary titles to outstanding Russians and a number of foreign nationals.
March 10, 2016
14:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 47
Presentation of state decorations.
Among those who received the decorations were representatives of the Russian academic community and the space industry, public and religious figures, workers, teachers, actors and journalists.
Decorations were presented, among others, to the commander and co-pilot of the Orenburg Airlines plane who prevented the crash of the liner in the Dominican Republic, as well as a Russian police officer and a citizen of Kyrgyzstan who saved a woman in the Moscow metro.
Russian Federation state decorations were also presented to citizens of Azerbaijan, Armenia and the Czech Republic.
 * * *
 President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends.
Attending this gala ceremony in this beautiful hall of the Kremlin are those who devoted their great victories to Russia, who brought it fame and respect. Allow me to welcome you all.
We have recently marked March 8, the International Women’s Day, and in this connection, I would like to say that our women are making great progress everywhere, demonstrating their abilities and talents in the most diverse areas. Their stamina and bravery deserve our admiration.
Thus, the fourth female cosmonaut in the history of this country, Yelena Serova, has overcome all the hardships and trials of a long space flight with confidence. Together with her colleague Oleg Artemyev, she is awarded the Hero of Russia
star and the title of Pilot-Cosmonaut of the Russian Federation.
Anfisa Chukavina, who works in the assembly of radio electronic equipment, has demonstrated great professional achievements. Lyubov Romanskaya and Nina Sevastyanova have steadily produced excellent results in animal husbandry for decades, while Tamara Purtova has dedicated her life to preserving the rich traditions of Russian folk art and Russia’s cultural heritage.
Undoubtedly, our words of gratitude go to veterans of the Great Patriotic War
. We continue to discover little known facts about the history of the war, paying tribute to its heroes.
One such person is Alexander Pechersky, who headed one of the biggest uprisings of Nazi death camp inmates at the Sobibor camp. However, his feat had been forgotten for a long time, and it is through the efforts of the public and veterans’ unions that justice has prevailed: he is awarded the Order of Courage
. The order will be presented to his granddaughter Natalya Ladychenko.
We consider it our sacred duty to preserve the memory and truth of the war. Its grim lessons remain timely and important for stronger peace and stability and trust between peoples.
For special achievements in the development of humanitarian ties with Russia and his great efforts to retain the heritage of the Great Victory, a state decoration is presented to Jiri Mastalka, Member of the European Parliament from the Czech Republic.
We are grateful to all our friends abroad and we highly value their support and are always ready to work together for the benefit of our countries.
A great contribution to the development of close bilateral contacts with Russia and the strengthening of our strategic partnership is made by First Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Azerbaijan Yaqub Abdulla oglu Eyyubov, who is in this hall today.
Friends, gratitude and openness, a drive for creativity, for serving people, nobility and courage are wonderful qualities.
Pilots Konstantin Parikozha and Igor Kravtsov have saved hundreds of lives. Their stamina, professionalism, proper and decisive action made it possible to avoid a terrible catastrophe in the sky over the Dominican Republic, to land a burning multi-tonne liner without causing casualties and evacuate all the passengers.
Artyom Korolyuk and citizen of the Republic of Kyrgyzstan Marat Isayev performed a brave manly deed. Risking their own lives, they saved a woman who fell onto the rails of the Moscow metro.
Today among those awarded are representatives of leading scientific, production and educational centres of this country.
Outstanding aircraft designer Genrikh Novozhilov is awarded the Order for Services to the Fatherland
I degree. For many years, he headed the Ilyushin Design Bureau, standing at the source of breakthrough modifications of the legendary Il aircraft. Today, despite his respectable age, he is still on the job.
We are also happy to see here President of the Russian Academy of Sciences Vladimir Fortov and many famous scientists, teachers, actors and doctors.
Your achievements, friends, have been and will remain significant for Russia and its people, helping to resolve pressing matters of the country’s social and economic development.
Taking part in this ceremony are representatives of the traditional religions of this country, people of the arts and culture, and public activists. Through your selfless moral service, you help people, making Russia stronger, supporting the values that form the basis of civic solidarity and public accord.
I would like to congratulate you once again on this high acclaim, for receiving state decorations. I would like to wish you further success and all the best.
 Thank you very much.
<…>
V.Putin: Friends, allow me to congratulate you once again on your awards. Thank you very much for the kind words you addressed to me, and I would like to put the ball in your court, as they say: it is a great honour for me to present these state decorations of Russia.
One of you said, “I do not know how soon I would come again on to this hall and stand on this podium.” I must say, we have a lot of achievements, as you have said today. In every area that you represent – aircraft construction, shipbuilding, medicine, art, space – we have a lot to demonstrate to the country and the world, we have some great up-to-date achievements.
However, we also have many unresolved issues – quite a few of them. We should not rest on our laurels, absolutely not. Although, the more often you and other outstanding Russians like you come to this hall, the sooner we will resolve all the issues facing us.
Thank you for your work.
Topics
State decorations
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 10, 2016, 14:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of Serbia Tomislav Nikolic
Vladimir Putin met with President of Serbia Tomislav Nikolic, who is in Russia on a working visit.
March 10, 2016
16:45
The Kremlin, Moscow
The two leaders discussed the current state and prospects of Russian-Serbian cooperation and pressing international matters.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, friends, allow me to welcome you to the Kremlin.
I would like to begin by congratulating you on receiving the prize of the Unity of Orthodox Nations International Public Foundation. You do a great deal to protect and promote eastern Christian traditions and values. I know it from personal experience – you and I have spoken about it on numerous occasions in private. I would like to congratulate you and thank you for your efforts in this area.
Relations between our states are developing successfully. We will talk about it today.
Welcome.
President of the Republic of Serbia Tomislav Nikolic
(retranslated): Mr President, thank you very much for your congratulations. This award was special for me; I value it because it bears the name of the late Patriarch Alexy II, who was at Serbia’s side and in Serbia through the most difficult times. This is simultaneously an award and an obligation.
Thank you for finding the time for this meeting. Although we have come here for a different reason, this gives me an opportunity to thank you personally for everything you have done for Serbia last year and over all these years.
You cannot imagine how grateful Serbia is to you for two things you have done. They have to do with Serbia’s future, I would say the future of the Serbian Republic. The attempt to adopt the Srebrenica Declaration was an attempt to say that all the crimes were committed by Serbs, the Serbian people, and to reaffirm the stereotypes that already existed that the Serbian people were to blame for the genocide.
Despite the fact that this happened in a different time and under different circumstances, I could compare this to the gesture made by the Russian Tsar who said he would withdraw from the fighting if the allies did not provide ships to pick up the Serbian army from the Adriatic coast, not to mention the fact he got involved in the war only to protect his Serbian brothers.
I know how difficult it is to veto a Security Council resolution, and this gesture will remain in the memory of Serbian people.
I would also like to thank you for the way you acted in UNESCO, when there was an attempt to let so-called Kosovo join the organisation.
I have been waiting for this moment to unburden my mind and say this to you.
At the same time I would like to thank you for your support for Serbia in its attempt to get back on its feet and join a number of developed states, for your understanding of Serbia’s stance in international relations and for the courage Russia has demonstrated to all the other states in the fight against ISIS.
Unfortunately, this is not 1999, otherwise we would not be talking about the bombing of Serbia, and we would not have mentioned it.
This is all I wanted to say in the presence of the press.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
We do share a rich and eventful history and very warm relations that this history proves.
I hope that we will cover a present-day positive agenda. In this connection, I would like to recall the visit by the Serbian Prime Minister to Russia last autumn and of the planned visit by the Prime Minister of the Russian Federation to Serbia, hopefully soon.
We can discuss the situation in the region and bilateral relations. I would like to thank you once again for coming to Russia and creating this opportunity.
<…>
Geography
Serbia
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Nikolic Tomislav
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 10, 2016, 16:45
Text versionEvents
Working meeting with Healthcare Minister Veronika Skvortsova
Late the previous evening, the President had a working meeting with Healthcare Minister Veronika Skvortsova.
March 10, 2016
07:00
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 4
With Healthcare Minister Veronika Skvortsova.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ms Skvortsova, we agreed that you will tell me about the current situation, the year-end results and the results of work in the first quarter – the last two months.
Healthcare Minister Veronika Skvortsova
: Thank you, Mr President.
Today, we can draw some preliminary conclusions on 2015, based on the results from those 12 months, as well as this January.
I would like to note that in spite of the certain financial and economic fluctuations, we were able to maintain the positive trends we have been seeing over the course of the previous several years.
A very important, positive result was the continued, significant decline in infant and maternal mortality. Infant mortality decreased by 12 percent and even more in 2015, reaching 6.5 per 1,000 live births, and dropped by another 4.6 percent in January to 6.2 per 1,000. This is an absolute historic minimum.
Vladimir Putin: What was it in 2014?
Veronika Skvortsova: 7.4 per 1,000.
At the same time, it is important to note that more than half of Russia’s regions – 44 out of 85 – have infant mortality rates lower than Russia’s average, and include some of the best rates in the world. For example, it’s 1.7 per 1,000 in Tomsk Region, 2.3 in Tambov and Tula regions, and 2.9 in Kabardino-Balkaria. In other words, we have nearly 20 regions with rates below 3.5 or 4 per 1,000. These are excellent figures.
Maternal mortality has also dropped by over 11 percent and reached a historic minimum.
We hope that in 2016, we will build 32 perinatal centres in 30 regions. We are monitoring this progress constantly and very carefully. We hope that by December, all construction will be complete. This will provide powerful additional momentum for further development and overall, we currently have no doubt that we can achieve the lowest global rates for infant and maternal mortality.
I would also like to note that Russians’ life expectancy has increased to just over 71.2 years, and much of this increase was observed among men – a six-month increase in 2015. Thus, although we still have a high discrepancy in life expectancy between men and women, it has been reduced slightly. And although the gap used to be higher than 11 years, at 11.2 years, it has now declined to a difference of 10.8 years.
First and foremost, this reduction in the gender gap between life expectancy and increase in life expectancy occurred due to a decrease in mortality…
Vladimir Putin: Have they started drinking less?
Veronika Skvortsova: Well, in part, because mortality among the working age population has decreased significantly – by 4.5 percent on average. That is more than 21,200 people – chiefly, men aged 35 to 60. This represents an enormous potential for further decreasing mortality, and we are working on it. Primarily, this is due to healthy lifestyle changes, a decrease in smoking and alcohol consumption, as well as many other factors.
Vladimir Putin: Smoking, alcohol consumption, working conditions and road safety are also of great importance, as well as timely medical assistance and preventive care, of course.
Veronika Skvortsova: Yes, fortunately we have generally positive dynamics in all the areas you named, and we continue working on them.
I would like to note that the tendency towards a general ageing of the population continues with 24 percent of the population being over 60. The contribution to the death rate by the older generation amounts to 74.5 percent.
This shows that the main factor affecting the death rate is old age. With this in mind we analysed ways of lowering the death rate so that old age does not impede a reduction in the death rate, ways of speeding up both processes – greater life span and lower mortality rate. We have some significant resources that we intend to use.
Overall, the death rate went down by 2,200 people last year. This is not much and is connected with our attempts to level out the effect of the flu epidemic we had in the first quarter.
However, this year the epidemic caused minimal losses. We had a reduction in deaths in January by over 5,000 people. Therefore, there is hope that this year we will keep moving steadily in the direction of reducing the mortality rate.
Mr President, I would also like to draw you attention to our efforts to increase the accessibility of various types of medical assistance.
Vladimir Putin: What is very important here is to maintain a supply of medications, and we will touch upon this today. This is especially true of rigorous periods like flu epidemics. You already spoke to me about this, but I would like to get back to this again.
Veronika Skvortsova: Yes, of course.
We have managed to significantly increase high technology assistance. You issued instructions in 2014. In 2013, 505,000 people received high-tech treatments. Now the number is 816,000 – a more than 50 percent growth. I would like to note here that high technology assistance has become more varied, with new up-to-date technologies being added continuously.
This applies not only to federal institutions; there is broad application of high technologies in the regions as well.
I would like to say that this year for the first time the number of stent angioplasties has reached 120,000, with more than 20 percent of acute coronary syndrome patients receiving the treatment within the first three hours of hospitalisation, without having to wait.
Vladimir Putin: It is good that the regions can offer this as well.
Veronika Skvortsova: If we take such planned types of medical assistance as transplants, more than 80 percent of all kidney transplants are performed at regional clinics rather than federal ones.
Along with high technology assistance, we gave great attention to enhancing the accessibility of first aid and emergency medical assistance. This used to be quite a problem, especially in regions with a low density of population and a poor transportation infrastructure. (Ms Skvortsova went on to speak about specific measures taken to resolve the issue)
Vladimir Putin: What are you doing to increase accessibility in rural communities?
Veronika Skvortsova: I would like to say that we have opened several modular facilities across the country. These are rather inexpensive but high quality medical and obstetric centres. We build about 500 of these a year in practically every region of the country.
It is of course difficult to compensate for the wear and tear of infrastructure that has accumulated over decades. This is exactly why we are currently analysing the situation in each region individually to see where the infrastructure needs to be updated and where we can simply use mobile units that would arrive at least twice a year for general preventive check-ups.
We are also giving special attention to emergency medical aid to ensure that wherever a person lives emergency aid could be made available within no more than 20 minutes.
(Further the discussion dealt with organising and monitoring efforts to provide medical aid, particularly in rural areas.)
As for the availability of medication, over January and February prices of vitally important medications went up by 0.4 percent. The prices of the cheaper medications, under 50 rubles a pack, grew somewhat more – by 0.7 percent.
Vladimir Putin: These are mostly Russian brands, aren’t they?
Veronika Skvortsova: Yes, mostly Russian-made medications.
Vladimir Putin: Then why is there a price rise on locally made medicines?
Veronika Skvortsova: If we recall the first two months of last year, the price growth amounted to 5.5 percent, which is more than ten times the current rise. Generally speaking, if we compare this to the market segment, the rise there is significantly greater. In other words, 0.4 percent is a rather stable price that does not affect the population’s buying capacity.
We carefully monitor the availability of individual medications, as there were signs of shortages of certain cheaper medicines at the end of the year.
Currently we have a stable choice, with no voids in terms of internationally patented brands.
In terms of medical aid, this is not critical in any way; it does not influence the quality of medical aid, as there is a vast number of analogous medications to replace all the internationally patented brands.
Regarding imported medications in the low price segment, the voids are more significant, with an 18 percent reduction both in range and price. This applies to the entire market of low price medications. However, as we maintain a stable range of internationally patented brands, all we need to do is redistribute the cheap medications with a focus on Russian-made ones.
The marketing companies that we contracted to conduct the studies say there is no significant reduction in the commercial market of medications.
Vladimir Putin: Several years ago, we devised a whole programme of Russia’s medical and pharmaceutical industry development. How much did we allocate, 156 or 186 billion rubles? Do you remember? A significant amount of money. How does this programme work? What were the results?
Veronika Skvortsova: This is an Industry and Trade Ministry’s programme, but we are in close contact with them.
Vladimir Putin: Yet you are the consumer of this work’s results.
Veronika Skvortsova: Mr President, I would like to say that in the beginning, when the programme just started, we were mostly talking about pharmaceutical manufacturing localisation.
Vladimir Putin: The goals included having our own formulas and developing production using our own base – in general, creating the foundation for the pharmaceutical industry specifically.
Veronika Skvortsova: In the last three years, we have developed about 70 Russian manufacturing plants. Now, we are talking about full-cycle production, deep localisation and original medicines as well. So we are seeing a positive dynamic.
I reported to you about the list of vitally important medicines – it features 23,500 trade names and 646 international non-proprietary names. If we look at the whole spectrum of commercial medicines, 81% are already being produced in Russia in one form or another. About 67% use complete production cycle – I mean, drug substance manufacturing or changes on the drug substance.
Vladimir Putin: 67% of substances. What was the figure, for example, five years ago?
Veronika Skvortsova: We had nearly nothing: I may be mistaken, but less than 10%.
Vladimir Putin: In other words, Russian pharmaceutical manufacturing grew significantly.
Veronika Skvortsova: That’s right.
There is one problem that is of concern to us – namely, that our population is currently spending less of its own funds to get medicines in the outpatient segment: according to opinion polls, about 11% less. And in this respect, treatment compliance is declining, including among patients from groups that need regular treatment over the course of a year or two: after vascular procedures, including coronary artery bypass grafts, stent angioplasties, or after a heart attack or stroke, to ensure they do not recur.
In this respect, we have developed a programme and launched a pilot project on partial reimbursement by the state of the cost of these medicines.
Vladimir Putin: That’s right. In modern conditions, when real incomes are falling while the cost of medicines is growing – not significantly this year, but rather significantly last year – there is nothing surprising about it; people are simply having a hard time.
Veronika Skvortsova: Yes. We would like to help, especially since the savings will be enormous, simply due to the absence of recurring grave conditions that require us to spend several hundred thousand rubles per patient. So it will result in direct and indirect savings.
Vladimir Putin: Again, what exactly is the suggestion?
Veronika Skvortsova: The suggestion is to make provisions in the 2017 budget for a small amount of money in the Compulsory Medical Insurance Fund to compensate part of the medicines costs on a case-by-case basis, depending on an individual’s own motivation to go on with regular treatment.
Vladimir Putin: How much is it, approximately?
Veronika Skvortsova: If we talk about the 120,000 people that underwent a stent angioplasty, full cost of one-year treatment for them is 4.7 billion rubles. Assuming that we compensate at least 50%, which is not a huge amount of money for the country, it solves the problem: we will reduce recurring vascular events by at least 50%.
Vladimir Putin: That’s a little over two billion, right?
Veronika Skvortsova: Yes. If it is possible, we will report separately on this project.
Vladimir Putin: Please prepare this suggestion. But we need to discuss it already now, because work on the 2017 budget is about to start.
Veronika Skvortsova: Thank you very much.
<…>
Topics
Demographics
Healthcare
Social services
Persons
Skvortsova Veronika
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 10, 2016, 07:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of Armenia Serzh Sargsyan
Vladimir Putin and Serzh Sargsyan discussed key topics in Russian-Armenian cooperation, prospects for developing integration processes in Eurasia and Nagorno Karabakh settlement.
March 10, 2016
18:45
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 4
With President of Armenia Serzh Sargsyan.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, I am very happy to see you.
There is no need to describe our bilateral interstate relations: indeed, this is a strategic partnership. I am very pleased to state this and note that our relations are developing successfully.
Of course, we also have objective problems – I am referring first and foremost to our economic cooperation, although also here we understand that overall we can be satisfied with the way we have built a foundation for our relations. I have no doubt that we will advance in this direction based on our joint decisions from previous years.
You are heading the CSTO
this year, and I very much hope that I will be able to talk with you as the chairman of this international organisation, because it is responsible for security issues, the fight against terrorism and organised crime, and ensuring that everything remains calm on our borders. But we also have an Armenian – an international official, but your colleague nevertheless – who is now heading our leading economic integration union, the Eurasian Economic Union
.
So we have much to discuss, and I am very happy to see you. Welcome.
President of Armenia Serzh Sargsyan
: Thank you, Mr President.
I am very happy to meet with you and I agree with you 100% that our relations are developing very well. This is a good tradition in general – meeting at the start of the year to sum up the results of the previous year and set new goals for current year.
We have a complete mutual understanding in the political, economic, military technology and humanitarian spheres, and these relations are developing very nicely. I want to thank you for implementing the agreements that we reached during our previous meetings.
As chair of the CSTO, we are giving a great deal of attention to implementing the decisions we made during the September and December CSTO meetings.
Naturally, we are troubled by the situation in the regions directly adjoining the CSTO’s zone of responsibility. And as I said at the December meeting and in my other speeches, I will once again openly state that we firmly support Russia’s position on Syria. And naturally, we welcome the ceasefire agreement that you reached with the United States. This can become a key to resolving this issue through political means.
Today, the Candidates Chess Tournament 2016 opened in Moscow, and since the Armenian Chess Federation is a sponsor of this tournament, we have dedicated its opening to the 25th anniversary of Armenia’s independence.
A large civilisation exhibition at the Russian History Museum also opens today; I am sure that Russian citizens will like this exhibition, and it will contribute to strengthening the fraternal ties between our peoples.
Mr President, I want to thank you personally for Russia’s efforts to resolve the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict. We remain committed to a peaceful resolution of this conflict.
Thank you very much.
<…>
Geography
Armenia
Topics
CSTO
EAEU
Foreign policy
Persons
Sargsyan Serzh
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 10, 2016, 18:45
Text version