Events
Meeting of the Russian Pobeda (Victory) Organising Committee
Vladimir Putin chaired the 37th meeting of the Pobeda (Victory) Organising Committee in the Grand Kremlin Palace, devoted to preparations for celebrating the 71st anniversary of Victory in the Great Patriotic War of 1941–1945.
April 5, 2016
14:25
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 6
At the meeting of the Russian Pobeda (Victory) Organising Committee.
Great Patriotic War veterans and heads of veteran and youth public organisations took part in the meeting.
* * *
Excerpts from transcript of Pobeda (Victory) Organising Committee meeting
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
We had the opportunity to meet on the eve of the 70th anniversary of Victory celebrations and I am sure we all share the view that these events were held at the highest level. The celebrations received tremendous public response and, most important, allowed us to remember again the heroes of the Great Patriotic War, render them their fully deserved honours and unite our citizens around real, meaningful values. During these festive days we felt even more profoundly that we are a united nation, proud of our history and traditions.
I would like to thank all those who took part in preparing for and carrying out the anniversary, including the members of the Victory Committee and the Organising Committee-70 that was created specifically for this momentous date.
It is important that you managed to choose and ensure the fruition of many outstanding, meaningful and useful initiatives. Suffice to mention your assistance in creating the Defence Ministry’s website “Memory of the Nation” that opened up public access to millions of archive pages on Soviet servicemen and prisoners of Nazi death camps.
Of course, the Victory Organising Committee should continue to cooperate under this project with the Defence Ministry and through the Commission for Identification and Preservation of Military and History Sites and Fortifications. Established by decision of the Victory Committee, this commission will also oversee the registration and transfer to museums of unique wartime items that have remained at the site of battles or have been stored at army depots.
Mr Ivanov [Sergei Ivanov, Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office] has recently attended the launch of the Memory Watch commemorative event and a conference of the Russian Search Movement in Tula. The search groups have outlined several issues, including the preservation of our material heritage. I am asking you to draft instructions to address these issues. Of course, we must support those who are doing this important work.
One more project that has been supported by the Victory Committee and that deserves the highest praise is the Immortal Regiment, a nationwide initiative that brought together 12 million people on May 9 of last year, both in Russia and abroad. It is an absolutely honest and sincere project – it should remain the same and be able to develop freely.
Of course, we must support it just as any other positive civil initiatives that encourage interest in our history, nature and the preservation of our cultural heritage, and inspire us to creative endeavours.
There is large demand for such initiatives in our society, as is evidenced by the development of volunteer services. The Volunteers of Victory movement that was created for the 70th Anniversary of Victory now has over 150,000 members. They continue to help veterans, take care of wartime memorials and take part in hundreds of events across Russia every year.
Patriotism is the love you have for your country and the spirit of sincerity and unity, which prevailed in society in the year of the 70th anniversary of Victory, and this feeling of patriotism can also be inspired by examples of selfless devotion to a cause.
Of course, the Great Patriotic War and the wartime generations are the best examples of this. But there have been many other epic and breakthrough events in our history, such as space exploration, industrialisation and the achievements of our culture and science. All of these form our national heritage, which rests on the solid foundation of those who made amazing discoveries, worked hard and created great works of art.
The Organising Committee and the Commission for Veteran Affairs should continue working to fulfil at least two major tasks.
The first task is to support our veterans. We must help implement state policy in this respect, and, on the geopolitical plane, we must help those who contributed to the victory over Nazism. We need to inspire the public to help implement state policy in this respect by facilitating access to healthcare and social services for our veterans, regardless of their place of residence.
The second task is to create conditions for involving more veterans in working with young people, including within the framework of the state programme Patriotic Education of Russian Citizens for 2016–2020.
The programme was first adopted in 2001 and has helped launch many sports, museum and research projects and has given a new meaning to the unique Russian tradition of working with younger generation.
I believe that large educational organisations, such as the Russian Geographical Society or the Russian Historical Society, should be more actively involved in the implementation of this programme. They have very good resources that can be used in the patriotic upbringing of our youth and can cooperate very productively with, among others, the Victory Organising Committee.
I firmly believe that patriotic education should be not only part of a coherent state system but above all an organic part of society’s life. Only by pooling our efforts and consolidating the best practices and initiatives will we be able to bring up generations that know their country, feel involved in its fate, share the responsibility for its future and, most importantly, believe in it.
I would like to note another important thing. We must consistently uphold the historical truth; we often talk about this. It is vital to cut short any attempts to besmirch and falsify the past, including [attempts to] belittle our country’s decisive role in routing Nazism.
These are the most important areas of activity for the Victory Organising Committee, government agencies, including the Foreign Ministry, as well as public, educational and research organisations.
<…>
Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov
: Mr President, colleagues,
Last year, despite the attempts by Western countries to downplay the importance of the celebrations in Moscow, we secured significant international participation in the celebration of the 70th anniversary of Victory in the Great Patriotic War and widely promoted the theme of the Great Victory. We can see that the Western information campaign against Russia is continuing; there are on-going attempts, as part of this campaign, to use the WWII issue for media attacks against our country.
In this situation, disseminating objective information about our country’s decisive contribution to routing Nazism and consistently promoting the thesis of the inadmissibility of revising the results of Victory remain an undisputed priority for the Foreign Ministry in conjunction with other agencies involved in international activity.
We pay special attention to efforts within the framework of international organisations. I am pleased to note the invariably increasing support of the UN General Assembly Resolution entitled Glorification of Nazism: Inadmissibility of certain practices that contribute to fuelling contemporary forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance, adopted upon our initiative every year. This resolution has a long title but the gist is clear. Last December, it was supported by 133 states and the number of its co-authors grew to 52.
We regularly raise the issue of preserving historical memory in other multilateral agencies, including the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) and the Council of Europe, coordinating our steps with parliamentarians of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation. We focus our attention on enhancing the coordination of actions with our partners in the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS).
The Great Victory Achieved by Unity International Forum of Victors is held every year. This year, it will take place outside Russia – in Minsk – for the first time. Naturally, the CIS regularly observes anniversaries of major events of the Great Patriotic War on the basis of decisions adopted by national leaders. This year the 75th anniversary of the Battle for Moscow will occupy a central place in these efforts.
To promote our positions in the media space, Russia’s Foreign Ministry launched a history and records web-resource, USSR and its Allies, on its website. It contains documents from the ministry’s archives on foreign policy and the diplomacy of leading powers of the anti-Hitler coalition.
A special online exhibition on the Foreign Ministry’s website is dedicated to the 70th anniversary of the International Military Tribunal at Nuremberg. To this end, we actively collaborate with the Federal Archives Agency, the Russian Historical Society, the Russian Military History Society, the Academy of Sciences, expert communities and the media.
Interaction with our compatriots abroad is of significant help in this work. Representatives of Russian-speaking communities actively participate in various campaigns, such as St George’s Ribbon and the Immortal Regiment, engage in search and memorial activities and seek to bring objective information about the events of those years home to the broad public in host countries. This cooperation received an additional impetus from the 5th World Congress of Compatriots that took place in Moscow last November.
The Foundation for Supporting and Protecting the Rights of Compatriots Living Abroad also makes a contribution to the overall efforts. Among other things, this concerns assistance to people persecuted for activities related to anniversaries of landmark dates of the Great Patriotic War.
Joint history expert commissions established with a number of states also play an important role in our work. I’d like to note that, in conjunction with Germany, in the framework of one such commission, a textbook has been published where the majority of chapters are coordinated, but some chapters provide alternative points of view. We consider this practice useful and are determined to continue it together with the Academy of Sciences and the Institute of General History.
Needless to say, the campaign launched in a number of European countries to demolish monuments to Soviet citizens who fell in the fight against Nazism arouses particular concern. This anti-Russia race is led by Poland where 30 monuments symbolising not only the Red Army’s liberation mission but also the Soviet-Polish brotherhood in arms were defaced or illegally dismantled. What is more, today the Institute of National Remembrance, which is a Polish state institution, pushes for decisions that will be tantamount to the demolition of all monuments that are unrelated to war burials.
The Russian Foreign Ministry takes all necessary steps, both on a bilateral basis and through the relevant international agencies, to counter this unacceptable line.
We will continue to promote the preservation and maintenance of military burial and memorial sites abroad in cooperation with veteran, anti-fascist and religious organisations in other countries. We believe it is important to do more to consolidate the bilateral legal framework regarding military burial sites abroad. We have a work plan to this end.
Notably, eight monuments to Soviet soldiers were erected in 2015, including those in France and Serbia, in cooperation with the Military Historical Society.
We intend to continue to work consistently and resolutely, and to coordinate our decisions with our associates, including member states of the CSTO, CIS, EAEC, BRICS and the SCO, as well as Israel. In addition, of course, we will continue to promote the idea of an alliance between the Soviet Union, the United States and the United Kingdom. Our veteran organisations have done a lot in this area.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: We have heard several proposals here, some of which we will implement, starting with what has been said about using the experience of the early days of the Great Patriotic War. I am referring to relocating our defence enterprises.
Modern methods of warfare are such that no one will have to relocate, but reviewing how industrial manufacturing was organised, especially in the defence sector, certainly makes sense. We must understand what we need to do and how to do it. Therefore, looking to the past, to the positive experience of the past, makes perfect sense.
The social and educational, as well as the research and practical, aspects of this work, which needs to be done to have our people keep in their historical memory that which was accomplished during the Great Patriotic War, is important for us all, as is using this positive background for the future of our country and for patriotic education.
I want to thank you all again, and I look forward to continuing our joint work.
Topics
Great Patriotic War
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 5, 2016, 14:25
Text versionEvents
Russian National Guard established
Vladimir Putin made the announcement at a meeting with Interior Minister Vladimir Kolokoltsev, Interior Ministry Troops Commander Viktor Zolotov, Federal Drug Control Service Director Viktor Ivanov and Federal Migration Service First Deputy Director Yekaterina Yegorova.
April 5, 2016
17:20
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 2
Vladimir Putin announces the creation of the National Guard on the basis of the Interior Ministry Troops. On the right: Interior Ministry Troops Commander Viktor Zolotov.
The President announced the decision to establish the National Guard on the basis of the Interior Ministry Troops. Vladimir Putin also announced that the Federal Drug Control Service and the Federal Migration Service will be incorporated into the Interior Ministry’s structure.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues,
As you know, we have been actively discussing issues related to improving the work of law enforcement agencies and their national security component, and we have considered and thought about ways of improving this work in all areas, including the fight against terrorism, organised crime and drug trafficking. In this context, many considerations and opinions have been put forward, and we actively discussed them at the level of the Security Council, including quite recently.
Decisions have been made. We are creating a new federal executive government body on the basis of the Interior Ministry Troops. We are creating a National Guard, which will fight terrorism and organised crime and, in close contact with the Interior Ministry, will continue to perform the functions that were previously performed by Special Purpose Police units, Special Rapid Response units, and so on. We will formalise this – as we discussed with the Interior Minister [Vladimir Kolokoltsev] – not only in an executive order, but also in forthcoming federal legislation so that there is no misunderstanding and so that everything works smoothly and efficiently. Again, I hope that National Guard troops will carry out their missions as effectively as has been the case until now and that they will intensify their efforts in those areas that are considered to be priorities.
Regarding the fight against organised crime, specifically drug trafficking, as we said, we will implement one of the proposals: the Federal Drug Control Service will be incorporated into the Interior Ministry. We also discussed this with the [Interior] Minister. I am acting on the premise that this entire structure will work independently and self-sufficiently, but within the framework of the Interior Ministry.
The same applies to the Migration Service. There are issues related to labour relations, especially with regard to foreigners. Clearly, this is purely an issue of civilian life. This issue was also discussed with the Prime Minister, the Interior Ministry and the Migration Service itself. We will look into this in detail. There must be no setbacks, and the same goes for drug control and National Guard troops.
Let’s discuss this more concretely and if there are any comments during our meeting today, I am willing to take them into account in the corresponding documents – presidential executive orders.
<…>
Topics
Civil service
Fight against terrorism
National security
Persons
Ivanov Victor
Kolokoltsev Vladimir
Zolotov Viktor
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 5, 2016, 17:20
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of the French Senate Gerard Larcher
Vladimir Putin met with President of the Senate of France Gerard Larcher. The discussion focussed on Russian-French cooperation, including on the parliamentary level.
April 5, 2016
15:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 4
Meeting with President of the French Senate Gerard Larcher.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Larcher, friends, colleagues. Let me welcome you to Moscow. I believe we met exactly a year ago.
President of the Senate of France Gerard Larcher (retranslated): Almost.
Vladimir Putin: I should say that despite the well-known difficulties and problems, relations between France and Russia are developing and are maintained on the parliamentary level and the level of executive authorities and, naturally, the business level.
I believe last year I met with the French President five times and spoke on the telephone with him 23 times. However, the parliamentary dimension is, naturally, very important because we need support from members of parliament, but of course it is also necessary to promote an appropriate atmosphere for the development of relations.
We are happy to see you, Mr Larcher. We know you as an advocate of deepening our interstate relations.
Welcome!
Gerard Larcher: Mr President, I would like to thank you for receiving our senators, Mr Ambassador and me.
Yesterday, we met with the Federation Council Speaker and the Deputy Speaker, and it seems to us that we worked well last evening.
There will be an opening event in October: our two foreign affairs committees will meet here under the chairmanship of Jean-Pierre Raffarin – I believe you know him. He is our former prime minister, and now he is Chairman of the French Senate Committee for Foreign Affairs.
First of all, I would like to convey a message to you on behalf of the French business community. I talked to them for a long time yesterday, and you know what – they are very happy to live and work here in Russia.
I also met with Moscow Mayor yesterday, and I should say that the changes inspire confidence. We decided to enhance contacts with our Ile-de-France region and with Paris. By the way, I was elected in Ile-de-France.
<…>
Geography
France
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 5, 2016, 15:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting on developing power industry
Vladimir Putin chaired a meeting on developing power industry in Russia. Measures to improve the country’s electricity grid system were discussed.
April 5, 2016
19:10
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 2
Meeting on developing power industry.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
Let me remind you that we have addressed the issue of developing Russia’s electricity grid system many times lately. In 2013, the Rossiyskiye Seti (Russian Grids) company was established and today this company, known as Rosseti, is one of the largest electricity grid companies in the world. It operates over 2 million kilometres of power transmission lines and about half a million substations; over 70 percent of electricity generated in the country is transmitted with Rosseti’s help.
The company’s key mission is to follow a single technical and investment policy in the power supply sector, dovetail the central and local electricity grids in the power industry in general and, finally, organise a reliable and continuous energy supply across the country.
I hope to hear today about how our plans are being implemented and what is being done to improve interaction with consumers. I would like to ask you separately to bring us up to date on how the task of creating Rosseti’s single treasury is being fulfilled. We discussed this issue in the Executive Office and the Government Cabinet and I know that it has been addressed. This mechanism should enhance the transparency of the company’s financial flow and increase its financial stability. Regarding the flow, it is big, running into the trillions of rubles: 2 trillion rubles, I believe.
Next, in recent years, we have significantly simplified the utility connection procedure for enterprises and organisations. Thanks to the efforts undertaken within the framework of the National Entrepreneurial Initiative, many administrative barriers have been removed and grid connection times reduced. In the past year alone, Russia climbed up 24 positions in the World Bank’s Getting Electricity rankings to 29th place.
Needless to say, it is essential to continue this work, consistently improving the business climate in the country and providing infrastructure conditions for the growth of the national economy and the social sector. At the same time, it is important to dovetail regional development plans, large consumer strategies and the investment programmes of the grid companies themselves.
Newly commissioned power generation capacities, new electricity grids should be fully used, but unfortunately, consumers often underutilise the capacity that they request. It turns out that investment in grid companies is made but does not pay off. All of this impedes further development of the electricity grid sector.
Let’s address these issues thoroughly today and revisit what we discussed at our recent meetings and think about what should be done to improve the situation.
<…>
Topics
Energy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 5, 2016, 19:10
Text version