Events
Greetings on Agriculture and Processing Industry Workers’ Day
Vladimir Putin congratulated the workers of the agro-industrial complex on their professional holiday, Agriculture and Processing Industry Workers’ Day.
October 9, 2016
09:00
Vladimir Putin congratulated the workers of the agro-industrial complex on their professional holiday, Agriculture and Processing Industry Workers’ Day.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends,
I would like to congratulate you on your professional holiday, Agriculture and Processing Industry Workers’ Day.
First of all, I would like to thank you for your constructive and intensive labour, the rich, bountiful harvest grown by your hands and care, and the excellent results that Russia is proud of.
Today the agro-industrial complex is one of the drivers of national economic development. Our grain growers, livestock breeders and processing industry workers are proving by their actions that they can do business in a modern way, efficiently and assiduously. Relying on the best centuries-old traditions of the Russian peasantry, they are capable of setting records.
This year we are expecting the biggest grain harvest in the history of modern Russia – about 115 million tonnes. Our country is in the lead in grain exports. I would like to note the good growth dynamics in other key sectors of the agro-industrial complex. In a word, Russia’s agriculture is on the rise. The state will continue rendering it large-scale assistance and will support those who want to work the land and achieve success.
Naturally, we will pay special attention to improving living standards, developing agricultural land and building modern social infrastructure facilities there.
I am confident that our producers can fully supply the domestic market with quality food products: we have the potential to turn Russia into one of the world’s largest food producers. This is an ambitious but – let me emphasise this again – quite a realistic task. The main thing is to consistently work towards the set goal.
I would like to thank again all workers of the agro-industrial complex for your labour and dedication, for your contribution to Russia’s development and consolidation.
I sincerely wish you and your families good health, happiness, prosperity and, of course, new achievements.
Happy professional holiday!
Topics
Agriculture
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 9, 2016, 09:00
Text version