Events
Meeting with King Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa of Bahrain
Vladimir Putin met with King Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa of Bahrain. A number of documents were signed at the conclusion of the talks.
September 6, 2016
20:15
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 7
Meeting with King Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa of Bahrain.
In the presence of the heads of state, intergovernmental agreements were signed on the establishment of the Intergovernmental Russian-Bahraini Commission on Trade, Economic, Scientific and Technological Cooperation, and on military cooperation. Memorandums of understanding were also signed to expand cooperation in the sphere of liquefied natural gas and strengthen partnership in geophysical research in oil and natural gas exploration and production.
The King of Bahrain is in Russia on a working visit during which he visited the Army-2016 international military technology forum and acquainted himself with Russian defence industry products.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Your Majesty, welcome to Russia.
I am pleased to see you.
I hope that your visit this time will be as productive as our previous meeting. We discussed a whole host of opportunities for expanding our collaboration.
I know that this time you wanted to see our defence industry capabilities. I hope that you have been able to see what we can offer our friends and partners. Your Majesty, I would also like to know your opinion about what you saw today.
And naturally, it is very important today to talk about your view of what is going on in the region. I had an opportunity in China to discuss these issues with some of our colleagues from the region.
In this connection, Your Majesty’s visit is very timely and I am happy to see you.
Welcome to Russia!
King Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifaof Bahrain (retranslated): Mr President, thank you for the invitation and for your warm welcome. I would like to convey to you the best wishes of the people of Bahrain.
Today, we were pleased to visit an exhibition featuring the latest models of advanced weapon systems. The Deputy Prime Minister [Dmitry Rogozin]
and the Defence Minister [Sergei Shoigu]
gave us a very warm welcome.
Indeed, we would like to get a closer look at your modern products, your arms manufacturing complex. And naturally, taking this into account, we build our relations in accordance with our needs. And, glory to God, everything that we agreed on earlier is being put into practice. However, of course, we, Russia and Bahrain, would like to set even more objectives for ourselves.
Mr President, you and your leadership, your Government are held in high regard in the region and throughout the world. And we thank you.
<…>
Geography
Bahrain
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 6, 2016, 20:15
Text versionEvents
Meeting with United Russia parliamentary party and experts
Vladimir Putin met in the Kremlin’s St Catherine Hall with United Russia parliamentary party and experts representing professional communities and public organisations.
September 6, 2016
19:20
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 4
Meeting with United Russia parliamentary party deputies and experts representing professional communities and public organisations.
Progress on implementing socially significant laws and the May executive orders, as well as proposals on improving legislation, were discussed.
* * *
Speech at a meeting with United Russia parliamentary party and experts
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Medvedev
, colleagues, good afternoon,
Twelve days are left before Election Day. This is not much. During this time you have visited regions, met people in working collectives, talked directly to people. In short, a lot of work has been done, as it should be, it’s certainly useful.
The election campaign is drawing to an end. It is called an election campaign precisely because elections are just around the corner and the elector is at the centre of this process. That is to say, at the centre of this process is not the one who is being elected but the one who is electing. These people should be constantly in the focus of our attention, on our radar: in the course of election campaigns and especially after they are over.
In this context I would like to say that there will never be and should never be interesting or uninteresting, important or secondary subjects in your work, in our common work. Everything matters to a particular Russian citizen. Everything is important: foreign policy issues, defence and security, housing maintenance and utilities, healthcare, education and social issues in general. Everything is important. Everything is important that matters in the life of every Russian family, every Russian, every Russian citizen.
It is very important in the future to bring together people who want to work constructively in the future State Duma, regardless of whether they have entered parliament from single-seat constituencies or on party lists. It is important to find like-minded people and bring them together with the common task of ensuring our economic and social development and working for the public good in the broadest sense of the word.
I believe it was very useful for you, as you travelled in the regions and met with people, to see how the decisions that were made recently are really working, to analyse the so-called law enforcement practice and get feedback. If you consider it expedient, and I personally can see that certain things need amending and adjusting, you should take the matter to the State Duma without delay. All these problems should be formulated and addressed. In short, there is plenty of work to be done but the main, the most important stage lies ahead.
There is another thing I would like to talk about. Actually it is self-evident but it is extremely important and should never be forgotten. People’s trust is paramount. To create trust, it is important to know people’s daily concerns and it is necessary, without any fear, to tell the truth about the situation in reality and about what you propose doing to deal with the problems facing the country.
First of all, even if they do not have detailed knowledge about a certain problem, our people often can sense in their hearts what is true and what is false, what is an empty promise and what is the genuine wish and desire of a particular person, in this case a would-be deputy, to change the situation for the better and effectively resolve a particular problem. People can sense this immediately. Falsehood never gets by undetected. And if, based on this work with people, you achieve the main objective, if you win people’s trust, then you will proceed to the next, no less important task: this trust should be justified with substantive, consistent, daily work.
Let’s talk about the problems that you consider important, problems that you have identified – those who were already State Duma deputies or are in the process of working with people in the regions now.
<…>
I would like to wish all of you success in the forthcoming final, and probably most important, stage of the election campaign. And I hope that the core of your team will remain in the next Russian parliament so that together we can move forward and address all the necessary tasks that you have been discussing with people over the past few weeks and months.
All the best, thank you.
Topics
Parties
Persons
Medvedev Dmitry
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 6, 2016, 19:20
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Prime Minister of Uzbekistan Shavkat Mirziyoyev
During a visit to Samarkand, Vladimir Putin met with Prime Minister of Uzbekistan Shavkat Mirziyoyev.
September 6, 2016
11:00
Samarkand
2 of 4
With Prime Minister of Uzbekistan Shavkat Mirziyoyev.
Prime Minister of Uzbekistan Shavkat Mirziyoyev: Mr President, allow me to again express gratitude to you from myself and on behalf of the people of Uzbekistan for helping us in this difficult time, including for dispatching a team of doctors led by two academicians to us, for your message of condolences, and to Prime Minister [Dmitry Medvedev
] for attending the mourning ceremonies. All of this is very important for us. Your visit today conveys a great deal to us, and we are grateful to you for this. You are standing by us as a real friend. This is a difficult time for the republic. We are mourning the loss of our first President, Islam Karimov
. We are grateful to you for your help.
Yesterday we watched the interview you gave in China and noted the kind words you said about our esteemed President, Islam Karimov. As you rightly said, a reliable structure of relations has developed between Uzbekistan and Russia over the past years. We can say now that Uzbekistan has always considered and will always consider its relationship with Russia as a strategic partnership and Russia as an allied country.
Islam Karimov used to say – and we will carry this on – that we have strategic relations with Russia, that we are strategic partners in our foreign policies. Mr President, we will continue working in the same manner, so as to keep secure and strengthen the bridge, which you and Islam Karimov worked for years to build.
See also
Visit to Uzbekistan
September 6, 2016
I believe that your visit to Uzbekistan today is evidence of your personal attitude to our esteemed President, Islam Karimov, and also to the people of Uzbekistan. As I told you today, people in Tashkent, Samarkand and everywhere else in the country are saying today that your decision to come here speaks volumes. I want to express my gratitude to you once again.
As I said, we will continue to build on the considerable potential, which you and Islam Karimov have created.
Thank you very much.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Mirziyoyev, thank you for this opportunity to visit Uzbekistan today, to pay respects to the grave of Islam Karimov, the first President of Uzbekistan, who did so much for his country and for his people.
I am not talking about stability alone, although stability is certainly the basis for prosperity of any country, any nation, and he did succeed in achieving it at a most difficult time. But, for me, personally – I already said this yesterday, while I was in China: Islam Karimov and I have established a very good personal relationship, a trusting relationship, especially in recent years – so I deeply grieve this great loss.
Indeed, Islam Karimov has laid a very solid foundation for relations between our countries, and built a strategic partnership.
I told you earlier what he said about the future development of our relations, and how he said it. He clearly implied he saw developing relations with Russia as the best course of action for Uzbekistan and its people to achieve their full potential, an attitude we have always appreciated.
You have just recalled that during my last visit to Tashkent, he invited me to see the monument to Alexander Pushkin, to lay flowers. He spoke in detail about when and how he made the decision to move that monument, and why it should be there – so that people could come and sense the bond between our cultures, our peoples, our common history. We cherish it, and we certainly hope that all that was started by President Islam Karimov will be continued.
For our part, we will make every effort to continue along the path of our mutual development, to support the people of Uzbekistan, the Uzbek leadership; you can count on us in full measure as the most reliable friends.
Shavkat Mirziyoyev: Thank you very much.
<…>
Geography
Uzbekistan
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 6, 2016, 11:00
Text version