Events
Meeting on aircraft manufacturing development
Vladimir Putin held a meeting to discuss development of new model planes for regional passenger transport.
May 12, 2016
19:00
Sochi
Meeting on aircraft manufacturing development.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
I called this meeting today to discuss the prospects for developing our own plane for regional flights, with capacity for 50–60 passengers.
We all know the difficulties we face in passenger transport in the Far East, Eastern Siberia, and within regions. Often, people wanting to fly to the neighbouring region have to fly via Moscow or St Petersburg. This is a completely unacceptable situation and creates problems for people and for the economy in general. Accessibility and transport links increase mobility within the economy and create the needed conditions for growth.
In this context, it would be a great help indeed to have our own regional plane, particularly one that can land on and take off from unsealed airstrips. At one time, we had many such planes, a big fleet that was widely used, but they have all aged now and it makes no sense to go back to them. What we need now is a new plane.
Of course, it is also possible to buy aircraft abroad, as we have been doing up till now, but a country such as ours, with such a vast territory, really needs to have its own locally-made planes.
Accessibility and transport links increase mobility within the economy and create the needed conditions for growth. In this context, it would be a great help indeed to have our own regional plane, particularly one that can land on and take off from unsealed airstrips.
But at the same time, if we do set this goal, we must develop a plane that will have good prospects not just on our market but will also be competitive on the global market. This is something we must think about.
Let us talk about this. I asked you to prepare. I would like to ask the Industry Minister to begin our conversation today. Mr Manturov, please.
Industry and Trade Minister Denis Manturov
: Thank you, Mr President. In keeping with your instruction, we have prepared several options, so that a balanced decision can be made.
We would also like to take advantage of this opportunity and discuss the Il-96 issue regarding the programme’s continuation.
Vladimir Putin: The Il-96, are you referring to the enlarged fuselage?
Denis Manturov: The fuselage has been extended by almost 10 metres, increasing the capacity by 71 passengers, and this will improve the economic characteristics. So I would also like to discuss this matter as far as possible.
3 of 3
At a meeting on aircraft manufacturing development.
Going back to the main subject, these are regional airplanes. We are considering three main options.
The first is the Il-114, which was previously made in Tashkent. Its production stopped a long time ago, but, nevertheless, there are several fuselages that can make it possible for this modification to launch in our country in short order so as, while continuing R&D, to prepare independent production.
According to the United Aircraft Corporation, cooperation between practically all enterprises as part of this integrated structure, with the main plant, Sokol, including Aviastar-SP and the Voronezh plant, will make it possible in 2022 to manufacture a full-scale series of 12 aircraft per year. This is first.
Later, I would like to talk directly about the resources that are required for the implementation of this option.
Vladimir Putin: Is this a turboprop?
Denis Manturov: Yes, it is a turboprop plane. I would like to point out that the engine that can be used in this airplane is the TV7-117. It is now used as a basic engine for the Mi-38 helicopter. With minor, insignificant adjustments, we will be able to adapt it to this plane.
The second option is the AN-140, an aircraft currently manufactured in small numbers. You heard a report about it when you visited Samara in 2014.
A country such as ours needs to have its own locally-made planes. But at the same time, if we do set this goal, we must develop a plane that will have good prospects not just on our market but will also be competitive on the global market.
The Defence Ministry purchases this craft in small numbers. However, it seats only 50, compared to the IL-114, which seats 64. Here, we closely depend on Ukrainian designers and manufacturers. We are willing to discuss terms for purchasing a relevant license with our colleagues engaged in this civil project, and so to localise it entirely. We have analysed the option.
I will tell you next about funding.
Vladimir Putin: Is it a jet?
Denis Manturov: No, it is another turboprop.
Vladimir Putin: Is the engine on top?
Denis Manturov: Yes it is, like in the AN-148, but the latter is a jet. Here we have TV3-117 engines of Ukrainian production.
As you know, we have launched the production of VK-2500 engines, entirely adaptable to this craft. It is a Russian engine produced by Klimov Co in St Petersburg.
There is a third option – the Russian-Chinese project for yet another turboprop, the MA-700, seating 83. Our colleagues are ready to start testing it next year for the craft to be certified in 2019. We are invited to join this localisation project and organise production in the [Russian] Far East. We have seen several plants from this point: particularly, we might use the Arsenyev Aviation Plant, 250 kilometres from Vladivostok.
Jets come last but not least, as a fourth option. They allow settling both problems and arranging regional transport.
There is the TU-324 craft, for which we have made exploratory studies. We did not go on with research and development because we concentrated on the MS-21, and shelved the TU-324 R&D. It is a jet seating 50, which might be used for administrative movements.
We have prepared all the four options for today, and we dare ask you to consider them. Mr Slyusar [United Aircraft Corporation president] is willing to make detailed reports on each.
Vladimir Putin: Good.
<…>
Topics
Transport
Persons
Manturov Denis
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 12, 2016, 19:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting on fulfilling state defence order
Vladimir Putin continued a series of meetings on military matters, focusing this time on issues related to fulfilling the state defence order.
May 12, 2016
16:40
Sochi
1 of 3
Meeting on fulfilling state defence order.
Following the meeting, Mr Putin inspected models of military vehicles – off-road vehicles manufactured by Ulyanovsk Automobile Plant (UAZ) and adapted for the Russian Armed Forces’ use.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
Today, we continue our work and will discuss matters concerning the fulfilment of the 2015 state defence order.
Let me say right at the outset that overall, the defence industry companies carried out their contractual obligations diligently. Most arms and equipment orders were delivered in full and on time.
Overall in 2015 the armed forces received around 4,000 items of arms and military hardware, including 96 planes, 81 helicopters, 152 air defence systems, and 291 radar stations. The 2015 state defence order-fulfilment rate was 97 percent and the overall share of modern arms and equipment models at the armed forces’ disposal went up to 47.2 percent.
See also
Meeting with Defence Ministry leadership and defence industry representatives
May 10, 2016
Meeting on defence industry development
May 11, 2016
The new arms and equipment are being put to active use and getting regular testing and use in inspections of units’ combat readiness, training exercises, military competitions, and, in some cases, in actual combat conditions. You all know the circumstances I refer to. Overall, the results are good.
The state authorities will continue to encourage and support defence industry companies to develop their production and technology capabilities. We also need to put in place the conditions for developing production sectors closely related to the defence industry. We will continue making every effort to protect jobs and raise wages in the defence sector companies.
At the same time, I regret to have to say that some contracts have had delays and in some cases have not even been able to be carried out as planned. I ask the heads of the integrated holdings and defence industry companies to pay particular attention in their reports today to the causes behind the failure to carry out defence order contractual obligations in 2015. We also need to examine the specific circumstances in the state defence order situation this year. We must analyse the causes for the disruptions and problems and propose measures to make sure that this sort of situation does not arise again.
Let’s start work.
<…>
Topics
Armed Forces
National security
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 12, 2016, 16:40
Text version