Events
Meeting with Governor of Crimea Sergei Aksyonov
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Governor of the Republic of Crimea Sergei Aksyonov to discuss electricity supply to the peninsula, the development of agriculture and preparations for the tourist season.
February 20, 2016
13:45
The Kremlin, Moscow
3 of 3
Governor of the Republic of Crimea Sergei Aksyonov.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Aksyonov, you and I have regular meetings and telephone conversations, so I am familiar with the situation in Crimea and the progress you are making. However, this is a good opportunity to have a detailed discussion to see how you assess last year’s results, what issues you anticipate this year and how you intend to resolve them.
Governor of the Republic of Crimea Sergei Aksyonov
: Mr President, I would like to begin by saying that an emergency situation was declared in Crimea on November 22 as a result of a terrorist attack committed on the neighbouring state’s territory. Nevertheless, despite the fact that there was a power outage in Crimea, the plans of the terrorists and the Ukrainian leadership were foiled. The Taman-Crimea power bridge was launched three weeks ahead of schedule. Currently we have managed to work out a schedule of electricity supply, with residential areas on the territory of the Crimean Republic being switched off for no more than 8 hours a day and with all industrial facilities operating properly. Their work plans have been coordinated with the regional headquarters.
Despite the emergency situation mode, in December all the Crimean taxpayers paid their taxes to the budget of the Crimean Republic. This consolidated effort brought 31 billion rubles to the Republic’s 2015 budget, which is 110 percent of the approved plan. Individual income tax accounts for the largest share of this revenue, with its overall amount going up by 40 percent compared to 2014, so we are seeing positive dynamics.
The economic crisis did not affect commercial facilities. The total damage to commercial facilities from the emergency mode amounted to around 480 million rubles; 540 million rubles were allocated from the budget of the Republic of Crimea for fuel, materials and servicing of diesel generators, which is not a critical amount for the Republic.
At the same time, industrial production in the republic has grown by 12 percent compared to 2014. The food industry has posted growth for the first time in seven years, and it amounted to 36 percent. As for agriculture, we managed to bring in 1.3 million tonnes of grain, which is 14.5 percent more than in 2014.
Thus, we can see positive dynamics. The local population is showing patience and understanding regarding what has happened, they are confident that you are giving the authorities the proper impetus, and that it was thanks to you that the power bridge was commissioned ahead of schedule. I am certain that now people will also bear with us in this situation because they love their country and have faith in it.
Vladimir Putin: Do you maintain regular contacts with the Energy Ministry? Do you know how their work is progressing?
Sergei Aksyonov: Yes, we do, we have a working relationship.
Vladimir Putin: When will they be commissioning the second stage?
Sergei Aksyonov: The plan says May 1, but I am sure that with your support they will again do it ahead of schedule. I cannot speak for my colleagues, but I do know that work is in full swing. I have been there myself and I saw the teams working practically round the clock. The heads of our local companies are also helping in every way they can.
Vladimir Putin: You will have to bear with them a while longer. I am certain they will have it ready by May 1 or even sooner.
Sergei Aksyonov: Yes, we can wait. Crimea has faith in this country and in you.
Vladimir Putin: How do you assess your work overall?
Sergei Aksyonov: It is hard to assess one’s own work. I believe that the government and state agencies have done well in the emergency situation.
Vladimir Putin: How do you plan to organise agricultural work bearing in mind the changes that have occurred with water supply and the rest?
Sergei Aksyonov: We have already made changes due to the closure of the North Crimean Canal. We have replaced water dependent crops with draught tolerant ones. Last year agriculture in the Republic of Crimea received 685 million rubles worth of aid from the federal budget, and the plan for 2016 is about 2.8 billion rubles – the allocations have already been budgeted.
We are helping our agricultural workers. Those who suffered from the absence of water supply along the North Crimean Canal received compensation – a total of about 150 million rubles was paid to the producers. The situation is gradually stabilising; we are opening two more dairy farms with 3,000 heads of cattle, which are to almost double milk production on the territory of the Republic of Crimea.
There are problems caused by the African swine fever virus and the resulting quarantine. As they say, trouble never comes singly. However, now all the services are cooperating with the federal authorities to make sure the virus does not spread beyond the initial area. But we did have to limit the sales of pork. The Federal Service for Veterinary and Phytosanitary Supervision, jointly with our Crimean services, is monitoring the situation and among other things, they are preventing an unwarranted growth in the price of pork.
Vladimir Putin: How are you cooperating with federal authorities? On your initiative, we amended the procedure of forming various state agencies, including federal ones. Change may often lead to setbacks. How do you assess this?
Sergei Aksyonov: I believe the dynamics are positive. I would like to thank Mr Kozak
[Deputy Prime Minister of the Russian Federation] for providing timely assistance; we are in close contact. The Economic Development Ministry very promptly considers practically all the documents coming from Crimea. We have good contacts and at this point, I would describe our cooperation with the federal authorities as positive.
Vladimir Putin: Are you preparing for the summer season?
Sergei Aksyonov: Our main job for the summer holiday season is to meet the expectations of Russian tourists: we need to provide reliable information, including about the functioning of resort facilities given the power deficit. We have already developed a schedule so that all resorts and hotels have a regular power supply without outages. This should not affect the tourist season. Thanks to your instructions to the Energy Ministry, they sped up their work. We will not have an excessive power supply, but we do not expect any problems during the season.
Vladimir Putin: Good.
<…>
Geography
Republic of Crimea
Topics
Agriculture
Energy
Regions
Tourism
Persons
Aksyonov Sergei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 20, 2016, 13:45
Text versionEvents
Gala reception to mark Defender of the Fatherland Day
Vladimir Putin attended a gala reception at the State Kremlin Palace to mark Defender of the Fatherland Day. The President congratulated veterans and armed forces servicemen and civilian personnel on the upcoming holiday.
February 20, 2016
19:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 3
Gala reception to mark Defender of the Fatherland Day.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Comrades, friends,
I would like to congratulate the military and civilian personnel of our armed forces and our honoured veterans on the upcoming Defender of the Fatherland Day.
On this day, we honour those who chose the demanding and responsible military career, who protect the peaceful life of our citizens and the security of our Motherland.
This holiday epitomises the great age-long history of the Russian army. For years, it has served as a reliable stronghold of the state, a guarantor of the country’s stability, sovereignty and territorial integrity, a symbol of its national dignity and power.
Our people have always been proud of their defenders – their military art, valour and outstanding victories. The heroes of Poltava, Borodino, Stalingrad and great many legendary battles gave up their lives for their homeland and shaped the future of Russia with their persistence, courage, willpower and heroism.
Our officers and men gave up their lives to help protect the freedom and independence of other peoples, carried out complicated peacekeeping missions, took part in relief efforts following natural disasters and saved people in emergencies.
It is a great honour and responsibility to serve in the Armed Forces with such great traditions. I am certain that the current generation of Russian warriors are well aware of this. Just as their predecessors, they bear the noble title of defender of the Fatherland with dignity.
Comrades,
The Armed Forces take up crucially important missions to ensure our national interests. I would like to thank the leadership of the Defence Ministry and the Armed Forces personnel for their honest and dedicated service. The military skills of our servicemen are being perfected now in the combat operation in Syria. As they fight in this Middle Eastern country, our officers and men protect the interests of the Russian Federation, destroying militants who openly call our Motherland their enemy and do not conceal their plans to expand onto the territory of Russia and the Commonwealth of Independent States.
The combat action of the pilots of our Aerospace Forces, sailors and servicemen of the support units deserve the highest acclaim. In complicated conditions they are helping the Syrian government army and other participants in the anti-terrorist struggle to rout militants, to save peaceful citizens from violence, barbarity and outrage.
We have always tried to resolve all arguments only by political and diplomatic means and on many occasions have helped to stabilise the situation in various countries and regions of the world and to settle violent conflicts. We will strive for this now as well.
At the same time, our Armed Forces should always be prepared to quickly and adequately respond to potential threats and to stifle any provocation or aggression against Russia.
We have taken a series of major steps lately to strengthen our army and navy. Every year the capabilities of our Aerospace Forces and Navy, and the potential of our strategic deterrence have been growing, and our units in key strategic areas have been enhanced. The level of operational and combat readiness of our troops is growing, with the introduction of the latest communication and control devices. Units and forces are being supplied with the latest samples of armaments and equipment on a regular basis, while the Russian military-industrial complex is trained to design and produce up-to-date weapons systems.
 The strengthening and development of our Armed Forces and Russia’s entire military organisation will always remain a key task of the state. In implementing this goal, we rely on the proactive stance of the officer corps.
As he first created a regular army, in his army regulations Peter the Great noted the special status and lofty duty of a military commander. Today, remaining true to their calling and oath of allegiance, Russian officers serve as a tower of strength for our army. The training of our personnel and their education in the spirit of patriotism and responsibility for Russia’ future depends on your professionalism and experience.
Friends,
I would like to wish you every success in your service. I am certain that you can always rely on the support of your near and dear ones and of our entire country, of the entire Russian society.
My congratulations on the upcoming holiday.
Thank you for your attention.
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 20, 2016, 19:00
Text version