Events
80th anniversary of Presidential Regiment
Vladimir Putin congratulated the Moscow Kremlin Federal Guards Service Presidential Regiment on its 80th anniversary and presented the regiment with a letter of recognition from the Commander in Chief of the Russian Armed Forces for services to Russia’s national security.
May 9, 2016
13:10
The Kremlin, Moscow
6 of 6
80th anniversary of Presidential Regiment.
Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, Kremlin regiment soldiers!
I congratulate you sincerely on this wonderful occasion, the Presidential Regiment’s 80th anniversary. The regiment was founded in April 1936 and has always lived up to its lofty status. The people serving here have always been the best of the best, the best trained soldiers and commanders.
Today, on Victory Day – a holiday that is sacred for our people, I particularly note the courage and steadfast spirit shown by the Kremlin regiment soldiers during the Great Patriotic War. I know how much you cherish the memory of the regiment’s 97 heroes who fell in the fight against Nazism. In 1944, the regiment was honoured with the symbol of military achievement and glory – the Combat Red Banner. A year later, three battalions of Kremlin soldiers took part in the historic parade in honour of Victory Day.
Comrades, today’s generation of soldiers continues in worthy fashion the traditions set by your predecessors, by the veterans. Your combat training and professionalism are deservedly considered exemplary.
Comrades, today’s generation of soldiers continues in worthy fashion the traditions set by your predecessors, by the veterans. Your combat training and professionalism are deservedly considered exemplary. It is you who have the honour of keeping the honour guard in the Alexandrovsky Garden at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier and take part in top-level official events both in Russia and abroad. Of course, one of the regiment’s most important tasks is to ensure security at key state sites, above all the Moscow Kremlin, the historic heart of Moscow and our entire country.
I am sure that you will always perform your duties with honour. I thank you once again for your conscientious and flawless service. I wish you and your families happiness and success.
I congratulate you on Victory Day and on the regiment’s anniversary. Hurray!
See also
Order on presenting the Commander-in-Chief Commendation Letter to the Presidential Regiment
May 6, 2016
Topics
Armed Forces
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 9, 2016, 13:10
Text version