Events
Working meeting with Russian Railways CEO Oleg Belozerov
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Russian Railways CEO Oleg Belozerov to discuss the company’s results for the first six months of 2016.
July 18, 2016
15:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 2
With Russian Railways CEO Oleg Belozerov.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon Mr Belozerov. First of all, I want to discuss the current work underway at this summer season. I’d like to look at the passenger traffic situation and how you are dealing with cargo shipments.
CEO of Russian Railways Oleg Belozerov
: Mr President, let me start by thanking you for the attention you give to Russian Railways and its activity. We know we have the support of the federal executive authorities and the Government, and we work closely with the regions. We think that the decent results (as we assess them) in the first half of this year are attributable to the good partnership ties we have built.
The main result for the first six months of 2016, as we see it, is that we are operating with a profit. We have not received subsidies this year for infrastructure maintenance, but we have found substitute sources of funding and have even increased funding, drawing on internal funding sources. At the same time, revenue from our main activity has increased slightly, up by 0.4 percent on what we planned. Our cost-cutting efforts have been successful and we paid 134 billion rubles into the budget. I want to add that the increase in the cost price of transport comes to only slightly more than 4 percent, despite the objective increase in the economy in general, which is higher. We are making comprehensive efforts to bring down our costs.
We have met all of our social commitments to our employees in accordance with our collective agreement. Let me add that, as you noted, we are working very hard on raising labour productivity. Our labour productivity was up by 5.5 percent over the first half of 2016.
Vladimir Putin: This is higher than last year’s figure.
Oleg Belozerov: Yes, that’s right. Last year’s figure was 4.8 percent, and this year we have already reached 5.5. We plan to maintain this figure.
Several different components make up the result. First of all, we consider work with passengers our most important area of work. We have declared 2016 the Year of Passengers and have devised a plan for improving service, starting with facilities on the platforms and at railway stations, Wi-Fi, for example, what passengers want most of all, and also made trains more passenger-friendly. These efforts have already yielded results. There is no negative trend. We had growth overall in passenger traffic over the first half-year. In some areas the growth was quite substantial.
First of all, overall passenger traffic has increased by nearly 2 percent, and by nearly 3 percent on long-distance routes. We have achieved these results by improving inter-city and suburban traffic. Our results in this area have improved compared to last year. We have been asked if the company will manage to consolidate this positive trend. We will succeed. This is our goal and by the end of the year we will have a programme drawn up until 2020 that sets the objective of working more and more actively on customer services to make things even more convenient for the passengers.
As far as daytime express trains go, we have an increase of 27 percent in this area this year so far. This covers 25 routes.
We completed extra work on the infrastructure on the Moscow-St Petersburg Sapsan route last year and this has produced an increase of 31 percent. We have even set records in some areas: Sapsan trains transported a total of more than 17,000 passengers in a single day.
Online ticket sales were up by 6 percent. We have equipped 80 railway stations with Wi-Fi, and are in the process of equipping another 20.
I want to note though that there is demand for the old services as well as for our new services. We have, for example, the legendary overnight Red Arrow train [between Moscow and St Petersburg], which marked its 85th anniversary on July 9. It is running at full capacity, has transported more than 15 million people, and we are improving this service too.
Regarding transport services for children, we plan to transport around 500,000 organised groups of children this year. The preparations have all been carried out in this area and all the work is strictly monitored. We have a dedicated programme and monitoring system for this area. The decision to transport children aged 10–17 at a 50-percent discount subsidised by our company’s funds have proven effective, as the figure for tickets sold and children transported is up 18 percent to date.
We have a new record in traffic to the Black Sea coast. The figure for this route is up 29 percent, and we will work on keeping up this pace.
Vladimir Putin: This is attributable to the increase in domestic tourism, of course.
Oleg Belozerov: Yes, and we are cooperating closely with our own travel agency and other tour operators , offering new products and creating a favourable environment in general.
On the freight side, shipments were up 1.8 percent, with a volume of nearly 600 million tonnes. The railways were traditionally considered a mirror of the economy as a whole. We see the positive trends before they become visible elsewhere. We had growth of more than 3 percent in May and 4.2 percent in June. Freight for the construction sector is primarily fuelling the growth. This means that the economy is working, construction projects are underway and this is what is contributing to these good results. Freight volumes are growing, and this is good to see, both on internal lines and export routes with higher growth rates in domestic shipments.
We have also been working on other quality indicators. We have improved delivery speed and reliability. Speed on each stretch of the route and the average weight of trains have increased. This is also important. The economy reflects the internal efforts we make, and in this sense the results we see show that we are on the right track.
In terms of the services we provide, previously, you had to fill out 14 forms if you wanted to send a cargo by rail. Now, we have reduced this to 3 forms, and the volume of traffic immediately increased.
We are making big efforts to make our technical equipment more reliable. The number of breakdowns has dropped by nearly 20 percent, from 33,000 to 26,000 in absolute figures. This means that there are fewer cases of trains being delayed and it improves our other economic indicators.
We are carrying out timely track maintenance and repairs. As I said, we have added an extra 15 billion in funding. This year, we have placed very big orders for gravel and tracks.
Vladimir Putin: Are you keeping to your repair plan timetable?
Oleg Belozerov: Yes, we are even slightly ahead of schedule, by more than 2.8 percent.
We have brought down the number of traffic incidents by 25 percent and will continue working on improving this figure.
Vladimir Putin: What is the situation with wages in the sector?
Oleg Belozerov: We raised wages by nearly 3 percent in the first half of this year and have already planned for further adjusting wages for inflation in the second half. We understand very well in the company that wages depend on labour efficiency, and with the entire Russian Railways team achieving results together, we will certainly raise wages. We have the funds to do this.
<…>
Topics
Transport
Persons
Belozerov Oleg
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 18, 2016, 15:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Commissioner for Entrepreneurs’ Rights Boris Titov
Boris Titov presented to the President the Commissioner for Entrepreneurs’ Rights annual report.
July 18, 2016
16:45
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 2
With Commissioner for Entrepreneurs’ Rights Boris Titov.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon Mr Titov. Have you prepared your report?
Commissioner for Entrepreneurs’ Rights Boris Titov
: Yes, Mr President. I am ready to present what will be my third report since my appointment as Commissioner for Entrepreneurs’ Rights.
This report is based on 26,000 complaints and suggestions, the total of which has increased. In addition we have conducted over 60 special situational analyses around Russia and sociological surveys.
Vladimir Putin: Do the results of sociological surveys differ from your own observations?
Boris Titov: I believe that, in principle, they are consistent with the general understanding of the situation in the country, which is noted for its economic challenges and economic factors are at the forefront of people’s minds.
These issues include primarily domestic market demand, the ruble exchange rate and a very high interest on loans for businesses.
Unfortunately, we also have to deal with our traditional problems, and the most notable of these problems is the increase in inspection activity. Unfortunately, we are finding that the number of inspections is increasing despite the difficult economic situation. The number of planned inspections has decreased, while the number of spot checks has grown since last year. According to statistics, 10 percent of all businesses have had at least 7 inspections over the last year.
I am sorry to say that the number of criminal cases has increased, contrary to our expectations.
We recorded an increase in the number of such cases in 2015, and according to the Interior Ministry, the number of cases initiated for fraud this year has increased by 25 percent. In short, this is an alarming trend.
You have set the goal of reversing this trend and instructed us prepare a legislative initiative to increase law enforcement officials’ responsibility for initiating criminal proceedings without good reason and even for making procedural mistakes. As per your instructions, I am ready to submit a draft law today that would increase criminal and administrative liability, up to disqualification, for concrete violations.
Vladimir Putin: You have also worked on analysing the tax and non-tax burden, and you had the idea of getting a clear picture of the total combined burden to see what impact it has on business, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises.
Boris Titov: Taxes rank sixth out of the various problems businesspeople mentioned in their responses to our questions. The problem is quite serious, even though it is becoming less of a concern for the business community.
Unfortunately, the results we see in terms of lowering taxes are offset by increases in non-tax payments. The work that has been done on non-tax payments should start bearing fruit very soon. We do need to decrease the number of non-tax payments, and also decrease their rates.
Vladimir Putin: So what then is in first, second and third place among the issues of greatest concern to the business community?
Boris Titov: Demand is in third place and the ruble exchange rate, which is volatile today, is in second place. The exchange rate has stabilised somewhat and is less volatile than it was at the beginning of the year, when we conducted this survey. In first place is economic uncertainty, something we didn’t really expect to come up.
In other words, the big problem for business today is that people don’t know what’s ahead. The situation is changing on the domestic market and in terms of imports. Businesspeople would like to see a clearer action programme, of course, which would provide clear indications of the new sources of revenue for our country and the business development trends.
Vladimir Putin: I realise that this is not enough, but nonetheless, the action the Government is taking to maintain macroeconomic stability forms the foundation for resolving all other problems.
Boris Titov: Macroeconomic stability is a very important task, but the business community nevertheless hopes to see more growth and a commitment to development and bringing in investment.
Vladimir Putin: None of this is possible without macroeconomic stability. I refer to inflation and above all the need to keep it down. I think that we all agree that we must continue working in this direction.
Boris Titov: Yes, this is absolutely so. Macroeconomic stability today is about bringing the inflation rate down. We can see the impact this work is having in that the ruble’s exchange rate has become more stable and is even showing signs of growth.
Vladimir Putin: But this does not make all businesspeople happy.
Boris Titov: Yes, I wanted to say a few words about this.
Vladimir Putin: Some are happy and some are not.
Boris Titov: Sociological surveys show that more than 80 percent of businesspeople say that the changes in the economic situation have not improved the situation in their business.
Vladimir Putin: Companies buying imported goods will not be happy with the situation, of course, but companies with costs in rubles and selling for export gain an advantage from the weak ruble. We need to strike a balance between the different interests here.
Boris Titov: Yes, of course, but above all, we need to find new sources of revenue. This includes new products that we can sell abroad, taking into account today’s exchange rate, and also the domestic market, where there are plenty of segments in which companies can replace imports with Russian-made goods. We are working on this.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, I saw this in your party’s political programme too.
Boris Titov: Yes, our political programme is growth-focused. We went into politics above all in order to improve the economy, and an economy focused on growth is called a growth economy, which is why we called our party the Party of Growth.
The report includes our view of how the economy should develop, as businesspeople are worried most of all about the economy’s future, and so we have set out our view on how we should pursue economic development in terms of finding new sources of investment, growth, and bringing in the capital flows.
Vladimir Putin: Good, thank you.
<…>
Topics
Support for business
Persons
Titov Boris
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 18, 2016, 16:45
Text version