Events
Working meeting with Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev
The discussion focussed on ways of optimising the structure of federal executive bodies of power.
February 2, 2016
17:10
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 3
With Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev.
Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev Medvedev DmitryDeputy Chairman of the Security Council of the Russian Federation : Mr President, within the framework of your instructions and the work the Government is doing to optimise the structure of federal executive bodies of power – ministries and agencies – on behalf of the Government, I would like to make two proposals for the President’s consideration that are directed at making the Government more compact, efficient and less costly.
One has to do with disbanding a structure called Federal Agency for the Development of the State Border Facilities (Rosgranitsa). It was set up some time ago to provide construction and transportation technologies for the state border. It has performed part of its functions, and actually, the Transport Ministry could perform the same functions without any loss in quality, and it can take over the functions of Rosgranitsa.
The second idea is to make the structure of financial control and supervisory bodies within the Finance Ministry more compact. The Federal Service for Fiscal and Budgetary Supervision and the Federal Treasury are part of the Finance Ministry.
According to the Ministry, and the view is supported by the Government, the two agencies could be merged by transferring the fiscal control and supervision functions to the Federal Treasury. They perform related tasks: overseeing fiscal discipline, budget implementation, treasury budget implementation and control over budget transfers. All this is related and can be handled within one structure.
Foreign currency receivables and currency control can be distributed between the Federal Taxation Service and the Federal Customs Service. This will also help us streamline bureaucracy, which is something we could do with in the current situation.
Vladimir Putin: I agree.
Obviously, the Finance Ministry knows best. The Minister knows how every gear-wheel turns in his rather large mechanism, so let us agree.
Why is it the Transport Ministry in the first proposal?
Dmitry Medvedev: Mr President, most of Rosgranitsa’s functions have to do with transport. Generally, industrial construction of this kind is closer to the Transport Ministry than to any other body. The distribution could be different, of course, but the Transport Ministry seems to be closest and we agreed on this as the most suitable way to organise this work in the future.
Vladimir Putin: Good.
<…>
Topics
Civil service
Persons
Medvedev Dmitry
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 2, 2016, 17:10
Direct link: en.kremlin.ru/d/51260
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Vladimir Gruzdev and Alexei Dyumin
During the meeting, the President announced that he accepted the resignation of Tula Region Governor Vladimir Gruzdev and appointed former Deputy Defence Minister Alexei Dyumin Acting Governor of Tula Region.
February 2, 2016
16:30
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 4
With Alexei Dyumin (left) and Vladimir Gruzdev.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues,
Mr Gruzdev held the post of Tula Region Governor for four and a half years. It is a complex region, specifically in terms of housing, with quite a few problems with resettling people from dilapidated housing.
However, there has obviously been positive change over the four and a half years while you were Governor, and you positive trends have gained momentum. Nevertheless, for family reasons – they have just had a child, my congratulations – Mr Gruzdev would like to make use of his skills at another post closer to Moscow, his home town. As we have already discussed, we will find you a job to meet your requirements and qualifications.
We would like Mr Dyumin to be Acting Governor [of Tula Region] until the elections. I know you are on good personal terms. I hope this will help you calmly hand over business and I expect Mr Gruzdev to apply his influence and knowledge to support Mr Dyumin at the initial stage.
Mr Dyumin knows, just as we all do, that Tula and Tula Region is the nation’s armoury. Considering your previous job – I am referring to the time you were Acting Ground Forces Chief of Staff – you should understand the importance of this region.
Moreover, in your capacity as Deputy Defence Minister you are in charge of the department of construction, housing and property relations, the expert directorate and the Main Military Medical Directorate – in a word, things that are of great importance in civilian life as well.
Therefore, I expect you to use your knowledge and experience at your new job and to gain the people’s trust. You should strive to use the real results of your work, which the people should be aware of in their everyday life, in order to win their votes in the future.
Vladimir Gruzdev
: Mr President,
First I would like to thank you for the period I worked with you. It is true that a lot has been done over the past four years. However, I would like to honestly say that is was thanks to your help and thanks to the hard-working people of Tula Region that we managed to achieve everything we have, because they created everything this region is rich in. Thank you for your trust, and I will work to justify your confidence in the new post you will assign me.
Vladimir Putin: Fine. Thank you. Now you, Mr Dyumin.
Alexei Dyumin
: Mr President, I have served in the Armed Forces, in special services practically all my life. An order from the Commander-in-Chief must be obeyed without question. Therefore, this is a great honour for me, a matter of pride. I will do everything not to let you down.
The areas I will focus on in the first place are social and economic issues and, of course, things that have to do with the region’s powerful defence industry complex. We shall do our job, Mr President.
Vladimir Putin: Good.
The fiscal capacity is rather high – 93 percent. Nevertheless, this is a beneficiary region and you should develop relations with the appropriate agencies of the Russian Federation Government.
Although some demographic progress has already been made, your role is to reverse the existing situation to ensure a natural population growth in Tula Region.
Naturally, you have to deal with the economy, the social sphere and the implementation of the Executive Orders of May 2012. Mr Gruzdev has made a good effort in this direction. Now you must not only retain but also add to what has already been done in Tula Region in recent years.
Alexei Dyumin: The task is clear.
Vladimir Gruzdev: Thank you.
<…>
See also
Alexei Dyumin appointed Acting Governor of Tula Region
February 2, 2016
Geography
Tula Region
Topics
Regions
Persons
Dyumin Alexei
Gruzdev Vladimir
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 2, 2016, 16:30
Text version