Events
Presentation of foreign ambassadors’ letters of credence
Vladimir Putin received letters of credence from new foreign ambassadors in a ceremony at the Grand Kremlin Palace’s Alexander Hall.
November 9, 2016
13:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
23 of 23
Presentation of foreign ambassadors’ letters of credence.
Letters of credence were presented by new ambassadors from nineteen countries: Bosnia and Herzegovina, Burundi, Cambodia, Chad, Colombia, Equatorial Guinea, Finland, Gambia, Greece, Iceland, Luxembourg, Mali, Montenegro, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Poland, Somalia, Turkmenistan, and as well as the letter of credence of the Apostolic Nuncio to Russia, the diplomatic representative of the Vatican.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ladies and gentlemen,
I welcome you to this ceremony of presentation of your letters of credence and congratulate you on the official start of your important and responsible diplomatic missions in Moscow.
I hope that your efforts to develop relations between the countries you represent and Russia will help to activate political dialogue, strengthen trade and economic ties, and expand humanitarian contacts. You can count on the support of the Russian government, our executive and legislative authorities, business communities and public groups.
I want to emphasise that Russia is ready to work together with all countries in a spirit of honest and mutually beneficial partnership. We seek to guarantee equal and indivisible security, resolve global and regional problems, and settle conflicts on the solid basis of international law and the UN Charter. These are our guiding principles as we decide our approaches to the most pressing issues on today’s agenda, including the Syrian crisis.
Syria is essentially a test today for the international community’s ability and readiness to join forces, together take a stand against terrorism, a common threat for us all, and find adequate responses to other global challenges to security and stability.
Russia will work together with other interested countries to facilitate the launch of dialogue between the Syrians themselves. We believe that only a political solution can resolve this conflict, stop the bloodshed, open the way for millions of refugees to return home, and rebuild this country’s economy and social sector.
Ladies and gentlemen, a few hours ago, the presidential election ended in the United States of America. We followed this election closely. I want to congratulate the American people on the end of this election cycle and congratulate Mr Donald Trump on his victory in the election.
We heard the statements he made as candidate for president expressing a desire to restore relations between our countries. We realise and understand that this will not be an easy road given the level to which our relations have degraded today, regrettably. But, as I have said before, it is not Russia’s fault that our relations with the United States have reached this point.
Russia is ready to and seeks a return to full-format relations with the United States. Let me say again, we know that this will not be easy, but are ready to take this road, take steps on our side and do all we can to set Russian-US relations back on a stable development track.
This would benefit both the Russian and American peoples and would have a positive impact on the general climate in international affairs, given the particular responsibility that Russia and the US share for maintaining global stability and security.
Ladies and gentlemen, the heads of 19 diplomatic missions are present here today. As per tradition, I will say a few words about Russia’s relations with the states you represent.
We stand for further developing Russia-New Zealand relations on a mutually beneficial basis. We hope to be able to resume the talks on a free trade area between the Eurasian Economic Union and New Zealand.
Our relations with the Republic of Burundi have always been friendly. We are discussing several cooperative projects in the oil and gas sector and in mining. We wish your country an early restoration of internal political stability and national accord.
Russia and the Hellenic Republic have a common history and close cultural and spiritual ties. We had detailed discussions of the entire range of bilateral cooperation issues and international affairs during my visit to Athens in May 2016. I am convinced that the cross-cultural year between Russia and Greece will boost the development of multifaceted ties and strengthen friendship between our nations.
Our successful cooperation with Colombia in energy, mechanical engineering and infrastructure includes the implementation of joint research and technical projects. We welcome the final agreement on peace, which was signed in September this year to put an end to a decades-long civil war.
We are developing partner relations with the Republic of Mali in the political, trade, economic, cultural and other areas. In June this year, Russia supported the UN Security Council resolution to extend the mandate of the UN Multidimensional Integrated Stabilisation Mission in Mali.
Our relations with Montenegro have always rested on the old traditions of friendship. We hope that the Montenegrin leadership will pursue a balanced foreign policy, so that we will be able to maintain our relations in all areas.
Russia seeks to develop ties with the Federal Republic of Somalia. We note your government’s efforts to achieve national reconciliation and harmony and to rebuild the economy and social sector.
We support political dialogue with the Republic of Chad, all the more so as your country currently holds the African Union presidency. We look forward to President Idriss Deby’s visit to Russia and are preparing for this occasion concrete agreements in trade, the economy and humanitarian areas.
Our cooperation with the Islamic Republic of the Gambia is based on the principles of friendship and mutual respect. We value our Gambian partners’ desire to expand bilateral ties in all different areas.
This year, we mark the 125th anniversary of diplomatic relations between Russia and Luxembourg. Our countries’ cooperation is mutually advantageous and diverse.
The Kingdom of the Netherlands is one of Russia’s biggest economic partners and Dutch business works successfully with Russian partners in trade and investment.
As good neighbours, Russia and Finland have developed truly unique experience of political, trade, economic and cultural cooperation.
We maintain active contacts with President of Finland Sauli Niinistö and have constructive dialogue on all issues on the bilateral and international agendas, including the situation in the Baltic region.
Our relations with Iceland are also mutually advantageous. I am sure that cooperation on Arctic region issues, developing our work together in fisheries, and carrying out joint innovative and science-intensive projects, including geothermal energy projects, is in both countries’ interests.
This December, we mark the 20th anniversary of diplomatic relations with Bosnia and Herzegovina. As one of the guarantors of the peace accords on Bosnia and Herzegovina, Russia consistently supports strict respect for the accords by all parties.
Mr Ambassador of Cambodia, your country is celebrating Independence Day today. We congratulate you and your country. I sent my congratulations to your head of state today, and I want to express my hope that Russia and Cambodia will continue developing their relations in all areas for the benefit of our peoples and in the interests of stability and security in Southeast Asia.
We are happy with our constructive cooperation with the Vatican. We share common positions in many respects on the serious problems on today’s foreign policy agenda. Together, we support the formation of a common front to combat the growing threat of terrorism and extremism, and we defend the importance of strengthening the moral foundations in international affairs.
Mr Ambassador of the Polish Republic, we are both aware that it would be difficult to call the state of Russian-Polish relations satisfactory today. But at the same time, we believe that restoring political dialogue is possible only on the basis of mutual respect and pragmatism, and we are ready to do everything we can to achieve this.
In developing our friendly relations with the Republic of Equatorial Guinea, we place great importance on cooperation on geological exploration, extraction and processing of hydrocarbons, including development of offshore fields.
We value greatly our multifaceted strategic partnership with Turkmenistan. I met last week in Sochi with President Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedov and we agreed to activate trade, economic, cultural and humanitarian ties and step up our work together in the Caspian region.
Ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude by wishing you sincere success in your responsible work. I hope that you will take away with you the most positive impressions of your time and work in Russia.
Thank you for your attention.
See also
Congratulations to Donald Trump on winning the US presidential election
November 9, 2016
See also
Meeting with President of Turkmenistan Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedov
November 1, 2016
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 9, 2016, 13:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Russian Railways CEO Oleg Belozerov
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Russian Railways CEO Oleg Belozerov. Subjects of discussion included the company’s results this year and the situation with passenger traffic on the Moscow Central Circle railway line.
November 9, 2016
17:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 2
Russian Railways CEO Oleg Belozerov.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Belozerov, let’s discuss your company’s performance results. You have the results for how many months now?
Russian Railways CEO Oleg Belozerov
: 10 months.
Vladimir Putin: Ten months. Have the loading levels increased?
Oleg Belozerov: Loading is up if you look at different months. There was a decline during the last two months. Cargo turnover is also up by almost 1.5 percent, and all major transport figures are up as well.
Good and stable trends have taken root in passenger transport, as I regularly report to you. Over the past 10 months there was an increase of 4.3 percent. However, we witnessed a decline over the past two years. Last year, there was an increase in long-distance train service. Now, we are about to have an increase of almost one percent in commuter and long-distance service. Commuter train numbers are very good.
In September, you opened the Moscow Central Ring railway line. We planned to reach 225,000 in daily passenger traffic by the end of the first year. A few days ago, there was an all-time high of 299,000 passengers a day, and the demand is rising. As I have reported earlier, we have all the technical capabilities in place. We will try to reduce the waiting time and add more cars to the trains. This is a good result, a good start.
Vladimir Putin: It’s a good project.
Oleg Belozerov: Very exciting.
With regard to long-distance service, government rebates provided to children aged 10 to 17 also yielded a good result with the number of passengers growing by 16 percent. Increasing the speed of Lastochka trains also gave us an additional 23 percent this year.
The Sapsan train continues to break records with an additional 35 percent this year. There’s talk that the rides are becoming crowded, so it’s time to think about adding more trains. We keep track of international itineraries as well. In December, we will put in service trains with variable track width on the Moscow-Berlin route. It will be a short 20-hour ride.
This year, the Government has taken unprecedented steps to support passenger traffic. A resolution has been adopted to subsidise the reduced rate for railway commuter passengers in the form of coefficient of 0,01 to base rates (of payment for use of infrastructure) until 2030. A proposal to waive the value added tax through 2030 has been submitted to the Duma.
This creates a stable environment to expand commuter traffic. The situation is similar with regard to cancelling the value added tax for long-distance service. This will give us an opportunity to buy nearly 1,000 new cars every year starting next year. That way, we will upgrade the rolling stock in a major way.
We have identified a number of issues to focus on. We had a problem with advance ticket sales. Previously, we were not able to sell tickets 60 days before the departure, so we were selling the bulk of the tickets 45 days in advance. On December 11, almost all long-distance service will start selling tickets 60 days in advance, and we will then increase that to 90 days.
Electronic sales are also on the rise with almost 40 percent of the tickets being sold online.
Vladimir Putin: That’s a nearly 20 percent increase in a matter of four years.
Oleg Belozerov: Yes, you are absolutely correct. That’s a spectacular increase.
Just a few words about freight traffic, if I may. We plan to see an increase across all conventional indicators before the end of the year, including loading and tariff cargo turnover, so the situation is stable in this area.
On a separate note, I would like to focus on the way we work to streamline our costs. As I reported earlier this year, we found ways to reduce costs by more than 40 billion rubles this year. Today, we have already arrived at almost 65 billion in savings. We keep working on that in all areas, including speed.
In a matter of one year of operations, we have saved over 100 billion rubles. This represents one month of Russian Railways’ expenses, and we did so without any decline in the quality of service precisely due to employing different mechanisms.
There’s another key factor for us: we are not worsening the condition of our infrastructure, but have instead begun to improve it. The key benchmark which you noted — productivity — is up 5 percent.
We have a date to mark today. We saw the termination of this year’s …
Vladimir Putin: Agreement.
Oleg Belozerov: Yes, the collective agreement with our social guarantees. Today, we signed this document, which is most important for us, for the next three years. We now have all the good things that we had in the previous collective agreement preserved for the next three years. Now our employees, including former ones, have a full package of guarantees. Guarantees to former employees are listed separately.
Vladimir Putin: Do you have a deal with the unions?
Oleg Belozerov: We do. Our colleagues, who have participated in such negotiations for many years now, are saying that the negotiations were constructive, and we managed to quickly find solutions to the most challenging issues. So, we signed the agreement together with the union leaders. Our colleagues had positive comments on our work.
Vladimir Putin: What is the average pay?
Oleg Belozerov: 47,180 rubles, more than it was. As I reported earlier, salary depends on productivity. When productivity goes up, salary follows. We are also keeping benefits in place. This is a key issue.
We are fulfilling all provisions of the investment programme. Acting on behalf of [the President], we promptly implement all projects, such as upgrading the Trans-Siberian and the Baikal-Amur railways, and southern directions.
On a separate note, we are expanding and renovating railway infrastructure near the ports of the Azov Sea and the Black Sea, including near the Crimean Bridge. Work is on schedule and properly funded.
In closing, Mr President, Russian Railways will complete all projects on time.
Vladimir Putin: Good.
<…>
Topics
Transport
Persons
Belozerov Oleg
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 9, 2016, 17:30
Text version