Events
Strategic Initiatives Agency Supervisory Board meeting
Vladimir Putin chaired a meeting of the Supervisory Board of the autonomous non-commercial organisation Agency for Strategic Initiatives to Promote New Projects.
January 14, 2016
15:10
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
Strategic Initiatives Agency Supervisory Board meeting
The discussion focussed on the Agency’s work in 2015 and its targets for the current year, particularly the implementation of the National Technology Initiative, development of the professional training system on the basis of international standards and ways of improving the business climate.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
I would like to begin by thanking you for your work last year. You put forth a number of interesting ideas, some system-wide projects, and managed to get business circles, experts and civil society representatives interested in them, as well as working very efficiently with the authorities. You have established cooperation with such new institutions as the Industry Development Fund, the Russian Export Centre and the corporation for the development of small and medium-sized businesses. I must say that such broad cooperation helps you achieve practical results in the interests of the country’s economy.
Last year with your active involvement we practically implemented the roadmaps of the National Entrepreneurial Initiative and significantly amended the legal and normative base. The National Investment Climate Rating has become an objective mechanism for assessing the application of law in supporting businesses in the regions of the Russian Federation.
It is important that you have established monitoring by entrepreneurs over the quality of compliance with the normative acts that are being adopted, primarily on a regional and municipal level. I am convinced that the results of such inspections should be made public and this will help further improve the business climate and, importantly, will become an effective mechanism for preventing corruption.
I would like to note the significant contribution made by the Agency to the development of the professional training system using international standards. I believe it was very important to win the right to hold the international professional skills competition in Kazan in 2019, which, as I have said, will serve as a strong impetus for the development of the entire system of professional training and for raising the prestige of blue-collar jobs.
I expect that in the new year your Agency will take an active part in implementing our common strategic goals set out in my Address to the Federal Assembly.
Here is what I would like to highlight.
First: a very important condition for the country’s dynamic development is, of course, greater freedom for doing business, for entrepreneurship. I would like to repeat that many barriers in the federal legislation have been lifted. It is of principal importance now to ensure the proper application of the decisions made and norms established, primarily in the regions, and to spread the best practices of dealing with entrepreneurs nationwide.
The Agency’s task is to assist in creating in the regions truly efficient, up-to-date and thinking management teams that will understand the requirements of businesses and see entrepreneurs as their key partners in developing the country’s economy and the economies of the regions of the Russian Federation.
I would like to ask the Agency to create, as we have already said and have just discussed with Andrei Belousov [Aide to the President], and develop a centre for exchange in best practices of state administration and investment climate creation. I know you have agreed to do this using the Academy of National Economy and Public Administration, as a regular seminar, so to speak. You must try to launch the mechanism and to make sure it truly works.
Second. You have launched a serious, important project – the National Technology Initiative. Jointly with experts, the academic community and businesses you have drawn up targeted measures to develop certain specific areas. It is now important to meet the deadlines and to consolidate resources, including those of the development institutions.
Next. Yesterday at a meeting with Government members, we had a detailed discussion of the development of up-to-date professional standards and their use for the introduction of new training systems. Here we should be guided by the latest international requirements.
In this connection, we should further enhance the role of work and engineering skills competitions and contests as key instruments in assessing the quality of the national professional training system.
The Address to the Federal Assembly dealt with the need to create a national system of such competitions as Young Professionals, which would involve contests for younger people, aged 10 to 17. I would like to hear your opinion on this, your ideas and proposals. I would like to know how you are working on the development of a new model of additional education for school students.
 Let us deal with all this in detail.
 <…>
Topics
Professional training
Regions
Social services
Support for business
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 14, 2016, 15:10
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Dmitry Mezentsev
Vladimir Putin met with Dmitry Mezentsev, who until January 2016 occupied the post of Shanghai Cooperation Organisation Secretary-General. As of 2016, Uzbekistan has taken over the rotating SCO Presidency.
January 14, 2016
17:15
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 3
With Dmitry Mezentsev, who until January 2016 occupied the post of Shanghai Cooperation Organisation Secretary-General.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Have you completed your job, Mr Mezentsev?
Dmitry Mezentsev
: Yes, three years have flown by; it was a very dynamic time.
Mr President, I would like to express my special gratitude to you as Chairman of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation
Council of Heads of State during Russia’s Presidency last year. You ensured a new level of interaction between the parties: cooperation between the founding nations, the observer states and dialogue partners has become stronger.
Obviously, all the countries in the SCO family share the view that the Ufa summit was of historic significance. Its results included the organisation’s development strategy until 2025 and the first SCO expansion resolution in 14 years, first to bring in India and Pakistan, to enhance the status of Belarus, and the accession of new states – Azerbaijan, Armenia, Cambodia and Nepal – all this speaks of the organisation’s new standing in the region, of its intention to take a more active part in resolving international issues.
Ties between the SCO and the United Nations, as well as UN institutes, programmes and organisations have become stronger in the run-up to the 70th UN General Assembly Session, where you took part along with the heads of the SCO states, the heads of the founding nations.
Shortly before that, the 69th Session passed a broad resolution on cooperation between the United Nations and the SCO. This obligates us to work with the global organisation on a totally different level to ensure a serious and in-depth approach.
The strategy is a living document today; the parties have already made proposals regarding the implementation of all the tasks within the SCO Strategy through 2025. If earlier we spoke of the SCO’s main priority as being regional security and stability, now trade and economic cooperation have become a reality.
The recent meeting of the Council of Heads of State in December in the People’s Republic of China not only spoke of the significance of trade and economic cooperation, but also issued instructions to expand the implementation of the programme of multilateral trade and economic cooperation between the SCO member-states, with observer and partner states already invited.
Investment cooperation is becoming a reality, as well as the regional component. The heads of the regions and states of the majority of the organisation’s members have met twice – in the past year and in 2014. Judging by the outcomes of the latest meetings and of the meeting of the Council of Heads of State we are convinced the regional component will continue to expand, along with cooperation with such organisations as the UN, ESCAP, with which a memorandum has been signed, with the CIS, ASEAN, the Economic Cooperation Organisation with headquarters in Tehran, and with the CSTO.
Vladimir Putin: In turn, I would like to thank you for your work.
We give great attention to the development of our relations with our partners within the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation. I would like to recall that it was actually set up to resolve certain very specific issues, important ones, but not of a global nature, such as border issues between the founding states.
Now, however, it has taken on a different significance. At the fore are not only matters of regional security, which we always bear in mind, but also economic cooperation in the areas that are developing especially rapidly now.
Therefore, as we have agreed with our partners, especially after the Ufa summit, we will work to achieve all the goals we agreed on with the member-states. I strongly hope that the executive bodies of this organisation will continue working as efficiently as they did under your leadership.
Dmitry Mezentsev: Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: We will also rely on your experience in this and other areas. Thank you very much once again.
Dmitry Mezentsev: Mr President, I can only thank you for such a high assessment. It also applies to the work of the entire international staff of both the headquarters and the counterterrorist organisation. All our efforts were directed at acting on the resolutions adopted by the Council of the Heads of State during the Presidency of the Russian Federation, and now during the Presidency of Uzbekistan, and at upholding the traditions that took shape in the development of the principles of the Shanghai spirit.
Vladimir Putin: When is the summit?
Dmitry Mezentsev: June 23–24 in Tashkent.
Vladimir Putin: I am certain our Uzbekistani friends and colleagues will do everything to hold it at the highest possible level.
Dmitry Mezentsev: Of course, Mr President. The Tashkent summit is also to confirm the start of the accession to the organisation by India and Pakistan, which required a great deal of work on the part of those countries.
 <…>
Topics
Foreign policy
SCO
Persons
Mezentsev Dmitry
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 14, 2016, 17:15
Text version