Events
Formula 1 Russian Grand Prix
Vladimir Putin attended the Formula 1 Russian Grand Prix. The competition was held at the Sochi Autodrom, the most cutting-edge Russian circuit for international motor sport races.
May 1, 2016
16:50
Sochi
1 of 7
At the Formula 1 Russian Grand Prix with Bernie Ecclestone, CEO of the Formula One Group.
The President presented the Formula 1 Russian Grand Prix cup to the winner Nico Rosberg, and congratulated UK’s Lewis Hamilton on winning the second place, and Finnish driver Kimi Raikkonen, who finished third.
Following the Formula 1 Russian Grand Prix, Vladimir Putin had a brief meeting with members of the Russian junior SMP Racing team and wished the young athletes a success. The Russian SMP Racing team takes part in different classes of car races, including the “junior” series – Formula 4.
The President also had a talk withBernie Ecclestone, CEO of the Formula One Group.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Ecclestone, I am happy to see you again.
I would like to thank you for your support that contributes to the active development of motor sport in our country, including its most vital component – Formula One Russia.
Our joint project with you [Formula 1. Russia. Sochi] is progressing successfully. This year over 60,000 tickets were sold to the stands, and I am confident that this attracts motor sport fans across our large country, and not only in our country but also in this region of the world.
It is of special significance that the development of this project [Formula 1. Russia. Sochi] has given an impetus to motor sport in Russia in general, not just in this segment but also in others. Thank you very much. We will be happy to jointly continue the project further.
Among other things, this makes Sochi even more attractive as a resort. We want to achieve the goal we set before ourselves, which is the post-Olympic development of Sochi as a multi-profile year-round resort.
CEO of the Formula One Group Bernie Ecclestone (retranslated): I would like to say that due to what is happening, sport is developing in Sochi, in Russia. We have managed to contribute our share to the process.
And we were happy to see Russian F4 drivers. I hope they will also show the best of themselves in Formula 1.
As always, I am quite, quite happy to be here. And I would like to say that all the teams, all the drivers share this sentiment. Thank you, Sochi.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
<…>
Geography
Krasnodar Territory
Topics
Sport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 1, 2016, 16:50
Text version