Events
Vladimir Putin congratulated Moscow residents on City Day
The President attended a holiday concert on Red Square and congratulated Moscow residents and visitors on Moscow’s 869th anniversary.
September 10, 2016
13:20
Moscow
7 of 8
Vladimir Putin congratulated Moscow residents and visitors on City Day.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, Muscovites, Mr Sobyanin,
My heartfelt congratulations on City Day!
Moscow is a special, cherished, beloved city for all Russians. It is dear to Muscovites and to people living thousands of kilometres away. It is dear to our whole huge nation.
Such feelings towards Moscow are understandable as it is the capital of our Motherland, its multi-faceted majestic embodiment, one of the world’s most beautiful cities startling in its splendour, dignity and distinctiveness, its invariable magnetism and ancient sacred simplicity.
Next year Moscow will celebrate its 870th birthday. This date embodies a multitude of crucial events in the country’s history but ultimately – the determining role of Moscow in uniting Russian lands, in establishing and strengthening the Russian statehood.
Within just two centuries since it was founded as a small principality, Moscow turned into the capital of a nation that united colossal territories around it. Ever since then, Russia and Moscow have been inseparable notions. We all feel that ingrained unity, it has been growing for centuries through incredible ordeals, through achievements and brilliant victories.
In the decisive periods of its history, Moscow became a stronghold defending the Fatherland while all of Russia would always rise to defend Moscow. And the fact that we celebrate the holiday of our beloved capital on the country’s main square is another dramatic confirmation that Moscow belongs to Russia, to all of its people.
Its freshness and the luster of age are organically intertwined with the dynamism of this global metropolis. Here, one can acutely feel not only the interconnected eras but also an energetic beat of today, its drive towards the future.
Moscow changes with each year, its urban environment becoming more comfortable. The concerns of Moscow residents and guests have a priority when parks, squares, boulevards are renovated.
The transport infrastructure is improving. As you know, the Moscow Central Ring railway was launched today, and new metro stations are being actively constructed.
Moscow is permeated with inspiration and creative quest, it offers everyone big opportunities for growth and development. And at the same time it requires up-to-date knowledge, skills, constant hard work, and unstoppable effective work of the highest quality. And Muscovites meet the standard with dignity. New plans emerge, the most daring ideas find their realisation, and all this happens thanks to the people working in the capital, to their talent, dedication, temerity and generosity.
Happy holiday! Happy City Day, Moscow!
See also
Moscow Central Ring railway opening
September 10, 2016
Geography
Moscow
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 10, 2016, 13:20
Text version