Events
Meeting of the Economic Council Presidium
Vladimir Putin held a meeting of the Economic Council Presidium to examine growth sources for the Russian economy through to 2025.
May 25, 2016
14:45
The Kremlin, Moscow
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
The Economic Council Presidium is at work once again, this time with the task of discussing and outlining key guidelines and objectives for our economic policy through to 2025 and identify the main factors for economic growth and social sector development.
This task is particularly relevant today. Most experts agree that the Russian economy has stabilised in general and has adapted to the current circumstances. Now it is important to look ahead and turn to matters of a more strategic nature.
Just recently, I discussed with the Government members the state of progress in implementing the 2012 presidential executive orders. We summed up the interim results. Back then, in 2012, these executive orders set the general directions for changes in the country’s main areas of life and set the needed pace for these transformations. But, I repeat, we must now look further ahead and set new goals, not just current tasks, but objectives of a more long-term nature.
In this respect, I propose that the Economic Council Presidium serve as the platform for holding a whole series of discussions, including on the transformations that will take place in our social sector, in healthcare, education, and the housing and utilities system, technological modernisation of our country’s economy, improving the business climate, and enhancing our state management system.
We will meet regularly over the coming period to discuss these subjects, over the next 12–18 months if need be.
Let me note that we discuss these subjects regularly with our colleagues in the Government, its economic block, and with the Central Bank. But the Economic Council gives us the chance to hold a broader and more open discussion, and at the same time pursue a detailed and professional dialogue with not just these officials but also with members of the State Duma, regional heads, and business and academic community representatives.
Let me add that the Presidium’s membership includes people with a range of different views. In some cases, they hold diametrically opposed views on various aspects of our socioeconomic development. But this is precisely the advantage of working in this format. It gives us the chance to debate and discuss alternative approaches and look at issues from different angles. I think you would agree with me that no one should have a monopoly on the truth in economic discussions.
During these discussions, I ask you all to put aside as much as possible ideological preferences and not stay locked within particular theoretical constructs and concepts, but to take a pragmatic approach and concentrate on coming up with realistic and objective decisions.
In this respect, I want to emphasise that all ideas and initiatives should be accompanied by practical mechanisms for their implementation. We will examine these proposals, which in the future will form the basis of the programme documents we draft.
I propose today that we start with the growth sources for Russia’s economy over the next decade.
As we have noted on past occasions, the current dynamic shows us that the reserves and resources that served as driving forces for our economy at the start of the 2000s no longer produce the effects they used to. I have said in the past, and want to stress this point again now, economic growth does not get underway again all on its own. If we do not find new growth sources, we will see GDP growth of around zero, and then our possibilities in the social sector, national defence and security, and in other areas, will be considerably lower than what is needed for us to really develop the country and make progress.
We must simultaneously ensure higher growth rates in the economy and carry out structural reforms to make it more efficient. At the same time, it is very important to preserve macroeconomic stability and not allow the budget deficit to grow and inflation to pick up speed.
The experts have already started drafting concrete proposals at the Economic Council’s working group. I hope we will hear something about them today, and we will also hear the proposals from the Government and the business community representatives.
Let’s begin our work.
<…>
See also
News of Economic Council
Topics
Budget
Economy and finance
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Commissions and Councils
Publication date: May 25, 2016, 14:45
Text version    Events Start of oil shipping operations at Vorota Arktiki (Arctic Gate) terminal   Vladimir Putin launched,
via videoconference, the loading of the first tanker with oil from the Novoportovskoye field at the new Vorota Arktiki (Arctic Gate) terminal.    May 25, 2016  13:15  The Kremlin, Moscow                                                             1 of 4 Vladimir Putin launched, via videoconference, the loading of the first tanker with oil from the Novoportovskoye field at the new Vorota Arktiki (Arctic Gate) terminal.        The terminal was built to facilitate year-round
sea transportation of oil, including in extreme weather and geographical
conditions. Gazprom CEO Alexei Miller and Gazprom Neft General
Director Alexander Dyukov reported that the terminal was ready to start
work. * * *President of Russia
Vladimir Putin: Good
afternoon, colleagues,Today, we mark the start of a new stage in developing the Yamal Peninsula and a new stage in developing the Novoportovskoye
field. This is an important and symbolic event. This project is one of the most
capital intensive in Russia’s oil and gas sector. A total of 186 billion was
invested in it over these last three years and new technology solutions have
been used, high-tech solutions that will make it possible to work in the northernmost part of the Yamal Peninsula’s harsh environment. This is the first
time that oil will be shipped from this area not via pipelines, but by sea. Colleagues, I give you the floor.Gazprom CEO Alexei
Miller      Miller AlexeiGazprom CEO : Mr
President, today we are starting operations at the year-round oil-shipping
terminal Vorota Arktiki (Arctic Gate). The terminal is located 700 kilometres from the existing pipeline infrastructure. An oil pipeline more than 100 kilometres in length joins it to the Novoportovskoye field, and the terminal has design
capacity of 8.5 million tonnes. The terminal makes oil transportation possible
even in extreme weather and geographical conditions, with temperatures as low
as minus 50 Celsius, winds of up to 40 metres a second, and ice as thick as 2.5
metres in the Gulf of Ob. The terminal is a sea-based facility, joined to the coast by an oil pipeline. It is a tower-type structure, with the crane 61
metres above the water level and the revolving platform 78 metres in length. The terminal meets the highest industrial
safety and environmental protection standards. It uses zero-waste technology,
which means that under no circumstances do harmful substances and pollutants
end up in the waters of the Gulf of Ob.The terminal is fully automated and is managed
from coastal-based facilities. This is a unique facility of its kind in the world and there are no other industrial facilities of this kind beyond the Polar Circle. Without question, this new terminal will take
Russia a big step forward in developing the Far North’s rich hydrocarbon
resources and developing the Northern Sea Route. I give the floor to General Director of Gazprom
Neft Alexander Dyukov to report on the work that has been done at the Novoportovskoye field. General Director of Gazprom Neft Alexander Dyukov: Mr President,The Novoportovskoye field was opened more than
50 years ago and was the first oil and gas field opened on the Yamal Peninsula.
For a long time, the lack of technology for developing difficult fields like
this one and the absence of transport routes for getting the oil out prevented
its development from going ahead. Using modern new 21st-century
technology, we have finally been able to start developing this field. As far as the oil quality goes at this field,
it is of the highest sort, light, low sulphur oil, and this gives it
competitive advantages on the global oil market. This oil is of a higher
quality than Brent oil and can be traded at a premium compared to Brent oil.  We are continuing to build advanced-technology
horizontal wells at the field and are expanding and developing the ground-based
infrastructure. We are building a powerful new power station. We have already
started work at the Vyborg Shipyard on modern and powerful new icebreakers that
will be put to work on this project.  Mr President, as you noted, we have already
invested 186 billion rubles in this project, but over the project’s operation
life, it will bring in more than 1.5 trillion rubles in budget revenue at the various levels.  The terminal’s systems are all ready to work
now and so I ask you to launch the loading of the first tanker with oil from
the Novoportovskoye field at the Vorota Arktiki (Arctic Gate) terminal.  Vladimir Putin: What is the sulphur content – 0.1
percent? Alexander Dyukov: It’s low, 0.1 percent, Mr
President. Vladimir Putin: In other words, this field’s oil
is in the light oil category.  Alexander Dyukov: That’s right, it’s a light oil, with
higher quality than Brent oil, and therefore it can be traded at a premium
compared to Brent oil. Vladimir Putin: I want to congratulate you and thank the heads of Gazprom and Gazprom Neft, and the engineers and workers who
took part in carrying out this project. Let me wish you success. Start the operations. Operator: All systems are working as normal.
The tanker is being loaded with oil at a rate of 1,200 cubic metres an hour.  Alexei Miller: Mr President, the first shipment
of oil through the Vorota Arktiki (Arctic Gate) terminal has started
successfully.  Vladimir
Putin: This is an excellent step forward. Once again, I congratulate you and wish you all success. Thank you very much.         Topics  Energy         Persons    Miller Alexei                        Publication status Published in sections: News, Transcripts  Publication date:    May 25, 2016, 13:15  Direct link: en.kremlin.ru/d/51994    Text version        NaN /  Events
Meeting with French business community representatives
Vladimir Putin met at the Kremlin with French business community representatives.
May 25, 2016
17:20
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 6
Before the meeting with French business community representatives.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues, friends,
Let me welcome you all to Moscow. It is a great pleasure to meet the members of the Economic Council of the Franco-Russian Chamber of Commerce and Industry.
France is without a doubt one of our longstanding and reliable partners and we are very pleased to see you here.
Let me start this meeting by noting that despite the various difficulties we face, problems of an economic nature and also politically motivated issues, none of the more than 500 French companies working on our market have left Russia. Everyone is still here and continues to work, and we are very happy to see this.
But unfortunately, the factors I just mentioned have led to a drop in our bilateral trade of more than 30 percent – 36 percent to be exact. But there are also some positive moments, and I will say more about this now.
We are reviving our cooperation mechanisms. After a long hiatus, our inter-agency council on economic cooperation has resumed its work, and the Intergovernmental Commission, which is headed by our two countries’ prime ministers, has agreed to hold its next meeting before the end of the year.
These purely administrative developments are good to see, but what really pleases us is that despite the current difficulties, we saw an increase in reciprocal investment last year. French investment in the Russian economy grew at a very fast pace with French companies investing more than one billion euros.
This is partly motivated by a desire to preserve positions on our market, including in the agriculture sector, where several million has been invested in cheese production in the Russian Federation. We most certainly welcome this and will do everything we can to put in place the conditions needed for further investment, reciprocal investment too, because over this same time, Russian businesspeople have increased their investment in the French economy.
As you know, we will soon be hosting the next [St Petersburg] International Economic Forum. We will be happy to see you all at this event, at which we will discuss in detail how to develop relations with our partners.
Of course, we will also continue active efforts to create a good environment for doing business in Russia, for Russian businesspeople and for our foreign partners and friends. I was discussing this very matter just before with members of the Russian Government, the business community, State Duma deputies, and regional heads. We are drawing up our future plans for developing these favourable conditions.
Meeting with French business community representatives. CEO of Pernod Ricard Alexandre Ricard.
Our efforts in this area have already brought some positive changes of late. We have moved from 120th place to 51st place on the World Bank’s well-known Ease of Doing Business Index. True, we are not in first place, but it is nonetheless a big jump up and the progress is clear.
We have maintained Russia’s economic stability and I have no doubt that we can continue to do this. We also succeeded in stabilising state finances after the Central Bank introduced a floating exchange rate for the ruble.
We follow a very balanced budget policy, putting our primary focus on macroeconomic stability. We have succeeded in these efforts overall.
We have a good trade balance. Last year, we worked with a surplus of $168 billion, and we already have a surplus of $16 billion for the first quarter of this year. In other words, this trend has continued.
Let me note too that, as is known, we had some problems with a contraction of our gross domestic product, and this contraction continued over the first quarter of this year too, but it was twice less than over the same period in 2015.
In other words, there is a stable trend towards an improvement in our macroeconomic indicators, including GDP. Our task now is to maintain this over the coming period. At the same time, we have one of the lowest levels of state debt – it is around 10–12 percent, and our gold and foreign currency reserves are growing and as of May 1 this year came to $391.5 billion. Our goal is not to stuff the state coffers full though, but, as I said, to create good conditions for working on the Russian market.
Meeting with French business community representatives. President and Chairman of the Board of Danone Franck Riboud.
I am happy to see you and it is with pleasure that I will listen to your views on what more we should do to ensure that you have a comfortable environment on the Russian market.
Thank you very much for your attention.
Geography
France
Topics
Economy and finance
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 25, 2016, 17:20
Text version