Events
Meeting with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi
In the framework of Vladimir Putin’s working visit to Uzbekistan to attend the anniversary SCO summit, the Russian president met with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
June 24, 2016
14:30
Tashkent
5 of 6
Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ms. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen,
Allow me to greet you once again.
India is our privileged strategic partner. Relations between our countries are built on long-standing traditions of friendship. This is fully reflected in our close and effective cooperation in economic and international affairs.
I am sincerely glad that in the course of the SCO
summit today, India signed a memorandum of obligations as a step toward its status as a member of this organisation. I am sure that the membership will happen in the very near future and that next year we will work with India within the framework of the SCO as a full member of this organisation. This will give us an opportunity to work even more closely with our Indian friends now also within the SCO.
This year India has taken over the BRICS
presidency. We are counting very much on your leadership in the organisation and hope that India’s presidency will also help strengthen this widely recognised international organisation, whose influence is steadily growing.
Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi
(retranslated): Thank you very much, your excellency, for this opportunity to meet with you. Several days ago, we spoke by telephone. The last time I was in Russia, I remember your very warm hospitality.
I would like to thank you for your constructive support of India’s membership in the Nuclear Suppliers Group. Today, we launched the process of India’s acquiring full SCO membership.
I know that you have played a highly constructive role and I thank you for this. All of this goes to show what it means for India to have a true friend. I thank you from the bottom of my heart.
<…>
See also
SCO 15th anniversary summit
June 24, 2016
Geography
India
Topics
BRICS
Foreign policy
SCO
Persons
Modi Narendra
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 24, 2016, 14:30
Text versionEvents
Address at Shanghai Cooperation Organisation Council of Heads of State expanded session
June 24, 2016
10:45
Tashkent
At the expanded format meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation Council of Heads of State.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Karimov, colleagues, friends,
We are meeting in an anniversary year. Over these 15 years, the SCO’s authority and its influence on regional processes have increased considerably. Working together within the SCO is one of Russia’s foreign policy priorities. We will continue making active efforts to develop the organisation’s potential and strengthen its role in international and regional affairs.
In our view, the fact that the SCO’s activity is built on the principles of equality, mutual respect and consideration of each other’s interests is a guarantee of its successful development. There are now 18 countries taking part in the organisation’s work: the 6 founding members, 6 observer states, and 6 dialogue partners. These countries together account for more than 16 percent of gross global product, not to mention their share in the world’s population, which stands at 45 percent.
The procedures for India and Pakistan’s accession as full members of the SCO is near completion now. The important political decision to begin the accession procedure was taken last year in Ufa.
One of the outcomes of this year’s summit is the planned signing of memorandums on obligations that India and Pakistan must fulfil in order to become full members of the organisation. We hope that our partners will complete these steps as soon as possible, in time for our next meeting in Kazakhstan.
In the meantime, we need to start directly integrating India and Pakistan into the SCO’s regular cooperation mechanisms such as the Council of Heads of State and the regular meetings of member states’ foreign ministers.
 Since 2005, Iran has been a longstanding and active observer state in the SCO. We think that now that the Iranian nuclear issue has been settled and the UN sanctions lifted, there are no obstacles in the way of a positive assessment of Tehran’s membership application.
Colleagues, the Ufa SCO development strategy drafted last year at Russia’s initiative outlines the main long-term directions for our work together. We will approve today the plan for implementing this strategy through 2020.
This document covers more than 70 political, economic and cultural measures designed to achieve practical results and make our cooperation within the organisation more effective.
Our greatest cooperation priority is certainly ensuring security throughout the SCO area. We also need to continue developing our regional antiterrorist structure’s potential, improve coordination between our security and law enforcement agencies within the framework of the UN and other international organisations, speed up work on drafting the SCO convention on combating extremism, update our anti-narcotics strategy and its implementation programme, and strengthen the legal base for information security cooperation.
Of course, the situation in Afghanistan also requires our particular attention. It is essential to work together with our partners in Afghanistan to step up counterterrorism efforts to combat the terrorist threat in that country and fight cross-border organised crime, prevent drug production and trafficking, and give Afghanistan practical help in its national reconciliation and economic recovery process.
Developing close economic cooperation is another important part of the SCO’s activity. We must continue removing barriers to trade and capital and labour movement, deepen our industrial and technological cooperation, and develop industrial chains and a common transport infrastructure.
The start of talks on linking the Eurasian Union and China’s Silk Road Economic Belt project opens up good prospects in this area. I am sure that involving all of the SCO member states and the CIS countries in this integration process would pave the road for developing a broad Eurasian partnership.
I would like to note that Southeast Asian countries have shown interest in the SCO’s economic dimension. This was something we discussed at the recent Russia-ASEAN summit in Sochi.
Financial development institutes can also contribute to the successful implementation of multilateral economic projects within the SCO framework, particularly the Eurasian Bank, the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, and the BRICS New Development Bank.
The steady development in our humanitarian cooperation within the organisation is certainly cause for satisfaction. The tourism development programme we are adopting today will create a common tourism space and give tourists greater safety.
Among our most significant education projects is the SCO University, which links together around 80 universities from our different countries in a single teaching network. We hope that the intergovernmental agreement regulating this university’s legal status will be signed by the end of this year.
The SCO student forum and youth council play a positive part. Let me mention in particular the initiative to draft the SCO Youth Card, which would offer students discounts on travel, accommodation, and visits to museums and other cultural and historical sites in the member countries.
Colleagues, I would like to conclude by thanking Uzbekistan’s government and President Islam Karimov for the hospitality we have been shown here. I also want to wish success to our Kazakhstani friends, who now take over the presidency in the SCO.
Thank you for your attention.
See also
SCO 15th anniversary summit
June 24, 2016
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 24, 2016, 10:45
Text versionEvents
Answers to media questions
Vladimir Putin responded to media questions at the end of his working visit to Uzbekistan to attend the SCO Heads of State Council, timed to coincide with the 15th anniversary of the SCO.
June 24, 2016
16:40
Tashkent
Concluding his working visit to Uzbekistan, the President of Russia answered journalists’ questions.
Question: I would like to ask you about Brexit. Well before the vote, it was alleged that Russia would be happy if Britain decided to leave the EU. After the vote, there were also comments to the effect that this plays into Russia’s hands and, in this context, that this can have a positive impact on the issue of lifting sanctions on Russia. How do you assess the results of the vote? Whose side were you on? How will Russia’s relations with the EU and Britain now be built? What implications will this decision have for our economy?
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: We are in Tashkent, where the SCO summit has just ended. Therefore, I would like to begin by thanking President Islam Karimov and all our Uzbek friends for what they have accomplished during their presidency of the SCO.
As you have seen, we are about to admit two large countries, India and Pakistan. Pure formalities remain to be completed; there is good reason to believe that as of next year, they will be full members of this organisation. With their admission, the organisation naturally acquires a different ring to it and a different weight.
It accounts for almost half the world’s population – 45 percent, and for now less than 20 percent of global production, but even this is a high indicator, and it is sure to grow because all of these economies are developing rapidly. In this connection, there is every reason to say that the summit has been a success.
Now I’d like to say a few words about statements made before the voting in Britain and after it. Naturally, we closely followed the voting but never interfered or sought to influence it. Therefore, British Prime Minister David Cameron’s statements on Russia’s position before the referendum had no grounds whatsoever.
I think it was an inappropriate attempt to influence public opinion at home. As we can see, it did not work. In my opinion, it is all the more inappropriate to speak about Russia’s supposed position after the voting. This is truly a low level of political discourse.
Now, to address the core issue. Of course, this will have consequences for both Britain and Europe as a whole. The referendum campaign and subsequent results point to the British Government’s self-assuredness and supercilious attitude to life-changing decisions in their own country and Europe in general. It will have global effects. Again, they are inevitable – both positive and negative. Needless to say, everything will settle back to normal in the mid-term. Time will tell whether there will be more pluses or minuses.
It seems to me that ordinary British citizens understand why this happened. First, nobody wants to feed and subsidise weaker economies and pay support other states and entire nations. This is an obvious fact. Apparently, people are displeased about security, which is being eroded by powerful migration waves. People want to be more independent.
One of the EU leaders – a former leader—told me that the ratio of binding decisions adopted by the European Parliament is higher than made by the USSR Supreme Soviet in relation to Soviet republics.
This means that the concentration of power at the top there is very high. Some like it and want to continue down this road of erasing national borders, whereas others do not like it. Judging by everything, by the results of the voting, the overwhelming majority of British subjects do not like it. It does not suit them.
However, I would like to reiterate what I said recently at the St Petersburg International Economic Forum. This is the choice made by British subjects. We did not interfere, are not interfering and will not interfere in this in any way. From all indications, certain formal procedures will follow, related to the British people’s decision to leave the EU.
We will closely watch and analyse this, seeking to minimise whatever negative fallout this decision might have for our economy, because considering the blow it dealt to markets and currencies, it is bound to impact and is already impacting stock exchange indices and therefore the prices of our traditional goods, but I am sure that everything will fall into place in the very near future.
We do not expect a global upheaval as a result. Of course, as I said, we will be closely monitoring things, adjusting our economic policy and adjusting our relations with our European partners.
Regarding the sanctions policy, I do not think that this will in any way impact our relations with the EU in this regard. We were not the ones who initiated these sanctioned restrictions on both sides. We only responded to the restrictions that were imposed on our country.
I would like to reiterate that if our partners are ever ready for constructive dialogue on these issue, we are also ready. We are not only ready – we seek it and will respond positively to positive initiatives, but we cannot be expected to do certain things that are beyond the scope of our powers.
We all know that these restrictions are supposedly tied to the implementation of the Minsk agreements but the key aspects of the implementation of the Minsk agreements today are in the hands of our Kiev partners, in the hands of the Kiev authorities. Without them, we can do nothing. We cannot amend the Ukrainian Constitution; we cannot implement and enforce the law on special forms of governance in the well-known territories, the Lugansk and Donetsk People’s Republics; we cannot sign an amnesty law for the Ukrainian president.
These are key issues in the settlement of the Donbass situation. And it is simply absurd to expect us to make these decisions. I cannot think of any other word for it. Nevertheless, we have worked patiently and are willing to continue working just as patiently both with our Ukrainian partners and with our EU partners. However, there is no other way to fully resolve the situation in Donbass other than by implementing the Minsk agreements.
As for what will happen in the economic and political sphere following Britain’s exit [from the EU], we will see this in the very near future. We will see.
See also
SCO 15th anniversary summit
June 24, 2016
Geography
Uzbekistan
Topics
Foreign policy
Media
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 24, 2016, 16:40
Text version