Events
Meeting with Gazprom CEO Alexei Miller
The head of Gazprom briefed Vladimir Putin on the company’s results in 2015, and discussed, in particular, gas supply figures for the domestic and European markets and the programme for connecting Russia’s regions to the gas network.
February 29, 2016
13:40
The Kremlin, Moscow
With Gazprom CEO Alexei Miller.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Miller, I have several questions to start our discussion, and then we will look at things in more detail. Did total production grow or decrease last year? What is the situation with demand on the domestic market, the situation with export supplies, and what are your most promising projects right now?
Gazprom CEO Alexei Miller
: Gazprom produced 418.5 billion cubic metres of gas last year. This was sufficient to cover in full reliable and stable supplies for export markets and for our own country’s needs. Supplies of Gazprom’s own gas to the domestic market came to 205 billion cubic metres.
Vladimir Putin: Is that more or less than in 2014?
Alexei Miller: It is less than in 2014. As for export supplies, they came to 159.4 billion cubic metres. This covers deliveries to markets beyond the CIS countries and gas supplies to Europe. These exports increased by 11.8 billion cubic metres. Total gas exports increased by 8 percent. Looking at the current trends, total gas exports have increased by 37.5 percent since the start of 2016.
Last year, Germany set a record for Russian gas purchases with 43.5 billion cubic metres. This is an increase of 6 billion cubic metres on 2014. But this year, we see that gas supplies to Germany and other large European countries are growing even faster. Gas supplies to Germany are up by 44 percent since the start of the year, up by 42 percent to Italy, 73 percent to France, and 52 percent to Austria. Total export growth came to 11.8 billion cubic metres in 2015, but the overall figure was already up by 7.5 billion cubic metres in the first two months of this year alone.
There is therefore no doubt that the projects to build new gas transport routes to Europe, to northwest Europe, are economically justified and backed up by the growing demand that we see right now.
Vladimir Putin: I know that you discussed one of these projects and signed the relevant documents in Rome.
 Alexei Miller: Yes, we signed a memorandum in Rome on evaluating the need to build a gas pipeline from Russia via the Black Sea to other countries. The route would head to Greece and then on to Italy. Under the memorandum’s terms, the feasibility studies and economic assessments will be completed by the end of 2016. Our departure point with our European partners in this work is the Poseidon project, which we drafted at one point with our Greek, Italian and French colleagues. This project planned for transport of 12 billion cubic metres of Azerbaijani gas from Greece across the Ionian Sea to southern Italy.
I met yesterday with Italy’s Economic Development Minister. Italy supports this project. The Greek Foreign Ministry’s General Secretary was also present at the signing. The Greek Government has also expressed support for this project.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Miller, what was the situation with the programme to expand the gas network in Russia’s regions, and what are the plans for this year?
Alexei Miller: Mr President, last year, Gazprom built 1,275 kilometres of gas pipelines and distribution networks as part of this programme, and linked 206 communities to the supply network.
As far as the programme’s results stand at January 1, 2016, we have reached a level of connection to the gas network of 66.2 percent for the country as a whole. This is 13 percent more than in 2005, when we began this large-scale programme.
The increase is more marked in rural areas than in cities. Over 56 percent of rural areas are now connected to the gas network. Mr President, if you recall, when you first set the task of carrying out this big programme to extend the gas network, the level of connection in rural areas was only around 34 percent. Over the years since then, we have built 27,800 kilometres of pipelines and have connected more than 3,500 communities to the network.
Financing for the programme this year remains at the level it was last year. We have planned 25 billion rubles for the programme this year.
Vladimir Putin: You need to synchronise your work with the regional authorities. In some cases, you have built pipelines to deliver the gas onwards from the mainline pipelines, but this gas does not always reach the final consumers.
The best example is probably the mountain cluster in Krasnodar Territory, where the Olympics took place. Not everyone there who wanted to get connected to the network actually succeeded. That is just one example. I ask you to discuss this issue with the Krasnodar Territory authorities and resolve the outstanding problems. You should do the same thing in the other regions too.
I understand, of course, that this is not Gazprom’s job, but nonetheless, I ask you to give this your attention and work in coordination with the Government and the regional authorities.
Alexei Miller: Mr President, we will continue this work.
Indeed, since the programme began, in 67 regions where we are carrying out the programme, more than 1,000 boiler houses have yet to be built and around 140,000 houses and apartments still have to be connected. In other words, the supply capacity has been built and the gas has reached the villages, but the regional and local authorities have not always synchronised their efforts and the work is not complete yet.
We know now how to intensify these efforts and have been working actively with the Government and the regions. I spoke with Federation Council Speaker Valentina Matviyenko
. We prepared for her a review of the gas network extension programme for the country as a whole, showing the regions that have carried out their obligations in full.
Vladimir Putin: Give me this information and, as I said, we will look together with the Government and the regional authorities at what needs to be done to resolve these tasks.
<…>
Topics
Energy
Persons
Miller Alexei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 29, 2016, 13:40
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Prime Minister of North Ossetia-Alania Vyacheslav Bitarov
During the working meeting, Vladimir Putin announced his decision to appoint Mr Bitarov Acting Head of the Republic of North Ossetia-Alania.
February 29, 2016
15:40
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 3
With Prime Minister of North Ossetia-Alania Vyacheslav Bitarov.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, Mr Bitarov.
Sadly, our meeting today takes place following the passing of Head of the Republic [of North Ossetia-Alania] Tamerlan Aguzarov. You worked with him and took your current post at the time when he became regional head. I know that he trusted you and had great respect for you. I want to propose that you take over at the republic’s head.
Prime Minister of North Ossetia-Alania Vyacheslav Bitarov: Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: I will appoint you acting head. Of course, you will need to prove to the people that your work in this post meets their expectations and that you can resolve their problems, above all the social issues, develop the region and its economy and address healthcare and education issues.
What are the priorities as you see them at the moment?
Vyacheslav Bitarov: Thank you for your condolences. When Mr Aguzarov and I began working together, we decided from the outset that no matter how difficult the financial situation in the republic, our main task was to fulfil all of the region’s social commitments to the public. We did everything we could for this over the six months that we worked together, with me heading the regional government. There were no wage delays and we carried out all of our social commitments and continue to do so.
We have also optimised all spending that was inefficient and have carried out a full stocktaking of the republic’s assets. In other words, we are working on the regional economy and this is producing results.
We have kept to all of our agreements with the Finance Ministry. This way, we can continue to draw on budget credits, and this has enabled us to pay off all commercial loans, which saves us substantial money in interest payments to commercial banks. We now have another agreement with the Finance Ministry, giving us a budget credit at a low interest rate.
We will pay off the remaining debts to commercial banks, and this will save us good money that we can channel into social spending and development, which we will certainly continue.
We have drafted a socioeconomic development plan and identified our priorities. They include efficient use of natural resources and developing the republic’s agriculture sector and industry. We have selected investment projects and will now present them and attract investors.
Vladimir Putin: I wish you success.
Vyacheslav Bitarov: Thank you.
<…>
Geography
Republic of North Ossetia — Alania
Topics
Regions
Persons
Bitarov Vyacheslav
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 29, 2016, 15:40
Text version