Events
Meeting with Chairman of the Council for Civil Society and Human Rights Mikhail Fedotov
Vladimir Putin met with Chairman of the Council for Civil Society and Human Rights Mikhail Fedotov.
November 3, 2016
19:50
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 3
Chairman of the Council for Civil Society and Human Rights Mikhail Fedotov.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon.
We meet regularly – not as often as we should, but still. I am eager to hear about everything that has been going on recently under your watch. Let us talk about what I can do to support you.
Chairman of the Council for Civil Society and Human Rights Mikhail Fedotov
: Mr President, actually, I have two topics. One is public oversight, a subject to which you attach great importance, because this is about getting society as a whole involved in running the country at all levels: federal, regional, local and rural. It is very important for us that we were able to organise systemic work in this area through the Presidential Council for Human Rights.
First of all, during the elections, September 18, election day, which coincided with my birthday, we went to various regions, 13 in total. We had a monitoring team working in all the 13 regions. At a meeting with you, which, as I hope, will take place before the end of the year, the Council will present the results of the monitoring team’s work.
There are some interesting observations, interesting conclusions and proposals on ways to improve election laws. We discussed that also with Ms Ella Pamfilova
[Chairperson of the Central Election Commission]. She also thinks that the legislation needs amending. This is one area of public oversight.
The second sphere includes our offsite meetings in regions. We have been to various regions. We have travelled virtually all over the North Caucasus Federal District, visiting all administrative areas of the district, where we toured social institutions, children’s homes, psychiatric facilities, prisons and pretrial detention centres. There are plenty of impressions.
And again, when you meet with all Council members, we will tell you about that in detail. There are some concrete proposals, concrete recommendations. In particular, we talked to the heads of the constituent entities in the North Caucasus Federal District and we agreed that they would set up human rights councils, but they should be as proactive and energetic as the Presidential Council, because only that will make them relevant. If they are set up just for show, of course, that will make no sense at all.
We even reviewed the human rights record of army servicemen at Khmeimim Air Base. I flew there with Yelizaveta Glinka to see how our servicemen live and work. We went to a hospital and met with doctors in Latakia.
Vladimir Putin: A Syrian hospital?
Mikhail Fedotov: Yes. It’s a good, new hospital. It was built recently and has good equipment but it is idle.
Mr President, we came to the following conclusion. We must spearhead an international ban on sanctions on medicines, medical equipment and expendable materials for it.
Children should not suffer from political games. This is unacceptable. We saw children there. They are either babies or just several years old. Some of them are seriously ill. Some of them have cancer. What do they have to do with the armed conflict? Nothing at all. Why should they suffer from it?
Vladimir Putin: This idea is absolutely right. You know better how to implement it.
Why isn’t the hospital working properly? For lack of supplies?
Mikhail Fedotov: The hospital has no supplies or the necessary medicines. They wrote a long list of medicines they need. Ms Glinka has already bought many of these medicines through her fund and we are ready to fly there any time to deliver them to the hospital.
Vladimir Putin: Good.
Mikhail Fedotov: This is one issue.
The second one has to do with improving public oversight legislation. We have a law that you supported at one time. The Council drafted this law. It deals with the foundations of public oversight in the Russian Federation.
The law has been adopted and entered in force. It is working but it requires some amendments. It has a small article on the local-level structures of public oversight – public inspections and public oversight groups.
If you’ll recall, even the Soviet Union had people’s oversight groups and they did a good job. But this doesn’t work now for lack of legislation. One small article cannot resolve anything.
So I wrote a letter to you with a request to instruct the Council and the Government to prepare draft amendments to the law on the foundations of public oversight to expand its authority at the local level.
To ensure maximum transparency in public oversight, we propose setting up an online resource centre, something similar to regulation.gov.ru, where people would be able to see how each public oversight component works.
Vladimir Putin: Naturally, some things probably need fine-tuning, but I will certainly support this. What is important is not even that people see how the public oversight system works. It is essential to create the most favourable working conditions for that system so that the results of public oversight activity impact the work of administrative agencies.
Mikhail Fedotov: Absolutely right. A diversified public oversight system is also very important for civil activists, because this creates an opportunity for all those who really want to become active citizens to prove themselves.
In my opinion, this has simply huge potential for our country’s development. This potential can and should be used. At the same time people involved in public oversight are concerned with common interests.
People who are concerned with their private interests – a leaky roof, streets that are not cleared of snow, and so on, there is a great number of problems – these are the people who go to state agencies with letters, complaints, statements and suggestions. We have a law on the procedure for handling citizens’ complaints. Unfortunately, I would say that it is not simply outdated – it is anachronistic, and we propose replacing it. We reworked it once, and now we have reworked it again, taking into account the proposals from various agencies. It is ready now.
We request that the Government be instructed, together with the Council, to finalise it and prepare it for submission to the State Duma. Because the point is to move away from paperwork. A person writes, receives a response, writes again and receives a response again. The procedure should be different. The problem must be resolved – this is the main thing. A great deal can be done here with the help of modern online systems. This kind of system is up and running in Tatarstan. We propose establishing it at the national level.
Vladimir Putin: Ok. Together with the Legal Directorate of the Presidential Executive Office, of course.
Mikhail Fedotov: Of course.
Vladimir Putin: Agreed.
<…>
Topics
Human rights
Persons
Fedotov Mikhail
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 3, 2016, 19:50
Text versionEvents
Soobschchestvo active citizens’ forum
Vladimir Putin attended the Soobschchestvo active citizens’ forum.
November 3, 2016
13:30
Moscow
2 of 5
Soobschchestvo active citizens’ forum.
Soobschchestvo is a two-day forum of active citizens organised by the Russian Federation Civic Chamber and timed to National Unity Day, which is celebrated on November 4.
The forum was attended by over 3,500 people, including civil society activists and representatives of community-oriented NGOs. They discussed problems faced by non-profit companies in various sectors.
On the forum’s sidelines the President met with the team of the Krasnoyarsk football club Totem that won the latest world championship among football teams from orphanages and boarding schools.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends.
This is the second year that the Soobschchestvo forum is being held in all regions of Russia, with the final meeting in Moscow. I could not deny myself the pleasure of coming here to greet you.
It is symbolic that the forum’s final meeting is timed to National Unity Day, a holiday that is closely connected to the idea of citizen activity and the desire of many people of different ages, professions, ethnicities and religions – I see very many people like this here – to come together for the good of the country.
Gathered here today are concerned, active and creative people. Overall, a growing number of people are joining in volunteer activities, contributing to the efforts of non-profit organisations and companies or doing something individually in all regions of Russia.
Their desire to implement their initiatives and to apply their knowledge and experience to socially useful projects is evidence of the growing maturity of Russian society and of the revival of the traditions of volunteering, sponsorship and charity. This generous, selfless work deserves our wholehearted assistance and gratitude.
As you know, we have established a state prize for outstanding achievements in human rights and charity activities, and have expanded the programme of presidential grants for non-commercial organisations. This year, we are according four times more grants than we did in 2012.
Creating the conditions needed to develop civil society and the non-commercial sector have been and will remain one of our unquestioned priorities. In this respect, we consider particularly important the support measures for non-commercial organisations with a social focus, including those helping people with limited possibilities, people in difficult circumstances, and families with disabled children.
The previous forum proposed granting preferences to socially-focused non-commercial organisations that have proved themselves effective. As you know, this matter founds its reflection in the Presidential Address to the Federal Assembly.
We have taken the decisions and made the legal amendments required to establish for non-commercial organisations a separate legal status – that of providers of socially useful services. We have defined 20 priority directions for your work in this area and the Government has approved a list of socially useful services and the criteria for their quality evaluation.
Non-commercial organisations that qualify for this particular legal status will have access to financial resources the state authorities allocate for social purposes. We hope that this will ensure these organisations’ stable work and a higher quality of activity over the next two years at least. I also hope that the new State Duma will act swiftly to examine the necessary amendments to the Budget Code. The mechanism for obtaining this particular legal status will come into effect on January 1, 2017.
Overall, our task is to create a favourable and I would say friendly and well-intentioned environment for developing socially-focused non-commercial organisations. Perhaps it would be good to offer organisations some additional preferences as well, similar to those accorded to small businesses, for example. I expect you to discuss these ideas and formulate your proposals, and I hope very much that they will also be reflected in this year’s Annual Presidential Address.
One important distinguishing feature of the majority of volunteer and charity organisations in Russia is their readiness to work together with the state authorities to resolve our common tasks. Without question, this kind of partnership dramatically increases the effectiveness of our cooperation.
At the same time, we need to develop public supervision mechanisms, including through the system of regional public chambers. As you know, the new law regulating their activity will come into force on January 1 next year. Friends, I appeal to you to get involved in the ongoing monitoring of this law’s implementation.
Civic engagement creates broad new opportunities for working in a team with like-minded people, and it is such people we see here. Trust, solidarity and the simple pleasure of being together all form the foundation of the non-commercial sector’s successful work and constitute a huge resource for achieving concrete results much needed by our society.
The Soobshchestvo forum makes a great, indeed a tremendous, contribution to strengthening cooperation between the various non-commercial organisations. It brings together thousands of representatives of these different teams and offers a platform for an engaged exchange of views, ideas and experience, the chance to discuss problems and difficulties, and to find solutions.
It is always easier to find a way out of even of the most difficult situation when we work together. This is all the more true as not everyone has yet realised the non-commercial sector’s potential and possibilities.
I am sure that with every passing year, your organisations and the people you work with will gain not only experience but also public authority and respect.
I wish you all the very best in your work and hope that we will continue working together.
Thank you for everything you are doing. Thank you very much and good luck.
 <…>
Topics
Public control
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 3, 2016, 13:30
Text versionEvents
Video linkup with the Leaders Club expedition in Antarctica
November 3, 2016
14:20
Moscow
1 of 5
During a video linkup with the Leaders Club expedition in Antarctica.
Vladimir Putin spoke via video linkup with members of the Leaders Club expedition currently in Antarctica.
* * *
 President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Hello!
Response: The Leaders Club expedition greets you from Antarctica once again, this time from the Russian station Bellingshausen.
Vladimir Putin: Nearly two years have passed since the Leaders Club made its first expedition to Antarctica. That was more of an expedition to simply get familiar with the place, though, as far as I recall and you told me, you carried out some medical experiments and tested Russian-made goods — video and radio communication equipment.
This was already a good result. Today, as far as I know, you have people with you who are ready to take part in exploring this continent. I know that you have ideas for supporting our scientists, especially young scientists and all specialists engaged in research in these promising areas. Antarctica certainly offers promising research opportunities because work there can help us to deepen our knowledge of our planet in general.
Let us not forget either that 80 percent of the Earth’s entire fresh water is concentrated in the glaciers there. In short, there is plenty to work on, and Russia’s presence in Antarctica is very important. It is also important that you have put forth the initiative of declaring one of the upcoming years a Year of Antarctica. This will certainly raise interest in studying this continent and in our research there.
I would like to hear from you today how things are going, how you feel, and how your work is progressing, especially since, as far as I know, your travels and expedition are set to continue.
Response: Thank you, Mr President.
Interest in Antarctica is growing among businesspeople. Our first expedition brought 15 entrepreneurs out here, but now we have 100 small and medium business representatives.
We came here not only because Antarctica attracts – and it really does have a pull – but because we want to support Russia’s presence in Antarctica and remind our people about Russia’s Antarctic pioneers, our officers and sailors.
We have been here at Bellingshausen for two days now. Talking with our polar specialists, we have understood what kind of contribution Russian business can make to research. Here with me are entrepreneurs Alexei Martynov and Alexei Pakulin. They were with me on the first expedition. They already have some concrete results. If you permit, I would like to give them the floor.
Vladimir Putin: With pleasure, go ahead.
Alexei Martynov: Good afternoon Mr President. We are working on new developments in healthcare.
We were in Antarctica, at Mount Vinson, two years ago. The expedition members encountered problems with the way the body behaves in extreme conditions. As we discovered, the body is not prepared for extreme conditions and minor issues can turn into major problems. Antarctica has a very difficult climate with very low humidity, low temperatures, and strong winds.
On our return from the expedition, we got in contact with our partners at research centres such as the Federal Agency for Medicine and Biology and the Moscow Institute for Physics and Technology and worked out what developments and technology we have here in Russia that could be used by polar specialists and people doing research, and whether commercial production of these goods could be organised.
We have brought with us the first device, which looks like a watch and is designed to compensate for the lack of natural solar light. This is very important for polar researchers during the long polar night, and could also have use in our country, which has quite a few cities that do not get sufficient natural light.
The next product came in very useful during the previous expedition. It is designed to cut off any blood flows in an emergency, because blood loses its natural coagulating ability in these conditions, and in very low temperatures, you need to use materials that help to stem the flow. We developed and brought such products here.
These items, and the tent that you see behind us, are entirely Russian-made, made from modern Russian-made materials. The tent can be set up and taken down very quickly and can be used in extreme conditions and during research. We are going to hand all this over to the polar specialists for study.
As always, we are testing communications equipment too. This time, we have brought with us a unique Russian-designed satellite antenna that we are now testing in action. It seems that it is working well.
Alexei Pakulin: Good afternoon. The last expedition showed that our polar researchers badly need specialised transport. Many of the vehicles that exist today are produced in other countries.
We have some developments of our own and have conducted tests. Within the next 6 months, we will be ready to present a Russian-made vehicle designed especially for polar conditions, and it will join the developments of our entrepreneurs and institutes, that have already made significant progress in this area.
I am sure that in two years’ time, our polar research stations will have Russian-made vehicles. What is more, other stations here have also shown interest in our designs. Thank you very much.
Vyacheslav Traktovenko: Mr President, good afternoon, my name is Vyacheslav Traktovenko and I am a businessman from Baltros Group in St Petersburg.
We proposed our initiative at one of the meetings of the Leaders Club St Petersburg branch, where we discussed this expedition and how we could provide real help to Russia’s presence in Antarctica. One of our proposals was to establish a business community grant for supporting young researchers, our scientists. We are ready to provide complete financing and support for our research institutes’ activity in Antarctica. This will enable young scientists and other researchers to travel to Antarctica to pursue their research.
The Leaders Club is also ready to pay for organising the selection of these young scientists. We will organise the tender and arrange travel of the five winners to Antarctica by the end of this season, so that they can start their research at the Russian bases here.
If this brings results for our polar researchers and for the business community, we would be ready to organise a national tender, involving other small and medium businesses with an interest.
Igor Yesin: Mr President, during the journey here, we watched several films about Antarctica, its exploration, and how much effort our polar specialists have put into developing the stations and the infrastructure here.
We know that several stations were abandoned and practically closed down during the 1990s, including the station Russkaya, which has a unique location. Together with our colleagues in the Leaders Club, we propose financing and restoring any of these stations and, in this way, continuing Russia’s tradition of patrons-entrepreneurs.
Meri Nazari: I greet you from the sixth continent. This really is an exceptionally beautiful place with grand and magnificent, pristine nature.
As an entrepreneur and director of the Pioneer cinema network, I would like to make a contribution to culture and to Antarctica’s development, of course, and I think that we could organise a festival of films about Antarctica to mark the 200th anniversary of the feats of explorers Bellingshausen and Lazarev (and then make it a regular event).
Many films celebrating the feats of Russia’s polar explorers were made during the 1960s-1980s. They had wonderful actors and excellent soundtracks, but, sadly, they are not often shown now. I am sure though that such a festival would attract many people all around Russia, and most importantly, it would bring to the cinema people who hardly ever go there now. I think it is also very important to make a new film about extraordinary and very brave people in time for the 200th anniversary in 2020. They gave us Antarctica, and the Russian presence is very strongly felt here.
Thank you and I hope that we will make this project reality not only through the efforts of the pioneers, but our entire cultural community.
Response: Mr President, these are not all of the ideas we have. Each of us has proposals, and there are still another 5 days of productive expedition ahead, where I am sure we will have more interesting proposals. If you permit, we would like to systematise our proposals and present them to you when we get back to Moscow.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much.
From what you said, I understood that this is not a full list of the things you have planned. It is already clear that we will continue research in Antarctica, particularly with your help. We will use the equipment you develop, and our researchers will be able to count on modern Russian-made medicines and medical equipment, travel in Russian-made buses and special vehicles, attract young researchers and reopen stations and continue research, all with your help as well.
Most important of all, you have another five days ahead and, as you said, you had some problems last time, so I wish you to return home on schedule and without any problems. Good luck and all the very best!
Response: Thank you very much. We congratulate you and all of our fellow citizens on the upcoming National Unity Day.
Vladimir Putin: I congratulate you too. Happy holiday!
Topics
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 3, 2016, 14:20
Text version