Events
Meeting on defence industry mobilisation capability
Vladimir Putin held a meeting to examine defence industry enterprises’ readiness for mobilisation tasks, bolstering production capacity, and improving the national material reserves system.
November 17, 2016
13:40
Sochi
3 of 4
Meeting on defence industry mobilisation capability.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
We continue our work with this meeting today on mobilisation preparedness. We all know that this is an important part of the overall effort to ensure our country’s security.
Enterprises’ ability to rapidly organise or increase production of necessary goods and ensure the supply of required volumes of arms, equipment, spare parts and other material is one of the main conditions for ensuring our country’s security. We have discussed this in quite some detail over these past days, including yesterday.
See also
Meeting with Defence Ministry leadership and defence industry representatives
November 15, 2016
Meeting with Defence Ministry leadership
November 16, 2016
We paid particular attention during the snap inspection at the start of the year and the Kavkaz-2016 strategic command headquarters exercises this autumn to ensuring supplies for the units and defence enterprises’ ability to produce the goods the Armed Forces need.
The enterprises have for the most part been up to the task. At the same time, as is inevitable with such large-scale work, we did reveal some oversights that could potentially affect volumes and the timely supply of military goods.
A number of instructions were issued in response and the Defence Ministry Board is now overseeing work by the Industry and Trade Ministry, the Defence Ministry, Rosreserve and other agencies to address these problems. We have begun to improve legal, regulatory and methodological support for defence industry enterprises as concerns mobilisation tasks, and to develop reserves of spare parts and production materials. Specific training in this area has also been organised for ministry and agency heads and for the regional authorities.
Let us examine and analyse today the work already accomplished and the tasks still ahead to bolster our defence industry companies’ production capacity and let us discuss how to improve the national material reserve system and make the way we use existing resources more effective.
Let us start work.
<…>
Topics
Armed Forces
National security
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 17, 2016, 13:40
Text version