Events
Meeting with Head of Rosfinmonitoring Yury Chikhanchin
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Head of the Federal Service for Financial Monitoring (Rosfinmonitoring) Yury Chikhanchin.
March 9, 2016
18:30
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Chikhanchin, I know that you wanted to tell me about your work with partners abroad, particularly within the FATF [Financial Action Task Force] group, on combating financing of terrorism. Let’s start with this and then move on to other matters.
Head of the Federal Service for Financial Monitoring Yury Chikhanchin
: Mr President, I already briefed you on the first FATF meeting. Another meeting just took place, entirely devoted to the issue of financing terrorism.
Many countries take an ambiguous line on this issue, but we stand by our position. We have coordinated with you on this and are developing three main areas of work.
First are the international terrorist centres and their cells in different places, including on Russian soil. Second are the terrorists fighting in Syria, on ISIS-controlled territory, and third are businesses that assist terrorism and make money this way.
We are working with our colleagues abroad on these matters, especially with our colleagues in the CIS, the heads of their financial intelligence agencies, and the Eurasian Working Group (modelled on FATF). We are working with the BRICS countries too, and we just had a meeting with representatives of the working groups from Syria, Iraq, Iran and Russia. We have approved a common approach, which has enabled us, using the FATF platform, to launch our methodology for resolving these issues.
On the question of international terrorist centres and their cells, together with the FSB, we have identified 42 such cells on Russian territory alone. Our cooperation with our colleagues abroad has helped to identify around another 30 cells in other countries.
All in all, as far as the terrorists themselves go, 1,500 people were officially and publicly listed as terrorists last year, and more than 3,500 accounts were frozen.
We have cases too regarding businesses that are helping terrorists. We are investigating both Russian and foreign companies in this regard.
We are working together with Malta and France. We also have some work with Turkey underway at present. We are investigating international terrorist centres abroad. We are working very closely with our French partners right now.
The members of one cell, organised by people from our Caucasus regions, have already been arrested in France. More than 1,000 people here in Russia were in contact with them and were receiving money from them. Regrettably, some of these people have gone to fight with ISIS. This sums up our main areas of activity.
Our methods have produced the best results in the CIS region. Kyrgyzstan has worked hard in this area and has identified around 500 people with connections to ISIS. Dozens of criminal cases have been opened. We are currently working on several cases with the FSB [Federal Security Service] and Kyrgyzstan. These cases involve people who ended up on Russian soil. We are working very closely together in this area.
One issue that is cause for serious concern, and on which we are also working together with the FSB and government officials, is that ads appealing for money for the ‘war against the infidels’ appear on social networks and people here in Russia respond to them and send money. This is a reality, sadly, and people use electronic wallets to transfer funds. What is their motive? Each individual no doubt has his or her own motive, and this is something for us to elucidate. We have already identified most of these people, several dozen in total. We are continuing this work.
Our work within the FATF group has also produced some good results, especially as regards business. The experts say that now that oil refineries and pipelines have been destroyed, efforts are underway to find components for these facilities.
Vladimir Putin: On territory controlled by ISIS.
Yury Chikhanchin: Yes, of course. We are currently working actively with the UN and will very soon have a list of the components needed for refining oil in ISIS-controlled territory.
A similar list of cultural heritage objects will soon appear on the European Union’s site. Banks, commercial organisations and private individuals will thus be aware that these are objects taken out of ISIS-controlled territory.
As for business, again, according to what the FATF experts said at the latest plenary session, around 100 oil refineries in Europe are being dismantled, and there are fears that their components could be taken into ISIS-controlled territory. All FATF participants, all countries, have been warned. This is another area in which we continue our work.
This is the situation at present with our work on preventing the financing of terrorism.
<…>
Topics
Economy and finance
Persons
Chikhanchin Yury
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 9, 2016, 18:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Agriculture Minister Alexander Tkachev
Mr Tkachev briefed the President on preparations for spring sowing campaign and the Ministry’s current work.
March 9, 2016
19:50
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
3 of 3
At a meeting with Agriculture Minister Alexander Tkachev.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Tkachev, we are nearly in the middle of March. Thus, a natural question is how have we prepared for spring sowing campaign? It usually involves three components: funding, fuel and lubricants, and fertilisers.
Agriculture Minister Alexander Tkachev
: Yes, of course. Thank you, Mr President, for giving a great deal of attention to agriculture. In recent years – and I say this on every platform – unprecedented measures have been taken to support the agro-industrial complex. It has received about 237 billion rubles; we have not seen this level of support in 20 or 30 years or maybe even more.
Vladimir Putin: I know that you were hoping for more.
Alexander Tkachev: Naturally, we will get more done.
Vladimir Putin: Perhaps that’s the right way. But let’s talk about the issues that are relevant right now.
Alexander Tkachev: As far as the current situation is concerned, things are not bad. First of all, preparations for spring sowing campaign are fully underway. Naturally, we are fertilizing an enormous amount of land which is looking good – or at least, no worse than last year.
As for provision of resources, we are ahead of where we were last year for fuel and lubricants, equipment and fertilisers. So we are advancing at a good rate.
As for lending, the lending level is slightly higher than last year. Rosselkhozbank and Sberbank are working actively, and the lending volume is at almost 22 billion rubles. I think this pace will only increase.
It is fundamentally important for the money to arrive on time and, of course, in accordance with the simplified lending formula that is being developed today jointly with the Government. I am confident and hopeful that beginning on July 1, it will be used directly by agricultural producers.
Vladimir Putin: What about fertiliser, fuel and lubricants?
Alexander Tkachev: Farmers have more fertiliser, oil and lubricants than last year – 7 percent more for fertilisers and 12 percent more for fuel and lubricants.
Vladimir Putin: You know, when I met with people working in agriculture on location, in the fields, so to speak, they were concerned about the price increase for certain types of fertilisers.
Alexander Tkachev: Following your instructions, we gathered fertiliser producers several times, talked with them nicely as well as issuing ultimatums, and in the end, we were able to come to an agreement that prices for the main types of fertilisers – ammophos and nitrate – will not grow faster than the inflation rate and, at the very least, spring planting will occur at a reasonable level, at a fair price.
Vladimir Putin: How do you define fair? After all, we initially agreed on a price, I believe, at the start of January.
Alexander Tkachev: The start of January, that’s right. Indeed, they are fulfilling those commitments.
Vladimir Putin: Is that so? I’m not mistaken?
Alexander Tkachev: That’s right.
Vladimir Putin: We will need to monitor this more carefully.
Alexander Tkachev: If fertiliser producers do not make concessions, as you said, we will implement export duties and, indeed, limit…
Vladimir Putin: Well, these were your suggestions, but it seems to me there is a possibility to come to an agreement with producers.
Alexander Tkachev: It is more advantageous for them to come to an agreement with us.
Vladimir Putin: And take their interests into account with regard to exports.
Alexander Tkachev: We are supplying only 18 percent to the domestic market. The rest is being exported.
Mr President, I already reported that we must certainly increase grain production. Our wellbeing depends on producing and exporting grains, because crop production is a fairly profitable component.
Vladimir Putin: How much of it went towards exports?
Alexander Tkachev: 30 million tonnes of grain.
Vladimir Putin: And how much is in our reserves?
Alexander Tkachev: We have about 25 million tonnes in our reserves. This is a good, decent reserve. Moreover, I will say that we are using 20 million tonnes every year for food production, about 40 million for compound animal feed, ten million for seeds, to sow the next harvest, and 30 million gets exported.
Our challenge is to increase our yield, which means it is imperative to have more fertiliser and, naturally, to begin using new lands. Over the next 10 to 15 years, we can obtain between 15 and 20 million tonnes of grain. This is also our position for export.
I want to inform you that today we are exporting more than just grains, although that, too, is advantageous. Many companies are already beginning to export poultry, pork and beef. This is our future. Asian markets, the Chinese market, the Middle East – we are actively working in these markets. This is our future and our priority.
Vladimir Putin: We know that certain neighbouring countries are actively discussing the issue of using genetically modified products. Thus, this creates a certain threat to us. How does your Ministry view this problem?
Alexander Tkachev: We categorically oppose implementing GMO technologies. I feel that we have the opportunity to remain in the field of producing environmentally pure food products, and that will be the way of the future. The American market, the Chinese market and others do not shy away from using various chemicals and additives as they chase higher yields. And all this leads to polluting soil and, naturally, the food products. We already see that demand for clean Russian products is increasing, especially in China and Asia. I think that there will be great demand for our products. There is no doubt about this and our goal is to increase production.
Vladimir Putin: How do we shield ourselves?
Alexander Tkachev: I think, through the laws we already have, and our producers know the value of their products, so that we do not resort to these extremes in any event, these temptations in race for harvests and profits. I think that our products will be in great demand both within the country and beyond.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Tkachev, you know about several publicly stated concerns about milk production. What is happening in this regard, and how do you assess the situation?
Alexander Tkachev: We are currently introducing electronic certificates. I feel this is absolutely the right thing to do. Many countries around the world use such control measures. There is a great deal of adulteration, counterfeit and contraband on our market. It is imperative to regulate everything, to understand the place of origin and movement of goods. This will affect quality. This will only help honest producers. They all generally support this.
We also have those who do not want monitoring, so they could add palm oil to murky water or do something similar to line their pockets. But this is a European, global regulation, and I feel that we very much did the right thing in passing it through a Government resolution six months ago.
Vladimir Putin: It is important for all of these innovations to involve minimal bureaucracy and not to create a significant added burden for producers. Ultimately, this can and inevitably will be reflected in product prices.
Alexander Tkachev: We are monitoring this situation. I understand these threats. We will do our best to ensure everything is in order.
Vladimir Putin: Good.
 <…>
Topics
Agriculture
Persons
Tkachev Alexander
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 9, 2016, 19:50
Text version