Events
ASI Supervisory Board meeting
Vladimir Putin chaired a meeting of the Agency for Strategic Initiatives (ASI) Supervisory Board dedicated to promoting new projects.
December 8, 2016
20:50
3 of 6
Meeting of the ASI Supervisory Board.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
We met in July at the Strategic Initiatives Forum and discussed results and new projects. I remember how the discussion proceeded at the time: We addressed areas of further activity. On this point, I would like to note that it is of paramount importance to achieve concrete, tangible results next year, primarily in the fields that we discussed: the business climate in the regions, the development of vocational education programmes and, of course, support for initiatives in the social sphere.
In my Address to the Federal Assembly, which I hope you saw, I asked you, together with the Civic Chamber, to support the development of volunteerism, socially oriented non-profit organisations. It is important to remove impediments to the development of the volunteer movement and define the format for cooperation between volunteers, non-profits and the state. It is certainly necessary to help those who want to undertake projects in the social sphere and promote important environmental protection initiatives, especially considering that, as you know, we have declared next year the Year of the Environment.
And another thing. At the July forum, several interesting projects for people with disabilities were presented. Today, naturally, I would like to hear how this work is moving along, what problems you are encountering and what plans there are in this area.
Within the framework of the National Technology Initiative, you are already working on developing what is known as end-to-end technology that will shape all spheres of life in the near future. This includes robotics, new energy sources, and so on. You know all about it.
The Address also mentioned the launch of a programme to develop a digital economy. I would like to ask the Agency to act as a platform for organising collaboration between Russian companies and research, education and engineering organisations and centres.
I would like to note that we have an increasing number of young specialists and highly qualified workers who are able to handle tasks at a new technological level. This was clearly demonstrated by the young people who won the EuroSkills competition in Sweden.
Such competitions are certainly not only prestigious tournaments (and we understand this very well). They set the pace as well as a reference point for the development of the national education system based on the world’s best practices and help fine-tune educational programmes and professional standards to meet current demand, the needs of the economy.
As such, I would like to ask the Government and the Education and Science Ministry to ensure the unconditional fulfilment of all directives related to the development of the WorldSkills movement in Russia, including organising a WorldSkills competition in blue-collar trades that will take place in Kazan in 2019.
You are actively involved in promoting this movement. In our country, it is known as Young Professionals and today it brings together over 20,000 participants. Of course, it would be interesting to hear, to know your plans for next year.
Before we get down to business, I would like to revisit the issue of improving the investment climate.
Together, we have formulated the task of ensuring a high-quality business environment in all constituent entities. This means that in each region, entrepreneurs should receive comprehensive services, comprehensive assistance and support. Timeframes for connection to infrastructure, the issuance of various documents and other services vital for business should be brought in line with the requirements of federal law.
I very much hope that business associations, the Leaders Club, will also continue to oversee the implementation of decisions that were made, including the introduction of best practices at the regional and municipal level.
I hope that all participants in the Antarctic expedition have returned home safely. Mr Andrei Belousov [Presidential Aide] did not get to join you this year, either, but he will do so in the near future. Every year he tells me that he is starting to prepare for the undertaking but then I see him here in the Kremlin offices. He has settled down here and it seems to me that he is no longer keen to go to the Antarctic.
Now let us get down to business.
<…>
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 8, 2016, 20:50
Text versionEvents
Meeting of the Council for Civil Society and Human Rights
Vladimir Putin chaired a meeting of the Council for Civil Society and Human Rights at the Kremlin.
December 8, 2016
18:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 9
At a meeting of the Council for Civil Society and Human Rights.
Speech at a meeting of the Council for Civil Society and Human Rights
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
It is a pleasure to greet you all here at this meeting, which, by tradition, takes place on the eve of Human Rights Day.
As you know, two new national awards were just presented. I want to express once more my gratitude to the winners, and I want to thank everyone who gives their strength and energy to charity, volunteer and human rights work.
We spoke at past meetings about the need for additional measures to support NGOs with a social focus. The Council’s representatives played a very active part in drafting proposals in this area. The authorities have now approved the needed decisions. I remind you that, starting on January 1, 2017, NGOs providing services of social use will gain access to budget-funded service provision in the social sector for a period of at least two years. This will give such NGOs guarantees for stable activity and, I believe, will have a positive impact on the quality of social sector services around the country in general. Of course, we will need to monitor closely the way these new rules are implemented in practice. I hope the Council will give this matter its particular attention.
Overall, the Council’s work concerns a very broad range of areas in public life, from issues concerning migrants to the environment, protecting people’s rights in labour disputes, and concrete urban development policy issues. There cannot and should not be restrictions of any sort here. People must be able to continue raising the issues of greatest concern to them. We must respond rapidly and sensitively to situations in which people encounter injustice, indifference, formalism, or infringements of their rights in all different areas.
The state authorities and civil society are natural allies in achieving these common goals, the most important of which is our people’s prosperity. A constructive, substantive and respectful dialogue between the authorities at the various levels and civil society representatives is always needed and is without question very useful.
The regional dimension of the Council’s work is particularly important. It is essential to know the real human rights situation in the regions, where problems crop up most frequently in this area. I know that in some cases, the Council acts as an arbitrator in conflict situations, when disputes and differences arise, and in this way helps to restore social justice.
I note too the extensive work of the Council and its monitoring groups during the recent election campaign. Your work together with the Central Election Commission was most certainly very important indeed. There is no doubt that any violations during elections or any attempts to distort the results of voting must be prevented.
Public oversight has a tremendous role to play here. It raises elections’ legitimacy and bolsters public trust in their results. It also helps to identify aspects that require additional legal regulation.
I hope that you will continue your work to protect people’s electoral rights and your cooperation with the Central Election Commission during the election campaigns ahead, including in the regions.
I must mention another aspect of the Council’s work – your efforts to immortalise the memory of victims of political repression. We must learn to accept our country’s past as it is, remember the glorious pages, and not forget the tragic pages in our history. You might have noticed that I spoke about this in my Address [to the Federal Assembly], and I repeat it now: history’s lessons should not divide us, but should unite us and help us to preserve civil peace and harmony.
I hope very much that today, as in the past, we will hold a substantive discussion of the matters that require additional attention from the state authorities and require measures. As always, I am sure that you have your own initiatives and proposals on these many issues.
Thank you very much for your attention.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: Colleagues and friends, I am grateful to you for today’s discussion. It was very informative and interesting.
Mr Fedotov [Chairman of the Presidential Council for Civil Society and Human Rights] said to me in a low voice, “I can see you find it interesting. Why don’t you stay a bit longer?” I would love to stay longer because it is not only interesting but also useful. None of the speakers has made me disagree. True, we need to think some things over, debate some others, but generally, the discussion is very focused and seeks to make our lives better and fairer, make them more fairly structured, most importantly. Let me thank you for this. We will try to work on all of it; though some things do not always work out, we will do our best. I hope we will work together with you because the proposals that were sent here in writing will most likely require your further consideration as well.
In conclusion, I would like to congratulate you on the upcoming holidays. There are quite a few of them coming, and I wish you all the best. Thank you.
Topics
Human rights
Persons
Fedotov Mikhail
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Commissions and Councils, Council for Civil Society and Human Rights
Publication date: December 8, 2016, 18:30
Text versionEvents
Vladimir Putin presented the national awards for outstanding achievements in human rights and charity activity
The National Award for Outstanding Achievements in Human Rights Activity was conferred on Yelizaveta Glinka, executive director of the Spravedlivaya Pomoshch [Fair Aid] International Public Organisation, and the National Award for Outstanding Achievements in Charity Work was conferred on Alexander Tkachenko, general director of ANO Children’s Hospice.
December 8, 2016
13:45
The Kremlin, Moscow
6 of 10
Presentation of the national awards for outstanding achievements in human rights and charity activity. The National Award for Outstanding Achievements in Human Rights Activity was conferred on Yelizaveta Glinka, executive director of the Spravedlivaya Pomoshch [Fair Aid] International Public Organisation.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends,
Today is the first time that we are presenting two new national awards: for outstanding achievements in human rights and charity work.
These awards have a very special nature. They recognise people who have dedicated their lives to helping others and never sought awards or honours for their work, but act simply at their heart’s prompting. This is the essence of charity and human rights work. The establishment of awards for outstanding services in these areas is a mark of the state and society’s respect for these people and for their selfless labour.
We see what people can achieve when they answer their heart’s call, and we see the significance for every one of us of examples that have tremendous moral force for millions of people.
Today, the values of humanism, compassion, and mercy garner ever more response from and unite our people. This is a further sign of our society’s positive and constructive development and civic maturity.
I note that the Commission that selected the candidacies for these national awards – it is the norm in such cases to have a selection commission doing this work – examined a long list of candidates nominated by various public organisations. I not only think but know for sure that the commission members had a difficult time in choosing the worthiest among the worthy.
Let me say a few words about our winners today.
See also
Executive Order presenting national awards for outstanding achievements in human rights and charity work
December 8, 2016
The National Award for Outstanding Achievements in Human Rights Activity is conferred on Yelizaveta Glinka, or, as the public and the media often call her, Doctor Liza.
Yelizaveta Glinka is a familiar figure to hospital patients, people facing disaster, children in Donbass and in Syria. I would like to express once more my support for Ms Glinka’s position: medicines and medical equipment should never be subject to limits or restrictions of any sort because as a result, people end without even the most basic medical assistance, including during military conflicts, when the civilian population, and often children, to our great sorrow, suffer most of all. I believe strongly that we should put a stop to this situation and that we should reach a decision to this effect at the international level.
The National Award for Outstanding Achievements in Charity Work is conferred on Father Alexander, Alexander Tkachenko by his lay name.
Father Alexander oversees children’s hospices and puts his strength, life and faith into this labour of helping seriously ill children. I hope that the state authorities, civil society groups, and religious representatives throughout the country will lend their support to his initiatives.
Friends,
Today marks the birth of another great tradition that raises citizens’ missions of service to the summit of public and state recognition.
Let me stress that these awards for human rights and charity work have the same status as the national awards for achievements in science and culture that are presented on Russia’s Independence Day.
I want to express once more my sincere gratitude to the winners for their selfless service to people, their tireless labour and their generosity of spirit. I congratulate you. Thank you very much.
Yelizaveta Glinka: Mr President, colleagues,
Thank you for this first award. I am sincerely touched to have received it and extend your recognition to all of my colleagues working on human rights protection.
The greatest right of all is the right to life. This right is constantly being trampled underfoot in these difficult times. It is difficult to look at the children killed and injured in Donbass and the sick children or those killed in Syria. It is not easy to swap the city life I am used to for 900 days of war in which innocent children are dying.
It is sometimes hard to fully realise the divisions in society in which people stop listening to each other and speak of us in one-sided terms, saying, “it’s your own fault,” or “be prepared to get killed, because you’re not where you should be.” Our job is to protect human rights and we are outside of politics, just like the people who we protect. We are on the side of peace, dialogue, and cooperation with all.
I must mention today my colleagues, doctors in Syria, who were killed yesterday, the doctors who have been killed in Donetsk, the hundreds of children killed during shelling in Donbass, and the thousands of children buried in Syria. May they rest in peace.
Tomorrow I will fly to Donetsk and from there to Syria, just like dozens of other volunteers involved in humanitarian work. We never know if we will return alive, because war is hell on earth, and I know what I am talking about. But we are sure that goodness, compassion and mercy are more powerful than any weapon.
Thank you.
Alexander Tkachenko: Mr President, I am deeply touched by this high national award.
When we started this charity project to establish a children’s hospice some 15 years ago, our goal was to fill with joy the lives of children whose days were limited by serious illness. Even when we cannot cure an illness, this does not mean that there is nothing we can do. There is much we can do. It is important to maintain the quality and dignity of life and protect these children from physical and spiritual pain.
The first children’s hospice was built in St Petersburg through the efforts of many donors. Ms Valentina Matviyenko deserves particular credit here. Over the following years, the team of doctors, psychologists, and specialists from various professions worked to develop a new area in medicine – children’s palliative care.
The high standards of care offered at the St Petersburg Children’s Hospice have become the benchmark used in the Healthcare Ministry’s regulations. These regulations set the framework for the in-patient facilities being built now and for the mobile services that are opening in all parts of the country. People come to us from the different federal districts and from European countries to learn.
We have a big task before us: We must change society’s attitude towards people with serious disabilities. The children’s hospice’s goodwill ambassador, Distinguished Artist of Russia Diana Gurtskaya, is playing a very big role in efforts to develop an inclusive society.
When His Holiness Patriarch Kirill of Moscow and All Russia visited the children’s hospice, he said that the Church can resolve national tasks entrusted to it and will do this in the best way possible. The Church is building hospitals, universities and hospices. We are trying to change society and the world for the better.
The first clergyman to receive such an award, now raised to sainthood as Saint Luke (Valentin Voino-Yasenetsky), doctor and surgeon, when he received his award, said that helping the sick was the loftiest vocation, and it is in this that we see the unity of the doctor’s work and serving the church.
I am very grateful to you for this high recognition of our labour. Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Friends,
What do I want to say to conclude this ceremony? Even just speaking about what our winners do brings a lump to the throat. What kind of spiritual strength does one need to possess to actually do this in practice, see it all, risk one’s life, and not give up?
I am very grateful to Ms Glinka for remembering our military servicewomen who gave their lives in Syria, trying to help people. Yes, they were military service personnel, but they were carrying out the purely humanitarian mission of helping suffering people who had not seen medical assistance in many years, probably. Nonetheless, a strike was deliberately launched against the hospital.
Incidentally, human rights activists’ voices have scarcely made a sound over this. It is good then that representative of this prominent field here in Russia should speak of this publicly here, at the Kremlin in Moscow.
No matter what your fields of engagement – I never forget not only about social and other rights – we realise that just as important are issues concerning citizens’ political rights and freedoms. This is an area of activity essential for the state authorities and society, because all of these different areas of work should make our country stronger, more civilised and more united.
People should know that they live in a society that responds to their problems and demands. People like our winners today are helping in the best possible way to reach this goal.
Thank you very much. I congratulate you once again.
Topics
State awards
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 8, 2016, 13:45
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of the Eurasian Economic Commission Board Tigran Sargsyan
Vladimir Putin met with President of the Eurasian Economic Commission Board Tigran Sargsyan to discuss current issues on the Eurasian integration development agenda and preparations for the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council’s meeting in St Petersburg on December 26.
December 8, 2016
14:10
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 4
With President of the Eurasian Economic Commission Board Tigran Sargsyan.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, Mr Sargsyan. I am very pleased to see you again.
You have been in this post for nearly a year now. I know that you are working actively and have many interesting ideas. This morning, I spoke with [Presidential Aide] Mr Belousov about the priorities you are advancing within the Eurasian Economic Union
’s work.
I think these are very interesting and promising ideas. What has already been accomplished is only the base. Free movement of capital, goods and people – this is just the base for moving forward with promising ideas that will produce the best results in terms of raising the overall competitiveness of all countries in our union.
We look forward to seeing you on December 26 in St Petersburg. We have the new Customs Code to approve, and I see this as an important milestone in developing our common economic space.
I am very pleased to see you and I am sure we have plenty to discuss.
President of the Eurasian Economic Commission Board Tigran Sargsyan: Thank you very much, Mr President.
First of all, let me thank you for the attention that you give to our integration association and to the efforts to develop our integration further. I want to present several issues of principle today, the resolution of which, in my view, will encourage deeper integration. I think that all member countries will gain from this.
As you noted, we have around 25 items on our agenda for the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council’s meeting, and I think they all have great potential, including in terms of stimulating economic growth in our countries.
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Excellent, thank you.
<…>
Topics
EAEU
Persons
Sargsyan Tigran
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 8, 2016, 14:10
Text version