Events
Vladimir Putin addressed State Duma
The President spoke at the first meeting of the State Duma of the seventh convocation.
October 5, 2016
12:30
9 of 9
Speaking at the first meeting of the State Duma of the seventh convocation.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Members of the State Duma, friends,
It gives me great pleasure to welcome you and congratulate you on the opening of the seventh convocation of the State Duma.
Today in this hall, we have representatives of all the 85 Russian regions, including those elected in Crimea and Sevastopol.
Our citizens have entrusted you with the distinguished title of a Parliament Member. The election campaign was transparent and the competition was honest. The results demonstrate the will and choice of Russian society. I see a guarantee of the legislative branch’s strength and authority in the absolute legitimacy of the parliament.
The role of the State Duma as a representative body has significantly increased. Half of the mandates were given to candidates directly elected by residents of specific areas, districts and regions.
Overall, the composition of the State Duma has changed markedly. Representatives of public, professional and local organisations have joined it. I believe that as a result, Parliament will be receiving more efficient feedback from the voters, the civil society and the regions, which means a better quality of legislative work.
I also expect that the State Duma will be cooperating more closely with everybody who has the right to legislative initiative, including regional parliaments, and will frequently practice preliminary readings and public hearings, including with participation of the parties not sitting in Parliament.
I would like to stress that effective laws are not only a result of impeccable legal work, which is, of course, very important. The parliament’s decisions must be based on civil accord. Therefore, the State Duma must become a regular platform for an extensive public and political dialogue.
Colleagues,
During the election campaign, people expressed a demand for substantial social and economic changes. There is intensive and important work ahead for you as legislators and you must start immediately.
You can always count on the President’s support, on my support and on the closest interaction with the Russian Government. The ability of the branches of power to efficiently work together has key importance for our common success.
In order to set the economy on a growth trajectory, we need to remove legislative obstacles that curb the competitiveness, investment flows and the introduction of cutting edge technologies, and to provide a balanced development of Russian regions, the northern and Far Eastern areas.
Draft laws to support entrepreneurship and private initiative will be submitted to the State Duma. In particular, they will concern greater legislative protection of businesses from pressure by unscrupulous – unfortunately, they exist – employees of law enforcement agencies.
I would like to direct your attention to the key issue. What is this issue? Of course, special attention should be paid to reaching objectives in education, healthcare, housing policy and the environment. That is, in areas that directly influence people’s wellbeing and social and demographic development.
We launch priority projects in order to concentrate our efforts and resources on solving the most pressing tasks in the economy and social sphere. I will ask you to promptly provide them with a legislative framework, and while working with the federal budget to make sure that the priority projects are financed in full.
Of course, we must enhance the country’s security and defense capability, and defend its position on the global stage as well. I count on the political and legislative support of all the parliamentary parties.
I also consider it important that the resources of parliamentary democracy are used in full to develop substantial international relations with all interested partners.
Friends,
Russian society expects thorough and professional work from you, a deep understanding of the importance of law, and willingness to fight for the interests of the state and the nation.
I would like to address representatives of all the parliamentary parties. There have always been and will always be political disagreements. This is life, but the status of a people’s representative and the authority of the parliament, responsibility for the fate of the country and its citizens are above any personal or party ambitions.
This is how members of the sixth convocation worked in solidarity when making the most principled and, without exaggeration, life-changing decisions for Russia.
In the past years, the Russian Parliament has made a huge step in its development. It has become more professional and responsible. We have ensured an open and honest dialogue between various political forces.
I would like to thank once again the former deputies and former Speaker, Sergei Naryshkin, for their productive and efficient work.
I am confident that there will be continuity. I expect that the newly elected Deputies will improve on the best achievements of their predecessors and, of course, will preserve the historical legacy of the Russian parliamentary system.
More than a hundred years ago, Petr Stolypin said when addressing the State Duma, “We must bring together all our efforts, all our obligations and rights to support Russia’s historically supreme right to be strong.” Whether we cite these words or put them in a different form, we must always assume that any nation and any country have exactly the same right, to be strong.
One more thing. We never use the word “strength” to imply superpower ambitions. We can never impose anything on anybody. Russia’s strength is within us, within our people, our traditions and culture, our economy, our huge territory and natural resources. It is in our defence power, of course. However, most importantly, our strength is in the unity of our people.
We must always remember that all the components of Russia’s strength that I have just mentioned are the most important conditions for preserving our statehood, independence and existence as a shared home for all the peoples living here.
I wish the State Duma members of the seventh convocation and the new Parliament leadership success in serving the Russian nation.
Thank you.
See also
Meeting with leaders of parties that gained State Duma seats following elections
September 23, 2016
Meeting with Chairperson of the Central Election Commission Ella Pamfilova and commission members
September 23, 2016
Topics
National security
Parties
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 5, 2016, 12:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Foreign Intelligence Service staff
Vladimir Putin visited the Foreign Intelligence Service headquarters, where he met with the staff and officially introduced the new Head of the Foreign Intelligence Service, Sergei Naryshkin.
October 5, 2016
13:40
Moscow
2 of 4
At a meeting with the Foreign Intelligence Service staff.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
Our meeting today is for a special reason. Today Mr Fradkov is handing over his duties to the new Head of the Foreign Intelligence Service, Mr Sergei Naryshkin.
First, I would like to thank Mr Fradkov for many years of productive service. He was appointed Head of the Foreign Intelligence Service in 2007, when he already had significant experience in public service, including as Prime Minister.
Under his leadership, the Service made several huge steps forward. Its structure was upgraded and expanded with new departments. The Service’s authority with our partners and allies has substantially increased.
The Foreign Intelligence Service responded with promptness and flexibility to changes in the international climate and provided active assistance in identifying and eliminating terrorist and other threats to national security.
I would like to note that in difficult situations, Mikhail Fradkov invariably displayed self-control and extraordinary intuition, wisdom and, when necessary, caution and determination.
Thank you again for your service to Russia. I wish you success in your future work.
I would like to announce that Mr Fradkov has been awarded the Order of St George IV degree.
Colleagues,
I would like to introduce the new Head of the Foreign Intelligence Service, Sergei Naryshkin.
You all know that Mr Naryshkin proved his competence both in intelligence and in politics. To a certain extent, Mr Naryshkin is coming home. For many years, he worked in the Government and headed the Executive Office and, as you know, his most recent post was State Duma Speaker. Mr Naryshkin has always demonstrated professionalism, reliability and a serious approach to any task.
I hope that Mr Naryshkin will use all his expertise and general knowledge to be efficient and bring the Service’s operation to a higher level.
The current situation in the world makes new demands on the quality of foreign intelligence. We must be able to stay ahead, use unconventional and unconventional solutions.
As before, it is important to reveal and analyse the entire scope of external threats to our country, determine the main strategic trends in the development of the international situation, contribute to Russia’s stronger economic, technological and defence potential.
Naturally, the security of our nationals abroad must remain under special control, particularly, in the Middle East, Africa and some Central Asian countries.
I believe that Sergei Naryshkin, who is now taking over the torch of leadership at the Foreign Intelligence Service, will do his best, use all his knowledge and experience to find a successful solution to the tasks at hand.
I wish the new Head of the Foreign Intelligence Service and its staff success in the important work of protecting the security and interests of the Fatherland.
Thank you.
Topics
Civil service
National security
Persons
Naryshkin Sergei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 5, 2016, 13:40
Text versionEvents
Meeting with winners of 2016 Teacher of the Year national contest
Vladimir Putin had a meeting with winners of the 2016 Teacher of the Year national contest.
October 5, 2016
15:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
4 of 9
Meeting with winners of 2016 Teacher of the Year national contest.
The annual national contest was established in 1992 by the Russian Ministry of Education and Science, the Russian Trade Union of Education Workers and Uchitelskaya Gazeta newspaper. Eighty-five teachers competed in the finals this year. For the first time in the contest’s history, all Russian regions sent in their participants.
The name of the absolute winner, Russian language and literature teacher from Krasnodar Territory Alexander Shagalov, was announced on October 3 at the award presentation ceremony at the State Kremlin Palace.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends, I am very pleased that you, the winners of the Teacher of the Year contest, are here on Teacher’s Day.
I believe that with every year, the jury faces a more difficult choice because teachers corps is getting younger, which we can see from today’s attendance. The average age of school teachers is 37, which is a good indicator. Moreover, their quality is improving.
I know that it is not just a job for you but a vocation and an art. You devote all your free time to this art and this is very good. It is the only way to make remarkable progress in any area especially in one like yours, which requires such great dedication.
This vocation is certainly unique because passing on knowledge and raising young people and children is an extremely demanding and important task, very subtle work that requires huge commitment, knowledge and skill. Of course, there must be an inner stimulus and motivation for the best result.
This is common knowledge, yet I will say a few words about it. It is very difficult to gain prestige and to attain meaningful and tangible results in your profession in the modern world considering the huge amount of information and opportunities that are available to everyone. This is good, but this also poses difficulties and entails risks, especially for young people and teenagers. You not only need to be secure in your beliefs but also know how to help young people to see the difference between real values and the froth that is not worth their attention and should be disregarded.
What matters in this context is not just the academic environment to which you should attract young people and encourage them to increase this knowledge, but also a balance that should include the humanities, history, education per se, science, as well as our traditions, culture and the arts.
There are many opportunities for this, because nearly all regions are creating science parks for children and young people. It would be very good if schools joined these efforts and also cooperated with organisations where young people would continue their education or find employment, such as industrial enterprises, cultural institutions and universities. This is multilevel, multifaceted and very interesting work.
I do not know if there is anything more interesting than this. Working with children is a responsible, difficult and complex occupation, but it is very interesting to see how your intellect and strong will help them to develop as good human beings. This is true happiness. I envy your ability to do this, and I wish you success.
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 5, 2016, 15:30
Text version