Events
Meeting with Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Rogozin
Vladimir Putin held a working meeting with Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Rogozin. The Deputy Prime Minister, in particular, updated the President on preparations for flight tests of the new MC-21 aircraft and the prospects for establishing a Russian Aviation Board in line with Presidential instructions.
November 11, 2016
19:25
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 3
With Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Rogozin.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Rogozin, you were going to discuss the civil aircraft industry, the MC-21 aircraft, is that correct?
Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Rogozin
: Yes, Mr President. I would like to show you a little presentation and give a brief report on preparations for the MC-21 test flights.
Two planes will be involved in the tests. One of them is at Irkut Corporation and the other is at the Central Aerohydrodynamics Institute in Moscow.
The first plane is undergoing ground preparations. It has been assembled and electrified. In December, we will conduct frequency tests of the plane, its navigation systems and chassis, and will install the software for ground testing.
In January or February, it will be taken to a flight test station to install software for the first flight and to carry out the final testing of all the systems.
It is important that the test of the first plane is fully synchronised with the plane located in Moscow, in the Moscow Region, as both the plane and the composite wing – our know-how – are under load; we are testing the strength properties.
I must also mention the third aircraft. Its fuselage will also be assembled at the Irkutsk Aviation Plant in December.
As for the date of the first flight, we plan to finish this work in February, receive all the permits from the relevant institutes, but this will depend not only on the aircraft’s technical readiness but also on the weather – after all this is Irkutsk, Siberia. So we are planning it for February, probably early March.
As for the engine, five PD-14 engines were made this year and are now undergoing flight tests. We will adapt them to the MC-21, and the fourth aircraft will already have a PD-14 engine.
Vladimir Putin: Very good.
Dmitry Rogozin: So, in principle, we are observing the schedule.
Mr President, I would like to add that on September 19 you instructed the Government to establish the Aviation Board for systematic work not only on the manufacture of aircraft but also on their adoption by airlines.
Vladimir Putin: Following the example of the Marine Board.
Dmitry Rogozin: Yes. You also instructed the Import Substitution Commission to monitor purchases of foreign aviation equipment worth over one billion roubles. This applies to more or less all short-, medium-, and long-haul aircraft.
I can report that we will be ready to submit to you documents on the formation of the Aviation Board in late November-early December (although strictly speaking this is a Government issue and its importance is obvious to everyone).
I would like to ask you to support this. To make our work systematic, we should have one organisation. I am referring to the Aviation Board, which should synchronise the manufacturing of aircraft and monitor their full life cycle operation so that the new planes we are receiving now (this is the MC-21 about which I reported, the short-haul Il-114 and the upgraded Il-96 in the future – you know this well, you allocated funds from the presidential reserve for this work) could replace foreign aircraft in our civilian aviation market, all the more so since our MC-21 aircraft are technically superior to their US and European counterparts.
 When we launch commercial production of future prototypes, they will also have their advantages owing to the broader fuselage and convenience for passengers.
Therefore, I would like to ask you to support this work. We are ready to make it comprehensive and systematic.
Vladimir Putin: All right.
I hope that the new board you spoke about will become a good, new modern instrument for supporting the aviation industry both in the domestic market and, of course, as regards our international commitments. At any rate, it is extremely important to concentrate administrative resources in this area.
<…>
Topics
Industry
Transport
Persons
Rogozin Dmitry
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 11, 2016, 19:25
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin
Vladimir Putin held a working meeting with Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin. The discussion covered the state of industry, healthcare and education and prospects for developing the Moscow Central Ring railway.
November 11, 2016
20:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Sobyanin, we recently met to discuss some issues connected with how things are going in the capital and agreed to discuss at a later date a wider range of issues concerning Moscow, its issues, transport and industrial development and social matters.
Mayor of Moscow Sergei Sobyanin
: Mr President, it seems to me that Moscow has adapted to the current difficult economic conditions, judging by a number of indicators. First of all, the volume of investment has not declined; it did not fall last year, either. We can even see a little increase, even in comparable indicators.
We can also see positive aspects in that industry has started to grow, and exports are growing quite significantly. This means that import substitution is taking place, and our products are becoming more competitive.
This includes the automobile industry, pharmaceuticals, chemicals and IT. We have seen a significant increase (by 50 percent compared to last year) in small and medium-sized businesses in terms of registering individual entrepreneurs and patents.
Tax payments by small and medium-sized businesses to the city’s budget have increased by 24 percent. Of course, this is largely due to the legalisation of businesses, as now the conditions are different, including those concerning patents and individual entrepreneurs, but still, this is also real economic growth.
This growth comes primarily from the continued implementation of city development programmes, including transport and utilities. You were present at the opening of the largest infrastructure project – the Moscow Central Ring railway. I must report that we have put into operation all of the 31 stations, and the number of passengers has exceeded 300,000 people.
Today it is one of the most popular transport projects in Moscow. We continue building the metro this year, eight stations will be put into operation, which is considered quite a respectable result for metro construction, a large work-scope.
We continue working with Russian Railways to develop commuter transport though there are problems as Russian Railways cannot afford to meet all the goals of the Moscow transport hub. However, I regard it among our priorities, and we will try to obtain extra funds together to go on with the programme.
This programme is intended not only for Moscow but also for the Moscow Region, the neighbouring areas and the entire Central Federal District with a population of 40 million. It is an ambitious project that impacts the economy.
As for the social sphere, I think healthcare and education are doing well. Wages are growing. We are implementing presidential orders on doctor and teacher salaries. Healthcare boasts good statistics, both in terms of quality and quantity. The number of treated patients and the ability to quickly get a doctor’s appointment – all reflect positive trends.
Birth rates and natural population growth remain on the upswing, while mortality rates are declining, especially among adults. As for education, the recent OECD study known as the Programme for International Student Assessment, PISA, has confirmed that Moscow is among the best places in the world for education. It is in the top ten best school educational systems, and Europe’s second best, coming after Finland.
Though Shanghai, Singapore and several southeastern countries are ahead of us, we look fine by European standards. What matters most is that the best education was previously limited to several elite schools while now, a majority of Moscow schools offer very good education. That is what makes us look decent even at the international level, though we have many problems.
 There are still doctors’ and teachers’ wages to raise and IT to be introduced in both these fields. Healthcare needs to introduce electronic prescriptions, electronic health records, and so on. It demands ambitious IT development to improve public services.
The agenda in education also includes an information project envisaging electronic textbooks and teaching aids, and many other facilities that together promise to upgrade the quality of education. Together with the Ministry of Education, we have begun to draw up a project to integrate the various kinds and levels of education – preschool, school, secondary vocational and higher – by using all of the opportunities afforded by Moscow universities and science parks. That will enable high-school pupils to learn about professional opportunities and to work with universities and major companies.
This is a megaproject of sorts. It seems to me it does not merely promise some abstract education but will enable school leavers to understand what trade or profession is to their liking. It will do a lot to streamline admittance to universities and will certainly improve the quality of graduates.
I can cite an example. There has been a roughly 30 percent improvement in the quality of applicants to Moscow medical universities based on scores on the National Final School Exam. That is impressive progress. Evidently, the applicants’ basic knowledge is better than in the recent years, and they are determined to be doctors and work at medical institutions and organisations. This is a positive trend.
Vladimir Putin: Good.
<…>
Geography
Moscow
Topics
Healthcare
Industry
Professional training
Transport
Persons
Sobyanin Sergei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 11, 2016, 20:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting on economic issues
Vladimir Putin chaired a meeting on economic issues.
November 11, 2016
15:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 3
Meeting on economic issues.
The meeting was attended by Presidential Aide Andrei Belousov
, First Deputy Prime Minister Igor Shuvalov
, Finance Minister Anton Siluanov
, Industry and Trade Minister Denis Manturov
, and Central Bank Governor Elvira Nabiullina
.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
We regularly meet in this format, with the participation of senior officials of the Government, the Central Bank, and the Executive Office. Today, as usual, we will talk about the current situation in the economy, what is happening in the industry, the financial sector and other areas.
I would like to ask you to assess the situation as a whole. We will certainly discuss our medium and short-term prospects. This is all the more important because the State Duma is considering the draft federal budget. We will need to evaluate the economic situation in the context of the budget drafting process.
Overall, I would say that the national economy is stable, even though it would be premature to speak of a dramatic improvement. Over the nine months of 2016, we have recorded a small increase in industrial production, as have already noted, by 0.3 percent. Agriculture is demonstrating good growth rates of 3 percent. I believe that we have every reason to congratulate our farmers on this result. Good job.
Unemployment is at a relatively low level, 5.6 percent on average this year. We have succeeded in keeping inflation within acceptable limits. It was 4.7 percent from January 1 to November 7. Overall, this is a good indicator.
In accordance with the law – we have just talked about this with the Finance Minister – the budget deficit has to be 3.7 percent – exactly what it is. True, there are certain risks of a small increase. Let us talk about this too. Of course, nothing will happen if it rises to 3.8–3.9 percent, but we still need to work to keep it within the prescribed limits.
I have to admit that some industries are still failing to show growth, in particular manufacturing and construction. Let us discuss what we can do to support these industries and the national economy as a whole, to reinforce the positive trends, and give a boost to the lagging sectors.
In this context, allow me to remind you that the State Duma, as I have just said, has already begun to consider the draft federal budget for the next three years, including some proposed measures to stimulate economic growth.
Let us begin with this, but if you have any other questions that you think are important – we will discuss them as well. When we last gathered in this format, we agreed that we would need to adjust certain things. Appropriate instructions were issued, and now I would like us to look at how these instructions are being followed.
<…>
Topics
Economy and finance
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 11, 2016, 15:00
Text version