Events
Working meeting with Head of the Federal Anti-Monopoly Service Igor Artemyev
Igor Artemyev briefed the President on the work of the Federal Anti-Monopoly Service in the sphere of tariff regulation.
January 13, 2016
22:30
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 3
With Head of the Federal Anti-Monopoly Service Igor Artemyev.
On July 21, 2015, the President signed an Executive Order to disband the Federal Service for Tariffs and assign its functions to the Federal Anti-Monopoly Service.
 * * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Artemyev, how are you proceeding with your work on tariffs?
Head of Federal Anti-Monopoly Service Igor Artemyev
: Thank you very much for asking, Mr President.
Six months ago with your Executive Order, you assigned the tariff regulating functions to the Federal Anti-Monopoly Service. I would like to inform you that the 2015–2016 tariff campaign has been completed. I believe it very important for the Government in general and the Federal Anti-Monopoly Service that we managed to keep up with the tariff calendar, meaning that all tariffs were set in full in a timely manner.
However, most importantly, I would like to make a brief presentation on the systematic changes in our tariff policy. In the current complicated conditions that the country is living in the tariffs are set in such a way that they are actually much lower than the inflation we had in 2015.
This means that inflation adjustment alone leads to a situation whereby tariffs are targeted at the citizens, the consumers and the entire Russian economy, Russian business, rather than in favour of national champions – public infrastructural companies, that have generally been doing well lately.
(Further Mr Artemyev gave specific examples of tariffs being adjusted only for inflation, among them gas, electricity and railway transportation tariffs)
This means that the infrastructural companies themselves, as we believe, will not find themselves in dire straits, they will have enough money to invest, they would only have to keep within means. We will monitor the price they pay for fuel, electricity and construction materials by using comparative analysis: by checking the prices Gazprom, for instance, pays for the same construction materials for its investment programmes and for their own needs.
I believe that cost saving, which we simply cannot do without now, should be formulated by means of a special programme for these infrastructural monopolies. Thus, we have developed such a programme for the Russian Railways.
This is primarily an anti-inflation measure. Second, for the first time in years, tariffs are growing slower than inflation, and I believe, Mr President, that this should become our long-term policy.
Generally, we are ready to move on to tariff formulas to achieve a planning range of about 5 to 7 years.
Vladimir Putin: This is very important.
Igor Artemyev: It is important for investment and for our overall economic development.
Thus, we could propose a formula that includes a 75 percent inflation indexation, and everyone would see that they need to cut costs. On the other hand, everyone would have a clear idea of their revenue and investment capabilities, and they could attract private capital by means of concessions and so forth.
Over the past six months, this approach has made it possible to literally reverse our tariff policy. We believe that we should make this policy long-term, clear and transparent through a number of Government acts – something the Government is now working on together with us and other regulators.
Generally, this was done on time, the ‘inflation minus’ principle has been introduced for the investment programmes I mentioned. We have done all the estimates, and double-checked them and where costs were inflated, we said it could be done cheaper.
Now the Government should make adjustments to investment programmes, which would also provide the companies with additional resources. However, this depends on the companies’ level; we cannot achieve anything here on our own.
It is important for heads of infrastructural companies to understand that now the economy will be not only for them – they had 10 years of very good development opportunities. Now they have to share their resources with all the others, with big and small businesses.
I would like to ask you to support this approach, if possible, primarily in regards to our major companies, the infrastructural monopolies. They should see that times have changed and they should change as well.
Vladimir Putin: They should know that we have made this choice and be ready, as you have said, to be slightly more modest, though not to the detriment of quality, timely maintenance work and so forth. I believe that if we wish to stifle inflation, this is the direction we should move in.
Igor Artemyev: Thank you, Mr President.
 <…>
See also
Executive Order abolishing Federal Tariff Service and transferring its functions to Federal Anti-Monopoly Service
July 21, 2015
Persons
Artemyev Igor
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 13, 2016, 22:30
Text versionEvents
Working meeting with Federal Drug Control Service Director Viktor Ivanov
The Federal Drug Control Service head reported to the President on the results of the department’s work in 2015.
January 13, 2016
21:45
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 4
Working meeting with Federal Drug Control Service Director Viktor Ivanov.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Ivanov, what results did you have last year?
Federal Drug Control Service Director Viktor Ivanov: Mr President, our main priority last year was to eliminate the drug supply and sale infrastructure. Throughout this work, together with our colleagues, we liquidated and neutralised 4,300 narcotics groups – organised criminal groups and associations.
As a result, we were able to seize over 36 tonnes of drugs: 3.5 tonnes of opiates, including 2 tonnes of heroin, as well as 21 tonnes of marijuana, 3 tonnes of hashish, 1.5 tonnes of cocaine and 6.5 tonnes of synthetic drugs.
Incidentally, the increasing volume of seizures of synthetic drugs largely coming from Southeast Asia is a steady trend. These are concentrated drugs that could be used to prepare 130 tonnes of smoking blends. Last year, for the first time, the volume of smoking blends or synthetic drug seizures exceeded the volume of seized marijuana significantly.
In all, 122,000 individuals are undergoing criminal trials for unlawful drug trafficking, and 13,000 of them represent organised crime groups. These are the main results we achieved last year.
In addition, I would like to note the increase in international cooperation. We were able to consolidate our position, first and foremost our foreign policy position, ahead of the UN General Assembly Special Session on drugs, which will be held in New York on April 1 of this year. It takes place once every 20 years and the last one was held in 1998. So together with Russia’s Foreign Ministry, we are directing our efforts towards consolidating the positions of different states – European nations, African states, and Central and Latin American countries. To this end, declarations have been adopted accordingly, which we sent to the Office on Drugs and Crime, at the United Nations’ Vienna Office. This is international consolidation.
I would also like to stress that we held a set of major operations within the framework of international cooperation with China’s Public Security Ministry, Spain’s police, our colleagues in Moldova, Belarus, Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan, and within the framework of the anti-drug quartet, which we turned into a quintet last year. These are authorised bodies from Russia, Afghanistan, Tajikistan, and Pakistan, and we are now being joined by Iran. This will allow us to exchange information more quickly, plan and hold serious, large operations.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Ivanov, some time ago, you created a specialised service to fight unlawful drug trafficking. You have tens of thousands of people working for you. The service is working, and there are results, but many problems remain in this area.
You know that drugs are a major threat and do a great deal of damage to our citizens’ health and our nation’s economy. This is a real threat to our nation. And I expect that you and your colleagues, and other law enforcement agencies working in coordination with you, your partners in other countries – you just mentioned your cooperation with colleagues abroad – that all this will be mobilised to the highest extent in order to fundamentally resolve this problem.
You reported many times yourself how serious a threat this is to our nation. Clearly, this problem cannot be resolved through the efforts of the law enforcement system, your service, the Ministry of the Interior, the FSB, and even the Customs Service and other special agencies alone. Here, we need measures that are coordinated with the Healthcare Ministry, non-profit organisations and heads of regions. But the issue of coordinating this work lies largely on your shoulders. And I expect you to increase your efficacy.
Viktor Ivanov: Thank you.
I would like to note that the decisions by the State Council Presidium of June 17, 2015 laid a serious foundation for implementing a balanced policy with the use of police structures’ efforts aimed at reducing drug supplies.
However, the work to reduce the demand for drugs is even more important, because we have about 7.3 million drug users – in other words, people who use drugs to varying degrees of intensity. We are seeing a reduction; two years ago, that figure was 8.5 million people. Of course, we must work with these people, especially since this contingent stands apart for its deviant and criminal behaviour, because they acquire money for drugs by criminal means.
So we are now working on changing the paradigm of our anti-drug policy. We are prosecuting 122,000 people, including 90,000 individuals who stored drugs without the intent to sell – in other words, drug users. Of course, it would be more expedient not to send them to prison, but to use procedural mechanisms to place them in specialised rehabilitation centres, where they will be supervised, where they can work with healthcare professionals and regional social services, with an emphasis on non-profit organisations – just as you instructed us to organise this work.
Vladimir Putin: Good.
 <…>
Topics
Fight against drugs
Persons
Ivanov Victor
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 13, 2016, 21:45
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Government members
Vladimir Putin held a meeting with Government members.
January 13, 2016
17:45
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 3
Meeting with Government members.
In addition to discussing the national professional qualification system, which was on the agenda, the meeting participants addressed issues pertaining to the three-year moratorium on auditing small businesses, accessibility of preschool education, the situation on the petrol market following the introduction of the Euro 5 standard, and harmonisation of the educational standards and professional standards systems.
Healthcare Minister Veronika Skvortsova reported that two Ebola vaccines have been registered in Russia and applications have already been received from Guinea and the Pasteur Institute to use these vaccines in comparative trials. The President stated that he has already issued the relevant instructions to the Foreign Ministry.
Excerpts from transcript of the meeting with Government members
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
Happy New Year to those of you I have not seen this year yet, and also greetings on the coming New Year in the old style.
We have had long holidays, but this should not preclude us from starting our work efficiently. Specifically as the situation requires a concentration of our resources, both administrative, and financial in certain areas to resolve a number of issues. We will consider one of them in detail later today.
We have invited Mr Shokhin [President of the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, Chairman of the National Council on Professional Qualifications] to join us. We will consider one of the most important economic matters – the national system of professional qualifications.
First, some current matters. As of January 1, a federal law has come into effect – or, rather, we expanded it to cover small and medium-sized businesses – banning, or, say, limiting inspections of businesses for a period of three years. This applies to businesses that operate in good faith and are not questionable.
(Speakers on the issues on the agenda were Economic Development Minister Alexei Ulyukayev, Energy Minister Alexander Novak, Education and Science Minister Dmitry Livanov, Healthcare Minister Veronika Skvortsova, Labour and Social Protection Minister Maxim Topilin, and Alexander Shokhin.)
<…>
Vladimir Putin: Now to matters not covered in our agenda. I would like to draw your attention to the changing situation on the markets. Knowing that the Government is already analysing this work, I would like to say that this is of extreme importance. We must be prepared for any kind of developments on the raw materials markets and the stock markets, to follow them closely and to have a plan for the development of the Russian economy to fit any scenario.
I would like to repeat something we have been discussing with Mr Medvedev and I know our colleagues have been working on: the Economic Development Ministry and the Finance Ministry should join this work. This does not mean we should change anything radically now, but I would like to stress that we should be prepared for any scenario.
I would like to highlight the fact that so far we have acted professionally and prudently despite the fluctuations on the world markets. This is evidenced by a smaller budget deficit than we expected – about 2.6 percent this year. Overall, this is a good macroeconomic figure, provided we manage to balance our finances and the budget. We have envisaged the developments we had to deal with last year.
We must demonstrate the same professional, prudent and timely reaction to the issues that are occurring in the world economy and in our economy this year, early this year. We will look forward to changes for the better, however, as always, we need to be prepared for any kind of developments.
Thank you very much.
Topics
Economy and finance
Healthcare
School
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 13, 2016, 17:45
Text version