Events
Launch of Ammonium plant manufacturing complex
Vladimir Putin took part in a videoconference to launch the Ammonium chemical plant at full capacity.
February 12, 2016
21:30
Naberezhniye Chelny
1 of 2
Vladimir Putin takes part in a videoconference to launch Ammonium chemical plant at full capacity. With Head of Tatarstan Rustam Minnikhanov.
Participants in the videoconference included Head of Tatarstan Rustam Minnikhanov
, Chairman of Vnesheconombank Vladimir Dmitriev
and Chairman of the Board of Directors of Ammonium JSC Rinat Khanbikov.
The Ammonium high-tech complex producing ammonia, methanol and granulated urea was established in Mendeleyevsk on the basis of a mineral fertilizer plant. The company’s production capacity is over 700,000 tonnes of urea, 480,000 tonnes of ammonia and 230,000 tonnes of methanol per year.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues,
I would like to congratulate you on the successful completion of the first stage of works to launch a much-needed, major company. We have not launched an enterprise like this – a full-cycle gas processing plant – since 1991. This is certainly a much-needed project whose products will be used in construction, agriculture, and other sectors.
The investment is decent, $1.5 billion, and there is good cooperation with Asian partners, with Chinese and Japanese investors, with European industrial companies’ representatives.
The first part of the project has been implemented. I know that you have other plans for developing this enterprise. I want to congratulate you and wish you success.
Vnesheconombank Chairman Vladimir Dmitriev: Thank you.
Mr President, Mr Minnikhanov, the Ammonium project truly is a bright example of long-term, effective cooperation between Vnesheconombank and the Republic of Tatarstan.
In September 2008, Vnesheconombank Supervisory Board, which you, Mr President, chaired at the time, made the decision that the bank would provide financing for this project. And today, we are proud to say that this project is ready to launch.
It is important to stress that the Ammonium project is among ten largest industrial and infrastructure projects launched this and last year with financial assistance from Vnesheconombank. Thank you very much for your support in implementing these projects.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Minnikhanov, please.
Head of Tatarstan Rustam Minnikhanov: Mr President, I am sincerely grateful to you; you supported the project back then, although there were many doubts and concerns. And today, we can report that this is the most modern export-oriented plant. And we have plans to implement a second project like this. I am confident that we will succeed in this as well.
A video is played.
Chairman of the Ammonium JSC Board of Directors Rinat Khanbikov: Mr President, Mr Minnikhanov, we have completed start-up and adjustment work at the Ammonium complex to produce ammonia, methanol and urea, and obtained all licenses and approvals. We are ready to launch production at full capacity. I am asking for your permission to launch operations at rated capacity.
Vladimir Putin: I want to once again thank you for the work you did along with Mr Minnikhanov, because back then he managed to convince everyone engaged in decision-making regarding financing of this project that it would certainly be implemented. And you did it.
Go ahead. Start operations.
Rinat Khanbikov: Start operations at rated capacity.
Rustam Minnikhanov: Thank you, Mr President.
Vladimir Putin: Congratulations.
See also
Working trip to Tatarstan
February 12, 2016
Topics
Industry
Regions
Persons
Dmitriev Vladimir
Minnikhanov Rustam
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 12, 2016, 21:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting of the Military-Industrial Commission
Vladimir Putin held a meeting of the Military-Industrial Commission to discuss the 2015 defence procurement programme results and examine the outlook for the Russian defence industry’s development.
February 12, 2016
18:30
Naberezhniye Chelny
1 of 4
Meeting of the Military-Industrial Commission.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
Today we are holding the Military-Industrial Commission’s first meeting in 2016. We will review the 2015 defence procurement programme results and examine the current and future outlook for our defence industry’s development.
We finished 2015 with better defence procurement results than in previous years. In 2013, the defence procurement programme was 93-percent complete, in 2014, the figure was 96 percent, and last year, it was 97 percent. Orders for the law enforcement agencies, security agencies, and Rosatom Corporation were completed in full.
Regarding the Defence Ministry, orders increased in volume, but there was a noticeable drop in the share of work not carried out. This figure does not exceed four percent today.
In this context, let me thank the ministries, agencies, and defence industry workers for their successful and efficient work in our country’s interests and their big contribution to ensuring our national security, defence capability, and to shaping the new look of our Armed Forces.
We are meeting today at one of Russia’s industrial giants – KAMAZ. This company plays an active part in carrying out defence procurement orders. Let me take this opportunity to congratulate the KAMAZ staff once more on the big date they are marking – 40 years since the first truck came off the assembly line.
Coming back to our agenda today, let me note that we reached the planned level of equipping our troops with new models of arms and equipment last year. Our target was 30 percent.
We need to keep up this pace and take the level up to 70 percent by 2020, as we planned. In this respect, we need to set the parameters for the new state defence procurement programme for 2018–2025, and draft the foundations of this, our most important planning document for developing our defence industry over the coming years.
Of course, we need to keep in mind that our budget’s possibilities and the country’s possibilities can change, as can the conditions for the defence industry’s development. Over the last two years, for example, a number of defence companies have seen international cooperation ties severed and encountered other problems. But we have seen a convincing demonstration here at KAMAZ of how these are temporary difficulties that can be overcome if we work with intention.
Let me say again that the state and the defence industry must fulfil all tasks concerning our defence capability and national security in full, including through optimisation of internal procedures. We must improve cooperation mechanisms between those placing defence orders and those carrying them out, and we must strengthen budget discipline.
Let me remind you that, starting from September 1, 2015, new requirements took effect on the use of budget money for defence procurement purposes. Contract payments are now made through separate accounts opened with authorised banks. This procedure will make payments more transparent and improve monitoring of how state money is spent.
I ask the Military-Industrial Commission’s Board to monitor compliance with these requirements very closely. You must also follow closely the new laws’ practical application and, if necessary, propose any needed amendments in order to ensure uninterrupted work on defence contracts.
We are well aware of the debt existing within the military-industrial complex, and we need to resolve this problem. Earlier, we provided advance lending to defence companies, due to certain difficulties they experienced, but the volume of debt surpassed all sensible parameters. I am constantly hearing about this, the Defence Ministry knows this, as do other departments and supervisory organisations. I am asking you to look into this problem very carefully and change the situation.
Colleagues, there is another issue I would like to discuss separately, pertaining to the development plans for the Crimean military-industrial complex.
Right now, organisational work is actively underway in Crimea and Sevastopol. The regional structures have been integrated in the Russian military-industrial complex system. The production capacity and the number of people employed in this sector are growing.
There are 21 organisations operating in the military-industrial complex of Crimea and Sevastopol, including 14 in shipbuilding, three – in aircraft manufacturing, two in the radio electronics and two in conventional arms production. Naturally, we need to look at the prospects for these enterprises, we need to make the existing production facilities more efficient, take the quality of the products to a new level and broaden their range.
This year, the state programme for military-industrial complex development will begin financing modernisation of Crimean defence enterprises. Funding will be channelled toward upgrading production lines, training new staff and further training experts working in Crimea’s defence industry.
By the way, how do things look there overall financially? What will be the approximate volume?
Deputy Prime Minister and Chairman of the Military-Industrial Commission Board Dmitry Rogozin
: Mr President, the funding volume there is growing by a magnitude of dozens. But this figure is not totally correct, because we had nothing at all before, with few orders.
Vladimir Putin: Nevertheless, remind me of the volume.
Dmitry Rogozin: Mr Bochkarev will provide the exact figures now, he will report on this matter.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Bochkarev, how much was it?
Deputy Chairman of the Military-Industrial Commission Board Oleg Bochkarev: As of today, we have ten billion rubles planned through 2020.
Vladimir Putin: For Crimean enterprises?
Oleg Bochkarev: For Crimean enterprises and within the framework of further professional education in the military-industrial complex. This programme was submitted by the Industry and Trade Ministry.
Vladimir Putin: Ok.
We need to monitor this carefully and provide this financing. We need to maintain the jobs there and add something in terms of technological development; there are good prospects and good people there. We need to provide further training to staff. There are certainly things to work on, as you understand. It is imperative to give more attention to cooperating with other Russian companies and improving corporate governance.
And, of course, it is fundamentally important that in addition to Defence Ministry’s orders, Crimean and Sevastopol military-industrial complex companies receive civilian orders. We discussed it with the Industry Minister many times; there are specific examples of work with enterprises in specific sectors and we need to continue that work.
Mr Menyailo, did you get things straight with the shipbuilding companies?
Governor of the Federal City of Sevastopol Sergei Menyailo
: We did, and we are holding regular meetings.
Vladimir Putin: Have you provided orders?
Sergei Menyailo: We have; we are already at over 50% capacity. We are nearing 100% this year.
Dmitry Rogozin: Mr President, I will give you a separate report today on the additional capacity through 2020 at two of the biggest shipbuilding enterprises: the Zaliv Plant in Kerch and the More Plant in Feodosia.
Vladimir Putin: Ok.
We need to look at all the options, as I already said, including the civilian sector, shipbuilding, other enterprises, metal structures for the Kerch transport passage, and so on.
I am asking the ministries and departments to assist in this work and make the necessary decisions quickly.
Let’s begin our work. Mr Rogozin, you have the floor. Please.
Dmitry Rogozin: Mr President, I would like to report that the creation of the institution of chief designers for promising, complex armament and military technology systems is proceeding in strict accordance with your decision, in accordance with your executive order.
Let me remind you that a year ago, at the suggestion of the Military-Industrial Commission Board, we approved 21 areas where systemic work had to be done. Currently, taking into account the Commission’s decision of January 19, we have 19 chief designers who have begun their work. Two positions are still being finalised; I will report on them separately.
I must say that overall, the work is being done within the framework of the Military-Industrial Commission Board, which includes the chief designers. Last December and this January, the Military-Industrial Commission Board heard and approved the first reports on the systemic work plans for chief designers. The rest of the reports will be delivered by the end of the year.
There is just one problem, but I want to report on it already now: it concerns the need to appoint a special individual who will be responsible for the creation of arms and military technology for the Ground Forces. This situation can be easily explained as there is an enormous weapons list ranging from heavy armour to battlesuits. It seems nearly impossible to find one person to deal with all this, so we chose a different solution. At the next Military-Industrial Commission meeting, we will report to you on the composition of the Chief Designers Council, which will focus on specific models of arms and military equipment for the Ground Forces.
There is one mismatch we would like to resolve. The areas we approve chief designers for are major, complex, systemic directions. For example, airborne systems and their arms. Or, offshore maritime zone ships and their arms. But, because our chief designers’ current administrative status is that of deputy director generals in a defence complex, an individual corporation or a specific enterprise, this certainly limits the creative opportunities of their work. Because the focus of their work affects the activities of a wide variety of companies and integrated structures, we need a specific decision here.
We have carefully analysed the process of research and technical support for creating modern arms and military equipment and noticed that as of today, there are over 170 research institutions in various departments. At the same time, the sector-specific research and technology councils created do not feature representatives from related sectors. In total, there are about 55,000 workers in these research institutions.
We believe it is necessary to create central head institutes for each major area, of which there are 21 in total, that could take on coordination of work by all research institutions regardless of who they are managed by: the Industry and Trade Ministry or the Education and Science Ministry, or any other. And, of course, chief designers must head these research and technology councils on a purely inter-industry, inter-departmental basis.
We would like this work to be part of the job of the Military-Industrial Commission’s science and engineering council, and if you agree with this suggestion, we will prepare a draft decision.
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Very well. When?
Dmitry Rogozin: This March.
Vladimir Putin: Ok, agreed.
<…>
See also
Working trip to Tatarstan
February 12, 2016
Geography
Republic of Tatarstan
Topics
Armed Forces
Industry
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Commissions and Councils, Military-Industrial Commission of the Russian Federation
Publication date: February 12, 2016, 18:30
Text versionEvents
Visit to KAMAZ automobile plant
While on a visit to Tatarstan, Vladimir Putin visited the KAMAZ automobile plant and congratulated current and former workers on the 40th anniversary since the production of the first KAMAZ truck.
February 12, 2016
18:10
Naberezhniye Chelny
1 of 8
Vladimir Putin congratulated current and former workers on the 40th anniversary since the production of the first KAMAZ truck.
The President spoke briefly with veteran workers who took part in assembling the first truck at the plant.
The President witnessed the signing of an agreement by Director General of OJSC KAMAZ Sergei Kogogin and Rosneft CEO Igor Sechin on strategic partnership between Rosneft and KAMAZ, and Rosneft placed an order for delivery of 1,000 pieces of equipment produced by KAMAZ.
KAMAZ Group is the leader in Russia’s truck manufacturing sector and one of the world’s top heavy truck producers. The group has 12 large vehicle production facilities and auxiliary subdivisions. KAMAZ’s product range includes more than 40 models of trucks, trailers, tractors, buses, engines, power equipment and various tools.
Later, Mr Putin visited workshops at the Remdiesel plant, which repairs wheeled and tracked vehicles, and the Special Vehicles Plant, which produces Typhoon armoured vehicles.
* * *
Speech at event celebrating the 40th anniversary since the launch of the first KAMAZ truck
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends, This is an important date and an excellent occasion that you are marking today: forty years since the first KAMAZ vehicle was produced.
Much time has passed since then, and much has been accomplished, but we will certainly remember those who took the first steps in building this wonderful plant and producing the first vehicles here. I therefore want to start by saying thank you to the plant’s veterans – thank you very much.
Hundreds of thousands of people worked on this construction project. Back then, it was proclaimed a nationwide communist youth construction project, and this turned out to be a good step that brought many young people here to build not only this plant, but also this city. They built a wonderful, multi-ethnic city that has grown and developed together with the plant and offers good conditions for life, a marvellous environment and good atmosphere for families to thrive and raise children. Of course, the plant is the city’s heart, and, I think, is the heart too for many people living here.
Much has happened over these years. KAMAZ has become one of the top companies in this sector in the world. It is in 11th place, which is an excellent result. In Russia, KAMAZ trucks account for more than 50 percent of all truck transport on our market. This is a very good result too, the best in our country.
What is especially important is that KAMAZ does not rest on its laurels, but continues to grow, improving both the quantity and quality of its products. It makes use of new technology and develops cooperation ties. KAMAZ is very ambitious and aggressive in the positive sense.
Of course, the whole country knows our marvellous KAMAZ –Master Team that takes part in the most prestigious international rallies and wins them too, not every time, but it has been among the winners for many years in a row now.
This testifies to the quality of the vehicles and the skill of those who make them, and, of course, to the skill of our sportspeople. Thanks to them, KAMAZ has become well known around the world and is finding new markets in all corners of the planet.
I will not even list all of the countries where vehicles are being made under the KAMAZ brand. In some countries, such as India, there is a high degree of localisation, up to 60 percent, and in other countries, the degree of localisation is lower. This gives opportunities for working with the enterprises abroad, producing the parts and components they need, and developing together with our partners. A huge amount of work has been accomplished.
Let me say that we have always supported your company and despite the economic difficulties you are aware of, we will continue to support KAMAZ, this company of such importance for us. We will do everything we can to provide jobs here and make sure our country can transport goods and freight using these excellent vehicles that you produce.
Happy holiday! Thank you very much! Congratulations!
See also
Working trip to Tatarstan
February 12, 2016
Geography
Republic of Tatarstan
Topics
Industry
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 12, 2016, 18:10
Text version