Events
Meeting with members of Legislators’ Council
Vladimir Putin took part in a meeting of the Federal Assembly’s Council of Legislators timed for the Day of Russian Parliamentarianism and the 110th anniversary of Russia’s first State Duma.
April 29, 2016
17:00
St Petersburg
1 of 4
Meeting with members of the Council of Legislators.
The meeting at the Tauride Palace is attended by Federation Council Speaker Valentina Matviyenko
, State Duma Speaker Sergei Naryshkin
and speakers of regional parliaments.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues. As per tradition, we are meeting at the Tauride Palace in St Petersburg. On April 27, 1906, or 110 years ago, the first State Duma of the Russian Empire convened here. I would like to begin by congratulating you and your colleagues on the event we celebrate in this connection, the Day of Russian Parliamentarianism.
Over the past 25 years, the role of legislative authorities has increased considerably. The Federation Council, the State Duma and the legislatures of Russia’s regions make up a system of broad public representation.
Our concerted efforts have led to the creation of a unique institution, the Council of Legislators. It helps organise constructive cooperation between lawmakers at all levels, serving as a venue for respected experts and greatly contributing to improving the principles of Russian federalism.
The Council of Legislators is comprised of house and parliament speakers and chairpersons of State Duma and Federation Council committees. This format should be used to maximum effect to analyse regional legislatures’ initiatives at the top professional level to ensure their alignment, efficiency and viability and to remove any internal contradictions at the earliest possible stage. Each draft law must be considered from all possible angles and analysed very carefully to balance the interests of all sides.
Coordinating the interaction of all participants in the legislative process and ensuring consistency and a systemic approach are a big challenge. However, we must certainly accomplish this task, because the systemic nature of law making is a vital and possibly key condition for the stability of the state. While the predictability of the legal policy is a guarantee of the country’s effective development.
Once again, let me point to the fact that excessive frequency and, should I say, the fragmented nature of amendments to current federal laws, and even more so with codified legal acts, undoubtedly, does not make things any better. Primarily, it greatly complicates law enforcement and thus creates problems for ordinary people, economic players, and even government bodies. As it turns out, our legal framework is often inadequate.
You know, it is not uncommon for English and other types of law to be used in contracts. Why? We have to acknowledge that other jurisdictions offer more stability. Unfortunately, in Russia there is a lack of certainty and clarity, which leads to serious issues when it comes to ensuring uniformity in enforcing these norms. There is no doubt that we have to move away from this, should I say, contradictory nature and vagueness of our laws, by improving policy-making and our legislative culture.
This, by the way, is a common objective for all those involved in legislative work, for all those who have the authority to draft new laws. Of course, lawmakers have to respond to the changes we face, and this change can be rapid, meaning that legislators have to regulate social interaction in a constantly changing environment.
That said, legal norms should not be subject to chaotic and spontaneous overhauling. New norms should be introduced into the current laws with extreme caution to avoid clashes with the old or excessive regulation. In a challenging economic environment, hearing and taking into account the opinions of all stakeholders is especially important.
Delivering on social commitments is a key priority for the state, which faces a dual challenge: the need to bring in budget revenue while, of course, also preserving drivers for the development of the regional and national economies. In fact, regional budgets and the development of the regions are the bedrock of stability in the country and the prosperity of its people.
Following the recent Direct Line, instructions were issued to finalise the mechanism for the distribution of tax revenues, for example, fuel excise taxes, so as, among other things, to give the country’s regions additional leverage to expand road construction projects. I believe that the activity of the Council of Legislators should be aimed at making similar balanced decisions that take into account the interests both of the Federation and of Russian regions.
Representatives of legislative assemblies work on the local level. You, esteemed colleagues, have professional experience and, most importantly, know well the issues that concern people and, therefore, should propose to the Federal Assembly effective ways of addressing these issues. This constructive partnership makes it possible for regional lawmakers to be constantly on the federal agenda and take it into account in their legislative activity on the local level. Naturally, the decisions that are made by the federal parliament should duly reflect regional and municipal needs and concerns.
I would like to reiterate that people assess the efficiency of government not only by the actions of particular state bodies or officials, but above all by the results of our joint activity. Generally, only collective efforts can ensure the resolution of the issues facing Russia as a whole.
Ladies and gentlemen, State Duma elections are to take place this autumn. Needless to say, their results will predetermine the direction of the country’s development for the next few years. It is an extremely important internal political event in Russia.
On the combined election day, September 18, people will elect deputies to 38 legislative assemblies in the country’s regions. Thus, new members will be elected not only to the federal parliament but also to practically half of the regional parliaments. In this context, it is important to ensure the continuity of lawmaking activity. This applies both to the State Duma and to regional legislatures.
All members of the Council of Legislators have gone through the electoral system. Many will participate in the current election campaign by supporting candidates or promoting their own candidacies. Therefore, you understand well how important it is for this campaign to proceed without violations and in an absolutely competitive, just and fair manner. I would like to ask you in the course of the upcoming elections to pay special attention to this, as it is a guarantee of public trust in the ruling bodies that are elected, and the foundation of these bodies’ legitimacy.
Moreover, elections, of course, are always a direct dialogue with the people. It is essential to use it to respond promptly to questions raised by citizens. I am referring both to federal and to regional problems.
Ladies and gentlemen, we are meeting ahead of two major public holidays: the Spring and Labour Holiday and Victory Day. Allow me to sincerely congratulate you on the upcoming holidays and wish you success in your extremely important and responsible work.
Thank you.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: Allow me please to make several remarks concerning your statements.
As we started with information about the launching site, I must say that it is really a breakthrough. It does not concern the rocket launch so much: the rocket might be new but it is not the latest make, and it has been launched several times before. Strictly speaking, we put the launch off for a day not because of the rocket proper – it turned out to be all right – but because of gauges that wrongly signalled a lack of fuel while there was sufficient fuel, in fact. As it often happens in this country, the whole trouble was in a tiny detail. A cable or welding was to blame but not the rocket itself.
It was good, however, that the staff had a chance to do the job again. The team performed brilliantly all through the night. They made the right decision and the launch was a success. Nonetheless, I reiterate, even the rocket launch mattered less than the fact that the new space centre has started functioning. It is a tremendous stride in this country’s space rocket industry.
It would be appropriate to use the old saying here: “An egg is dearest at Easter,” especially now that Easter is approaching. Whatever limitations might be brought on from the outside, whatever economic hardships and budgetary and financial limitations we might encounter, Russia is making steady progress and implementing all its plans.
I must say that a launch site is not merely a pad to launch rockets from, but a high-tech project in every aspect. This is one of the best launch sites in the world because we have taken into account everything done in the space effort worldwide. It is a small and close-knit cluster of really high technology.
I hope that we will implement all our plans. We have coped by now only with the first stage. Heavy rocket launches are to follow. They will need a special pad. Then the turn of super-heavy spacecraft will come for lunar and planetary exploration. Naturally, manned flights will start from here at the second stage.
Russia remains among the unrivalled leaders in the space rocket industry, and the absence of our own multi-purpose space centre was absurd. Work on the site began back in 2007. As you know, we upgraded the local railway step by step, and we will make further improvements on it. We have built a motorway, and are building a township for the future personnel. However, our efforts do not boil down to that.
The launch site is giving an impetus to the development of the entire [Russian] Far East: the Far Eastern Federal University and other educational institutions are already adjusting their curricula to the space industry’s demands. Specialists will be trained at the site. In short, we are not only making a stride of tremendous importance to the space rocket industry but also boosting the development of the Russian Far East.
Now allow me to comment on some of the issues that you have raised.
Kaliningrad. We have already discussed several projects. Of course, subsidies related to the transitional period regarding the free trade zone are important. This is big money, I believe 66 billion. Essentially, little has changed with respect to the federal budget. We took [it] from one pocket and put [it] in the other.
However, these funds and subsidies are meant for the transitional period and during this time, it is necessary to bring everything that happens in Kaliningrad in line with common sense, federal law and the interests of the country’s economy as a whole. However, this should be done calmly, without affecting Kaliningrad manufacturers.
An issue that we will have to resolve together – of course, Kaliningrad can do little in this regard directly, but nevertheless, a great deal also depends on the local authorities in terms of helping federal agencies. I am referring to energy security. This applies to electricity and gas distribution and power grids.
As you know, work is underway on a liquefied natural gas project, a project to expand power capacities, and it is vital to repair the grids. There is no getting away from this.
Regarding preparations for the world championship, I also hope that everything will be done on time and with good quality.
Incidentally, we have a similar situation in Crimea, that of ensuring Crimea’s energy security. I would like to inform you that energy companies planned to have this done even before the deadline, but now the weather in the straits is unfavourable and the ships have to scale down their operations for several days. So everything will be done, in other words, the fourth line will be put into service and I believe we will complete this work in the next few days, in early May.
Regarding oncology, yes, I know that this problem exists. It is a sensitive issue in Kaliningrad. We will think what can be done in conjunction with the Ministry of Health.
Kaluga. Indeed, everything works well there, both the 12 industrial parks and the free economic zone. However, this is not about the tools that are available; this is about how you utilise them. You use them well and this is a good example of how work should be organised.
Concerning the provision of more funds in addition to those provided for industrial park infrastructure… Money is always short, even in days of abundance, because when revenues grow we increase spending and again there is not enough to go round. This is not even an issue of amount, but one of efficient utilisation. This is what I would like you to bear in mind.
Kamchatka. It was difficult to make [the decision]. We discussed drift-net fishing with Valentina Matviyenko and, surprisingly, it proved difficult; we did not expect such resistance. Nevertheless, the matter has been resolved. The decision has been made. We also explained to our foreign partners, including our Japanese partners that this is not about them but about organising this kind of activity. After all, this concerns the environment, the preservation of our reserves.
Regarding residence registration procedure for enterprises, this is the first time I am hearing about this kind of issue. We will definitely discuss it.
As far as anti-corruption laws and regulations are concerned, what you have proposed certainly deserves support. However, your proposals require thorough consideration, not directly as you have voiced them, but a pondering over the situation in every aspect, in order to move on.
We have made many anti-corruption decisions lately, but if you find that any issues require extra measures – suspension [of suspects] from office during investigation or whatever else might be necessary, if such measures need to be fixed by law, let us think it over.
Concerning growing alcohol abuse, on the one hand, and the growth of life expectancy, on the other hand, given the proactive policy in the relevant field. These two factors are certainly interdependent. It is an inverse relationship – the less you drink the longer you live, and the other way round. That is clear, but this is not all because we owe a higher birth rate, longer life span, and declining infant and maternal mortality to our comprehensive efforts.
We must certainly combat mass alcohol abuse. These efforts must not take the turn that a similar campaign took in the late 1980s when official action led to bootlegging. However, temperance efforts are necessary, and we should not overlook other factors of Russian citizens’ longevity and health.
I would like to move now to what the Speaker of the Smolensk regional legislature said. It was a timely issue that you raised. However, should we shift the funding of grave tending fully to the federal level? The matter should be considered. Firstly, you see, there are some things the authorities in Moscow are unaware of. Local people are better judges on many occasions.
Secondly, we should not make federal funding clash with decisions made locally. It is our duty to improve this work. Without question, all our soldiers who laid down their lives for the Fatherland in World War Two deserve decent burial and a proper tribute to their memory. They do not need it as much as we, as future generations do and all of Russia does. That is the truth and we shall work towards that end.
As for the organisation and technical aspects of funding, we will have to think this over together. The federal and regional authorities must certainly work together. How to organise the job is a separate matter. Let us think it over some more.
I would like to congratulate you again on the upcoming holidays. Best wishes to you all!
Thank you very much.
Geography
Saint Petersburg
Topics
Local self-government
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 29, 2016, 17:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting of the Russian Geographical Society Board of Trustees
Vladimir Putin chaired a meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Russian Geographical Society (RGS), a national public organisation.
April 29, 2016
18:30
St Petersburg
1 of 10
Meeting of the Russian Geographical Society Board of Trustees.
Established by Emperor Nicholas I in St Petersburg in 1845, the Russian Geographical Society is one of the world’s oldest geographical societies. The RGS engages in extensive expeditionary and educational activities.
Vladimir Putin has been the Chairman of the Board of Trustees since 2009. The Board’s principal functions are to assist in the implementation of the RGS’s scientific research and educational programmes, as well as to ensure public monitoring of such implementation.
The best projects for 2015 were presented at the meeting, including: the Kyzyl-Kuragino international archeological and geographical expedition; Accessible Planet: Family Tourism for People with Disabilities in Russia, a series of documentary films; and the Volunteer Movement as Eco-Tourism for Young People project.
With the president in attendance, Russian Geographical Society grants were awarded for new projects in 2016: Following de Gennin’s Path, a geographical Olympiad/quest; the Healing Springs and Plants of Russia project; and, Volga Basin Floating University expeditions.
An awards ceremony including the presentation of Russian Geographical Society medals took place. A large gold medal was awarded to Russian Geographical Society Vice President, Moscow State University Geographical Department President, Russian Academy of Sciences Member Nikolai Kasimov for research expeditions facilitating the further development of geography as a science.
A small gold medal was awarded to Capt. 1st Rank Oleg Osipov, deputy head of the Defence Ministry’s Navigation and Oceanography Administration, for new geographical discoveries in world oceans during a circumnavigation expedition aboard the Admiral Vladimirsky research vessel.
* * *
Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu
: Mr President, esteemed guests, session participants, colleagues, and friends,
I am pleased to welcome you here in the historic headquarters of the Russian Geographical Society in St Petersburg. Now I will hand it over to Chairman of the Society’s Board of Trustees Vladimir Putin.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends. I am also pleased to see you all here.
We have gathered again in the historic headquarters of the Russian Geographical Society in St Petersburg where our organisation has devised most of its projects. And today we will see new initiatives, which will be transformed into life largely thanks to you, members of the Board of Trustees, and to all those who have been volunteering and showing interest in helping the Russian Geographical Society in its work.
Your support makes it possible for us to organise hundreds of events across our giant country every year, and, most importantly, to unite people around truly significant and useful projects aimed at preserving our natural wealth, our history and the traditions of the peoples of the Russian Federation.
I would like to mention the Russian Geographical Society’s educational projects, which include large-scale publishing activities, popular lectures and the Russian National Geographical Dictation, which was organised in Russia for the first time and will now become an annual event. In addition, of course, it is the concept of developing education in geography, which was initiated by the society and developed as a result of lengthy and detailed debates with the Ministry of Education and Science.
It will be presented for public discussion shortly and everyone, from schoolchildren to academics at the Russian Academy of Sciences, will have the chance to express their opinion, so that the results can be summed up at the Congress of Russian Geography Teachers in autumn.
This congress is another tradition that has been revived by the Society, and its participants have repeatedly mentioned problems with geographic literacy and stated that in a vast country like Russia geography should occupy a more significant place in school and university curriculums and also called for new textbooks and fresh teaching approaches.
I must say the Russian Geographical Society has recently been expanding its debate venues, including within its international activities. The organisation has so far signed cooperation agreements with 22 foreign partners and many of them have been put into practice.
Furthermore, it was thanks to the Russian Geographical Society’s influence that for the first time in 40 years Moscow was selected as the venue for a conference of the International Geographical Union. Last year, the conference gathered over 1,500 participants from 73 countries and showed the true priorities of science, culture and education representatives, as well as their unity and commitment to lofty humanist values.
It so happened that during the conference we marked the Russian Geographical Society’s 170th anniversary. However, time passes quickly and soon, in 2020, we will be marking its 175th anniversary. I believe that it is logical and appropriate, ahead of this important date, to prepare a major comprehensive publication, a kind of a guide to the Society’s and Russia’s great geographical discoveries.
I am sure that this book will be popular. After all, the names and events related to the Russian Geographical Society are part of this country’s history, its prominent, glorious pages. Consider, for example, RGS expeditions, which have always been its calling card. It is encouraging that more and more people, especially young people, are eager to participate in them, as is evidenced by the tough competition among the volunteers.
There is great demand for both research and environmental projects. In other words, there is good reason to say that RGS is fully accomplishing its mission: it stimulates interest in the study of one’s own country and the desire for creative, positive patriotic work.
Moreover, of course, as the pacesetter in Russia’s environmental preservation traditions, [RGS] actively promotes environmental awareness among our people and implements a large number of useful and timely initiatives in this area, some of which become independent projects. Suffice it to recall the Amur tiger and Far Eastern leopard conservation fund. I hope the projects launched today will also develop successfully and I wish their participants genuine success.
I would like again to thank all those who actively support the organisation’s initiatives. It gives me great satisfaction and pleasure, together with RGS President Sergei Shoigu, to present Russian Geographical Society awards to those who are continuing and preserving its traditions. I hope that we will do this today during our joint work.
Thank you very much.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: Colleagues, friends,
I think that our infrequent but regular meetings are taking on a somewhat pleasant and family-like but at the same time useful and constructive atmosphere. And all the more so as there is no greater pleasure than supporting talented and active people, which is exactly what we are doing ‒ I am now addressing members of the Board of Trustees ‒ and feeling that along with our current work we can make additional efforts, outside our usual routine. This is always pleasant, and I would like to thank you for this once again.
I would like to address those colleagues and friends who are already implementing part of our projects and intend to do so in the future: I would like to ask you to always pay attention to safety issues. We must think of ourselves and of those next to us, all the more so when we are talking about involving young people and especially children.
We have listened closely to everything about the opportunity to study an island in the Far East. I urge you to be as careful as you can, as there may be explosives and various chemical agents and biological materials. You have to be very careful and take a professional approach to solving the tasks you are setting for yourselves.
Overall, the Russian Geographical Society is developing ‒ quite successfully and rapidly at that ‒ and showing very good results.
Thank you all very much, and enjoy the upcoming holidays!
Topics
Environment
Persons
Shoigu Sergei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 29, 2016, 18:30
Text version