Events
Meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping and President of Mongolia Tsakhiagiin Elbegdorj
Trilateral talks took place in Tashkent between President Vladimir Putin, President of the People’s Republic of China Xi Jinping and President of Mongolia Tsakhiagiin Elbegdorj.
June 23, 2016
16:00
Tashkent
2 of 6
Meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping and President of Mongolia Tsakhiagiin Elbegdorj.
Following the talks, the three presidents witnessed the signing of the Programme to Establish the China-Mongolia-Russia Economic Corridor and an agreement between Russia’s Federal Customs Service, China’s General Administration of Customs, and Mongolia’s General Tax and Customs Administration on mutual recognition of customs inspection results with regard to particular categories of goods.
* * *
President of China Xi Jinping
(retranslated): President Putin, President Elbegdorj, it is a great pleasure to see you again.
Following our meeting in Ufa last July, we jointly approved the roadmap for developing our trilateral cooperation over the medium term. Our three countries’ ministries, local authorities and companies are working actively to implement this roadmap and organising intensive coordination of projects in trade, the economy, humanitarian ties, transit traffic, tourism and sport. The positive results are visible. Following our meeting today, we will witness the signing of an important cooperation agreement – the programme to establish an economic corridor.
This all shows that we are capable of knitting close cooperation ties as neighbours. I am happy with the way our trilateral ties are developing. We are ready to listen to your remarks and proposals on the next steps to take.
I give the floor to President Putin.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends, President Xi Jinping, President Elbegdorj, I am also very pleased to see you again.
Russia has traditionally friendly ties with China and Mongolia. We are building our trilateral partnership on the principles of good-neighbourliness, equality, and mutual respect.
Yes, a year ago in Ufa, we agreed to step up our cooperation in a broad range of areas. It is important that we have started implementing the roadmap to develop our trilateral contacts in politics, the economy, international affairs, and the cultural and humanitarian sector. We have launched a mechanism for political consultations now and this is a good opportunity for coordinating our positions on current regional issues.
At the meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping and President of Mongolia Tsakhiagiin Elbegdorj.
Building on the Ufa agreements, we have drafted a programme for establishing an economic corridor linking Russia, China and Mongolia. This programme seeks to substantially intensify cross-border ties by launching more than 30 trilateral investment projects.
Regarding the programme’s practical implementation, we think Mongolia’s idea of establishing a joint investment planning centre is a promising idea. Its main task would be to develop new cooperation proposals in transport, construction of communication and electricity transmission lines, and energy transport routes.
We also think it important to give priority attention to infrastructure initiatives. In particular, Russian business is ready to take part in modernising the Ulan Bator railway. I have discussed this on past occasions with the President of Mongolia. We will increase the railway’s throughput capacity to 100 million tonnes of freight a year. We will also develop road freight transport. This will help us to make better use of our countries’ transit potential.
We are sure that implementing these projects will help to develop regional integration projects too, especially the project to develop a Eurasian trade and economic partnership between the Eurasian Economic Union
and the People’s Republic of China.
Further simplification of customs formalities will help to expand the trade ties between our countries, including ties between the border regions. The agreement on mutual recognition of customs inspections results that will be signed today will facilitate this.
We should most certainly continue working to strengthen contacts between our three countries’ business communities. In June last year, our countries’ chambers of commerce and industry held a successful forum in China. The next forum, which will take in Chita, in Russia, on August 5–6, has Russia’s active support.
Meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping and President of Mongolia Tsakhiagiin Elbegdorj.
I want to say that we are seeing positive changes taking place before our very eyes in environmental cooperation throughout the entire region. I know that Mongolia plans to build hydroelectricity facilities in the Selenga River basin. We would like to study these plans very carefully with our friends in Mongolia and China.
Russia and international environmental protection organisations have made their position on these plans known: this project could create some risks for water supply to Russia’s Irkutsk Region and affect the unique ecology of Lake Baikal, as Selenga is the main river flowing into Lake Baikal.
We realise that Mongolia’s energy shortage is a serious issue. Clearly, this is something we must reflect on and we need to resolve this issue. But there are different ways to resolve this problem, above all by developing the entire region’s energy sector. For example, Russian power stations could increase electricity supplies to Mongolia’s northern regions.
We think it important to encourage cooperation not only in this sector but in others too, in tourism, for example. The Federal Tourism Agency is drafting a number of proposals. One of them is to organise an international tourism route – the Great Tea Route – that could link 20 Russian regions with China and Mongolia. We could launch a special excursion train on this route.
We will continue to do all we can to expand scientific exchanges. The establishment of an association of research centres in Russia, China and Mongolia will play a big part in this.
Let me say again that I think our trilateral partnership has great potential in many areas and we should put this to more active use for the good of our peoples.
Thank you for your attention.
President of Mongolia Tsakhiagiin Elbegdorj
(retranslated): President of China Xi Jinping, President of Russia Vladimir Putin,
It is a great pleasure to greet you at this third summit of the leaders of Mongolia, Russia and China here in the capital of Uzbekistan.
Today, we will sign trilateral cooperation agreements such as the programme on establishing an economic corridor between Mongolia, Russia and China and the agreement between our three countries’ customs services on mutual recognition of customs inspection results with regard to particular categories of goods. The aim of establishing the economic corridor is to put in place conditions for expanding trilateral cooperation through increasing trade between our three countries.
President of Mongolia Tsakhiagiin Elbegdorj.
I would like to exchange views and settle the following matters during this meeting.
First of all, this involves the implementation of a programme to create an economic corridor. I suggest we select those projects, out of the 32 from the programme, which can be implemented now, and find sources to finance them. Given the fact that the parties agreed to establish an investment centre to determine funding and do a feasibility study of projects, I propose such a centre be created in 2016.
Then, as part of improving cooperation on roads and transport, we propose holding regular consultations with transport agencies of the third parties, which are a real mechanism to promote railway projects. The second meeting on current issues is expected to be held in August-September in Ulan Bator.
Third, determining promising avenues of trilateral cooperation. Our cooperation should not be limited to economic corridors or transport and customs issues. One of the directions is regional cooperation; we support in principle China’s initiative to develop cooperation between the eastern regions of Mongolia, Russia and China. Mongolia is ready to develop an appropriate plan of cooperation.
I also believe it possible to develop trilateral cooperation in agriculture and emergency prevention, response and relief based on the experience of bilateral cooperation.
I would like to end my speech with a suggestion to hold a trilateral meeting in Ulan Bator to step up our cooperation. I am confident that our mutually advantageous cooperation will make a significant contribution not only to the development of the three states but the region as a whole.
Thank you for your attention.
Xi Jinping: Thank you, President Elbegdorj.
President Putin and President Elbegdorj presented good proposals. I suggest the relevant agencies of the three countries carefully study and implement them.
And now I would like to share my opinion. We should comprehensively promote trilateral cooperation by linking the Chinese Silk Road Economic Belt and Russian strategies, in particular, the construction of a trans-Eurasian corridor, and the Mongolian Steppe Route.
The first task is to work responsibly on implementing the programme to create an economic corridor linking China, Mongolia and Russia. This programme is a practical step towards linking together our three countries’ development strategies and outlines priorities for our business cooperation. It is important that we pursue cooperation in areas such as transport infrastructure, building border crossing points and production facilities, developing investment, trade and the economy, humanitarian ties and environmental cooperation. We must work together to carry out priority projects so as to speed up achievement of stage-by-stage results in establishing the China-Russia-Mongolia economic corridor.
Second, we must step up our cross-border cooperation. Our three countries’ border regions have advantages in terms of their geographical location, comprehensive interlinking and cooperation mechanisms, and they share a common great desire to develop trilateral cooperation, have solid foundations for doing this, and could become priority regions for our work together. China supports our Mongolian partners’ initiative on cross-border economic cooperation.
President of People's Republic of China Xi Jinping.
We propose taking the existing bilateral economic cooperation zone as a base we can build on to develop a trilateral zone with an emphasis on infrastructure construction, comprehensive interlinking, cross-border trade, industrialisation, tourism, and humanitarian ties. We should strengthen our links in industry and promote sub-regional cooperation in the interests of developing our countries’ border regions.
Third, we need to expand our cooperation within the SCO
. The SCO has gained steadily in international influence over its 15 years of existence. More and more countries have shown their approval of the ‘Shanghai spirit’ and wish to develop cooperation with the organisation in order to work together on preventing threats and making use of development opportunities.
The accession process for new members we launched at the Ufa summit last year has progressed smoothly. The number of observers and dialogue partners is growing. This creates new development opportunities.
The SCO is a useful platform for our trilateral cooperation. Mongolia is the first observer country in the SCO. China is ready to work with Russia and other SCO member countries to strengthen our cooperation with our Mongolian partners, in particular, we are ready to work together on implementing the openness and partnership policy as part of the SCO’s development strategy through to 2025. We are ready to develop our work together with Mongolia in transit traffic, food safety, emergency situations, energy and other sectors.
This is my view. Overall, we have had a practical and useful discussion today.
Our Mongolian partners will chair the fourth summit next year. China is ready to provide all-round support in this.
Thank you.
Geography
Mongolia
People's Republic of China
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Elbegdorj Tsakhiagiin
Xi Jinping
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 23, 2016, 16:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of China Xi Jinping
Vladimir Putin met with Chinese President Xi Jinping on the sidelines of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation summit.
June 23, 2016
20:30
Tashkent
President of China Xi Jinping
(retranslated): Mr President, ladies and gentlemen,
I am pleased to meet with you, my old friend Vladimir Putin, in Tashkent. I am looking forward to a meeting with you in China after the Tashkent summit.
This year marks the 15th anniversary of the signing of our basic treaty, as well as the 20th anniversary of the establishment of our relations of partnership and strategic cooperation. These are important landmarks in the development of our relations, so your visit is of special importance.
I am willing, in conjunction with you, to strengthen high-level planning and strategic guidance of Chinese-Russian relations, promote the idea of eternal friendship, consolidate our political and strategic trust, strengthen mutual support, link our countries’ development strategies, dovetail One Belt, One Road initiative with the EAEU, and promote closer cooperation and interaction on current international and regional issues.
Today, I propose that we exchange views on bilateral issues, as well as other issues of mutual interest.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: President Xi Jinping, colleagues,
Let me express my satisfaction with today’s meeting.
Indeed, I am going to visit Beijing where we will discuss in detail all our bilateral issues. However, today we also have an opportunity to talk about the development of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation
(SCO) and some other aspects of our joint efforts.
In the beginning of our meeting I would like to express to you and all the Chinese people my condolences over the death of many people in Jiangsu Province resulting from a tornado and hail. You have just told me about this. We are sorry to hear this and wish to convey our sincere condolences.
In turn, I would like to thank you for the words of sympathy that you sent us on the death of children in the northwest of the Russian Federation. We always feel very concerned when such accidents occur. I know that the Chinese people will certainly overcome this misfortune and we express our deep condolences to the families of all victims once again.
Returning to business, I would like to note that we are attaching much importance to the development of relations in a multilateral format, including the SCO, the 15th anniversary of which we are marking now. Many documents have been prepared for this occasion. One of the most important events of this summit will be the adoption of commitments by India and Pakistan as regards their full-fledged incorporation in our organisation. I suggest talking about this event and the SCO development in general.
Naturally, we have many bilateral issues. Our colleagues from the Ministry of Economic Development and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are also in attendance. We can talk today about a broad range of issues of our cooperation.
Thank you very much.
<…>
Geography
People's Republic of China
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Xi Jinping
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 23, 2016, 20:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of Uzbekistan Islam Karimov
Vladimir Putin met with President of Uzbekistan Islam Karimov. The two leaders addressed the status of Russian-Uzbekistani relations and future prospects, as well as interaction within the framework of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation.
June 23, 2016
21:10
Tashkent
1 of 4
Meeting with President of Uzbekistan Islam Karimov.
President of Uzbekistan Islam Karimov
: Mr Putin, allow me to welcome you to Tashkent and express my great respect for you and, through you, my deep respect for the people of Russia.
I would like to take advantage of this opportunity to say that we have drawn up a programme – everything is fine and spelled out down to the last detail, and I am amazed by the efficiency of the Russian team. Only five or six minutes ago, there was an empty space here, there was nothing, and then everything quickly materialised. So from this perspective, with this no-nonsense approach, I believe that no challenge is too great for us.
At our meeting today, we need to discuss, above all, issues related to tomorrow. Most importantly, the priorities, the bilateral priorities that are a source of concern to us and that we need to address as a matter of urgency in order to formulate common positions.
There is a reason I am mentioning this – it’s because with such a large team that will get together tomorrow, and with the core [issues] that we are going to present tomorrow, in order to avoid unpleasant surprises, I would very much like to know your opinion on the issues that are of obvious concern both to Russia and to Uzbekistan. I am sure that (and if someone thinks differently, he is wrong) there are priorities that are definitely of interest both to Russia and to Uzbekistan, where our interests are literally interconnected.
I should say it is common knowledge that you are often late. Today, you arrived, flew in almost on time. When I learned about this I said this is a sign that Mr Putin is set on achieving results at today’s meeting, as well as tomorrow’s meeting.
I would like to say in the presence of journalists that our meeting today had a small prelude: we saw a concert that we prepared in advance, including two numbers in Russian. I should confess, I kept an eye on you. You were sitting to my right and it was easy for me to look to the right – not left but right. I was simply looking at you to see whether you liked the first piece and then the second one. And you didn’t conceal behind your serious expression – in fact it was written on your face – that you were pleased to listen to what our performers had prepared. I think you enjoyed the performance overall. You said one thing: “I admire the level of preparation of the performers.” Well said. Just a few words, but you were absolutely right that they perform at a high level and prepared well for the concert.
I must say that we took seriously the job of preparing, organising and holding the SCO summit and I hope that tomorrow’s final, anniversary meeting will be at the same level as its preparation.
Thank you. Now I would like to listen to you.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Karimov,
Quite recently, only two months ago, I had the honour to receive you in Moscow but I am very glad to meet with you again. First of all, I would like to reaffirm that Uzbekistan’s preparation for the SCO summit deserves high marks.
Naturally, the de facto integration of such large countries as India and Pakistan into the SCO
as permanent members is a major event in the history of our organisation at its anniversary, 15th summit. And history will record that this event occurred in Tashkent.
We maintain bilateral cooperation on a very large scale and will certainly use this opportunity to discuss bilateral issues as well.
So we are very glad to meet you again. Thank you very much for your hospitality.
<…>
Geography
Uzbekistan
Topics
Foreign policy
SCO
Persons
Karimov Islam
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 23, 2016, 21:10
Text versionEvents
Interview to the Xinhua News Agency of China
In the run-up to his visit to the People’s Republic of China, Vladimir Putin gave an interview to Chinese news agency Xinhua. The interview was recorded on June 17 on the sidelines of the St Petersburg International Economic Forum.
June 23, 2016
10:00
St Petersburg
1 of 5
Interview with Xinhua news agency. With Xinhua General Director Cai Mingzhao.
President of Xinhua News Agency Cai Mingzhao: Mr. President,
I am greatly honored and pleased to have this opportunity to interview you in your hometown prior to your visit to the People's Republic of China.
First of all, I would like to express on behalf of the Xinhua Agency our sincere respect.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Cai Mingzhao: With your – and President of the People's Republic of China Xi Jinping's active involvement and support Chinese-Russian relations have already reached an extremely high level.
I would like to ask you some questions, if I may.
Last year, you met with the Chinese President five times. With your engagement and assistance, as well as through the efforts made by you and Mr. Xi Jinping Chinese-Russian collaboration has been constantly deepening and enhancing.
In your opinion, what areas of cooperation between Beijing and Moscow would you describe as priority ones at the moment? What areas are to be developed in the future? And what do you think of the expectations related to your upcoming visit to China?
During an interview with Xinhua news agency.
Vladimir Putin: In fact, you already defined our relations when you said they were at a very high level.
I would now draw the attention of our readers to two dates. 25 years ago, we announced the launch of new relations, those of strategic partnership, and 15 years ago, we signed a friendship and cooperation treaty. Since then, hard work has been done resulting in an unprecedented level of mutual trust on which our collaboration is built.
As we had never reached this level of relations before, our experts have had trouble defining today's general state of our common affairs. It turns out that to say we have strategic cooperation is not enough anymore. This is why we have started talking about a comprehensive partnership and strategic collaboration. ”Comprehensive“ means that we work virtually on all major avenues; ”strategic“ means that we attach enormous inter‑governmental importance to this work.
You mentioned my interaction with the President of the People's Republic of China. This is very true. Of course, our joint work, work at this level gives positive momentum to our relations. At our level, we discuss the key strategic aspects of our cooperation.
Mr. Xi Jinping devotes much of his personal attention to the development of Russia-China relations. He is a very good friend and a reliable partner.
25 years ago, we announced the launch of new relations, those of strategic partnership, and 15 years ago, we signed a friendship and cooperation treaty. Since then, hard work has been done resulting in an unprecedented level of mutual trust.
Nonetheless, our efforts alone would have been insufficient for the successful development of ties between Russia and China. Naturally, this called for the establishment of a mechanism to ensure cooperation between the governments of the Russian Federation and the People's Republic of China. The heads of Governments of both states hold regular meetings. Over two dozen subcommittees – I believe there are 26 of them – and intergovernmental commissions have been created and are operating very effectively and intensely. It is not always possible to agree on complex matters from the outset, but we address all the issues, however complex they might be, with the common goal in mind of fostering our cooperation — and we always find solutions.
The existing problems in the world economy have also had an impact on our collaboration, leading to a certain drop in the total trade turnover, but we are convinced that it is a temporary phenomenon resulting from the current situation with certain goods and the exchange rate.
Nevertheless, we manage to settle the key issues. We manage to take major steps to improve our trade structure.
I am not sure about the exact figures, here we should consult the relevant reports, last year has seen a considerable increase, of 44 per cent, I believe, in our export of engineering products to the People's Republic of China. That is highly important for us. We have been discussing this issue with our Chinese partners for years. I would like to thank our friends for our success in establishing such collaboration in this essential area and achieving the set goals. Those were our common goals. We agreed upon them, and we are now moving in the right direction.
In this regard, one of the most important directions is of course the diversification of our ties, making them more sophisticated, paying more attention to the high-tech area of our collaboration.
We also work together on space programs, in the sphere of aviation, on the construction of a wide-body aircraft and a heavy helicopter. We collaborate on environmental issues, and carry on with large-scale energy projects, including in nuclear energy.
Cai Mingzhao: The Russian side has very good competitive advantages in this area.
During an interview with Xinhua news agency. With Xinhua General Director Cai Mingzhao.
Vladimir Putin: That is true. Our Rosatom has a large stock of orders. The two units of the Tianwan Nuclear Power Plant have been operating for 8 years now, and have proved reliable.
We are currently working on another two units, and I think more could be done. We should enhance our cooperation not only in terms of increasing the number of nuclear power plants in China but also by expanding our scientific and technical collaboration in this area.
China is increasing its presence in our energy market, it is a major shareholder in one of our significant projects, Yamal LNG, and it has acquired 10 percent of the shares in one of our leading chemical holdings, SIBUR. We welcome these Chinese investments not only as a means of placing financial resources but also as a means of further developing our partnership.
Intensive work is underway on the famous Moscow-Kazan High-Speed Rail Line Project. Some railway sections will allow for a train speed of up to 400 kilometers per hour. We pay considerable attention to these prospects; this can be only the beginning of our large-scale infrastructure cooperation.
Our interaction in the humanitarian field is no less important. Thus, we have held cross‑years of China in Russia and Russia in China, the Year of Youth Exchange, the Year of the Russian Language and, accordingly, the Year of the Chinese Language, the Year of Tourist Exchange, etc. Some events were initiated by the Russian side, and others – by the Chinese side; but they all have been very successful and will undoubtedly contribute to building an atmosphere of confidence between our peoples. These projects are as important as, for example, those in the energy sphere, such as the huge Power of Siberia project to supply up to 38 billion cubic meters of Russian gas per annum via a newly established eastern route from Russia to China. Add to this diplomatic, military, and military-technical cooperation.
One of the most important directions is of course the diversification of our ties, making them more sophisticated, paying more attention to the high-tech area of our collaboration.
We usually discuss all these issues at our joint meetings. As you see, the agenda is extensive if not huge. Therefore, I am looking forward to substantive negotiations, intensive ones. They are always held in an atmosphere of amity and mutual trust.
Cai Mingzhao: You have just mentioned important projects in the economic area between Russia and China. We are greatly inspired by these big projects. Cooperation between Russia and China has an immense potential. You often stress the need to converge integration processes, in particular regarding the Eurasian Economic Union and China's Silk Road project. Our business circles also pay attention to this issue.
What concrete steps will be taken to develop this cooperation? And how will this cooperation help improve the Russian-Chinese trade and economic interaction?
Vladimir Putin: You have touched on a very interesting and complex subject. As we know, President Xi Jinping has launched an initiative to revitalize the very idea of the Great Silk Road. We believe it is a very timely, interesting and promising initiative aimed at increasing cooperation with all countries of the world, but primarily with neighbours, because wherever the road goes, it first runs through neighbouring territories.
We are engaged in negotiations on two tracks: China-Russia, bilaterally, and China-Eurasian Economic Union. A short while ago, at a meeting in Astana with my counterparts from the Eurasian Economic Union, which currently comprises five countries, we discussed this possibility and came out in favour of enhancing cooperation with China, drawing on President Xi Jinping's idea to develop the Silk Road Economic Belt.
China is increasing its presence in our energy market. We welcome Chinese investments not only as a means of placing financial resources but also as a means of further developing our partnership.
To put it bluntly, these issues clearly call for expert examination. We certainly care about the interests of our national producers. However, there is a common understanding that the general development path in a global economy, as well as in our cooperation with China, should involve a gradual removal of all barriers to open collaboration. In the initial stages, it could imply the establishment of a free-trade zone.
Being realists, we understand that at the beginning there will inevitably be faults and exceptions. Still, we should outline the way forward. While progressing towards this goal, we will pave the way for what I have called today “cooperation in Eurasia”, since an increasing number of countries in the region show interest in such collaboration. At the same time, we will seek to avoid shaping exclusive trade and economic blocs.
Cai Mingzhao: The Shanghai Cooperation Organization will shortly hold its regular summit in Tashkent. Russia and China actively cooperate within various international organizations, primarily within the SCO, which was established 15 years ago. The SCO is an essential element in ensuring stability and security in the region.
What is your vision of the further development of this Organization? What role, in your opinion, will it play in the future, both regionally and globally?
Vladimir Putin: This Organization, when it was first created, set itself quite modest goals, which I would say were important but at the same time practical. These included the settlement of various issues of cross-border cooperation, complex as well as simple ones. As we know, such border issues may remain in limbo for decades if goodwill is lacking, and are promptly settled when there is enough goodwill. This most likely depends on the mood, on the philosophy adopted by a state in its international relations.
The general development path in a global economy, as well as in our cooperation with China, should involve a gradual removal of all barriers to open collaboration.
It is thanks to this very goodwill that Russia and China, as well as other members of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, have fulfilled the tasks they set themselves in this area. We came to understand that such a mechanism, along with its valuable outputs and the level achieved in relations between our countries, should not be wasted. Therefore, we actually began using the established mechanism to address other issues, first of all developing our cooperation in various areas, such as political cooperation and cooperation in infrastructure development. We also launched discussions on security, on combatting the drug threat and other issues.
I would not say that we have made astonishing progress or carried out any high-profile activities; yet the Organization has become highly demanded and attractive in the region, and many countries of the world have expressed their willingness to join it.
At the summit held last year in Ufa, Russia, we decided to admit to the SCO another two states, India and Pakistan. We are to formalize this decision at the Tashkent meeting. We will also consider the intentions of other countries to join our work.
During an interview with Xinhua news agency. With Xinhua General Director Cai Mingzhao.
Indeed, as the Shanghai Cooperation Organization expands its areas of operation and its membership through the participation of the powerful countries I have just mentioned, it turns into a very powerful international association that commands respect and is relevant both in the region and worldwide.
The international environment is complicated and multifaceted, and issues are not resolved by the mere fact that countries with different approaches to and views on various international challenges join our Organization. However, as we expect, their accession does create conditions for the issues to be resolved.
Cai Mingzhao: Mr. President, I know that your schedule is tight and your time is of high value. I have a rare opportunity to interview you personally. May I ask you one more question?
Vladimir Putin: Fine.
Cai Mingzhao: Crises abound in the modern world. We face economic downturns, serious terrorism-related problems, and challenges caused by climate change. Russia and China are responsible major powers addressing international issues. What other efforts in your view could our countries make in order to safeguard peace and reform global governance?
Vladimir Putin: You know, today the very fact that China and Russia collaborate in international affairs contributes to the stability of world affairs.
Let me remind you of the statement made by the President of the People's Republic of China at the 70th anniversary of the United Nations. Think back and recall it. That statement called for resolving all contentious issues only by peaceful means on the basis of international law. Furthermore, the President was among the few who declared that they were ready to help those in need and even specified those proposals. It is such approaches that unite us in international affairs, not merely the geographic proximity of our countries.
The very fact that China and Russia collaborate in international affairs contributes to the stability of world affairs.
Apart from our joint work in the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, we cooperate within BRICS, which in fact was jointly established by us, and we actively collaborate at the UN.
I would take the liberty to recall that it was this country, the Soviet Union at that time, which made every effort to give the People's Republic of China its deserved place among the permanent members of the Security Council. We have always believed that this is the place for the People's Republic of China. Today, we are particularly pleased that this has happened, since our views on international affairs, as diplomats say, are either very similar or coincide. At the same time, this similarity or coincidence is backed by concrete work, including efforts on the technical level. We are in constant contact and we consult on global and regional issues. Since we consider each other close allies, naturally, we always listen to our partners and take into account each other’s interests.
I am certain that our joint work during my visit to the People's Republic of China will proceed in the same way.
Cai Mingzhao: Mr President, thank you very much. We also look forward to your visit to China. We would like to wish you every success during your upcoming visit to the PRC.
I would also like to inform you that the Xinhua Chinese News Agency and the TASS News Agency are to sign a new agreement on cooperation during your visit to China.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you for your assistance in this area since media support is just as important as the substantive work done by diplomats in the modern world, as they say.
Thank you very much.
See also
Working visit to St Petersburg. St Petersburg International Economic Forum
June 15 − 20, 2016
Topics
Foreign policy
Media
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 23, 2016, 10:00
Text version