Events
Meeting with Head of the Republic of Chechnya Ramzan Kadyrov
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Head of the Republic of Chechnya Ramzan Kadyrov. Mr Kadyrov briefed the President on the region’s socioeconomic situation.
March 25, 2016
15:15
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 3
With Head of the Republic of Chechnya Ramzan Kadyrov.
During the meeting, Mr Putin informed Mr Kadyrov
of his decision to name him acting head of the Republic of Chechnya.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Kadyrov, let’s start the meeting with the traditional questions – the socioeconomic situation in Chechnya.
We meet regularly, but things change fast and I would like to hear again about last year’s results and discuss how work is going this year. The first quarter is nearly over, after all. Perhaps we could also take a retrospective look at what has been accomplished over these last years. Please, go ahead.
Head of Chechnya Ramzan Kadyrov: Mr President, thank you for this meeting.
In 2007, when you entrusted me with managing the republic and its economy, you put the emphasis on security back then, as always, and then on economic development and resolving social issues.
In 2007, we had 157 murder attempts [against law enforcement personnel], and 56 law enforcement officers were killed. There were 56 illegal armed groups, of which 14 were of a terrorist nature.
Now, we had not a single murder attempt in 2015 and not a single law enforcement officer was killed in special operations carried out. At the same time, 19 gunmen were killed and around 50 arrested. The number of people in these groups comes to 40–50 people.
On the subject of unemployment, in 2007, it stood at 76 percent, but today it is 12.1 percent. We have built 1,400 social facilities: schools, kindergartens, hospitals. We have built housing too, 1,308 homes, and have rebuilt 6,500 square metres of housing (I might be slightly out in the figures).
We have built and paved around 500 kilometres of roads and 2,500 kilometres of utilities networks. Investment has increased by 148 percent and is now at 270 billion, and we have another 174 projects underway worth a total of 260 billion rubles. The republic’s own revenues have increased several-fold.
Overall, the situation is very positive in Chechnya today. People realise that the course that you and our first President, the hero Akhmad Kadyrov, chose was the right course and that we are now resolving all of our big social issues and the economy is growing steadily.
I think that we have more or less coped with the tasks before us. I also want to say that my term in office ends on April 5 and it is up to you to decide who will be acting head of the republic. We have no serious problems now in the republic. If you have instructions or comments, we will try to carry them out in full.
Vladimir Putin: Ramzan, let me say a few words.
When you took the helm, the republic was in a devastated state. The devastation was internal and external. We know what state the social sector was in, and how all the tragic events in the North Caucasus, especially in Chechnya, impacted on people’s lives.
Our priority, and the priority set by the first President of Chechnya, was to raise people’s living standards and ensure their security. Chechnya has very talented and hardworking people who want above all to build and create, and who care about the life of their republic, Russia in general, and their children. This is the most important task for any regional leader in Russia, and, of course, for the head of the Republic of Chechnya too.
I know that Chechnya has been transformed over these last years. We see this with our own eyes. This is a clear fact. The transformations are not just external. Where we once saw devastation, towns and villages in ruins, we now see flourishing places, and this is no exaggeration. We see towns and villages in which people live comfortable, convenient lives. We see ever more beautiful new buildings that are the pride of not just Chechnya and the Caucasus, but all of Russia too. Social life and sport are developing.
I see how much time and attention you personally give these things. New hospitals and kindergartens are opening. These are certainly basic tasks for any leader, including you. You have accomplished much in Chechnya, but there is still a lot of work to do.
You said that you are fighting unemployment, but we know what a serious problem this is, especially youth unemployment. More work needs to be done in this area, more work at the informal level too. You are good at this. I can say this quite frankly. I’ve said to you before that it was even something of a surprise to me that you, someone with quite different aims in life, suddenly turned into a good manager.
Ramzan Kadyrov: You made this of me, Mr President.
Vladimir Putin: This is people of Chechnya’s demand, and you meet this demand.
What I wanted to draw to your attention is the need for closer cooperation with the federal authorities, especially on security matters. Yes, Chechnya really has become a safe place for our citizens, for the republic’s people, and your efforts have contributed to achieving this. Chechnya is perhaps an even safer place than some other parts of Russia.
Ramzan Kadyrov: A survey of 330,000 people in Russia showed that people think Chechnya is the safest republic in the country.
Vladimir Putin: This is a very, very good result.
You need to pay more attention to contact with the federal authorities. You and the republic’s future leader will have to make every effort to ensure compliance with Russian law in all areas of life. I stress this point – in all areas of life.
Your mandate ends on April 5, as you said. Given what you have done these past years for Chechens, for the republic’s people, and in a wider sense for the whole of Russia, I have signed an executive order appointing you Acting Head of the republic with the hope that you will take part in the election in September. I hope that the people of Chechnya will be able to assess the worth of all you have done for the republic during the election campaign and the election itself.
Let me say again though, that we cannot rest on our laurels. We must look to the future. We know that we can and must do more for our people, you too. I wish you success.
Ramzan Kadyrov: Mr President, thank you very much for your trust and for your assessment.
We held a meeting to mark Republic of Chechnya Constitution Day. You remember that our first President entrusted the people of Chechnya with voting on a constitution at what was a very difficult time for our republic. Thirteen years have passed since then. Many people came out for the event, practically the whole republic, came to show that they are loyal to the course chosen by President Vladimir Putin, and that our republic will never face any more military campaigns and will never again be home to terrorism and extremism.
Elderly people, respected people, mothers who lost their sons on both sides, all came to say with a single voice that the situation in the republic today and the attention they receive from the federal authorities is what they and their children dreamed of. I think this is a good result and a big victory. We have stayed faithful to the course chosen by you and Akhmad Kadyrov. We can see this by the way that 13 years later, people came out of their own accord to say that they support this course.
Thank you for your trust. We will try to live up to your hopes and serve with all our faith and truth. I hope we will not let you down, Mr President.
Vladimir Putin: This was just what Akhmad Kadyrov dreamed of, and it was for this that he gave his life.
Ramzan Kadyrov: Thank you, Mr President.
<…>
See also
Executive Order on Acting Head of the Republic of Chechnya
March 25, 2016
Geography
Chechen Republic
Topics
Regions
Persons
Kadyrov Ramzan
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 25, 2016, 15:15
Text versionEvents
Presentation of the Presidential Prize for young culture professionals and the Presidential Prize for writing and art for children and young people
Vladimir Putin marked Culture Worker’s Day by presenting the 2015 Presidential Prize for young culture professionals and the 2015 Presidential Prize for writing and art for children and young people.
March 25, 2016
13:15
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 14
Presentation of the Presidential Prize for young culture professionals and the Presidential Prize for writing and art for children and young people.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends and prize winners.
Let me start by offering my warmest congratulations on Culture Worker’s Day. I congratulate everyone working in this sector, those present here today, and those who will follow our meeting today in media reports.
You and your colleagues work in a broad and diverse range of areas, but culture’s great humanistic force unites you all. Some see work in this area as a mission, and others see it as an undertaking of public benefit. Talented people, devoted to their jobs, work in the arts and literature, in libraries, museums, at our biggest concert venues and at countryside halls.
You give your all to culture, devote your time and energy, and you do so with love for your profession and vocation.
Russian culture has tremendous potential and you make a huge contribution to developing this potential and creating a modern cultural environment in our country, where new creative ideas and inspiration from the spiritual and cultural traditions of Russia’s peoples are equally important.
See also
Winners of the 2015 Presidential Prize for young cultural workers
March 23, 2016
The winners of the 2015 Russian Federation Presidential Prize for writing and art for children and young people
March 23, 2016
This is immensely important, including for educating our children, and perhaps above all for cultivating in our children and young people a responsible and demanding attitude to themselves and their environment, the will to develop their talents, a desire for knowledge and an ability to perceive and learn about the world through the arts and aesthetic sense.
Friends, it is our custom to mark Culture Worker’s Day by presenting the prize for young cultural workers and the prize for writing and arts for children and young people.
Vladislav Lavrik has been awarded the prize for his contribution to developing and promoting music. He is deservedly considered Russia’s best brass instrument players and performs solo at the world’s leading venues. Mr Lavrik is artistic director of a renowned brass quintet and has had great success in developing his talents as a composer and teacher too.
Yevgenia Lotsmanova has an inimitable artistic style. She is still young, but has already earned recognition from the top names in Russian book illustration. Her elegant illustrations to various authors’ tales burst with joy, goodness and lightness, even though they are done using the very difficult technique of colour engraving, which can demand great physical strength at times. She has said that each of her illustrations reflects the author’s soul. The readers of the books she has illustrated journey into an uplifting and wonderful world.
Designer, teacher and researcher Yevgenia Cheburashkina’s work also has a very clear social dimension. She directs projects to redesign the interiors of Moscow kindergartens. It really is very important that children can play and learn in a comfortable and aesthetically pleasing environment, so that they can start cultivating artistic taste and a sense of beauty right from this early age.
Artistic Director of the Russian Academic Youth Theatre Alexei Borodin has been awarded the Presidential Prize for writing and art for children and young people. He has been at the lead of one of the audiences’ best-loved theatres for more than 30 years now. The theatre does not seek sensation or scandals, but it is open to new ideas and bold experiments, including in performances for children. Mr Borodin places particular emphasis on this area. Shows put on as part of the Young Directors for Children project have been real hits at the theatre. Like the theatre’s other brilliant performances, they embody Mr Borodin’s credo: good will always vanquish evil. Mr Borodin firmly believes in this and has proven it throughout his many years of creative work.
Films by St Petersburg animated film studio Melnitsa are immensely popular. This studio was established in the mid-1990s on the initiative of Sergei Selyanov and Alexander Boyarsky. It is well-known today for its successful projects that have won the indisputable love of children and adults alike. Films by Konstantin Bronzit hold a particular place on this list. These Russian films have won popularity and love here at home, and have also been distinguished with the highest awards at prestigious international festivals.
I want to name another of the prize winners today, Yury Entin. His name represents a whole era in our culture. His poems have been set to music to create songs full of this wonderful author’s talent, purity, optimism, humour and generous spirit. They have long since become classics. People love them, sing them and quote them. Mr Entin really is deservedly a national poet. He has also written screenplays for popular animated films, including the very well-known Musicians of Bremen.
Friends, our laureates today meet in full the lofty demands society places on people working in culture, literature and the arts.
You all have great talent, skill in your creative search, and have achieved outstanding results, but what is very important is that you all understand the significance of your work for Russia, for all of us, for our people. You realise what a great role you play in shaping moral values and guidelines in society. This comes through in your creations, your success and your work.
Let me congratulate you sincerely and from all my heart once more, and wish you new creative successes.
Thank you very much.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: I usually say a few concluding words at the end of ceremonies such as this, but I hardly know what to say today after the brief but vivid speeches we just heard.
Words about the soul came up repeatedly, the soul that seeks out the creative path and gives birth to beauty. Let me say that the soul of each one of us, each person, needs your work. Your souls want this kind of creativity, and so do the souls of all of us.
One of the laureates spoke before about work that is not so easily noticed. Someone playing a trumpet gets a lot more noticed for their creativity than an animation artist, probably. I play hockey sometimes with Igor Butman, and when he brings his saxophone along, he plays it too for us at our sports events.
Maybe this is not such noticeable work in your eyes, but it is very much so in ours. What we heard earlier is very true: generations of children grow up on animated films, for example, and not only animated films, but also engravings, illustrations. We all pick up books, after all, and, let’s admit it, we know that it is the content that counts, but still, we first look for the pictures. The pictures have their content too, and they also reflect the author’s soul, the part of it that he shares with the viewers and listeners.
Those closest to us, including our parents, will always take a critical approach with us, because they love us. Let me say that we love you too, and although I am used to these kinds of ceremonies, pleasant but regular events, today’s ceremony was something special. You give off a positive aura.
Thank you very much for your work and creation.
See also
Winners of the 2015 Presidential Prize for young cultural workers and the 2015 Presidential Prize for writing and art for children and young people have been announced
March 23, 2016
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Commissions and Councils, Council for Culture and Art
Publication date: March 25, 2016, 13:15
Text version