Events
Meeting with Government members
Vladimir Putin held a regular meeting with Government members. The agenda included the draft federal budget for 2017 and the 2018–2019 plan period, as well as issues related to financing a number of projects in the country’s regions.
October 12, 2016
18:50
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
At a meeting with Government members.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good evening, colleagues,
Let us discuss a few matters. Today, we would like to address, all of us together, the problems related to financing projects in Russian regions, including the North Caucasus.
Before we do that, I would like to say a few words about the basic parameters of the federal budget for 2017 and the 2018–2019 period.
We regularly deal with this; I would just like to update the current information to see where we are at present.
Finance Minister Anton Siluanov
: Mr President, the Government will meet tomorrow to review the recently drafted three-year budget for 2017–2019. I believe it is very positive that we are returning to a three-year budget cycle. After all, this approach makes our budget and, most importantly, our tax policy predictable on the macro level. The business community will know what to expect in terms of budget policy in the medium term and how we plan to implement it.
One goal is to factor into the budget all the developments in the global economy and our latest forecasts so as to deliver a balanced budget. We intend to balance it by focusing primarily on enacting structural measures to adjust spending.
All of our social commitments will be honoured in the upcoming three-year budget cycle: retirement pensions and social benefits will be adjusted for inflation as required by law, and in January, retirees will receive 5,000 rubles, as was promised and announced this year. The budget also provides for increasing salaries in keeping with May 2012 executive orders.
Finance Minister Anton Siluanov at a meeting with Government members.
The budget also provides for reducing the deficit by gradually overcoming the imbalance that emerged with the drop in oil and gas prices. We expect the budget deficit to decline from slightly over 3 percent next year to 1 percent in 2019.
What is the purpose of all these initiatives? On the one hand, they are intended to ensure macroeconomic stability, which could lower inflation, bring about interest rate cuts and help us promote economic growth in specific areas. Starting next year, we expect real household incomes to resume an upward trend.
The Government also takes into account the so-called non-oil and gas deficit in its budget projections. Per your instructions, this indicator should be half the current level within five years. The budget for the upcoming period is fully in line with this instruction. In 2019, the non-oil and gas deficit is expected to come in at 6.6 percent of GDP.
Most importantly, by the end of 2019 we will stop using our reserves to offset a budget deficit. This is an important point. Why should we reduce the budget deficit? In order to finance the budget through borrowing, primarily on the domestic market. Another source of revenue will be the privatisation programmes that will be implemented over the next three years.
We are constantly in touch with the Central Back, and by coordinating budget and monetary policies, we have succeeded in preventing any serious shocks to the budget and in overcoming the difficulties we saw last year and this year. Unlike what we saw in 2008–2009, the unemployment rate has not risen. We are now witnessing a speedy recovery despite the current oil prices (although they did rise, albeit slightly), which is different from what we saw in 2008–2009.
Let me tell you that the new budget, and the new rules currently being discussed within the Government, and the budget guidelines, will heal the budget of so-called Dutch disease and help us avoid the possible risks we could face in a changing global economic environment. The budget should be sustainable, and allow us to deliver on all of our commitments regardless of any external factors. This is the main budget policy priority for the upcoming three-year cycle.
Vladimir Putin: I saw you recently at the VTB forum where privatisation was discussed, among other issues. As far as I know, Rosneft has already fully remitted the funds for the acquisition of Bashneft.
This is a very important issue, as Mr Medvedev is aware. I asked the relevant bodies to check whether the necessary funds are available on Rosneft’s accounts. It was confirmed that the company has these funds on its accounts, so Rosneft will not need to obtain any additional funding on the domestic financial market to complete the transaction, including to sell or, if necessary, to temporarily acquire shares or carry out a stock buyback. All the funds are on the company’s accounts and are available to the extent that when they are used it will not affect ongoing transactions or cash flow, and will not require additional borrowing on the open market. This is a very important issue, and I would like to ask you to keep an eye on it.
We have always said that although compliance with macroeconomic stability parameters is very important, and possibly more important than anything else, we must also honour our social obligations. The provision of medicines is one of our priorities.
Meeting with Government members.
We have allocated up to 400 billion rubles for meeting federal and municipal needs, which account for 30 percent of the Russian market. At the same time, we know very well that a survey of contracts for 2015 revealed considerable price deviations, up to 20 percent. I know that the Healthcare Ministry and the Anti-Monopoly Service were working on this problem, and so I would like to hear your assessments.
Healthcare Minister Veronika Skvortsova
: Mr President, colleagues. As you instructed, the Healthcare Ministry has been working since August with other concerned agencies such as the Communications, Economic Development and Finance ministries, the Treasury, the Federal Anti-Monopoly Service and the Rostec State Corporation to create an information and analysis system for monitoring the purchase of medicines.
The system should be primarily capable of promptly analysing data on the municipal purchase of medicines provided by all Russian regions at the planning stage and following tenders and online auctions. It should also calculate the average market price for each international unpatented (generic) drug name and each brand name, which involves transitioning to a new method of calculating the initial contractual price based on market prices rather than on the highest factory-gate prices set by manufacturers. By doing this, we will also monitor the purchase of medicines and therefore prevent violations of law in this area.
The Healthcare Ministry and Rostec have coordinated the technical requirements for this system. We have coordinated them will all agencies and submitted them to the Government, and the Government Commission on Information Technology will discuss this issue soon at a meeting that will be chaired by Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev.
This system’s plan has been approved. It contains a whole package of organisational and administrative and legal measures put together in such a way as to have the system ready for test operation by March 1, 2017, in accordance with your instruction.
In 2017, all information on state and municipal purchases will be collected in this system and we will develop our models for responding to price formation violations detected. The system will be ready for full operation as from January 1, 2018.
The result will be that, starting in 2018, experts predict that the difference between procurement prices and the average market price will drop by at least 60 percent, taking into account that market prices are already 10–30 percent lower, depending on the type of medicines, than the minimum registered producers’ prices. This will free up considerable budget resources for increasing coverage of public demand for vital medicines without having to find additional funds.
We already have positive experience in this area. Over the last three years, we have moved entirely over to this method for federal procurement and this has enabled us to achieve a 33-percent reduction in the price of costly medicines such as “7 Nosology” list, anti-retrovirus medicines purchased at the federal level. This saved us a considerable sum of money this year.
The Healthcare Ministry placed the order for this system’s development. It will be developed as a sub-system within the unified state information system in the healthcare sector, work on which is currently actively underway with the support of the Healthcare Ministry and Rostec Corporation.
Looking further ahead, we think this system could become one segment in a bigger, large-scale project to monitor and oversee procurement for other socially important goods and so on. Everything is going exactly according to plan right now and we are doing everything possible to ensure that your instruction will be completed by the set deadline.
Vladimir Putin: Good. Mr Artemyev, what is your assessment?
Head of the Federal Anti-Monopoly Service Igor Artemyev
: Mr President, colleagues, thank you very much for this instruction on prices.
Let me say that even before we became a tariff regulator, with the help of the Economy Ministry and Russia’s trade offices abroad, we carried out quite a large study of different countries’ markets and reference prices. This study’s results made it clear that many prices on the Russian market were higher compared to other countries. This was the case even before the devaluation.
Head of the Federal Anti-Monopoly Service Igor Artemyev at a meeting with Government members.
Therefore, when the two-fold devaluation happened, all of these companies came to us proposing to register prices twice as high than the previous registered price, and we refused them. What’s more, using the method we approved, also before we became a tariff regulator, we proposed that they take into account the inflation growth that had already become apparent at that moment.
At the same time, we carried out additional studies as we implemented your instructions, and revealed 48 medicines for which prices are higher in Russia than in the other reference countries. The word was then sent to these companies that they should come and reduce these prices. We register the lower price, otherwise we try to de-register them and remove them from the market, but in such a way as that our citizens do no suffer and that we find suitable replacements for those who need these medicines.
We have also succeeded in putting an end to manipulation of dosages. How were prices raised and what was the mechanism used? Foreign companies used this method quite often. They changed a medicine’s dosage. This would usually look as follows: If a one-milligram dose was sold for 100 rubles, they would produce a 2-milligram dose, which you would think should cost 200 rubles, but no, it cost 500, 1,000 or even more.
We changed the legal practice regarding this method and today we refuse to register prices for medicines in around 40 percent of the cases. This, along with the measures I already mentioned, contributes to keeping prices down. We are not allowing them to raise prices by changing the dosage or application method. We have had the courts on our side in disputes arising as a result. This judicial practice has developed now and can be bolstered.
Unfortunately, we have also noticed cases of localisation taking place by simply replacing the packaging, while the medicine itself and the ampoules are produced abroad, as before. Only the packaging has changed, but in accordance with our regulations, these medicines were recognised as local and did not go through all of this complex price registration procedure I just spoke about, and were therefore registered at very high prices. We are now looking at how to deal with this, but the upshot is, of course, that we need to re-examine the situation with these prices, go back to a comparative regime and make these companies bring the prices down. This is our homework, if you like, and we are working on it and will certainly complete it.
But the previous method we used to help keep down prices for original medicines, mostly foreign, was an obstacle when it came to cheap Russian medicines. Under the method we used, you could adjust prices for inflation by 10 percent, say, but for cheap Russian products that cost from one to 10 rubles, this 10 percent gave them nothing because, unfortunately, they most often buy the active substances used in the medicines abroad, from foreign companies. The prices are all in dollars and they do not manage to make any profit. We do need some kind of indexation system therefore, because these cheaper products are disappearing from the market and being replaced not even with medicines costing 10–50 rubles, but with products costing 100–150 rubles, foreign products. This has been happening before our very eyes over these last months for a large number of medicines that Russian consumers are used to.
All of these measures have certainly helped to keep medicine prices down. According to the Healthcare Ministry’s statistics, prices rose by around 1 percent over the first 9 months of this year. There was a jump up in prices when the devaluation happened, but this is no longer the case and medicine prices have stabilised.
At the same time, I note that the entire system of legal practice and laws that we have today requires serious reform. Today, it protects not so much consumers’ interests, that is, the interests of the state and citizens, but the interests of producers, which includes many foreign producers.
We are ready to prepare your additional instructions. Some of these issues should be included in a new roadmap for developing competition in the healthcare system. The Government has already given an instruction on this, after hearing our report on the situation with competition in the country.
Some measures are extremely important. These include, above all, the parallel importation of medications and its facilitation. Here, we depend on the position of the Customs Union countries. They have not accepted our position yet, mostly likely because they simply do not understand it. This refers to procurement from official dealers – not from just anybody but from official dealers in countries where these drugs are cheaper so that they can flow to Russia and thus reduce prices, primarily of expensive preparations.
Of course, this also involves streamlining the new legislation on mandatory licensing in case of violations of intellectual rights. All of that exists in the BRICS countries. But unfortunately, this system does not work here. This is probably also something to think about. And then, of course, what Ms Skvortsova spoke about: state procurement.
Maximum interchangeability, the maximum possible use of medications with the same formula in the same auctions and tenders, which makes it possible to significantly reduce prices. And of course, what was said about working with the Rostec Corporation – putting in place an automated monitoring system. No doubt, this is the wave of the future, and it will primarily involve abandoning absolutely false information about drug production costs and using electronic systems to analyse them with the help of modern comparability methods, the way this should be done in the 21st century.
Meeting with Government members.
Vladimir Putin: As we know, knowledge increases sorrow, while experience and knowledge suggest that such manipulations on the market, especially on the part of producers, as well as wholesale suppliers, are, as a general rule, encouraged by unscrupulous officials from corresponding agencies who are responsible for their procurement, for regulation. For some reason, we have not yet seen any [criminal] cases over this issue. I believe that our relevant agencies – special services and law enforcement agencies – are clearly not doing enough in this respect. But please work with them in close contact.
So this work should go on, without allowing this kind of malpractice. Some prices in our country – according to my reference materials – are higher than in Australia, while production is based nearby, in Europe. This goes to show that some clearly unscrupulous practices exist on our market – [prices are] several times higher than in European countries, not by several percentage points, but several times over. Please, this work should continue.
Mr Donskoy told me about the ministry’s plans to toughen enforcement against poaching and trade in wild animals and their derivatives. So what are your plans in more detail?
Minister of Natural Resources and Environment Sergei Donskoy
: Mr President, one of the main reasons for poaching is the market demand for rare animal species and their derivatives. Experts believe the global market of their derivatives is worth 17–20 billion euros a year. The damage from poaching exceeds 10 billion rubles a year. Almost 2,000 cases of illegal hunting were registered last year alone.
To counter poaching amendments were made to the criminal and administrative codes and fines for the illegal hunting of Red Book animals were increased in the past three years. Three hundred and thirty people were convicted of illegal hunting. Nine cases involving illegal hunting of tigers and trade in their derivatives were brought before the court.
At the same time new venues for illegal trade are appearing, such as virtual announcement boards, websites, auctions and social media. They are venues for selling species that are registered in the Red Book and appendices I and II of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES).
According to experts over 600 ads selling 2,500 species, including about 30 percent of offers to sell tigers and their parts, mainly skin, were found on the Runet in 2015 alone. Materials that suggest a crime has been committed are sent to the Interior Ministry but none of them led to court decisions.
Mr President, we believe these efforts must be reinforced. In this context we would like to further increase punishment for illegal trade and spell out separately responsibility for online trade in Red Book animals and their parts. With this end in view we drafted amendments to the Criminal Code to classify crimes when illegal trade in Red Book animals and their derivatives is conducted via mass media, including the internet. According to these amendments such online trade will be punishable by community service for up to three years and a fine of up to 1.5 million rubles or from two to four years in prison. Right now these crimes are punishable by community service for up to three years and a fine of up to one million rubles. If a crime is committed by an organised group, which is often the case, its members will be sentenced to serve a prison term from six to nine years and to pay a fine of up to three million rubles. The draft amendments are currently undergoing approval in different departments. We plan to submit them to the Government as early as in October and request your support.
Vladimir Putin: Ok. I will support your proposal, of course but you are right – tougher punishment isn’t everything. Punishment must also be inevitable as the current rules and laws require. The Interior Ministry obviously fails to do enough in this respect.
I will ask the Prosecutor-General’s Office to monitor this as well and to conduct relevant checks. The Ministry of the Interior must report on what it is doing. Almost nothing is done in this area.
<…>
Topics
Budget
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 12, 2016, 18:50
Text versionEvents
Russia Calling! Investment Forum
Vladimir Putin is taking part in the eighth Russia Calling! Investment Forum organised by VTB Capital. This year’s theme is Maintaining Responsibility, Expanding Opportunities.
October 12, 2016
16:30
2 of 5
Speaking at the Russia Calling! Investment Forum.
Invitations to the forum’s plenary session have been sent to Russian Government members and heads of major international corporations and leading Russian companies, delegates from over 60 countries, including 550 investors from Russia, Europe, the United States, the Middle East and Africa.
VTB Capital Investment Forum is a leading platform for attracting portfolio and strategic investments to the Russian economy and for effective interaction between Russian businesses and international investors.
 * * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues,
It really is a great pleasure to greet everyone taking part in the Russia Calling! forum. We know from past occasions and see again today that this forum brings together prominent businesspeople and leading business consultants in investment and banking. It attracts those who ‘make the weather’ on the financial markets and influence companies’ and organisations’ investment strategies.
Taking part in this panel session is a good opportunity for direct discussion of key economic issues and our plans for ensuring economic growth and improving our business climate. It is the chance to discuss in general the prospects for investment cooperation and work on the Russian market.
I note that we have achieved sustainable macroeconomic stabilisation over these last few years. The inflation rate is coming down now and was 6.4 percent a year at the start of October. I remind you that at the same moment in 2015, it was 15.7 percent, but is now 6.4 percent. This is clear progress.
We expect that the inflation rate will hit a new historic minimum by the end of this year and come down to below 6 percent. I remind you the lowest inflation rate in Russia’s recent history was in 2011, when it came down to 6.1 percent. Next year, we will come close to our declared target of 4 percent.
Our national currency, the ruble, has become considerably less volatile and the Central Bank’s international reserves are growing. They currently stand at around $400 billion. At the start of this year, they came to $368 billion and were up to $397.7 billion on September 30. The figure is floating and is now close to $400 billion.
One important sign of stabilisation is that the real sector of our economy is no longer falling and the import replacement policy is producing results. In some sectors, such as machinery and equipment, light industry, and timber processing, we are seeing modest but nonetheless quite confident growth.
For reference, I can tell you that production of machinery and equipment was up by 3.6 percent, textile production rose by 4 percent, chemicals production increased by 4.9 percent, and production of shoes and leather goods posted an increase of just over 9 percent. Russia’s agriculture sector continues performing well, up 3.4 percent over the first 8 months of this year. Foodstuffs production is up 2.4 percent.
The pickup in the economy can be seen in the banking sector too. The Central Bank is gradually lowering its key rate. Overall, we are seeing a trend for lending interest rates to come down. Rates are still quite high and lending to the real sector has not yet recovered in the sense it is not yet enough to cover lending needed for sustained economic growth.
The portfolio of loans to the real sector, which I would say is one of the problems we face today, actually dropped over January-September by 6.8 percent from 33.3 trillion rubles to 31 trillion rubles.
But nonetheless, the improvement in our macroeconomic conditions has encouraged new interest in the Russian market. This summer, for the first time in a long while we registered a balance of payments surplus on capital account. Net capital outflow decreased five-fold over the first three quarters of this year compared to 2015, down to $9.6 billion. I remind you that in 2015, the figure for the same period was more than $48 billion, and total net capital outflow in 2015 was $57.5 billion. Now it is $9.6 billion.
Another sign of the growing business interest in Russia is that the net flow of foreign direct investment into Russia’s non-financial sector increased 3.6-fold over the first three quarters of this year and came to $8.3 billion.
Stock market capitalisation is growing. The MICEX and RTS indices each added around 200 points. These are good trend indicators and reflect the level of confidence in Russia and the business community’s assessment of our country’s prospects. This assessment is very important to us, particularly now, when the stability we have achieved has not yet become steady long-term growth. At the same time, we are fully aware that economic growth does not happen automatically and that we need to work on creating the conditions for growth. In this respect, I want to say a few words about our economic agenda for the upcoming period.
First, we need to support the emerging trends for improved macroeconomic stability, including by continuing our efforts to achieve our inflation targets and continue a responsible budget policy. Speaking frankly, perhaps it is still a bit early in today’s situation, but the Government does have a dose of healthy optimism and I certainly support them in this too. The Government will examine the draft budget tomorrow.
We succeeded in balancing the 2017 budget with a 3-percent deficit. This is an acceptable level, even compared to the world’s leading economies. Of course, we are fully aware that this does represent a significant amount for our economy and we know that we must be very careful with this deficit during budget planning and execution. This is precisely the approach we will take. The Government was able to obtain this figure by optimising public expenditures and making them more effective.
Federal budget spending as a percentage of GDP will drop from 19.8 percent in 2016 to 18.5 percent in 2017 and 16.2 percent in 2019. Specialists, which include the majority of people here today, all realise that this not a simple task. But we think that the task has been formulated properly and we will proceed carefully along this path, taking care at the same time to respect our social commitments to the people of Russia.
Second, in the context of the current limitations, we must make maximum use of existing opportunities and reserves for economic growth. We have created many new instruments to encourage investment recently. These include the zones offering particular tax breaks, development institutions, and incentives of different types.
I propose discussing here today how effectively these mechanisms are working and what we can do to make them more effective, not increase their number, but improve their quality.
Third, we need to continue our efforts to remove barriers to private initiative. I am talking not just about administrative barriers making it hard to enter the market. We need to give particular attention to technical issues such as access to the best technology and a qualified workforce.
We often repeat like a mantra these days that the notorious sanctions are having little impact. But they do have an impact. We feel this above all in restrictions on technology transfers. This causes losses for the Russian economy and for the global economy in general, because the Russian economy is without question an important part of the general global economy. Those who impose these sanctions are therefore ultimately harming themselves. But I think that we will find ways for coping with this situation too.
This concerns the workforce too. Yes, we have always been proud of the quality of our education and of our workers’ high qualifications, but we still have much to do to ensure that this meets global standards, and we have to even try to be a step ahead in some things. It is a key task for the Government to draft an exhaustive list of measures to take in this area and make necessary funding provisions.
Friends,
Today Russia needs to achieve a new quality of economic growth and support concrete initiatives to create new jobs, spread new technology and raise labour productivity. This is our strategic task. We are ready for this work and will follow this road. We most certainly invite to join us all who are interested in partnership and cooperation with us.
Thank you very much for your attention. (Applause)
President and Chairman of the Board of VTB Bank Andrei Kostin: Thank you, Mr President.
Colleagues, you will now have the chance to put questions to the panel participants.
Mr President, if you permit, we received a number of written questions from the forum participants before the session began. Perhaps I could take one of these questions to get the discussion going.
The question is probably rather an everyday one: “Mr President, you have been travelling around Russia and meeting with business representatives for many years now. Comparing your most recent impressions with your observations from, say, 10 years ago, what are the biggest changes in entrepreneurs’ mood, problems and interests that you have noticed?”
Vladimir Putin: You know, people’s mood, confidence in their own ability, and confidence in the state authorities’ ability to resolve the issues facing the country are very important factors for economic stability and even for ensuring the needed pace of economic growth. It is very clear that people have more confidence today. But at the same time, this creates particular responsibilities for the authorities at all levels, the Government, the President, the State Duma deputies, and the regional authorities. We need to maintain this trend, support it and develop it further. I hope very much that we will succeed here.
Andrei Kostin: Colleagues, I ask the audience to put questions now to the panel participants. Can I ask you to please keep your questions brief and avoid lengthy commentary?
Thank you.
Question: Thank you, Mr President. Brett Diment, Aberdeen Asset Management. We’re one of the larger asset management companies in Europe, with 14
billion dollars under management. We have extensive investments in Russian ruble government bonds, US dollar government bonds issues by the Russian Federation and corporate bonds. Russia has had an extremely impressive macro-stabilisation over the past two years, after the shock of the lower oil price – and that is set to continue for the next three years with fixed nominal spending. And that’s quite a contrast to a lot of the countries we see, not just among Russia’s peers, but if you look in the UK or the US, there’s growing pressure to increase government spending. Is that a risk that we could potentially see in Russia over coming years?
Vladimir Putin: This is not a general trend in the world. The United States, Britain and several other countries might be pursuing this policy, but in other countries, in continental Europe, for example, we see that economic officials are making other choices and support consolidating budget spending and state spending in the broader sense in general. The truth is always somewhere in the middle, and we are trying to choose precisely this golden mean.
As you heard, I said in my opening remarks that we will limit spending that is not effective and will make state spending more effective in practically all areas. At the same time, we will raise the quality of management in the broad sense of the term. I think that if we concentrate on resolving the tasks before us through these means, we will be successful.
Andrei Kostin: Thank you.
Colleagues, who is next?
Question: Thank you, Mr President. I am from Metzler Asset Management from Germany. We have an Eastern European fund – half a billion dollars invested in Eastern Europe, with Russia being the largest part. So it is a very important country for us. My question will be on economic performance. Compared to 2015 and 2016, the level of oil price was broadly unchanged and the sanctions as well were broadly unchanged, but the economy has struggled to return to growth. What are, in your view, the limiting factors for that, and also what kind of structural reforms are needed to overcome the growth performance? Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: The most important thing for us now is to raise labour productivity. This is a key issue. Equipping the real sector of the economy and introducing new technology are related issues.
I want to repeat what I just said. We need to improve management quality. Poor management quality is one factor holding back growth. There are also a whole range of factors regarding economic diversification in general.
We have stated our priorities. They remain unchanged and we will continue to follow them. As I said, we hope very much for more active work from our banking institutions as far as investment activity is concerned. We will support and develop the instruments I have spoken about, the free zones, priority development areas, and breaks for various types of activity, including for small and medium-sized business, high-tech production facilities and so on.
Andrei Kostin: Thank you.
Who is next? Please, go ahead.
Question: Thank you for your thoughts, Mr President. My question relates to the role of the state controlled banks. Over the last two years, we witnessed a steady and substantial concentration of the Russian banking sector and domestic credit, centred on the state-controlled banks. Thanks to sanctions, they also face diminished competition from the global markets. Is this state of play desirable? Or should the government and the Bank of Russia should consider measures to deliberately increase the footprint of privately controlled institutions? Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Russia’s consolidation of banking assets is no different in nature to the global trend in this area. Many decisions were taken in this sector after 2008, following the fluctuations on the global markets, decisions that concerned preventing monopolisation of markets and so on, but no one is actually implementing these decisions and consolidation of banking assets is taking place everywhere. Russia is no exception in this regard, because no effective market instruments to restrain this kind of consolidation have been found yet.
Indeed, we have four major banks with state participation: Sberbank, VTB – the host of today’s venue for our discussion – Gazprombank and Rosselkhozbank. They have controlling interest, that is, more than 51 percent of assets. This is so.
Let me repeat that the same thing is happening in the rest of the world. But I want to draw your attention to the fact that despite the efforts of the Bank of Russia (Central Bank) to rid the market of different quasi-banking structures by depriving them of licenses, Russia still has almost 600 banks. If we count other credit institutions, this number exceeds 600. I think the total is 648. In other words, we have enough banking institutions and the top ten are mostly banks with private capital. Yes, the afore-mentioned four banks are in the lead but we don’t see it as a big problem.
The goal of the Bank of Russia – and I think all experts understand what I’m referring to – is to rid the banking system of inefficient and unreliable financial institutions. Needless to say, this should be done with caution in order to prevent damage to economic entities and individuals. Relevant compensation should be paid in time and in the amounts established by the law.
However, I think the Bank of Russia still made a mistake, at least in the past few years. It should have taken this decision earlier. This is the whole point. But better late than never. Still, let me repeat that it is necessary to act with great caution and pay particular attention to the interests of private individuals who are bank depositors, our citizens.
Where to go from here? I think we should concentrate on the quality of regulation and control rather than the number of banks.
Andrei Kostin: May I add a few words?
Vladimir Putin: Of course, you are the boss.
Andrei Kostin: No, you are the boss Mr President.
Mr President, this issue is very important for us because the Western press (just recently I received a query) keeps making the claim that a state bank is a bank chaired by the Kremlin or even you personally. As if you call up and give instructions. No matter how many times I tell them this is not right…
Vladimir Putin: This is a Government bank, so that would be Mr Medvedev.
Andrei Kostin: This is what I wanted to say. The IMF has just issued its report and the IMF obviously does not favour state banks. Commenting on this report Karl Habermeier (who led the IMF team that made it) said that although it is believed that in developing economies state banks act on instructions from the government, this is not the case in Russia. He wrote that in Russia state banks operate in an absolutely competitive and commercial environment and do not differ from private commercial banks in their activities.
So all those who are interested in this issue can consult the IMF website. Even the IMF acknowledges that by and large there is not much difference in the operation of these banks. I believe this topic has been built up into something it is not.
Vladimir Putin: I would like to add something about guidance, too. I think if we gave proper guidance on the operational management of state-owned banking institutions, bank lending for investment activities would be different.
For your information, investment lending from banks is only 8 percent; 50 percent of investment is provided by participants in economic activities, 18 percent comes from the federal budget, and only 8 percent is provided by banking institutions. Meanwhile, bank profits rose to 600 percent compared to last year.
However, let us assume that the last year’s number was very small and the increase made up 600 percent. But if we look at the capital base, which is quite big ‒ if I am mistaken, Ms Nabiullina [Central Bank Governor] will correct me ‒ about 9 trillion rubles plus assets, we can see that Russia’s banking system is alive and kicking.
According to the Bank of Russia, the minimum rate should be 8 percent, whereas the real rate is 12.5 percent. So we hope that the role of financial institutions, especially banking institutions, including those that are state-owned, in financing and lending to the Russian economy, to the real economic sector will grow without any administrative interference in their activities.
Andrei Kostin: I strongly believe that VTB Bank would operate even better if you gave guidance, Mr President.
Please, colleagues. The next question comes from CNBS. It always asks tricky questions. Maybe we should also hear one tricky question.
Question: Thank you very much, Mr President. I’m Rick Boucher, a former member of the United States Congress, and I’m currently a partner in the law firm Sidley Austin. I’m concerned about the apparently deteriorating quality of the relationship between the United States and Russia. It’s a leading issue in our presidential campaign. It’s in the news every day. And I think we all could agree that business is stronger both in Russia and the US when the relationship between our countries is stronger as well. So, I would be interested in your view of the nature of our bilateral relationship going forward, the steps that you think can be taken to make it stronger. And specifically, in the interest of removing the Ukraine-related sanctions, what barriers you see to the implementation of the Minsk Accords and when do you think the Minsk Accords will be fully implemented? Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: We are also concerned by the deterioration of Russian-US relations. That is not our choice. We have never sought this. On the contrary, we want to have friendly relations with a vast and great country and the world’s leading economy such as the US economy.
You just mentioned the crisis in Ukraine. However, we were not the ones who brought about a coup d’état in Ukraine. Was it us who did that? No. Our US partners make no particular secret of the fact that to a very large extent they were behind that, financing the radical opposition and bringing the situation to an unconstitutional change of government, even though everything could have been done differently. Former President Yanukovych met all the demands and was ready to hold early elections. Instead, a coup d’état was engineered. Why?
And when we had – to reiterate, had – to defend the Russian-speaking population in Donbass, when we had to respond to the desire of the people living in Crimea to return to the Russian Federation, a new spiral of an anti-Russian policy was immediately launched and sanctions were introduced.
You brought up the Minsk Agreements. But we are not the ones who are sabotaging the Minsk Agreements. I cannot help repeating: we cannot amend the Ukrainian Constitution for the current Kiev authorities, which is a key factor. We cannot implement the law on the special status of governance in Donbass that was adopted by the Verkhovna Rada either. It has not been implemented so far.
Although, it should have been done as soon as possible, according to the Minsk Agreements. I cannot sign the amnesty law adopted by the Rada; I just cannot do this for the Ukrainian President. They always refer to the fact that they cannot do it because of shootouts in the conflict zone in Donbass.
On September 9, the self-defenders of Donbass unilaterally, I would like to stress, said they would not respond to the Ukrainian Armed Forces’ shelling. So what? Some political actions were said to be taken immediately after that. But nothing is happening. No direct contacts have been established so far between the representatives of Donbass and the official Kiev authorities.
Therefore, if someone really wants the agreements to be implemented, they should influence all parties to the conflict, especially the Kiev authorities. What is stopping that? I cannot understand. There will be no progress without reaching political agreements. This is the first thing.
And now globally. You know, it is very difficult to hold dialogue with the current Administration. You are a former Congressman, I do not know whether the situation was always like this, but there is almost no dialogue. What does it look like? The Administration formulates what it wants and then insists on the implementation of its instructions. But this is a dictate, not a dialogue. And this applies to almost every issue. We are ready for dialogue, but dialogue is a search for compromise.
And now I will answer the main question. What should be done to normalise the situation? The parties should acts as partners and take into account each other’s interests. We are ready for this.
Question: Mr Kostin, thank you. President Putin, I’d just like to build on that question, if I might. Given the difficult week that Donald Trump has just experienced, are you now making preparations for working with President Hillary Clinton next year? A person who has described you as “calculating” and a “bully”. And can I ask you, could you directly address the claims that are being made of state-sponsored cyber spying and war crimes in Syria? I’d love to know how we deescalate this situation.
Vladimir Putin: What state espionage? Was this translated correctly? What is meant by state espionage?
Andrei Kostin: Hackers, I think.
Vladimir Putin: I see.
First. I have often said that the American people will make the choice that they consider necessary. In any event, we will work with any US leader, whoever that leader is and whoever the president is – that is, of course, if the US leader wants to work with our country.
A while back, about a decade ago, Russia was never mentioned, they said there was nothing to talk about with regard to Russia because it was a third-rate regional power that was of no interest. Today, the number one problem in the entire election campaign is Russia. It is the main talking point.
That is very welcome of course, but only partially. Why partially? Because all participants in this process are abusing anti-Russian rhetoric and spoiling our interstate relations. And this is bad both for our countries and for the entire international community. Let us not forget that globally, we bear a special responsibility as the two largest nuclear powers for maintaining international peace and security at the global level.
At the same time, you know, as a rule, we try not to talk about this, but they always whisper this to us in the course of every election campaign – this is happening not only now but was also the case in the previous election campaign. They keep whispering into our left ear and then into our right ear: Pay no attention to this, all of this will pass and we will be friends again. This is wrong. It is wrong to use Russia as a bargaining chip in internal political struggles and damage interstate relations. That is just not serious enough, to say the least. That is my first point.
Second, regarding the assumption that Russia is exerting pressure on someone, on other countries. Who is telling us this? Who is saying this? Our partners. The Administration is doing nothing but putting pressure on all countries. They are eavesdropping and tapping their allies and using this information. This is my response to the hacker attacks.
What are we witnessing? Some hackers published information about the unseemly conduct of Ms Clinton’s campaign headquarters – supporting one candidate for the party nomination at the expense of the other.
Hysterical accusations that this is in Russia’s interests were made. But there is nothing in Russia’s interests there. They freak out about it to distract the attention of the American people from the importance of what was published by the hackers. And the importance is that public opinion is being manipulated, but nobody talks about it. Everyone is talking about who did it, but is it so important who did it? What is important is the content of this information. That’s my answer.
Andrei Kostin: Thank you. Second section, please.
Question: Mr President, I represent Alstom. I have a question that all French people want to ask you. This is about your cancelled visit to Paris. You cancelled it because the President’s programme changed too often. We realise that Hollande’s position was determined by Russia’s veto on Syria in the UN Security Council. Don’t you think your response was too tough?
Second, what signal are you sending to investors? I’m asking this because French investors are used to good relations between Russia and France. As you understand, we want to keep this habit.
Vladimir Putin: Alstom is a very serious company.
I believe I have developed good chemistry with ordinary Russian citizens. I have been doing the job of president for a fairly long time but even I cannot say that I speak on behalf of every Russian citizen because I am not sure I know the mood of every individual.
But nonetheless Alstom is a large company and probably can speak on behalf of the entire French nation, or at least ask questions.
You have just said that our response to the French draft resolution in the UN Security Council was too tough. This is why our French partners and friends reacted like this. First, I must say that we treasure our relations with France and consider France one of our priority partners in Europe. This is how it has worked out historically and it is the same today.
Regarding this specific case. You know, we do not like airing this diplomatic laundry. It may looks nice, but sometimes the smell isn’t too nice. But if we have to respond, we have to, and I will answer. It is not our partners who should be offended by our veto of the French resolution. We should be offended. I will tell you why.
Our respected friend and colleague, the French foreign minister came to Moscow and presented the French resolution. To which our foreign minister said: “We will not vote against it if you take our amendments and considerations on this issue into account. We are deeply involved in this crisis, in these problems; we know the details.” To which his French counterpart said: “Yes, of course, nor do we want to be slapped with this kind of veto.” Our representative to the UN in New York was told the same. Lavrov laid out the Russian position and there is nothing excessive in it.
I can tell you frankly what this was all about. The French resolution blamed the situation entirely on the Syrian authorities and said nothing about the opposition – in this case I am not talking about terrorists – the opposition that should also bear some responsibility, and some tasks should also be put before it. That is my first point.
Second, we stated that we were willing to endorse the initiative of the UN Secretary-General’s special envoy Mr de Mistura regarding the militants’ withdrawal from Aleppo. The French side took a positive view of that. We expected further joint constructive work both with France and with other Security Council members.
So what happened next? The French foreign minister left Moscow for Washington and the following day he and Mr Kerry accused Russia of every sin imaginable; no one talked to us and discussed nothing with us, and they threw this resolution at the Security Council, clearly expecting our veto. Why?
Not for the resolution to be adopted – they submitted it knowing our position and without even discussing our proposals with us – but for it to be vetoed. Why? To escalate the situation and unleash anti-Russian hysteria in the controlled media, in fact deceiving their people and their citizens. I am referring now not only to France but also to many European countries and the United States. To all appearances, this is especially valuable in the context of an election campaign.
I do not know whether or not this meets the interests of European countries, but serving the foreign policy interests and maybe even domestic policy interests of its allies, in this case the United States – is that the role that should be played by serious politics and serious countries that claim an independent foreign policy and the status of great powers? I am not sure about that.
We are willing to work with all our partners, including our French and European partners, on this very important and pressing problem. After all, we can see what is going on: Russia is being accused of absolutely every sin under the sun, of all crimes.
The airstrike on the humanitarian convoy. If anyone would know who attacked that convoy, it’s us. It was one of the terrorist organisations. And we know that the Americans know that, but prefer to take a different position and blame everything on Russia. This will do nothing to help. This is just what I spoke about recently. This kind of behaviour in the international arena is called pressure and blackmail. However, this has never worked and will never work with Russia. (Applause.)
Andrei Kostin: Thank you.
Colleagues, let me remind you that this is an economic forum so perhaps there could also be some economic questions.
Question (retranslated): Mr President, I’m from the Fosun Group, I’m the chief representative of our Moscow office. Fosun Group is one of the largest investment groups in China. We now have now $80 billion dollars in assets, and half of them are outside China. The first time we attended the VTB Russia Calling! forum was the year 2014. We have already invested hundreds of millions of US dollars. Now we have our rep office here and we have a local team, Fosun Eurasia, here as well. Sino-Russian relationship has got a lot of attention in the past two years. We see that a lot of effort has been made between Russia and other countries in South Asia and other Asia Pacific countries. What significant results have been achieved through these efforts so far? Which of these new directions in Russia’s external economic relationships will be the most significant in the long run? Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: By tradition, we have long been developing our relations with countries of the Asia Pacific region. In this context, our special strategic relations with the People’s Republic of China certainly play a special role. Country-wise, it is our largest trade and economic partner.
Yes, in recent years, our trade and economic ties with many countries of the region, including China, in the past couple of years, declined, but they are still considerable. Last year, our trade with China was worth $63.5 billion. But to reiterate, with some countries it declined while with others it grew a little, for example, with Vietnam. Our trade with Vietnam is visibly growing.
I would like to note that we have been especially pleased recently with the diversification of our relations with Asia Pacific countries – Japan, India, China and the Republic of Korea, among others. This includes machine building, space and the high-tech energy sector – I mean nuclear energy. It is especially important that these investment flows are moving both ways – to Russia and from Russia. A number of very large investment projects, especially in the nuclear power sector, are to a considerable extent financed from Russian sources.
What could we offer to address the tasks we are faced with and help further our relations? This is furthering relations between the Eurasian Economic Union and the countries you have mentioned, including China.
For example, we have signed a free trade zone agreement with Vietnam, and it has already come into effect. It is a fact. We have launched comprehensive talks on developing economic relations between China and the Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU), seeking to align China’s Silk Road Economic Belt initiative, which we consider to be very interesting and promising, with the EAEU. It is a very important and large-scale process.
Of course, we will continue working within the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation, especially considering that it is growing to an impressive scale. Actually, it will acquire a global scale after the accession of India and Pakistan. This is a highly optimistic trend in that our trade and economic relations with Asian and Latin American countries, which account for some 28 percent, tend to increase.
Andrei Kostin: Thank you. Colleagues, do you have more questions? Please, Sector 5.
Question: Thank you, Mr President. I hear a lot of discussion about hackers and a state visit being cancelled. But as the gentleman said, this is an economic forum. You also talk about Europe, America and Asia. But from what I understand, the resources are in Africa. The growth is in Africa. And we’ve been receiving a lot of lessons, too, on how we should run our businesses. So is Russia under your leadership willing to play a more active role in investment and partnership in the Central African countries? I’m the CEO of the Gabon National Oil Company, and we’ll be more than welcoming to Russian investment. I know it’s Russia Calling!, but there might also be Africa calling Russia – a voice you should hear in this room. Thank you!
Vladimir Putin: We have traditionally, historically good, trust-based relations with African countries, as you know. We had no relations with some countries in the past, but we had very close ties with other countries, ties that could be described as strategic partnership. Of course, we must revive them.
We see that many countries are becoming increasingly active in Africa. We would have undoubtedly acted likewise at the bilateral level, by taking all possible efforts. We will promote this within international organisations such as BRICS. You know that we have created financial instruments at this group, including those aimed at cooperation with African countries not only through the South African Republic, but also directly through ties with our African partners.
We are aware of opportunities in Africa. By the way, some Russian companies have started working in the mining and several other industries there. We cannot and will not do this as the Soviet Union did, that is exclusively out of political considerations. But we know that Africa’s potential is huge and should definitely tap into it on market principles and based on mutual interest. I will not enumerate all the projects that some of our companies have recently implemented in Africa, but we will certainly support their efforts there.
Question: Hi, this is Charlie Radcliffe from Berry Palmer & Lyle of the London insurance market. The seventh State Duma started its session last week and United Russia’s majority was as expected. What wasn’t foreseen was perhaps the largest majority ever. How do you interpret the election results?
Vladimir Putin: There were no surprises. We were right in our forecasts. (Laughter.) What I probably did not expect is that United Russia would receive so many votes, but the trend was obvious. It is based on many factors, as I have said, such as public trust in our domestic and foreign policies, as well as the consolidation of Russian society. It is a fact.
At the same time, public trust in the authorities in the broad meaning of this word, which is how we interpret the election results, is a huge moral responsibility. Considering the current economic challenges, we must preserve the health and stability of the Russian economy, which is our priority. But there must be no question about the implementation of our social obligations.
It is a difficult task, but we can fulfil it by acting responsibly and, as I have said, by gradually improving our governance standards and accurately choosing our economic, defence, security and social priorities. In my opinion, this is exactly how the Government has been tackling the tasks facing the country. We will do our utmost to live up to the trust placed in us.
Andrei Kostin: Thank you.
Mr President, I beg your pardon, but Mr Pegorier, who, as you said, is speaking on behalf of the French people, asked to make a clarification. He wanted to ask what message he can take to French investors.
Vladimir Putin: You know, nothing has changed in our relations with France and the French people, or with French investors.
The matter here is that my press secretary said that we cancelled [the visit to France] so as to be in a stronger position, it seems. But in reality, we did not cancel this visit. All that happened was that the French officials made it clear that this was not the best time for the cultural centre’s official opening and for discussing all these humanitarian issues. They suggested postponing these plans to a later date, and we agreed with this idea.
We never tried to impose this visit in the first place. I said many times to our partners that if this is not the best time, we can postpone it. It was the French who kept saying that there was no problem and the visit should go ahead. We were ready to go with that. And then they said that no, this was not the best time. Alright, so let’s postpone it then. But this has not changed anything in our relations with France, the French people and French business.
I hope that nothing serious will happen in our relations with the French authorities and with our partners at the political level. I have very good personal relations with President Hollande and I value these relations. I hope that this will help us to overcome any current difficulties.
Andrei Kostin: Thank you.
Are there any more questions?
Reply: Do we still have time?
Vladimir Putin: Time? There’s never enough time, but if you still have questions…let’s try to take the last few.
Alexander Branis: Thank you.
Alexander Branis.
Hello, Mr President.
I want to get away from international politics and come back to local matters, in particular, reform of state-owned enterprises and raising management quality, subjects you have spoken about. We see that many Russian state-owned companies have been very successful, Rosneft, Alrosa, and Aeroflot, for example. Our portfolio now contains a record share of investment in state-owned companies – 40 percent, because we see big opportunities ahead for these companies. We see that you and the Government continue to attract qualified managers. You have done so in the past and continue now, to Russian Railways, RusHydro, and VEB, for example.
In this respect, I have a question regarding one of the gas companies. You know, I compared the financial results for the first half of the year with the results from 11 years ago, in 2005. What is interesting about this comparison? It shows that gas prices and export volumes sold abroad were practically the same in 2005 and in 2016.
Gazprom has worked well with the regulator. In Russia, they sell gas at a cost four times more expensive in rubles than they did back then, but in dollars, despite the ruble’s devaluation, this is 1.5 times higher.
Andrei Kostin: Could you make your question shorter?
Vladimir Putin: This is not a question but a whole speech, but we are listening with attention. What you say is interesting.
Alexander Branis: Thank you. I have already got to the middle of my question and will come to the question itself soon.
Sadly, operating profit is 40 percent lower than it was 11 years ago. This is due to the fact that costs have increased rapidly. Perhaps this is not the biggest problem though. The biggest problem is that we sometimes get the impression that the company works not for its shareholders, not for the consumers or for the state, but for the subcontractors, who build various facilities for them.
Over these 11 years, they have invested $200 billion. This is a big amount of money. It has gone into expanding pipelines and developing new fields. This is not counting the $80 billion spent simply on maintaining capacity. We see that no more than 60–65 percent of all of this capacity is actually being used now.
In this context, I wanted to ask you to share your thoughts on these results of Gazprom’s activity and the strategy it has pursued over these years.
Thank you very much.
Vladimir Putin: This is really a very serious matter as it concerns the effectiveness of a company in which the state has a stake. These are not state-owned enterprises, but companies in which the state either has a controlling or other stake. They are joint-stock companies, however, companies with a significant share of private capital, including foreign capital.
They have to work on the market, and this concerns the banking sector too, without signals and management from the state authorities. This is the way things work in practice. It is primarily for the expert community and the state representatives on the company boards to evaluate the effectiveness of their work and the expediency of their investments when the market is down as concerns infrastructure expansion and production.
I want to inform you that I plan to meet with officials from our biggest companies with state participation, and I will ask the Government and the Presidential Executive Office to prepare the relevant information and an analysis of what has been done over this time, including this year. We will then assess the effectiveness of the different companies with state participation.
As for development strategy, rather than saying that the company is working for its subcontractors, we should be asking ourselves if it is making the right choices by expanding gas production and infrastructure facilities now, when the market is down, or whether it would do better to wait.
I was in Turkey just recently. I spoke there and said that after the fall in oil prices, investment in production has dropped to its lowest level in the last 70 years. This is a big danger for global energy. In this sense, our companies’ activity, which takes the line that the downward price trend will end sooner or later, looks justified in my view. But we need to examine the figures to see just how much this is indeed the case.
As you know, in Turkey, we reached an agreement with our Turkish partners on building a new pipeline system. This is being done not simply to build a pipeline and bury it in the Black Sea, but as an additional access route to a promising part of the European market. Our European partners have an interest in this and they tell us this directly. We have assured sales markets, in other words. Otherwise it would make no sense to undertake these projects.
There is also the construction of the Power of Siberia project, for example. Yes, this calls for big investments, but it will take us to the huge and growing Chinese market. China’s growth rates have slowed down a little, but it still has the highest growth rates in the world. The Chinese economy is growing and we know that it needs energy resources. This is work for the future, for the long term. If we are running too far ahead somewhere, adjustments can be made, but I do not see evidence of this for now.
Please, go ahead.
Anastasia Levashova: Thank you, Mr President.
Anastasia Levashova from Blackfriars Fund, London.
I wanted to come back to the issue of economic sanctions. This is a key issue, after all, for the investment climate and for the economy. The sanctions were initially tied to the Ukraine crisis and implementation of the Minsk Agreements. They have not succeeded in fully isolating the Russian economy, but they have nonetheless made their impact felt.
Now there are calls for sanctions linked to Syria. How much sense would this make, in your view? How long will these sanctions last in the current form, and what place do they have on your agenda?
Vladimir Putin: We made our position known long ago and I think it is very clear and is confirmed not only by our own experts but by international experts too, people in Europe and North America. Our position is that any restrictions in the economy taken for political motivations are harmful to everyone.
As for isolation, they do not have the engine power and petrol enough to bypass all our borders. What kind of isolation can we speak of for a country like Russia? This is simply not possible.
What is this about? It is an instrument of pressure. We think that this is very harmful. We should take not the road of pressure and blackmail, but the road of finding compromises. I have said on countless occasions that we are ready to look for compromises. We would like very much for our partners to take this approach with us.
The main thing to keep in mind here though, the principle that we ourselves must remember, above all, is that if we were ever to give in to blackmail of this sort, we would ultimately lose out economically too because we would end up becoming someone’s economic appendage. Russia will never allow this to happen because it would never survive this.
Question: Hello. Niall Paul from TT International. The question I would like to ask is around infrastructure priorities for Russian investment. Like many governments, Russia has highlighted infrastructure as an area to de-bottleneck growth. What are the one or two priority areas for this investment and how can it be facilitated?
Vladimir Putin: Investment here, in the Russian economy?
Response: Yes, in the Russian economy.
Vladimir Putin: The high-tech sectors would be the main area, complete with technology transfers and human resources training.
Question: Mr President, thank you very much for your detailed presentation and your direct responses. My name is Claire Husson-Citanna, I’m a fixed income portfolio manager for Wellington Investment Management. I’m here with two of my colleagues thanks to VTB. Our firm provides global investment solutions for institutional investors in more than 55 countries with about 970 billion in global assets under management. My question actually concerns those outbound infrastructure FDIs. As you pointed out, there are new international and financial institutions, such as BRICS or the Asian Investment Bank of China, that the emerging markets have established. So from your perspective are these new international financial institutions competing alternatives to the Bretton Woods institutions or are they an organic enhancement of the existing international financial architecture? And where do you see Russia in international development financing in five years from now?
Vladimir Putin: There is always room for healthy economic competition on the market, but this should not be competition of the sort that destroys or replaces something. Rather, it should be about creating new institutions that fit organically into the already existing and functioning international financial and investment systems, which work quite successfully, though not without glitches.
We know and debate often the question of how the IMF should develop and whether international financial institutions can act in the interests of someone’s political ambitions or follow someone’s orders in violation of its own rules, which would undermine trust in these institutions. But these are minor questions really.
Overall, the new financial organisations have a mission to become an organic part of what has already been created and to work in specific areas, above all in areas that will ensure the economic interests and growth of the countries participating in these groups, in particular the BRICS group.
For your information, let me stress that maintaining the current growth and development rates alone, the BRICS countries need from around $800 billion to $1.2 trillion. The current institutions are not in a position to cope with demand of this level.
The new institutions are being created above all to address these needs. This does not mean that they will focus only on their own interests in work between countries. We could, for example, within the BRICS system, plan to work with our colleagues on the African continent and so on.
Question: Good afternoon, Mr President. I’m Michael Renaud from Capital in Iowa. Thank you for the opportunity to speak to you today. I’d like to go back to the economy again, and specifically SOEs and efficiency. Thee years ago you launched a programme for the long-term development of the state-owned enterprises. The question is: how are they doing, how can you monitor that, and how can you as the government ensure efficiency? And to joke a bit, would, like Mr Trump, you just announce that people are fired? How can you actually get that efficiency going? And I’m joking about that. Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Hold on a moment, can you repeat your question? I want to make sure I understand. Could you repeat the main part of your question, please?
Question: The question was, how do you ensure efficiency in the programme for the long-term growth of the state-owned enterprises in Russia, which you announced in 2013? And the question is how are the SOEs doing, how do you measure that, and how do you ensure efficiency, especially without more active participation of the private sector?
Vladimir Putin: First of all, the private sector does participate and is set to play an even bigger part. One of the tasks facing our big companies with state participation is to distribute orders related to their main activities among small businesses and private companies. We have made considerable progress in this area over the last year. The number of orders that big Russian corporations are placing with small and medium-sized businesses has grown substantially. This is an important factor for the Russian economy’s internal growth.
As for how we will go about improving their work, there is an instrument here that is no different from what other countries around the world use – participation of state representatives on the management boards. But here, as in the case with Gazprom, for example, we never intervene directly in the companies’ day-to-day management and we give them the chance and the right to work as equals with all other market players.
Question (retranslated): Mr President, I represent a Chinese high-tech company.
Listening to the many questions, we realise that there are many people around the world who, sadly, do not respect or support the Voice of Russia and do not understand its position. At the same time, as a Chinese company, we support and sponsor Voice of Russia’s television programme. The matter now is that at the St Petersburg International Economic Forum, we announced that we plan to invest from $500 million to $1 billion in the Russian economy next year, in online movie theatres and video content components.
Unfortunately, we have heard of late that there is a tendency to limit foreign capital in this market segment. My question is about your position regarding creating opportunities for Russian-Chinese cultural exchanges as opposed to Anglo-Saxon culture. We can be of help. We see great potential and success for Russian cartoons and films, for example, Ekipazh (Flight Crew) and other films were successful on the Chinese market. We would like to see such opportunities for working here in Russia.
Thank you very much.
Vladimir Putin: Regarding Anglo-Saxon, Russian or Chinese culture… yes, of course this is something we can discuss, but we are all part of global culture. It is not possible to imagine global culture without China’s great culture and its thousands of years of history. The Chinese people’s achievements laid the foundations for whole layers of global culture. Even if some do not realise this, but it is the case.
Of course, each people and culture have their own great uniqueness. Humanity’s future, without question, lies in exchanging these different cultures’ achievements and mutually complementing each other. We place great importance on this, including with regard to our Chinese friends. We are neighbours. We cannot choose our neighbours and this is a good thing. Over these last decades, we have developed quite unique relations of trust and mutual support.
As for the specific market segment you mentioned, we will certainly support the efforts of our partners – Chinese, European, and American – but keeping in mind this idea of uniqueness that enables us to preserve our national cultural identity. We do have to make efforts of one kind or another to support our own producers and our national content. But we must be careful, of course, in the way we do this.
We particularly welcome our potential investors’ financial activities if it will involve national content. This is something very important to us. Let’s then discuss all of these matters in a practical light. We are ready to find the most liberal and acceptable decisions for our partners.
Question: Thank you very much for this opportunity. Mr President, I’m Garry Barnes from PGGM Investments. I’ll keep this question brief and economic-orientate. I’d like to ask a question with regards to the privatisation programme of the government and in particular Bashneft. Some of us in the investment community were somewhat surprised by the fact that the government decided to defer the divestment of the government stake. And then also, in fact, Rosneft was allowed to bid on the stake. Was this a surprise to you too and what are your thoughts on this?
Vladimir Putin: You know, this might sound strange, but I myself was somewhat surprised by the Government’s position. This is the Russian Federation Government’s position though, above all, the position taken by its financial and economic officials. It is dictated by the following considerations.
First, Rosneft, as I already said, like many other big companies with state participation, is not a state-owned company, strictly speaking. It is a company in which the state holds a controlling stake, but in which foreign investors also hold a considerable stake, in particular, British Petroleum.
Second, Rosneft made the highest bid. I know the offer now. I don’t know, should I give the figure? I can? It is 330 billion rubles. This is a bit higher than the valuation made by independent international experts. In other words, they are offering more than the market price.
Next. Why is Rosneft able to do this and do the state representatives in the company not consider this decision detrimental for their company itself? The reason for this is that Bashneft’s acquisition and the subsequent sale of a large stake – 19.5 percent – in Rosneft itself will produce a synergy effect. In other words, the value of this 19.5-percent stake in Rosneft will increase considerably. Rosneft will thus be able to not only recoup the costs of the small premium it gives the state in acquiring Bashneft, but will be able to sell its own stake at a good price.
The next circumstance is that the Rosneft stake’s sale will take place through the company Rosneftegaz and, in accordance with all the rules and laws, the money from this company will come directly into the national budget, which, from the Finance Ministry’s point of view, is very good for budget planning.
Finally, and perhaps most important, we are not ending the privatisation process here. We are saying that this considerable 19.5-percent stake in Rosneft should be privatised, and private investors and perhaps even foreign investors can take part. Is this not privatisation? It is, but it is carefully conducted privatisation that pursues a synergy effect and maximum advantage in terms of the budget’s interests.
We are not indifferent to the position of Bashkortostan, our partner, the federal government’s partner, which holds a significant stake. The Republic of Bashkortostan has appealed directly to us with a request to maintain their influence in the company’s management with this stake. The proposed structure makes this possible. It was a combination of all of these factors that motivated the Government to make the decision it did.
We know the proposals other companies have made and we will support their efforts. These companies include LUKOIL and others. They work effectively and are eminently worthy to acquire a stake in Bashneft. But I think it rather improbable that they would be able to acquire Bashneft and a 19.5-percent in Rosneft, especially at what is quite a high price.
We will support all of our companies, if not in this particular deal, then in other areas, and give them the conditions they need to work effectively on the Russian and international markets and raise their capitalisation, including by granting them licenses to expand their activities.
Andrei Kostin: Mr President, VTB Bank was a consultant for the Government on this deal. We share this view in full and think it is absolutely right.
Vladimir Putin: There we go then.
Andrei Kostin: Companies must have equal rights, no matter whether they have state participation or not. We all work in the same legal framework and in this sense, whoever offers the highest price is the one who wins the bid.
Question: Elena Lovén, portfolio manager for Swedbank Robur.
Our total investment in Russia and Eastern Europe now comes to around 1 billion euros.
My question concerns Russia’s energy policy. We have heard a lot about this today. I just want to clarify, in terms of Russia’s role on the hydrocarbons market and as a global player in terms of production and resources. Mr President, what is in Russia’s best interests now, to increase production, leave it at the current level, or perhaps lower it, given that the oil price paradigm has changed?
Vladimir Putin: It is in the interests of the Russian economy and energy sector, and indeed of the global economy, to freeze production at the current level. By and large, we could even consider a reduction, but there is not any real need for this. If the OPEC countries can agree among themselves on freezing production levels, we will join them in this decision.
The only problem right now is with agreements between particular countries, between Iran and Saudi Arabia – there is no secret here. Their positions have become much closer. The matter under discussion is Iran’s pre-crisis production level, which was 4,2 million.
The figure proposed now is 3.9 million, not a significant drop, a decrease of 300,000 – practically nothing. I do not see any problems in the way of reaching a final agreement on freezing production at the current level.
Thank you very much for your attention.
Topics
Economy and finance
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 12, 2016, 16:30
Text versionEvents
Answers to questions from French journalists from TF1 TV channel
The interview was recorded on October 11, 2016 in Kovrov, Vladimir Region.
October 12, 2016
21:15
Kovrov
1 of 3
Answers to questions from French journalists from TF1 TV channel.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: How did you end up here? This is a just a small provincial town. These days, you find French people wherever you go in Russia, in every village. This is very good and we are pleased to see it.
Question (retranslated): Mr President, could you explain why you are not going to Paris?
Vladimir Putin: It’s very simple. We had planned to hold an official opening ceremony for the newly built Russian religious and cultural centre in Paris. From the looks of things though, this is not the best moment for official meetings, given the lack of mutual understanding, to put it mildly, that we have over events in Syria, particularly the situation in Aleppo. But we are always open, of course, to any consultations and dialogue on this matter.
Question: This is exactly what the French hoped for – to use this opportunity to discuss the situation in Syria, but it is for this reason that you are renouncing this visit.
Vladimir Putin: You know, it is not that we are renouncing the visit, but simply that we were told that the main reason for this visit, namely, opening the religious and cultural centre, is not appropriate at this moment. But if the main reason for my visit to Paris is not appropriate, we will probably find another opportunity to meet and discuss Syria. We set no limitations concerning this matter and we are open for dialogue.
It’s simply that it was made known to us that now is not the most convenient time for the events that were planned, that’s all. We are not renouncing the visit.
Question: Many Western representatives, including [US Secretary of State John] Kerry, [French Foreign Minister Jean-Marc] Ayrault and even [French President] Francois Hollande have used tough rhetoric against Russia over the airstrikes against Aleppo, which have hit civilian targets and even hospitals. Some have even used expressions such as “war crimes.” What is your response to this?
Vladimir Putin: I would say this is political rhetoric that does not have great significance and does not take into account the real situation in Syria. Let me explain what I mean. I believe deeply that some of the responsibility for what is happening in the region in general and in Syria in particular lies especially with our Western partners, above all the USA and its allies, including the main European countries.
Remember how everyone rushed to support the Arab Spring? Where is that optimism now? How did it all end? Remember what Libya or Iraq looked like before these countries and their organisations were destroyed as states by our Western partners’ forces?
Certainly, these were not examples of democracies as we understand the word today, and there probably was a need and possibility to influence these societies’ organisation, the state organisation, and the nature of these regimes. But whatever the case, these states showed no signs of terrorism. They were not a threat for Paris, for the Cote d’Azur, for Belgium, for Russia, or for the United States.
Now, they are the source of terrorist threats. Our goal is to prevent the same from happening in Syria.
I know your question about refugees. This is what you wanted to ask, it seems? If not, let me address this question all the same. Let’s recall that the refugee problem began long before Russia started making efforts to normalise and stabilise the situation in Syria. The mass departure of people from huge swathes of the Middle East and from Africa and Afghanistan too began long before we started active operations in Syria.
There is no justification for accusing Russia of being responsible for the refugee problem. Our aim is, on the contrary, to create conditions for people to be able to return to their homes.
Regarding the humanitarian situation in Aleppo, have we all forgotten how American forces launched an airstrike in Afghanistan that hit a hospital and killed people from Doctors without Borders among others? Entire wedding parties of up to 100 people were killed in Afghanistan. Look at what has just happened in Yemen, where a single strike killed 170 people and injured 500 at a funeral ceremony.
The sad reality is that wherever military operations take place, innocent people suffer and die. But we cannot allow terrorists to hide between civilians used as a human shield. We cannot allow them to blackmail the entire world when they take hostages, kill, or behead people.
If we want to win the fight against terrorism, we must fight the terrorists and not let them take the lead, not waver and retreat.
Question: Mr President, the thing is that the French do not understand why you are bombing these people you call terrorists. After all, it was ISIS who attacked us, but there are no ISIS forces in Aleppo. This is what the French do not understand.
Vladimir Putin: Let me explain. It is another terrorist group, Jabhat al-Nusra, that controls the situation in Aleppo. This group was always considered a wing of Al Qaeda and is included in the UN’s list of terrorist organisations.
What we find particularly depressing and hard to understand is that our partners, especially the Americans, are always finding a way to try to exclude this group from the list of terrorist organisations. Let me tell you why. It seems to us as though our partners are always repeating the same mistake. They want to use these terrorist organisations’ and radicals’ combat potential to pursue their own political aims, in this case, to combat President Assad and his government, and do not understand that they cannot simply stall them [the rebels] and get them to live by civilised rules after they have tasted victory over someone.
We have reached repeated agreements with the Americans that they will differentiate between Jabhat al-Nusra and its like and the so-called healthy opposition forces, including in Aleppo. They have agreed that this is necessary. What’s more, we have even agreed on concrete deadlines, but nothing is done from one month to the next.
We recently reached a ceasefire agreement, a D-day agreement, as our American friends said. I insisted that they first of all resolve the matter of separating Jabhat al-Nusra and other terrorists from the healthy opposition forces and only then declare the ceasefire.
But the Americans insisted that we first need to declare a ceasefire and then they will take care of separating the terrorists from the non-terrorists. Finally, we agreed to make concessions, agreed to their terms, and on September 12 declared a day of silence and cessation of hostilities. On September 16, American aircraft launched a strike against Syrian army forces that killed 80 people.
At this same moment, immediately after the airstrike, ISIS launched an offensive in this very same place. Our American colleagues told us that this airstrike was made by error. This error cost the lives of 80 people and, also just coincidence, perhaps, ISIS took the offensive immediately afterwards.
At the same time, lower down the ranks, at the operations level, one of the American military service personnel said quite frankly that they spent several days preparing this strike. How could they make an error if they were several days in preparation?
This is how our ceasefire agreement ended up broken. Who broke the agreement? Was it us? No.
Question: The possibility of a new cold war is being discussed, but there is at least one American who likes you – Donald Trump. What do you think about him? Do you like him?
Vladimir Putin: We like everyone. America is a great country, and Americans are interesting, amiable and talented people. They are a great people and nation.
We will work with whomever the Americans elect. Of course, it is easier to work with those who are willing to work with you. If Trump says he wants to work with Russia, we appreciate this. But it must be mutually honest.
Look, everyone is talking about humanitarian access in Aleppo. Everyone is trying to convince us that we should do this. But they do not need to convince us, because we believe it too, we believe that a humanitarian convoy should be sent there. But how can this be accomplished? There is only one road the convoys can take, with militants on one side of the road and the Syrian army on the other side. We know about the provocation, the attack on one of the convoys, and we know for certain that the attack was delivered by a terrorist group.
We have suggested that the militants and the Syrian army both pull away from the road, providing safe transit for the humanitarian convoys.
Everyone agrees, and the idea has even been put on paper, and then nothing happens; none of our partners are doing anything. They either do not want to or cannot pull the militants back, I do not know which.
An exotic proposal has been made – I am going to surprise you and your audience. It has been proposed that our armed units, Russian military personnel, be deployed on the road to ensure transit safety. The Russian military, who are courageous and decisive people, have said they would do it.
But I told them that this could only be done jointly with the US, and ordered them to make the proposal. We have proposed this, and they [the Americans] promptly refused. They do not want to deploy their troops there, but they also do not want to pull these opposition groups back, who are really terrorists. What can we do in this situation?
We must increase mutual trust and admit that these are common threats, and it is only together that we can curtail and eradicate them.
We have very good ties with the French intelligence services. They really do work on the same wave. This is true of our counterterrorism experts and their counterparts in France and several other European countries. But this is not always the case.
For example, we send our American partners information and often get no response at all. Some time ago, we sent information on the Tsarnaev brothers. We sent the first document, got no response, sent a second document, and got the response that this is not your business, they are US citizens now and we will take care of things ourselves.
The result was a terrorist attack in the USA. Is this not an example of how we end up with losses if we neglect cooperation in this very sensitive area?
We should be busy not with political rhetoric, but with looking for solutions to the situation, including in Syria. What solutions are there? There is only one solution – to convince all parties to the conflict to take the road of political settlement.
I reached an agreement with President Assad and he has accepted to take the road of adopting a new constitution and holding elections on the basis of this constitution. But we have not succeeded in convincing anyone else to take this road.
If the people do not vote for President Assad, there will be a democratic change of power, but without the help of armed intervention from outside and under strict international control, under UN supervision. I do not understand who could find this proposal unacceptable.
It is a democratic solution to the question of power in the country. We remain optimistic though and hope that we will finish by persuading our colleagues and partners that this is the only possible solution to the problem.
Geography
Vladimir Region
Topics
Foreign policy
Media
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 12, 2016, 21:15
Text version