Events
Meeting with representatives of the Russia-ASEAN Business Forum
Vladimir Putin took part in a meeting of heads of delegations at the Russia-ASEAN summit with Business Forum representatives.
May 20, 2016
13:25
Sochi
Meeting with representatives of the Russia-ASEAN Business Forum
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ladies and gentlemen, friends, colleagues, heads of state and government, it is a pleasure to welcome you all.
The official part of the summit’s programme is beginning now and it is not by chance that the first event is this meeting with business community representatives from Russia and the ASEAN countries. This highlights yet further the priority we place on developing trade and economic cooperation between Russia and the ASEAN countries.
Our common task is to bring our economies closer together, strengthen trade and investment ties, and create the conditions needed for launching new projects. We are working in close dialogue with the business community on this and will continue to do so.
See also
Official website of the Russia-ASEAN summit
All news about the Russia-ASEAN Summit
May 19 − 20, 2016
I note that trade between Russia and the ASEAN countries came to $13.7 billion last year. This is quite a modest figure compared to trade with other countries in the Asia-Pacific region. The ASEAN countries’ trade with China comes to $80 billion, for example, and Russia’s bilateral trade with China comes to a similar figure.
The current level of investment cooperation also falls short of our potential. We have total investment of around $11 billion. It is therefore important to reflect together on what we can do to improve this situation and outline a consistent road forward for developing our business cooperation.
We should not forget that we have accumulated considerable experience in carrying out bilateral joint projects. Thai companies are investing in Russia’s agricultural sector, for example, Vietnamese companies in oil and gas production, and companies from Singapore and Brunei have been investing in innovation.
Russian business has been investing in mining ventures in Indonesia and Myanmar. We are working in peaceful nuclear energy development in Vietnam and plan to do the same in Laos, and are investing in the high-tech sector in Malaysia, to name a few examples.
I am sure that we have all we need to give a new boost to our business ties. Russia has drawn up a roadmap that encompasses 57 concrete projects aimed at establishing joint technology and innovation alliances.
We can boost our fuel and energy cooperation to next level. ASEAN countries’ needs for hydrocarbon resources as well as electricity are growing. Russia can satisfy this growing demand by supplying energy on a long-term basis. We can offer our partners new-generation nuclear power plant projects. We are willing to cooperate in the sphere of power generation in the broad meaning of the word.
Our cooperation in transportation looks promising. Russian businesses are interested in participating in modern railway construction projects, which we are already doing in Indonesia, where a $1.9 billion railway project is currently being implemented in Kalimantan.
Modern satellite navigation systems are the call of the times. We suggest doing this on the basis of the Russian GLONASS satellite navigation system.
Russia is also willing to join any development initiative in ASEAN. I am referring above all to our assistance in the implementation of the Master Plan on ASEAN Connectivity, which stipulates the development of energy, transportation and information infrastructure in the region.
At the same time, we invite ASEAN businesses to take part in our priority development programmes in the Russian Far East. We have created 12 areas with a favourable business environment and the free port of Vladivostok. In addition, we are modernising the Trans-Siberian Railway, a large railway system connecting European Russia with the Far East and, by default, with Asia. We have launched a large-scale programme for the development of the Northern Sea Route, which is the shortest commercial route from Asia to Europe.
We have been working to create the most attractive conditions for doing business, cutting red tape, lowering the tax burden and monitoring the investment climate in Russia’s constituent entities. This helped us move up from 120th to 51st place on the World Bank’s Ease of Doing Business Index last year.
I would like to say that our economy has remained stable in an unfavourable external situation. In this connection, I want to say that the Government’s anti-crisis measures have helped stabilise the key sectors of our economy and our financial market.
We have also maintained a low unemployment level (less than 6 percent), moderate foreign debt, which is one of the lowest in the world, and a trade balance surplus of $160 billion in 2015.
The Bank of Russia’s decision to introduce a flexible ruble rate has allowed our economy to adjust to new conditions and to maintain a high level of gold and currency reserves, which totalled about $391.5 billion as of May 1. As a result, we reached the bottom of the crisis in 2015, something the experts agree on.
Additional
Reception in honour of heads of delegations taking part in Russia-ASEAN Summit
May 19, 2016
Colleagues, the role of regional integration associations in the global economy has been increasing. The Eurasian Economic Union, where Russia is a member, and ASEAN have created common rules for the free movement of goods, services, capital and manpower.
The Eurasian Economic Union’s regulations are based on the World Trade Organisation’s rules. The EAEU is a huge market with 180 million consumers, a market that has been duly assessed by our Vietnamese friends with whom we have signed a free trade area agreement. Interest in this cooperation has also been shown by Singapore, with whose Prime Minister we discussed this issue yesterday, as well as by other ASEAN countries such as Thailand, Cambodia and Indonesia.
I believe we can eventually create a common free trade zone between the EAEU and ASEAN. This could be our contribution to the development of an Asia-Pacific free trade zone. Of course, we will discuss this idea with our EAEU colleagues, in particular Kazakhstan, Belarus, Kyrgyzstan and Armenia.
Another promising sphere of regional economic integration could be the coordination of the EAEU, ASEAN, the SCO and China’s Silk Road Economic Belt project.
I am convinced that our business communities will continue to contribute to the development of multifaceted Russia-ASEAN economic cooperation. In this connection I would like to invite everyone here to the St Petersburg International Economic Forum, which will be held on June 16–18, and also to the Eastern Economic Forum, which Vladivostok will host on September 2–3.
Colleagues, thank you for your attention. I hope you establish interesting contacts, ones that will be beneficial and useful for the development of your businesses.
Thank you for your attention. I am happy to pass the floor to Prime Minister of Laos Mr Sisoulith, current chair of ASEAN and coordinator of the Russia-ASEAN Dialogue Partnership.
Thank you for your attention.
Prime Minister of the Lao People's Democratic Republic Thongloun Sisoulith (retranslated): Your Excellency, President Putin, leaders of ASEAN, distinguished representatives of the ASEAN-Russia Business Forum.
It is a great pleasure to have this opportunity to meet with business representatives from ASEAN Member States and the Russian Federation.
I would like to congratulate the Russian Federation on the successful convening of the ASEAN-Russia Business Forum as the third largest economy in Asia and the seventh largest economy in the world with a population exceeding 146 million.
I believe we have great opportunities to promote trade and investment with our dialogue partners, particularly Russia.
ASEAN is now moving towards building the ASEAN Economic Community. We have the will to keep moving forward and turn ASEAN into a common platform for production. That is why it is so important now to develop economic and investment links between ASEAN and Russia.
All representatives of the Business Forum can contribute to this process, as they are a driving force that can improve the quality of this cooperation. Therefore, I hope that this Business Forum will help to further promote and implement these ideas, and strengthen the economic community between ASEAN and Russia, as well as between Russia and other countries on a bilateral basis by tapping the existing potential.
Prime Minister of Cambodia Hun Sen (retranslated): Your Excellency, Vladimir Putin, President of the Russian Federation. Your Excellency, Prime Minister of the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Mr Sisoulith. Your Highness, distinguished leaders of ASEAN countries, ladies and gentlemen.
It is a great honour for me to attend this remarkable event. Let me briefly share with you my impressions. First of all, congratulations to the ASEAN-Russia Business Forum on convening this event that allows investors from Russia and ASEAN to find and explore new opportunities for economic cooperation and investment.
Second, I would like to express my appreciation for the recommendations developed by representatives of the business community. In my opinion, these recommendations are quite important and timely. In the current circumstances, they will be conducive to fostering competitiveness, integration and trade between the two regions.
Third, taking into account the importance of the recommendations and requests from the business community, I would like to ask ASEAN and Russian ministers of economy to work together with the ASEAN Secretariat in order to take these requests and recommendations into consideration, and to develop necessary measures that would be an appropriate response to them.
Fourth, with regard to this meeting, I would like to suggest that we hold events like this one on a regular basis along with the ASEAN-Russia Summit, in order to improve our understanding of the situation and explore the opportunities for further developing our community.
Fifth, Russia may play a key role in restoring and upgrading infrastructure in Cambodia. This happened before, in the 1980s, after the fall of the Khmer Rouge regime, and Cambodia would like Russia to take charge of this again. Specifically, we welcome participation of Russia's private sector in new areas of economic development in Cambodia.
Cambodia is proud to have achieved much in the field of social and economic development over the past two decades. These achievements, as well as the Cambodian Government's commitment to support economic stability, economic development, a favourable economic climate and ease of doing business — all of this opens up enormous opportunities for the business community, investors from all countries, including Russia.
Sixth, Cambodia and other ASEAN Member States, which are now building the ASEAN Economic Community, starting in 2016, have to understand that this community offers incredible opportunities for all members. In this context, investing in Cambodia would give one access not only to its market of 15 million people, but also to the more than 600 million consumers in the Asian markets, as well as to over one billion consumers in the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership.
Moreover, Cambodia has so many industries they could potentially invest in. I am referring, in particular, to agriculture, processing industry, engineering, assembly facilities, consumer goods, and the services sector, and other manufacturing sectors. There are special investment support tools in Cambodia, particularly its openness, easy access, skilled workforce, favourable economic conditions, and natural resources. All these elements add up to the potential of Cambodia.
The Royal Government of Cambodia is always ready to negotiate and discuss how it can best assure the success of your investment. Thank you!
Vladimir Putin: I'd like to give the floor to President of the Russian Chamber of Commerce and Industry Sergei Katyrin and Chairman of the ASEAN Business Advisory Council Oudet Souvannavong to present the final document of the ASEAN-Russia Business Forum.
President of the Russian Chamber of Commerce and Industry Sergei Katyrin: Thank you. Mr President, heads of ASEAN states and governments, colleagues,
Yesterday we held the ASEAN-Russia Business Forum. The high level of the organisation and the forum participants' activity have reaffirmed the importance of our agenda, primarily the goal of consistent and comprehensive development of Russia's trade and economic relations with ASEAN countries.
The forum was preceded by a number of functions during which we discussed with our partners the most promising spheres of cooperation and ways to enhance its effectiveness. In particular, in April of this year, Russian business missions went to Indonesia, Brunei Darussalam and Vietnam. On May 16 to 18, Moscow and St Petersburg hosted bilateral business forums and roundtable discussions with business leaders from Vietnam, Singapore and Thailand. I would like to thank bilateral business councils, partner countries' chambers of commerce and industry, the Russian Direct Investment Fund and the Russian Export Centre for the assistance they provided to these events.
These meetings created the right conditions for productive and frank discussions at yesterday's forum and covered a wide range of practical issues to promote our cooperation. During our themed discussions, we outlined the most promising areas of our cooperation — energy, transportation, infrastructure, agriculture and research and technology cooperation. We also highlighted cooperation in high technologies and held constructive discussions on cooperation in banking, finance and investment.
The economic development of the Russian Far East is yet another promising area for cooperation, as we see it, and a strategic goal for Russia. The appropriate involvement of the ASEAN countries could serve as a driver of economic growth for national economies and promote sustainable development of the Asian continent as a whole. We hope the relevant discussion will continue at the Eastern Economic Forum, which will be held in Vladivostok in early September.
The day's reports, as well as discussions on the sidelines of the Business Forum, focused on changes in the international trade system triggered by the actively unfolding integration processes in the Asia-Pacific region: the start-up of the ASEAN Economic Community; the newly-signed Trans-Pacific Partnership agreement; and the negotiations on the proposed Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership based on the ASEAN framework.
During discussions, special attention was paid to the Eurasian Economic Union — a joint integration project involving Russia, Belarus, Armenia, Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan — and the opportunities for establishing multi-faceted contacts between the EAEU and ASEAN.
Discussions at the forum have shown that our ASEAN partners and we agree on the need to strengthen the coordination of regional integration processes. Last year, we signed a free trade agreement between the EAEU and Vietnam, as has already been mentioned today. We have submitted to our ASEAN partners a recent initiative on creating an economic partnership for coordinating the efforts of Russia and ASEAN countries in trade policies, investment cooperation, trade in services, and interaction in infrastructure, transportation and logistics.
On the whole, all forum participants demonstrated their resolve to work towards practical results and their interest in the further promotion of integration processes in the region and agreed on the need for coordinating the existing and new integration structures for the purposes of sustainable and balanced development of our trade and economic cooperation. We believe that one fine day we may witness the creation of economic partnership between the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation, the Eurasian Economic Union and ASEAN.
In light of the above, we have prepared and unanimously approved a final document, a declaration, which comprises the initiatives of our business communities on strengthening cooperation between Russia and ASEAN countries. A number of events will be held in Russia and in our partner countries jointly with business leaders from each ASEAN country. Our business communities are resolved to actively develop trade and economic ties between our countries.
Thank you for your attention.
Chairman of the ASEAN Business Advisory Council Oudet Souvannavong (retranslated): Your Excellency, Your Highness,
I would like to say on behalf of business delegations from ASEAN countries that we are pleased to be here. I am also grateful to our colleagues from the Russian Chamber of Commerce and Industry.
We have come here for the ASEAN-Russia Business Forum. During the forum and on its sidelines we held discussions with our partners, including with the Russia-ASEAN Business Council. We talked about the need to implement our roadmap. We believe that private companies should lead the implementation of this roadmap. Moreover, we also discussed the possibility of expanding cooperation between the Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU) and ASEAN countries. The idea is being considered, and we are glad at this opportunity to analyse it too, including in light of the [EAEU free trade] agreement that has been signed with Vietnam.
One more issue on our agenda concerned joint investments, in particular in infrastructure and new technologies, as well as in the coordination of our policies in the area of information technologies. All of this is very important.
In addition, we should promote ties between the business communities of Russia and ASEAN countries. We are supporting this process and hope that the events we plan to hold will help us strengthen ties between our businesses. The first such event will be held in Moscow. We also support the recommendations made by the Russian Chamber of Commerce and Industry.
Thank you, Your Excellency.
Vladimir Putin: Friends, colleagues,
We have gathered here today to mark the 20th anniversary of the Russia-ASEAN Dialogue Partnership. We have 20 years of cooperation behind us. Still, we all remember that Russia and many ASEAN countries have much deeper ties that go back to the more distant past. This is a very good framework for developing relations on a modern footing.
We are also very enthusiastic about our partnership with other member states, with which neither the Soviet Union nor Russia perhaps has ever had close relations before.
Let me assure you that we have an interest in improving our relations and will do whatever is necessary – I am now mainly addressing the business community – to create conditions for our cooperation both in Russian and ASEAN markets.
I cannot but support the representatives of businesses who spoke before me in saying that (and I mentioned it in my opening remarks), certainly, we must think about expanding our partnership and must not limit ourselves to the state borders of Russia and ASEAN. We must consider global events and what is happening in the Asia-Pacific. All the positive aspects of integration that are capable of expanding your business opportunities – which, in turn, means the expansion of opportunities for us as representatives of the state – will be employed to benefit economic development and, therefore, the citizens of our governments.
I wish you success and thank you for your cooperation at this meeting. Thank you very much.
Topics
Russia–ASEAN
Support for business
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 20, 2016, 13:25
Text versionEvents
Russia-ASEAN Summit
The Russia-ASEAN Summit plenary session took place in Sochi to mark the 20th anniversary of the Russia-ASEAN Dialogue Partnership.
May 20, 2016
15:30
Sochi
13 of 19
Russia-ASEAN Summit plenary session. Photo: russia-asean20.ru
The summit participants adopted the Sochi Declaration titled Moving Towards aStrategic Partnership for Mutual Benefit and approved a Comprehensive Plan of Action to Promote Cooperation Between the Association of Southeast Asian Nations and the Russian Federation in 2016–2020.
See also
All documents of summit Russia-ASEAN
All news about the Russia-ASEAN Summit
May 19 − 20, 2016
The Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), established in 1967, comprises10 states: Brunei Darussalam, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam. Russia has been a full dialogue partner of ASEAN since July 1996.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues, friends,
Today we are reviewing the results of cooperation within the Russia-ASEAN Dialogue Partnership since the previous meeting in this format in Hanoi in October 2010. We will discuss key issues of our cooperation, set new guidelines for the future and share opinions on current issues on the international and regional agenda.
The success of this session and of the entire summit are of great importance to Russia. We hope that our work here will be in-depth and productive.
I’ll now give the floor to our chairman. Mr Sisoulith, please.
I’ll now give the floor to our chairman. Mr Sisoulith, please.
Prime Minister of the Lao People's Democratic Republic Thongloun Sisoulith (retranslated): Thank you, Mr Putin. Your Majesty, ASEAN leaders,
I am honoured to be a co-chair of the anniversary ASEAN-Russia Summit, dedicated to the 20th anniversary of the dialogue between ASEAN and Russia. Compared to leaders of other ASEAN countries, I have spent very little time in the office of prime minister, just 30 days. This is my first time at this summit in this capacity. I hope that all the esteemed leaders present here will support me.
I would like to express my heartfelt gratitude to Mr Putin for his hospitality and the warm welcome extended to my delegation and to me at this summit in the beautiful city of Sochi.
Russia is an important partner of ASEAN, and cooperation between Russia and ASEAN is gradually expanding. Russia established relations with ASEAN in 1991, and in 1996 became a full-fledged dialogue partner. We cooperate in the economy, politics and culture, and this cooperation is getting stronger and stronger. Russia's accession to the Treaty of Amity and Cooperation in Southeast Asia in 2004 showed its commitment to cooperation with ASEAN in order to strengthen security in the region and the world at large. Economic, trade, and investment cooperation and personal contacts are also getting stronger, which contributes to the further development of our relations and deeper trust between us.
With strong political will on both sides — from Russia and ASEAN — we can further build up our cooperation. We agreed to hold this anniversary summit in order to mark the 20th anniversary of establishing dialogue relations between Russia and ASEAN. This is an important historical milestone, which offers an excellent opportunity for both sides to discuss further steps to strengthen our cooperation on our way to a strategic partnership with a view to establish lasting peace, stability and prosperity of our nations in the future.
The Lao People's Democratic Republic not only chairs ASEAN, but is also coordinating the 2015–2018 ASEAN-Russia Dialogue Partnership. Laos is proud to have played a role in the development of cooperation between Russia and ASEAN, and to have contributed to drafting final documents of our anniversary summit, in particular, the Sochi Declaration, the Comprehensive Plan for Promoting ASEAN-Russia Cooperation in 2016–2020, as well as the Report of the Eminent Persons Group from Russia and ASEAN, which we plan to adopt today. I am confident that through our efforts this summit will be a success. Thank you.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister [of Laos, Thongloun Sisoulith], for my part, I would like to thank you for the assistance that you have provided in holding this summit, as well as for your highly unexpected remarks in Russian, which was especially pleasant for the Russian audience. Thank you for this token of thoughtfulness and respect for our country.
Ladies and gentlemen, I believe we all understand the kind of world we live in; we understand the state of the global economy; we know about the status of our own economies and there is a reason why we are addressing global and regional security problems. Many countries in the region have been confronted with manifestations of extremism and terrorism and have suffered as a result. Therefore, all of this is on our radar.
Additional
News conference following the Russia-ASEAN Summit
May 20, 2016
Meeting with representatives of the Russia-ASEAN Business Forum
May 20, 2016
At the same time, I do not think we expected any unusual breakthroughs or revolutionary ideas from our meeting today. Nevertheless, I believe the meeting has been important and timely. We have reviewed the progress made during 20 years of our cooperation and indeed tried to glimpse toward the future. In this sense, I believe our meeting as a whole has been very useful, and in particular, our bilateral contacts, which are always useful.
In this context, I believe we should thank our colleagues, our associates who have worked on the text of the Sochi Declaration and the Comprehensive Plan of Action to Promote Cooperation between Russia and ASEAN for 2016–2020. If there are no objections, I propose adopting both documents. Are there any comments or objections on this matter? No? Let us consider that we are adopting both documents: the Sochi Declaration and the Comprehensive Plan.
On my own behalf and on behalf of all of you, colleagues, I would like to thank the ASEAN-Russia Eminent Persons Group for the report on their strategic vision of the future Russia-ASEAN ties. As is known, representatives of the business community, nongovernmental organisations and the scientific community participated in it.
I would like to thank you all again for finding the time to come to Russia, for meeting and sharing your opinions about the regional and global situation and discussing our cooperation in the foreseeable future.
Allow me to declare our meeting closed. I would like to invite all delegation heads to a working breakfast where we can talk and address current issues in a completely informal environment.
Thank you all very much.
Topics
Foreign policy
Russia–ASEAN
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 20, 2016, 15:30
Text versionEvents
News conference following the Russia-ASEAN Summit
Vladimir Putin and Prime Minister of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic and Chairman of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations Thongloun Sisoulith made press statements and answered journalists’ questions.
May 20, 2016
17:20
Sochi
News conference following the Russia-ASEAN summit
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen,
Russia and ASEAN are marking the 20th anniversary of their dialogue partnership this year. This anniversary is a good opportunity to look back over what we have accomplished up until now and outline the steps for taking our cooperation further. This was the objective of all the programme events of the summit that has just ended. Let me say that this summit took place in the spirit of friendship and mutual understanding that characterises our relations with our ASEAN partners.
Our discussions brought us to the common conclusion that Russia and ASEAN have achieved some solid results over these last two decades in a wide range of areas. Most importantly, we have reached agreements on building a strategic partnership over the long term. This objective is set out in the Sochi Declaration, adopted at the summit, in the roadmap for developing our relations, and in the 2016–2020 Comprehensive Action Plan.
See also
Russia-ASEAN Summit
May 20, 2016
Meeting with representatives of the Russia-ASEAN Business Forum
May 20, 2016
The recommendations formulated for the Sochi summit by the Group of Eminent Persons, composed of people from Russian and ASEAN diplomatic services and academic communities, will be very useful in this regard.
We agreed at the summit to develop our cooperation in the political sphere. Our countries will continue to work closely together in the UN, APEC, and the G20.
We will continue to strengthen our cooperation with a view to developing a reliable and open security architecture for the Asia-Pacific region. Our work together at the East Asian summit, the Regional Security Forum, the defence ministers’ meeting and other organisations working under ASEAN aegis pursues this same objective.
We will continue our cooperation in fighting international terrorism, trans-national crime and drug trafficking. We have agreed to expand the practice of holding annual courses organised by Russia’s Federal Security Service for colleagues from ASEAN countries and will also expand our partnership ties between Russia’s Interior Ministry and the Association of National Police Forces of the ASEAN region.
The economy was a particular focus of attention at this summit. Russia’s trade with ASEAN countries came to $13.7 billion last year and our total capital investment came to $11 billion. But these figures do not reflect our countries’ real potential, and so our partners supported the proposal to increase our mutual trade, investment and technology ties.
We are committed to developing the infrastructure for Russia-ASEAN cooperation. Over this last month alone we have established several new cooperation mechanisms, including in agriculture and education. The first informal meeting of our defence ministers took place, and we reached agreements on stepping up cooperation on emergency response to and combating infectious diseases. We have launched dialogue at the ministerial level in the culture sector and have also organised our first joint arts festival. On the plans for this year are the first meeting of our transport ministers in Moscow, a youth summit in Cambodia, and the universities’ forum in Vladivostok.
Russia and ASEAN share a desire to play an active part in regional economic integration processes. Let me remind you that the Eurasian Economic Union
signed a free trade zone agreement with Vietnam last year. We are studying the possibility of concluding similar agreements with other ASEAN countries – Singapore, Cambodia, Thailand, and Indonesia.
At this summit, we proposed that our ASEAN partners reflect on the establishment of a comprehensive free trade zone between the Eurasian Economic Union and ASEAN, and at the working breakfast, we exchanged views on how we could develop links between the integration processes underway in the Asia-Pacific region and in the Eurasian region.
News conference following the Russia-ASEAN summit. With Prime Minister of the Lao People's Democratic Republic Thongloun Sisoulith. Photo: russia-asean20.ru
Let me note that all these ideas have received considerable support from the Russian and ASEAN business communities. We had further evidence of this today at the meeting with participants in what was the biggest Business Forum event in our history so far. This was a constructive, concrete and useful discussion. The business community representatives assessed highly the prospects for developing closer ties between the Eurasian Economic Union and ASEAN countries and for intensifying business contacts.
Before the summit began, you know that I met in Sochi with the President of Indonesia, Mr Widodo, who is in Russia on an official visit, and I met with leaders from other ASEAN countries too. I want to say that all of these talks were frank and substantial and reflected a shared desire to develop mutually advantageous ties between Russia and ASEAN countries in all areas.
Additional
Official website of the Russia-ASEAN summit
All news about the Russia-ASEAN Summit
May 19 − 20, 2016
Let me conclude by thanking Prime Minister of Laos, Mr Sisoulith, as the current ASEAN Chairman, and all of the delegation heads and the ASEAN Secretary-General for their great contribution to this summit’s success.
Thank you very much.
Prime Minister of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic and Chairman of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) Thongloun Sisoulith: President Putin, representatives of the media, it is my privilege and great honour to co-chair with President Putin the ASEAN-Russia Summit today to mark the 20th anniversary of ASEAN-Russia dialogue in the beautiful city of Sochi.
I concur with President Putin that today’s commemorative summit marks a historical milestone in the ASEAN-Russia dialogue relations. We express our satisfaction with the significant progress achieved over the last two decades in many areas across the political, security, economic, social and cultural dimensions.
We discussed and charted our key directions to further strengthen our cooperation to work at getting the ASEAN-Russia relations to a strategic level and at efforts to promote peace, enduring stability and prosperity for our peoples in the future. More importantly at this summit we adopted the Sochi Declaration and the Comprehensive Plan for Action in 2016–2020, and the report of the ASEAN-Russia Eminent Persons Group. These documents are important for further broadening and deepening of the cooperation and partnership between ASEAN and Russia in the future.
In 2016, Laos is not only chair of ASEAN but also the country coordinator for ASEAN-Russia dialogue relations for 2015–2018. We therefore stand ready to work closely with ASEAN member states and Russia to effectively translate the outcome of today’s summit into tangible results.
Thank you.
Question: I have a question for both leaders.
There was broad discussion today of Russia’s initiative to establish a trilateral economic partnership between the Eurasian Union, the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation
and ASEAN. What would be the first steps on this road? Where will you start? Do ASEAN countries have a unanimous position on this proposal? Do we know what position our SCO partner, China, takes on this initiative?
And a question for the Prime Minister of Laos: What steps is ASEAN ready to take for starting work on building a trilateral or some other format integration arrangement of this sort? Thank you.
At a news conference following the Russia-ASEAN summit.
Vladimir Putin: Let me try to answer this question. All participants in today’s meeting expressed unanimous support for this idea. We need to unite the different integration organisations’ efforts, in the areas where this is possible at least, in order to avoid duplication, parallel work, and generally create a better climate for business development.
This is a complex process and involves very detailed talks not just with each country but also on the different categories of goods. We are fully aware of the work involved, but, like our partners, we think this is the right road to take. We will not try to hasten things, but will calmly examine the possibilities for making progress in this direction.
As for our Chinese friends, we will need to discuss this matter with them, but overall, we know their position. The Silk Road Economic Belt idea is close in spirit to the proposals we discussed today. I therefore see no contradictions here. On the contrary, knowing China’s position on forging links between the Silk Road Economic Belt project and the Eurasian Economic Union, we see that all of our plans in this respect tend towards the same objective, and so we are sure that there will be positive work together.
Thongloun Sisoulith: I support President Putin’s position.
Question: I have a question both for the President of Russia and for the Prime Minister of Laos.
What is the status of security issues in Russia’s relations with ASEAN countries? Could you compare the share of security issues to the share of economic ones? Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: You know, it is difficult for me to talk in terms of shares. Let’s not compare them in percentages – how much for the economy and how much for security, social or cultural issues. All of this was addressed in the context that we should work in all areas.
However, security issues, without a doubt, are among the most important issues, an important component of our interaction. Practically all our colleagues, all without exception, expressed concern over the threats posed by international terrorism and cross-border crime, and all of them firmly supported the idea of pooling our efforts in fighting this evil.
We know that in the not so distant past, the countries of the region themselves were affected by these problems and sustained serious damage, and naturally, all of them want stability and peaceful development. Not surprisingly, we have reached an agreement, and first consultations at the level of defence ministers have already taken place. I am sure that this cooperation will continue, as will military-technical cooperation between Russia and ASEAN countries.
Thongloun Sisoulith (retranslated): I would like to add something to what President Putin has just said. In addition to multilateral cooperation, as well as cooperation between Russia and ASEAN member countries, which is very important, ASEAN countries also attach great importance to Russia’s role in maintaining international peace and security. These issues are also addressed within the framework of our interaction with the EAEU. We also discuss economic, trade and investment cooperation issues.
Today, President Putin organised a working breakfast where we had an opportunity to discuss ways of furthering our interaction with the Eurasian Economic Union and the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation. I believe that these discussions have produced excellent results. Of course, a substantive dialogue on these issues should continue in the future.
Question: I have a question that is related to security issues. Summer, and vacation season, is just around the corner, but the terrorist situation in the Middle East is getting worse. The destruction of the Egyptian airliner yesterday, confrontation with Turkey: all of that will certainly affect outbound tourism.
In this connection, were any measures discussed to ensure the availability of ASEAN resorts, and which countries are interested in this? Did any country show interest? Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: First, I hope that the situation in those countries where Russians traditionally go for vacation will get back to normal. Once again, we extend our condolences to the families of the victims, the people of France and Egypt, in connection with the crash of the Egyptian aircraft over the Mediterranean Sea.
We do not oppose anything, nothing, and we do not pit anyone against anybody. However, the development of tourism between Russia and ASEAN countries is, of course, discussed. It has always been discussed, and it was discussed at this summit, too.
Almost all ASEAN countries are interested in receiving Russian tourists. It was discussed in the context of facilitating visa regulations. With some countries, such as Thailand and Vietnam, we have signed an agreement for visa-free stay for 30 days. We are discussing these issues with other countries. We talked about the need to establish direct air communication between Russia's major cities and holiday destinations in ASEAN countries.
Yes, this issue is being discussed, and I hope that soon, Russian citizens will be able to vacation throughout the world, including in ASEAN countries, which boast many good resorts. These countries have good climates, so there are lots of possibilities.
Question: Mr President, your recent meeting with your Japanese colleague Shinzo Abe prompted speculation that the continuation of the dialogue on the territorial issue was Russia attempting to gain leverage to sell our islands at the highest possible price. We know that it was a long meeting. Would you say that you succeeded in keeping the topics separate – trade and economic partnership separate from the territorial issue; that there is no connection between the two, and they are discussed separately?
Another question is to you, Mr Prime Minister. There were reports that it was suggested before the summit by other countries, mainly Western ones, to you, to Laos as the ASEAN Chair, and to other countries that they should refrain from visiting Russia and not hold this summit. Was that so? If it was, why did you choose to come and hold this summit in our country? Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: As for our relations with Japan and your assumption that we are out to sell something at the highest possible price, we are not selling anything. We are willing to buy many things but we are not selling anything. However, we are ready and willing to have a dialogue with all our partners, Japan included, particularly on concluding the peace treaty, in the context of which we discuss the territorial issue.
We do not link the two. We are simply hoping and, I reiterate, determined to develop relations, including with Japan, which we regard as an essential partner in the Asia-Pacific region and in the world. Japan is our neighbour, and we have attained a high level of relations.
We do not link anything. We discuss all options and areas of cooperation – the economy, culture, sport and the peace treaty – but we do not link any of them.
While our contacts have been limited of late, that is not the result of our policy. We are open and ready to work.
Prime Minister of the Lao People's Democratic Republic Thongloun Sisoulith at a news conference following the Russia-ASEAN summit.
Thongloun Sisoulith: I would like to say that, as the ASEAN Chair, we were not pressured by any third parties to refrain from participating in this summit or to prevent it from happening altogether, especially because it was convened for a reason of great importance, the 20th anniversary of our dialogue partnership.
Cooperation with Russia is essential to us. As we celebrate the 20th anniversary of our relations, all ASEAN member countries share the opinion that the Sochi summit should be held. That is all I can say on this score.
Question: Are there any plans to ensure that more countries participate in the ASEAN-Russia summit? For example, countries of the Middle East, or other countries? Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Naturally, we have long-standing and deep-seated relations with the countries of the Middle East, with practically all countries of the region. We work both in multilateral and bilateral formats. I see no problems here. It is simply that the countries of the region you have just mentioned are not part of ASEAN.
Our meeting was devoted to the development of Russia’s relations with ASEAN member countries over the past 20 years, butwe have always had, and continue to have, very good relations with the Middle East. I do not know of a single country in the Middle East with which we would not be in contact, with which we would not be developing our relations.
As was stated earlier, and this point was also made at our meeting, at this news conference, unfortunately, the region has fallen on hard times. There are a lot of problems and there is a relentless fight against terrorist organisations. You know our position on these issues and I know the position of all leaders of the Middle Eastern countries. All of them are ready to fight terrorism and are in fact fighting it. As the leader of one country said, “We Islamic, Muslim countries are the first victims of the terrorist threat and we want and we are ready to join forces with Russia in this fight.” We are also ready and we are doing so.
Question: I have a question for the Russian President. Mr President, here in Sochi, in the winter of 2014, Russian Olympic athletes scored spectacular victories. Today, new allegations are being made in the West against Russian athletes over the abuse of banned substances. WADA has announced a follow-up test of samples. What is your position on this?
Vladimir Putin: Positive. I believe that if there are any doubts they should be eliminated. You know our position, not only my position, but also the position of the Russian government and all athletes: sport should free of any doping. It should be honest. Competition should be honest. Only then will it be of interest both to the athletes themselves and to millions of fans and spectators.
Having said this, of course, this campaign is proceeding amid politically motivated restrictions with regard to our country, to Russia, but I hope that WADA’s actions are not in any way related to this.
You also heard that Russia’s Investigative Committee and the Prosecutor General’s Office have announced that they will conduct a thorough investigation into everything that we are seeing and hearing in the media. We are not ignoring this. We are ready to cooperate and, in addition, I have already directed the Ministry of Sport and all Russian agencies and organisations to provide all necessary assistance to WADA inspectors in their work.
News conference following the Russia-ASEAN summit. With Prime Minister of the Lao People's Democratic Republic Thongloun Sisoulith.
Question: I have two questions. One is for the President, the other is for the Prime Minister.
First, Mr President, you have held a series of meetings with the ASEAN leaders. Did you find understanding on all issues, or were there differences?
Vladimir Putin: No, there were no differences. We completely understand the challenges that we are facing, and their solutions.
We discussed specific issues. You know, I enjoyed this meeting. On the face of it, it’s a celebration — we got together to mark the 20th anniversary of our cooperation. However, this meeting was also productive, and I reiterate, very specific, because we discussed specific areas of cooperation, and even more — specific projects, because we have long-standing economic, cultural and political ties with many countries. We discussed specific areas of our joint work, and we had things to discuss with each country.
This meeting was productive, and I want to thank the Prime Minister again for facilitating this meeting. I hope that this is not our last meeting in this format and that we will continue to work together with all our partners.
Question: Thank you. Mr Prime Minister, do you agree with the idea that this summit will open a new chapter in relations between Russia and ASEAN? Thank you.
Thongloun Sisoulith: You know, this is not the first anniversary summit. The last one was held on the occasion of the 15th anniversary of our cooperation. But the 20th anniversary is even more important for us, because it allows us to evaluate progress in our relations.
ASEAN and Russia cooperate closely in order to maintain international and regional peace, prosperity and stability. That is why this summit is a landmark of our relations.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you for your interest in our work.
Topics
Foreign policy
Russia–ASEAN
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 20, 2016, 17:20
Text version