Events
Meeting with President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko
Vladimir Putin and President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko discussed key aspects of bilateral relations, prospects for promoting Eurasian integration and urgent international issues.
November 22, 2016
18:45
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 3
Meeting with President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko.
The President of Belarus arrived in Moscow on a working visit.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Lukashenko,
We meet regularly and fairly often and always find a topic for discussion because the scale of our relations is very large.
Russia remains the number one trade and economic partner for Belarus, while Belarus is among Russia’s top five trade and economic partners.
I must admit there was a slight drop last year and an eight percent decline in the first half of this year, considering the obvious circumstances. However, we assume that these are transitory phenomena. The main point is not our major projects but the mechanism for reproducing and diversifying our trade and economic ties.
Using the institutions we established with your active support, we can not only restore our ties but also move forward.
Mutual investment continues. Russian investors put money into the Belarusian economy, and Belarusian investors invest in the Russian economy. Cooperation continues expanding in machine building, the agricultural machinery industry and other areas. These are prerequisites for moving ahead.
I am very glad to see you again, this time on the pleasant occasion of our Patriarch’s birthday. However, as it usually happens, we use every opportunity for our business discussions and talk about our current business and plans for the short term.
President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko
: Mr Putin, first of all, I would like to thank you for the invitation and the good idea you had about two weeks ago to go together to wish our Patriarch a happy birthday, which we have now done. This adds a nice touch to the relationship between two presidents, two peoples – close, related peoples. You probably sensed in the hall the feelings of all those present about the two presidents of our closely related peoples coming to honour our Patriarch.
You are absolutely right. We always act this way. Indeed, all of these enjoyable, pleasant responsibilities are intertwined with our official responsibilities. At this turbulent time, when we are beset by all kinds of crises from one side then the other, we are not cut off from this. There are issues that we need to address promptly, without delay. I believe that we will discuss these issues, which come up from time to time, and as always, will take the best possible decision.
Thank you once again for the opportunity to be here today in the Kremlin and discuss our most urgent matters.
<…>
Geography
Belarus
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Lukashenko Alexander
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 22, 2016, 18:45
Text versionEvents
Russian Popular Front Action Forum
Vladimir Putin took part in a plenary session of the Russian Popular Front (ONF) Action Forum.
November 22, 2016
16:10
Moscow
2 of 10
Russian Popular Front Action Forum.
The forum’s aim is to review the results of 2016 as well as the movement’s activity over the past three years. Attending the event are federal and regional ONF experts, activists and popular overseers from across the country.
The forum’s work was divided into seven thematic events: An Honest and Effective Economy, Social Justice, Society and Government, Education and Culture, Quality of Everyday Life, Environment and Forest Protection, and For Honest Public Procurement.
***
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends.
Welcome to the concluding annual forum of the Russian Popular Front. I know that you have done a huge amount of work over this period. It is indeed a public movement, not an organisation, and it has gained extensive membership. Tens of thousands of people from all over the country are enthusiastic participants in its activity – initially, in order to oversee the fulfilment of the May 2012 Presidential Executive Orders. We will talk about this today.
However, your activity is expanding and encompassing more areas and it is a very positive development. Public opinion polls indicate that this is what the public expects and relies on. This means people’s trust in the ONF is growing. Several inspections have shown that the front’s activity resulted in adjustments to various programmes and government expenses at various levels worth 227 billion rubles. This is a very significant figure even for the entire country’s budget. Therefore, your work is reflected in these very specific and large amounts of money.
The ONF has been working to improve the quality of roads, which is extremely important. It is not only important that the Popular Front is overseeing road construction and improvement, which has always been a public concern, but the cost of these projects is also very important. You have done a great deal in this respect.
The environment has always been a priority issue, and 2017 will be the Year of the Environment. I sincerely hope that we will be able to work together in this area. It is an extremely important matter, because nothing costs so little to incompetent or unscrupulous people and nothing brings them so many returns as the environment, which is used to the detriment of the people who live there. It is very easy to take over something that is precious to many residents of a given neighbourhood, district, city or township, practically for nothing, and to derive huge profits from it by using the available infrastructure.
There are also other areas of major importance, which I would like to highlight, primarily the social policy at the level of municipalities, regions and the country as a whole.
I will end my monologue here. Let us get down to our usual work in the usual format. I hope very much that you will tell me about what you have achieved, what you plan to do and the areas where you plan to move on.
Thank you very much.
<…>
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 22, 2016, 16:10
Text versionEvents
Visit to Christ the Saviour Cathedral
During a gala concert in the Hall of Church Cathedrals Vladimir Putin congratulated Patriarch Kirill of Moscow and All Russia on his 70th birthday and awarded him with the order “For Services to the Fatherland,” 1st Class.
November 22, 2016
17:50
Moscow
2 of 5
Vladimir Putin congratulated Patriarch of Moscow and All Russia Kirill on his 70th birthday and awarded him the order “For Services to the Fatherland,” 1st Class.
The concert was attended by President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko, Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev and Speaker of the Federation Council Valentina Matviyenko.
 * * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Your Holiness, Mr Lukashenko, ladies and gentlemen.
Today we are brought together by a cheerful event – the birthday of the head of the Russian Orthodox Church, the Patriarch of Moscow and All Russia.
I would like to wish a happy 70th birthday to Your Holiness once again and express my profound gratitude for your selfless work for the benefit of the Church, the people of Russia, and our compatriots abroad, and wish you success in these noble and sacred efforts.
For millions of people on Earth you embody the enormous prestige of the Russian Orthodox Church and are a loyal successor of its traditions and the outstanding deeds of its devotees that made an invaluable contribution to upholding Christian values and played a major role in the development of the Russian state.
The Russian Orthodox Church is a great prophet of love for the Fatherland and its powerful moral defender that has always upheld the principles of kindness, truth and loyalty to our country.
The Russian Orthodox Church, joined by our other traditional faiths, is the main spiritual foundation of our people and statehood. This is especially important at a time when the world community faces new and complex challenges and needs mutual understanding, accord and trust between countries and peoples more than ever before.
Your Holiness, you have always been a staunch supporter of dialogue in the broadest sense of the word. Your work, the wise words of a pastor and a thinker give hope to many people across the world, inspire many good deeds, and encourage people to overcome evil and injustice and to cultivate the best human qualities in themselves. This is why the voice of the Russian Orthodox Church is so compelling and convincing.
Over the years in which you have been Patriarch, the collaborative efforts of the church and the state have reached a new level. Together, we have marked important dates in our history, such as the 1025th anniversary of the Christianisation of Russia, the 700th anniversary of the birth of St Sergius of Radonezh, and the 1000th anniversary of the repose of the Holy Great Prince Vladimir, Equal of the Apostles.
You pay particular attention to promoting productive cooperation with representatives of all traditional religions in Russia (it is no accident that I can see their representatives in this room) in areas such as social service, patriotic activities, and upholding moral standards – our common, I want to emphasise this, our common moral standards.
Your Holiness, by your authoritative word you bless people's willingness to work for the prosperity of their homeland; you support, through your concrete actions, various charitable and educational projects, as well as initiatives for spiritual and moral education at preschools, schools, and universities.
Largely due to your personal involvement, concern for the unity of the Orthodox world has not diminished. Relations with local churches and representatives of other Christian denominations and other traditional religions are being promoted. I would like to once again welcome our guests here.
Your Holiness, once again, please accept my congratulations on your birthday. I wish you all the best and many happy returns!
I am very pleased to have this opportunity to present to you, Your Holiness, with the order “For Services to the Fatherland,” 1st Class.
President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko
: Your Holiness, Mr Putin, dear friends, guests of our Patriarch!
It is with a special feeling of excitement and pride that I wish you a happy birthday.
Many years ago, you chose the difficult and responsible path of pastoring. All these years, you have tirelessly preached the Gospel truth of goodness, love and mercy. You seek to bring people up in the Christian traditions, helping millions of believers to find a solid spiritual foundation, support and, most importantly, to find their way to the church.
Your wise words strengthen faith and give hope and strength for creative activity. Today, your work as the head of the Russian Orthodox Church is aimed at preserving the moral principles and ways of society, the spiritual cultural traditions of the Orthodox faith, and bringing up the younger generation.
The Patriarchate is hard daily work and a huge burden of responsibility. Faith, wisdom, fortitude and strength of mind help you to perform your noble mission.
Thanks to your work and prayers, the Russian Orthodox Church continues to develop and, most importantly, to affirm its greatness, taking its rightful place in the Christian world.
You pay particular attention to the unity of the Russian Orthodox Church.
At a time when the world is shaken by wars and religious ethnic conflicts, the words of St Sergius of Radonezh, “unity and love shall save us”, are filled with special meaning.
Thanks to your proactive disposition, the Church plays an important role in maintaining harmony in society, friendship and cooperation between peoples, and in supporting peace and stability in the world.
Your Holiness, you are well aware of the fact that you enjoy well-deserved authority, and I would say popular affection in Belarus. Everyone knows you — Christians and Muslims, as well as representatives of other religions. This is the result of your work and positive attitude to our country as the head of the Russian Orthodox Church.
I am grateful to Your Holiness for the attention that you have shown to the people of Belarus. Your every visit to Belarus is an important event. Wherever you went to hold a church service, be it in legendary Polotsk, heroic Brest, ancient Vitebsk, or Minsk, the capital of Belarus, everywhere people received you as a good pastor and a spirited mentor.
Under your leadership, the Orthodox Church has helped strengthen the spiritual unity of the Slavic peoples of Belarus and Russia based on Christian values, such as a peaceful disposition, mutual aid, humanism and justice.
Belarus is not a new country to you: before you became head of our church, your area of responsibility, if I may put it this way, included Smolensk and Kaliningrad regions. Travelling between these two regions, as you yourself always point out, you did not just come to see the Belarusian land, you came to love it and the wonderful Slavic people of Belarus. I am confident that in the future, your activities will be just as positive and productive, and the Orthodox Church will do its utmost to help address current spiritual, moral and social problems.
Allow me, on behalf of the Belarusian people, to sincerely wish you, Your Holiness, good health — thank God, you have it — inexhaustible spiritual strength, a gift you do possess, blessed God's help in your work, and as the Russian President said, many happy returns.
I wish all of us happiness, good health, and peace. May you continue to work tirelessly for the benefit of our brotherly peoples for many years to come.
Thank you.
Patriarch Kirill
of Moscow and All Russia: Mr Putin, Mr Lukashenko, Your Holiness, Your Beatitude, Primates of local Orthodox Churches, Your Eminences, head of religious organisations of our country,
I would like to start by sincerely thanking you, Mr Putin, for your kind words. I would also like to thank you, Mr Lukashenko, for your kind words. But first and foremost, I would like to thank all those who have been helping me in word and deed with my demanding mission over the seven years of my patriarchate.
It is probably now time for me to say what matters the most, and to put it intelligibly, albeit briefly. Here is what came to my mind when I contemplated what to say in this solemn moment.
What is the purpose of the church’s existence? Theologians often describe the existence of the church in terms that are not often clear to an ordinary person. But an ordinary person knows all too well that coming to a church and praying there makes you feel brighter and lighter. When we leave the church, we are no longer the same as we were when entering it. This means that the church has the power to affect human hearts and inner state. And it is this inner state of mind that determines everything else, be it in political, economic, social, ethnic or cultural terms. All these dimensions derive from the inner state of mind.
As Apostle Paul said, evil thoughts come from within, out of the hearts of men, but the light also comes out of human hearts. It is not the purpose of the church to address political, economic or other issues. The church it there to assist the state, society and the people to overcome challenges they face.
That said, the church sees its main task in changing human hearts. When people change for the better, the world also becomes a better place. There is no other way or method to bring about positive change other than changing human hearts.
I remember a conversation I had with a state official in the Soviet time who could not fathom what the church does. He told me angrily: “You know, I will tell you, so that you understand the real place of the church in the Soviet Union, that you are somewhere in the 125th place on our agenda. Only when we settle all our problems will we maybe turn our attention to helping a small part of the population in exercising their religious feelings.” I did not tell this man anything at the time, but I saw that he had no understanding of the church or life. But the main thing is that he had no understanding of human beings.
I cannot determine the place of the church on the national agenda, but I know that the issue concerns the most important thing – human lives and the abundance of life. It is for the benefit of this that we work in all humility, hoping for God’s grace and with gratitude to our leaders, and primarily you, Mr Putin.
I would like to underscore the high level of dialogue and cooperation that has developed over the past few years with the Russian state represented by the President and the Russian authorities as a whole, which you are leading.
I would like to express our gratitude to Mr Lukashenko for the wonderful achievements in the spiritual life of Belarusian people. We know that this has happened through dialogue between my brethren and you. I always take part in this dialogue when we meet with you.
I would like to remind you about what I said after my election to the patriarchal throne, when I entered the Kremlin together with Council members. Dmitry Medvedev was President of Russia at the time, he met with the Local Council, and I was asked to deliver my remarks. As it sometimes happens, there was so much to do that I forgot to prepare a speech. I was to speak in the Kremlin, in front of the President and a very large audience, and the cameras. I did not expect this, as I was very inexperienced then. But when I stood at the lectern, just as I am doing now, it became clear to me what I needed to say.
I spoke about the ideal form of relations between the religious and the secular, between Church and State, which emerged in Byzantium. We describe it as symphony. In modern Russian, symphony is a harmony of sounds or other components. And this is how ideal relations between Church and State were described in ancient Byzantium. This ideal has never been attained in full, and will likely not be attained in our empirical world in any given historical period of time. But it will always remain an ideal to strive for.
We certainly have not created an ideal symphony over the past seven years, but we have created the foundation, which can be used to erect the building of symphonic consonance of the church, believers and the state gradually, one brick after another.
I want to express my sincere gratitude to you, Mr Putin, and to you, Mr Lukashenko, as representatives of the authorities that understand our aspirations and provide assistance to our efforts.
I pray for God’s blessing for our Homeland, the entire historical territory of Russia, of which I am now Patriarch, and the fraternal Slavic nations who live in independent states but who still receive their spiritual sustenance from the common historical source that was sanctified in the common Dnieper baptistery. I sincerely hope that our movement forward will be peaceful, tranquil and prosperous.
God bless all of us. Thank you very much.
See also
Congratulations to Patriarch Kirill of Moscow and All Russia on his birthday
November 20, 2016
Executive Order on awarding Patriarch Kirill of Moscow and All Russia the Order For Services to the Fatherland, I degree
November 19, 2016
Topics
Religion
State decorations
Persons
Kirill Patriarch of Moscow and All Russia
Lukashenko Alexander
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 22, 2016, 17:50
Text version