Events
Meeting with President of China Xi Jinping
September 4, 2016
08:10
Hangzhou
2 of 4
Meeting with President of China Xi Jinping.
The two presidents discussed the current state of bilateral relations, prospects for developing cooperation, and current international and regional issues.
* * *
Beginning of meeting with President of the People’s Republic of China Xi Jinping
President of China Xi Jinping
(retranslated): It is a great pleasure to receive my old friend President Putin and all of the Russian delegation here in Hangzhou. I wish you a warm welcome to the eleventh G20 summit.
As one of the key global economies and leading countries with established markets, Russia plays a big part in promoting health and stable global economic development and developing global economic governance.
Russia successfully hosted the G20 summit in September 2013. I am sure that your participation will help us to achieve positive results at this summit too.
You made a successful visit to China in June, when we celebrated the 15th anniversary of our major bilateral treaty [on friendship, good neighbourliness and cooperation], signed and announced three important joint statements and witnessed the signing of around 30 bilateral cooperation agreements.
This clearly demonstrates our mutual commitment to deepen our comprehensive partnership and cooperation, showed in full measure that our countries share common positions on current international and regional issues, and clearly stated our common call to support global strategic stability and work for peace and security in the world.
This is exceptionally important in today’s complex and fast-changing world.
Thank you.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: President Xi Jinping, friends,
We celebrated the 15th anniversary of our friendship treaty this year and, during my visit to China in June, discussed in detail all different areas of our cooperation.
Our relations are developing just as well as we hoped. There are problems linked to the general global economic development situation, but there are positive aspects too. Our exports are growing overall, including in such important areas as exports of vehicles and equipment. We are grateful to you for the close attention the Chinese government gives to this work. This is improving our export and mutual trade situation in general. Of course, we do still have a lot of work to do, but I am confident that we are on the right track.
I just met in Vladivostok with members of the Chinese business community. Overall, our Chinese partners are happy with the way we are building relations on the practical level, and I am pleased to hear that the political efforts we are making at the top are producing results for those who are engaged in the real economy and are at work on the ground in this area.
We will continue pursuing our contacts at the political, parliamentary and public levels. We have youth organisations working together, tourism exchanges, and we continue our cultural cooperation.
We certainly wish our Chinese friends and you personally success with holding this G20 summit. We see how much effort you have put into preparing this big event. We support the main agenda you have set for this summit and it will be our pleasure to take part in the discussions.
Thank you very much for this welcome.
<…>
Geography
People's Republic of China
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Xi Jinping
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 4, 2016, 08:10
Text versionEvents
Meeting with German Chancellor Angela Merkel
At the end of the second day of the Russian President's visit to China, Vladimir Putin met with Federal Chancellor of Germany Angela Merkel.
September 4, 2016
19:50
Hangzhou
1 of 3
Meeting with Federal Chancellor of Germany Angela Merkel.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Madame Federal Chancellor, colleagues, good evening,
Though it’s late, I think it’s good that we have this opportunity to talk about our bilateral relations, and discuss some issues that are of mutual interest, that we are persistently working on to find solutions.
Let's try to do some work. I hope you still feel up to it.
Federal Chancellor of Germany Angela Merkel
(retranslated): Don’t worry, I’m fine. I am very pleased to have the opportunity to talk. It’s still daytime in Europe, so I'm still fresh.
I think the issues that we will discuss are so important that it’s good we have this opportunity to discuss them on a bilateral basis now. I mean, for example, Ukraine.
<…>
Geography
Germany
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Merkel Angela
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 4, 2016, 19:50
Text version