Events
Meeting with Anton Alikhanov
Vladimir Putin met with Anton Alikhanov and announced his decision to appoint Mr Alikhanov Acting Governor of Kaliningrad Region.
October 6, 2016
15:45
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 4
With Acting Governor of Kaliningrad Region Anton Alikhanov.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Alikhanov, you are probably aware that Acting Governor of Kaliningrad Region Yevgeny Zinichev
has asked to return to Moscow for family reasons. In this situation, I can but fulfil his request.
You are currently head of the region’s government. You are young but already have sufficient experience and a good load of knowledge. You were a department head at the Ministry of Industry and Trade here in Moscow, worked in the federal government, and have headed Kaliningrad Region’s government for more than 18 months now.
I appoint you Acting Governor of Kaliningrad Region and I hope that you will do everything possible to ensure that this region of strategic importance for our country continues developing at the required pace.
You were one of the authors of the medium-term strategic development plan currently being prepared for the region. You must work with the Government to complete this effort and implement the relevant decisions. This alone is not enough though and you will need to make an energetic effort to develop and implement this strategic development plan in the region.
Anton Alikhanov
: Thank you very much, Mr President, for your trust.
We in the Kaliningrad Region Government will do our utmost and I will personally do all I can to carry out your instructions in full.
The time I have spent in Kaliningrad has already given me a general idea of the main problems there. And as you rightly observed, there is already an understanding of how these problems should be dealt with. We will move forward together with our colleagues from the Federal Government. I hope that all the tasks will be fulfilled in the near future.
Vladimir Putin: There is a whole year before September 2017, the next election campaign. During this time, you will need to demonstrate your work and depending on that, decide whether or not to run in the election campaign. However, I hope that you will work efficiently, at full capacity.
Anton Alikhanov: Thank you for your support, Mr President.
Vladimir Putin: What do you see as a priority for Kaliningrad and the Kaliningrad Region today?
Anton Alikhanov: Mr President, as you said, the drafting of a law, a package of amendments on the socio-economic development of Kaliningrad Region is entering its final stages. We are actively collaborating with our colleagues from the Ministry of Economic Development, and before the end of the year we will submit everything to the Government and in the first quarter of next year, I hope, all of this will be in parliament and will then be submitted to you as a federal law to be signed. This is probably one of the main priorities.
Of course, the region’s access to the transport system is very important, including ferry services and subsidised airfares.
Naturally, there is energy security. Mr Kozak [Deputy Prime Minister] recently chaired a corresponding meeting concerning, among other things, the construction of new generating capacity in the region. Another priority of course is natural gas supply to the region. However, we can see no problems there, as we are moving forward in line with the course that has been set. There is a little lag but it is insignificant and all directives will be carried out in time.
Then, of course, we have the 2018 World Cup. There were some difficulties with regard to the stadium but they were successfully resolved. We are a little behind on the construction of a runway, its modernisation, and the air terminal. I hope that we will be able to address this with you separately.
Vladimir Putin: Of course.
The draft federal law regulating the special regime for entrepreneurial activity in Kaliningrad Region should be finalised. It is a broad-range document. All positions that have not been coordinated yet – and there are practically none left: trifles, as the Minister of Economic Development told me – should be coordinated, and it should be submitted to the State Duma.
Anton Alikhanov: Very well. Will do.
<…>
Geography
Kaliningrad Region
Topics
Civil service
Regions
Persons
Alikhanov Anton
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 6, 2016, 15:45
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Prince Albert II of Monaco
Vladimir Putin met at the Kremlin with Prince Albert II of Monaco, who is in Russia for the Days of Monaco cultural event.
October 6, 2016
13:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 6
With Prince Albert II of Monaco.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Your Highness, colleagues, let me welcome you to the Moscow Kremlin.
It makes me very happy that we started your visit with an important event, the opening of an exhibition dedicated to the ties between Monaco and Russia. We have seen with our own eyes just how far back these ties go and how constructively our relations developed.
I am very pleased that today our relations are also developing in just as consistent and positive a spirit.
We are very pleased to see you. Welcome!
Ruling Prince of Monaco Albert II
(retranslated): Mr President, Your Excellency, colleagues,
I personally and my delegation are very pleased to have this chance to see you and to be here in Moscow to mark the 10th anniversary of the restoration of our diplomatic ties.
It was with great pleasure that we opened this marvellous exhibition that, as I said, illustrates wonderfully all the layers of history in the relations between our two countries’ ruling houses. The exhibition is a wonderful way to bring the past alive while at the same time directing us to the future.
Now, 10 years after our countries restored their diplomatic relations, it is with great pleasure that I note the excellent level of cooperation between Russia and Monaco in a wide range of areas. I am sure that Moscow shares this vision and shares the desire to further develop our cooperation.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
<…>
See also
Vladimir Putin and Prince Albert II of Monaco opened exhibition The Romanovs and the Grimaldis. Three Centuries of History
October 6, 2016
Geography
Monaco
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Ruling Prince of Monaco Albert II
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 6, 2016, 13:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting on socioeconomic issues
Vladimir Putin held a meeting to discuss financial provisions for social sector commitments.
October 6, 2016
15:05
The Kremlin, Moscow
Meeting on socioeconomic issues.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon colleagues.
We are continuing our examination of the draft federal budget’s main parameters. I propose that we look at social spending today.
This is certainly a key issue, and not just for the budget process. The situation in the social sector reflects the effectiveness of the state authorities’ work in general and determines the level and quality of life for our country’s people.
This year, despite the economic difficulties we faced, we have managed to maintain the federal budget’s social focus. Around 35 percent of budget spending went on financing education, healthcare, culture and social policy measures in 2016. In absolute terms, this comes to around 5.6 trillion rubles.
As I have said, we must ensure that we meet all social commitments next year as well. We must ensure all guarantees to our citizens in this area.
Of course, there is no denying the fact that the economic situation and the circumstances we face have an impact on budget planning and in some areas we are forced to limit spending growth and redistribute funds in order to resolve the highest priority tasks.
These include projects to modernise the vocational education system at all levels, re-equip hospitals and medical centres, and support cultural and social services facilities. We have to keep up the current pace in these areas.
We must ensure that people working in the social sector earn a decent wage. I remind you that up to a quarter of the country’s workforce is engaged in this sector.
The situation with the federal and regional budgets has a direct impact on the living standards of millions of Russian families. It is important to maintain their income levels.
Of course, we also need to ensure support for the elderly and for socially vulnerable groups. As we agreed, we must make provisions for a one-off payment to pensioners, for indexing pensions to actual inflation in 2016, and for additional federal social payments for pensioners.
At the same time, we must make social support measures more effective and work on the principle of targeted support for those who need it most. This is something we have discussed many times.
Let us begin our work.
<…>
Topics
Budget
Pensions
Social services
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 6, 2016, 15:05
Text version