Events
Monument to Vladimir the Great opened in Moscow on Unity Day
Vladimir Putin and Patriarch Kirill of Moscow and All Russia opened a monument to the Holy Great Prince Vladimir, Equal of the Apostles, and Christianiser of Russia, on Borovitskaya Square.
November 4, 2016
14:30
10 of 21
Monument to Vladimir the Great opened in Moscow on Unity Day.
The monument was erected at the initiative of the Russian Military-Historical Society and the Moscow City Government. It was sculpted by Salavat Shcherbakov, People’s Artist of the Russian Federation.
The opening ceremony was attended by Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev
, Minister of Culture Vladimir Medinsky
, Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin
, Government members, deputies, members of NGOs, and representatives of science, culture and the arts.
Following the opening ceremony, Patriarch Kirill of Moscow and All Russia consecrated the monument.
Earlier, the President and the Patriarch laid flowers at the Monument to Minin and Pozharsky on Red Square.
Flowers were also laid by Chairman of the Council of Muftis of Russia Ravil Gaynutdin, Chief Mufti and Head of the Central Spiritual Directorate of Muslims of Russia Talgat Tadzhuddin, Chief Rabbi of Russia Berl Lazar, Head of the Russian Orthodox Old-Rite Church Korniliy, Archbishop of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Moscow Paolo Pezzi, leader of traditional Buddhist Sangkha of Russia Bandida Khambo-lama Damba Ayusheyev, and activists of Russian youth movements and members of non-governmental national and cultural organisations.
The President also visited the Orthodox Russia exhibition and forum at the Manezh central exhibition centre where he toured the exhibit, Russia – My History: 1945–2016.
The 15thOrthodox Russia exhibition and forum runs from November 4 to 22 and continues the cycle of My History exhibitions devoted to the founding of the Russian state. The President’s tour was led by Bishop Tikhon of Yegoryevsk.
* * *
Оpening ceremony of the monument to Vladimir the Great
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Your Holiness, Muscovites, friends,
Welcome and congratulations on the opening of the monument to Holy Great Prince Vladimir, Equal of the Apostles. This is a major, significant event both for Moscow and the entire country and for all Russian compatriots. It is symbolic that the opening is being held on Unity Day here, in central Moscow, by the walls of the ancient Kremlin, the very heart of Russia.
The new monument is a tribute to our prominent ancestor, an especially revered saint, national leader and warrior, and the spiritual founder of the Russian state.
Prince Vladimir went down in history as a unifier and defender of Russian lands, and a far-sighted politician who created the foundations of a strong, unified, centralised state, which eventually united different peoples, languages, cultures and religions into one big family.
His epoch was full of achievements, and the Baptism of Rus was of course the most important, defining and essential of them. This choice was the common spiritual source for the peoples of Russia, Belarus and Ukraine, and laid the foundations of our moral standards and value priorities which continue to define our lives to this day.
It is this solid moral foundation, unity and solidarity that helped our ancestors overcome difficulties, live and achieve victories to the glory of the Fatherland, strengthening its power and greatness from one generation to the next.
And our duty today is to work together to confront modern challenges and threats, while relying on spiritual covenants and the invaluable traditions of unity and harmony, and to preserve the continuity of our thousand-year history as we move forward.
Dear friends,
Congratulations on Unity Day! I wish all Russian citizens success and wellbeing.
Patriarch Kirill
of Moscow and All Russia: Mr President, distinguished guests of this solemn ceremony,
Holy Prince Vladimir was very pragmatic in his choice of faith. He sent his ambassadors to understand how people serve God in different places. This is proof of the Prince’s profound sincerity, his aspiration to approach the most important issue – the choice of a faith – as honestly and impartially as possible.
We live in a world today where truths are being eroded. The relativity of the truth is the cult which many people now follow without even knowing it themselves. This is the quasi-religion of the present: everything has a right to exist, because there is no unshakable eternal truth.
If Vladimir thought the same way as many our contemporaries, he would have never made his choice. He would have either remained a pagan or become a Christian individually, without bringing Christianity to Rus. There would have been no Rus, no Russia, no Russian Orthodox power, no great Russian Empire, and no modern Russia.
But he was not seeking luxuriant church services or the spiritual comfort which religion often affords. He was seeking the Truth, with a capital T, and he discovered and loved the figure of Christ and came to know him in the Sacred Baptism as the light, truth and life.
Economic and political difficulties exist in every society. But the loss of spiritual identity condemns a country. It is doomed no matter how powerful it may have seemed. Therefore, choosing a faith for Vladimir was tantamount to choosing the destiny of the people he loved.
If Vladimir had no personal experience of love for Christ and was guided by exclusively political or other reasons, the people would not have believed him. Vladimir was not a political schemer, a cunning or two-faced person. He was always consistent and sincere – both when he made mistakes and did lawless things, and when he discovered the fullness of the truth in the Orthodox faith and became a saint.
This monument is a reminder to each person who beholds it: “Are you as sincere in your faith, in your love for the Fatherland and its people as Holy Prince Vladimir? Or do you want to distance yourself from everyone and everything for personal benefit and self-interest?”
But a Christian is someone who follows Christ always, not just when it is easy and convenient. The hearts of real followers of Christ cannot help but bleed for their family, city, country and the entire world. The greatest calamity of the present has nothing to do with economic or political crises, it is the acute, chronic shortage of love for each other, for our Creator and for all of his creations.
No one can revisit the choice of Prince Vladimir without destroying one’s own civilisational identity. To say that Vladimir did something wrong is to fall asleep in the shade of churches and wake up in the forest near a fire, not knowing how to read and write. Unfortunately, this choice is made by those who want to return to the debris of pagan ignorance and replace the light of the truth with the darkness of pre-Christian life.
Vladimir was known as the Fair Sun among his people, and only truly beloved figures are given such names. He was not afraid of abruptly changing the direction of society’s development because he loved the people and believed that he would be understood and followed.
He did not try to calculate all the risks and dangers of changing the faith, because this was not a tactical or a strategic decision for him, it was a decision about attaining the truth for himself and his people forever. And the truth is not accepted based on a calculation. In that case it ceases to be truth.
In his decisiveness, devotion to Christ and consistency in following the Gospels, Vladimir resembled the apostles, although there was a thousand-year gap between them.
If we think that today there are no choices left for us like the one Vladimir made, then we are sadly mistaken. Our choice might not be as colossal and notable but its consequences are no less so. Each day we choose who and what we live for, what we fill our lives with. This is a choice of faith on which not only our destiny, but the destiny of the whole world depends.
The monument to Prince Vladimir is a symbol of the unity of all peoples to whom he is father. These are the peoples of historic Rus who currently live within the borders of many countries.
A monument to a father can be anywhere his children live, there is nothing contradictory about it. But it is bad if the children forget they have the same father.
Head of the Solzhenitsyn Foundation Natalya Solzhenitsyn: Mr President, Your Holiness, friends,
The monument to Prince Vladimir is not just another landmark for our city that will attract people to pose for photographs against its background. It is also a challenge, a question addressed to each and every one of us: how do we look against his background?
The 20th century was a century of great ordeals for Russia. Two world wars with a civil war, collectivisation and the GULAG in between. But the 21st century does not spell quiet either.
Where can we draw strength not just to survive but to be worthy of our ancestors? Everybody says in unity and concord. But we should admit that after the stormy 20th century and an uneasy transition to the 21st century we do not have unity and concord on many vital issues.
The assessment of our past is among the major controversies. In this respect it would be appropriate to address Prince Vladimir, who is an example of the transformative power of Christianity still aflame throughout centuries. He looked back at his life, condemned what was wrong and dark in it, took everything good that was bestowed on him, and resolutely turned towards the light.
We should do that too. It means to respect our history, to take pride in our nation’s achievements, its heroes and its righteous. But it also means to have honesty and courage so as to condemn evil, not to justify it or to sweep its memory under the carpet away from view. We will not achieve purity in our house that way.
Vladimir’s Baptism of Rus gave it the faith that taught: God is in the truth, not in the power. Let us be adherents of this testament. Let us preserve the high traditions and pure spirit. The worthy future of our Fatherland depends on them.
<…>
Topics
Religion
Persons
Kirill Patriarch of Moscow and All Russia
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 4, 2016, 14:30
Text versionEvents
Presenting state decorations and the prize for contribution to strengthening the unity of the Russian nation
Vladimir Putin presented state decorations – the Order of Friendship and the Pushkin Medal – to foreign citizens who have made special contributions to strengthening peace, friendship, cooperation and mutual understanding among different peoples at a ceremony held in the Kremlin to mark the National Unity Day.
November 4, 2016
15:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 10
At a ceremony marking National Unity Day.
The Presidential Prize for contribution to strengthening the unity of the Russian nation was presented for the first time. It was established in 2016 and is awarded for successful efforts to strengthen the national civic consciousness and spiritual commonality of the multinational people of Russia, harmonise interethnic relations, and develop the ethnocultural diversity of the peoples of Russia. Honorary Chairman of the State Council of the Republic of Daghestan Magomedali Magomedov was the first recipient of the award.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends,
I would like to extend my warmest wishes to you on Unity Day.
This holiday was established as a symbol of the unbreakable bond of our people with the fate of the Fatherland, its history full of great achievements, severe tests and heroic victories.
Sincere love of the Motherland, readiness to protect it at all times has served as a reliable basis of the independence and sovereignty of our country.
More than four centuries ago, people of different nationalities and classes were united by deep, true feelings of patriotism. That was when the people, amidst all the discord, took responsibility to prevent the enslavement of the country. And this powerful unity made it possible to put an end to the tragedy of the so-called Time of Troubles, expel enemies from the homeland, stand up for the right to live according to one’s own principles and traditions, and preserve the unique Russian state, which was already a centre of world civilisation then.
And today, as we look back on those events centuries later, we feel the greatness of the civic deed of our ancestors, which was repeated many times by their descendants who defended the country, its honour and dignity.
Our strength lies in our loyalty to the traditions of national unity, our loyalty to the higher freedom an individual gains from taking the oath to the Fatherland, and our unwavering love of country, which cannot be felt on command. It is in our hearts.
Friends,
Today, on this holiday we are starting a new tradition. The prize of the President of Russia for contribution to strengthening the unity of the Russian nation will be awarded for the first time. And Magomedali Magomedov, honorary chairman of the State Council of the Republic of Daghestan, is the first recipient.
For many years he headed this most multinational region of the country. And the contribution of Mr Magomedov to strengthening Russian statehood and consolidating peace and harmony in Daghestan are enormous. We remember the events of 1999 when residents of Daghestan courageously resisted the aggression of international terrorism.
Mr Magomedov, I would like to sincerely thank you, from the bottom of my heart, for your great example of loyalty to the Fatherland.
State decorations are also being presented on Unity Day to foreign citizens, our friends who make a significant contribution to the development of multilateral cultural and humanitarian ties with Russia.
Such contacts help people understand each other, bring them together, often break down artificially imposed stereotypes, and as our friend Emir Kusturica rightly said once, they are an opportunity to get away from restrictions and feel the independence of the spirit. The works of this world renowned film director have opened up new ways to encounter Russian culture, both classical and modern.
The educational programmes initiated in the United States by Susan Lehrman represent an important mission. They are especially important today, when our relations with the United States are being tested. This shows that both in Russia and the United States there are people who value the relations between us, respect and love both the culture of the United States and the culture of Russia. Of course, this brings people together, and gives hope for the full restoration of our relations for the sake of our peoples.
The consolidation of ties between Russia and China is aided by the theatrical projects in which Mr Chen Ping plays a prominent role. I would like to underscore that it is thanks to such people that relations between Russia and the People’s Republic of China have reached an incredibly high level, a truly strategic partnership.
I am pleased to present the Order of Friendship to you, dear friends.
Foreign colleagues who have been honoured with the Pushkin medals are also present here as well.
I would like to thank all the guests for your efforts to preserve and spread Russian culture and the Russian language, and our spiritual traditions.
I would like to extend my warmest wishes to all Russian citizens, all those who are here in this hall, and all our compatriots living abroad.
Happy Unity Day!
Honorary Chairman of the State Council of the Republic of Daghestan Magomedali Magomedov: Thank you very much, Mr President, for the high appreciation of my work.
You have decorated me with many state decorations, including the Order for Services to the Fatherland, I degree. But my biggest award, just like for all Russians, is that you have lived up to the expectations of the people that gave you the powers and the mandate of the President of the Russian Federation. You inherited a crumbling demoralised army and turned it into a cutting-edge, technically well-equipped, mobile and powerful army capable of defending our Motherland’s interests in any situation. You inherited a country with a ruined economy on the verge of collapse and disintegration, and turned it into a united, indivisible great power respected throughout the world. You are a respected person, people trust you.
Our country is going through difficult times due to external factors. We will survive. Russia will not be forced to its knees. Everybody is aware of how such attempts ended.
We, the people of Daghestan, have a special respect, appreciation and affection for you. We shall never forget your support in hard times. The Daghestani people will never forget your historic arrival in Daghestan in 1999, your trip to Botlikh, addressing our army’s soldiers and Daghestani militia. You gave a high assessment of Daghestan and its people.
In the murky times of the early 1990s, when almost everyone was declaring a so-called sovereignty and independence, Daghestanis resolutely said, “No, we remain within Russia!” And they confirmed their decision with their actions, when in 1999 they faced Russia’s enemy with arms in their hands and together with our army headed by you crashed the extremists and international terrorists, and defended the unity and independence of the Russian state.
I congratulate you, Mr President, on today’s great holiday. I wish you good health and success in your work.
I wish Russia, our Motherland, greatness, peace and prosperity.
Thank you.
Film director Emir Kusturica (in Russian): Mr President,
When we first met, I didn’t speak any Russian, and when we met again, I spoke only a little Russian. Now I thank you for this Order, and I thank you for the assistance to the Andricgrad cultural programme.
That is all.
President of Lehrman LLC Susan Lehrman (speaking in Russian):
Thank you very much for this honour.
(Speaking in English): In all my philanthropic endeavours, Fyodor Dostoyevsky’s principle that “Beauty will save the world” has guided me.
The Carmel Institute of Russian Culture and History that I founded is based on his principle.
Only be appreciating the beauty of culture and by respecting each other’s cultural roots and history can we establish stronger and more authentic bonds.
Real change must come from the heart, and I sincerely believe that the greatest way to reach the hearts and minds of people is through the beauty of cultural sharing and cultural dialogue.
Thank you from my heart, Mr President.
(Speaking in Russian): Thank you very much from the bottom of my heart, Mr President.
President of the National Grand Theatre of China Chen Ping (retranslated):
Mr President, dear guests, ladies and gentlemen,
Today is an unforgettable and most important day in my life. It is a great honour to receive a precious award – the Order of Friendship, from Russian President Vladimir Putin here in the Kremlin, in Moscow.
The National Grand Theatre in Beijing has been actively cooperating with Russia’s outstanding performers. Many masterpieces of the Russian performing art have been shown to the Chinese audiences. Numerous Chinese spectators were deeply touched by those delightful, great works, which undoubtedly gave a strong impetus for making even deeper the traditional feeling of profound friendship bonding the peoples of China and Russia.
I am absolutely convinced that under the leadership of Chinese President Xi Jinping and President of Russia Vladimir Putin the cultural exchanges between our countries will gather momentum, and the general public both in the People’s Republic of China and the Russian Federation will add new colours to the rich palette of the interaction between the two friendly nations in the spirit of greater openness and unanimity and will build up an even more beautiful common future.
On my part, I am ready to work tirelessly to promote joint plans and projects of my Russian colleagues, and I will be happy to witness new achievements.
I would like to once again express my sincere gratitude to President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin.
Chairman of the Kyrgyz public fund The Russian Legacy Centre for Support of the Russian Language and Cultural Heritage Sergei Peremyshlin: Mr President, friends,
I am very happy to be here in the Kremlin today, which in itself is an award for me.
As to the state decoration you have awarded to me, it is a great honour. But it is not an award for me alone; this award also belongs to my parents, my family, friends, colleagues and associates. This is why, in the name of the personnel of the Russian Legacy public fund and the Chekhov School, which was opened as part of the implementation of the Russian School Abroad concept, let me thank you for the high award and assessment of our work.
As a Russian national living abroad, I would like to assure you that I am committed to earnestly work further for the good of the great Russia, preserving and representing its interests with all means available to me.
I would also like to say that the Russian diaspora in Kyrgyzstan fully supports your policy and is ready to march under your victorious banner.
Thank you very much.
Former Culture Minister of Armenia Hasmik Poghosyan:
Mr President, thank you for this honour. I give my thanks to Russia for Pushkin. I thank Armenia for the Pushkin School I graduated from. And my thanks to Alexander Pushkin for his beautiful language, for his aesthetics and philosophy.
Thank you.
General Secretary of the Austrian Association of Teachers of the Russian Language and Literature Erich Pointner:
Mr President, thank you for the award and the honour of being here. On behalf of Russian language teachers in Austria I promise that we will continue to further develop traditionally good relations between Austria and Russia and friendship between our peoples.
Director of the Chekhov Russian Drama Theatre, Republic of Moldova, Constantin Haret:
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen,
It is a great honour for me to be given this medal on this great holiday. It reflects not just my work, but the work of the whole theatre – the Chekhov Russian Drama Theatre of Chisinau.
Despite all the complexities and challenges, our theatre firmly ranks first among the most visited theatres in our country because our audience is not just Russian speakers, we have Moldovans, Bulgarians and Gagauz people visiting. And we are rightfully called an islet of the Russian culture and Russian spirituality.
Thank you very much.
Vladimir Putin: Friends,
Nothing is more fundamental than history and traditions because they are the things that were, they will never disappear. But nothing is more inspiring and bringing hope than culture because it is the road to the future.
Happy holiday! All the very best to you!
See also
Establishing the Presidential Award for Contribution to Strengthening Russia’s National Unity
April 26, 2016
Topics
State decorations
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 4, 2016, 15:30
Text version