Events
Order of Parental Glory awarded at the Kremlin
Vladimir Putin awarded the Order of Parental Glory to parents of large families. The recipients include families from Khabarovsk, Altai and Krasnodar Territories, Kaliningrad, Sverdlovsk, Tver and Samara Regions, Ingushetia and Crimea.
June 1, 2016
17:20
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 12
At the Order of Parental Glory awards ceremony.
The Order of Parental Glory was established by a presidential Executive Order in May 2008 and is awarded to parents (or adoptive parents) raising 7 or more children and ensuring due care for their health, education, and physical, spiritual and moral development.
* * *
Address at the Order of Parental Glory awards ceremony
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon friends.
It has become a tradition now to present the Order of Parental Glory here at the Kremlin on International Children’s Day. This high state decoration recognises people who have devoted their lives to children and to rearing Russia’s younger generations. Those present here today are just such people.
Of course, I am very much aware that all of this work comes at a great cost – both physical and moral. You devote all of your time and your hearts to your children. To give life and raise children to stand firmly on their own two feet is certainly a job of national importance. It is especially important to teach young people all they need to know to make their way in life, and to impart to your children something of your own souls.
I know that families such as yours make no distinction between your own children and someone else's. Big families with adopted children never make these distinctions. You have enough genuine care, attention and warmth to share with everyone. All are welcome and all are loved.
We can feel this here in this hall right now. It is wonderful that at a ceremony such as this, at the awarding of the Order Parental Glory, the whole family is present, from the oldest to the youngest. This is the way it should be, for you are all a single whole.
Families like yours embody our finest Russian traditions of love for children, loyalty, compassion, and selfless support. These qualities have always served as a foundation for you, and not just for you, but also for all of us, for the entire country. This is one of the main pillars for developing and strengthening this country and establishing and developing a moral and healthy way of life. We are meeting here today to honour your families and families like yours all around the country.
You set an example of great importance for this country’s youth. Through your devoted labour, your personal involvement and openness, you raise the prestige of the family as an institution and you do everything possible to ensure that your children grow up healthy, receive a good education, become true citizens of Russia, and have opportunities for realising their potential and for some day having just as marvellous a family as yours.
For my part, I would like to say that support for motherhood and childhood and providing Russian families with a decent level and quality of life have always been among our national priorities.
Our efforts to develop healthcare, education, the social sector and the economy are producing results. The birth rate continues to grow. Last year, 1.9 million babies were born in Russia, a figure close to the level in 2014. In general, these past three years have seen a steady annual natural growth.
It is good to see that more and more families are deciding to have a second or third child. Last year, we issued more than 1 million maternity capital certificates, and I hope that the number of families worthy of receiving the Order of Parental Glory will grow every year.
I congratulate you from all my heart and I want to thank you for devoting yourselves to this difficult but very fortunate and inspiring parental labour.
I would like to wish you all good health and prosperity. Congratulations!
<…>
You know, when one sees such a big team here, one cannot help asking oneself the question that I asked one of the families before: just how do you manage so many children? After all, it is no easy job, and you have to give them all attention, give them all a little piece of your heart, a bit of warmth and soul. No one can grow without this.
I want to congratulate all of you once again on these state decorations and wish you the greatest happiness. If anyone deserves it, it is certainly you.
Thank you very much.
Topics
State decorations
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 1, 2016, 17:20
Text versionEvents
Vladimir Putin highly assessed the outcomes of his visit to Greece
The corresponding message from the President of Russia was published in the Greek Kathimerini daily.
June 1, 2016
08:05
I would like to express my sincere gratitude to my Greek colleagues for their hospitality during my visit to the Hellenic Republic on May 27 and 28. I was genuinely moved by the cordial, warm welcome accorded to the Russian delegation in your country.
The outcomes of this visit were very positive. It took place in an atmosphere of trust, and had a very busy schedule. The talks revealed that Russia and Greece are in synch on most issues. Most importantly, we are talking to each other not just as partners, but as old friends, which is largely attributable to the centuries-old spiritual and cultural affinity between our peoples.
The current relations between Russia and Greece are based on pragmatism and trust. We highly value the level of partnership we have been able to achieve and share the conviction that there is a lot of potential for further strengthening our business and humanitarian ties.
I strongly believe that the outcomes of the visit will provide new impetus and bolster mutual understanding and trust between our countries and peoples.
I would like to wish all citizens of Greece happiness and prosperity.
See also
Visit to Greece and Mount Athos
May 27 − 28, 2016
Geography
Greece
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 1, 2016, 08:05
Text versionEvents
Start of 2018 Football World Cup Volunteer Programme
Vladimir Putin took part in a ceremony launching the start of the Volunteer Programme for the 2017 FIFA Confederation Cup and the 2018 FIFA World Cup.
June 1, 2016
16:00
Moscow
1 of 6
With FIFA President Gianni Infantino at a ceremony marking the start of the 2018 Football World Cup Volunteer Programme.
The Volunteer Programme will see more than 5,000 volunteers taking part in the Confederation Cup and more than 15,000 in the World Cup. Around 20,000 people will take part in volunteer programmes in the different World Cup host cities. Volunteer centres in the 11 host cities will take applications from would-be volunteers in Russia and abroad and make their selection by the end of 2017. Applications can be sent to the site fifa.com/volunteers.
The Football World Cup will run from June 14-July 15 2018 and will take place at 12 stadiums in 11 Russian cities: Moscow, St Petersburg, Kazan, Nizhny Novgorod, Saransk, Sochi, Kaliningrad, Yekaterinburg, Rostov-on-Don, Volgograd, and Samara.
* * *
Address at a ceremony launching the start of the 2018 Football World Cup Volunteer Programme
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends,
It is a great pleasure to welcome you to this wonderful event today – the launch of the 2018 Football World Cup Volunteer Programme. We are now only 742 days away from the world’s biggest football celebration, which Russia will host for the first time ever. This country will play host to the 32 best national teams in the world. Today, we begin putting together the ‘33rd team’ – the world cup’s biggest team – the team of volunteers.
Over the month the world cup takes place, these 15,000 young men and women in volunteer uniforms will be the face of our country for dozens of thousands of football fans from all around the world. It is you, the volunteers, who will be crucial for the kind of impressions of Russia our guests will take home with them.
The volunteer movement has already proved its worth and provided real help during big international forums, competitions and meetings. Your predecessors did an excellent job during the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi and at the 2013 World Student Games in Kazan.
The Football World Cup is one of the sports world’s biggest global events. It is a great honour and a real celebration for all participants to be involved in this event.
I want to add that being a volunteer is not just about a chance to find yourself next to football stars, don a fine uniform, and simply spend time with interesting people, but it is also about selfless and sincere service for noble and constructive goals. This is the true essence of the volunteer movement.
Volunteers, we will hold world cup matches in various cities around the country, in the south, north, east and west. Each city and region has its own unique historical and cultural monuments, traditions and customs of hospitality.
We hope that volunteers will also play an active part in helping to carry out the largescale cultural programme that is part of this world cup. In other words, we hope you will not only help the guests find their way to sports venues, but will also be ready to give them tips on interesting sightseeing routes and provide them with information on cultural and leisure sites.
Preparations for the world cup are in full swing. Three stadiums – in Kazan, Sochi, and the Spartak Stadium in Moscow – have already been completed. Work is in progress on the other 9 sites. All of the builders promise that the sites will be ready on schedule, and I am sure that they will keep their word. Construction work at the event’s main venue – the Luzhniki Stadium – is ahead of schedule and it will be ready for opening in December this year.
A number of infrastructure facilities will be ready for use next year for the Confederation Cup. This will be a big and important trial before the World Cup in 2018.
I am sure that we will ensure the highest possible level of organisation both for the athletes and for the event’s guests. Everyone should feel they are part of this great football festival, and I count very much on your help here.
Friends, the volunteer movement is becoming an ever more important part of Russia’s public life. Tens of thousands of people are getting involved and are ready to selflessly help those who need their support. I hope that many of you who become volunteers at the Football World Cup will keep the positive energy boost this unique competition will give you and will continue your volunteer mission in other projects and initiatives of social significance.
I wish you luck from all my heart!
Thank you very much.
Topics
Sport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 1, 2016, 16:00
Text version