Events
Meeting with senior officials of the Republic of Crimea and Sevastopol
Vladimir Putin held a working meeting with Head of the Republic of Crimea Sergei Aksyonov and Acting Governor of Sevastopol Dmitry Ovsyannikov.
August 19, 2016
20:40
Crimea
1 of 2
Working meeting with Head of the Republic of Crimea Sergei Aksyonov (left) and Acting Governor of Sevastopol Dmitry Ovsyannikov.
The discussion focused on the socioeconomic situation in Crimea and measures to improve the inland road infrastructure.
The meeting took place at the site of the Tavrida National Youth Educational Forum.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Aksyonov
, Mr Ovsyannikov
, we will now discuss matters pertaining to Crimea and Sevastopol.
I wanted us to meet in a small group, just the three of us, because there is a new head of the executive branch in Sevastopol. I very much hope that you will work together, hand in hand, and help and support each other.
We are aware of the numerous issues that need to be addressed here in Crimea in general, and in Sevastopol in particular. The first thing to focus on is constant and systematic work to increase the incomes of the population of Crimea and Sevastopol. You are experienced people, and you are aware that all other issues, such as social matters or housing and utilities, pre-school facilities and schools, hospitals and so on, depend on this.
We have an extensive federal programme for the development of Crimea and Sevastopol that is filled with federal resources. We will now discuss its progress. It is important to fulfill all the activities that are listed there properly and on time. In addition, we agreed that we would release in 2016 an additional 5 billion rubles to repair and build new inland roads. Mr Aksyonov assured me that all these funds would be used properly. A portion of this money will go to Sevastopol, because, to put it mildly, it can be put to good use there.
We have planned to build major federal highways going across the bridge and then across Crimea and to Sevastopol. However, the inland road network is still — as a matter of fact, it was neglected before — in rather poor shape, and it is imperative to make at least the first steps towards improving it.
Let us discuss all of these issues.
<…>
See also
Attending Tavrida youth forum
August 19, 2016
Additional
Trip to the Republic of Crimea
August 19, 2016
Geography
Republic of Crimea
Topics
Economy and finance
Regions
Social services
Persons
Aksyonov Sergei
Ovsyannikov Dmitry
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 19, 2016, 20:40
Text version