Events
Meeting with Head of Federal Service for Environmental, Technological and Nuclear Supervision Alexei Aleshin
The President had a working meeting with the Head of the Federal Environmental, Industrial and Nuclear Supervision Service Alexei Aleshin.
March 1, 2016
16:45
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 3
Head of Federal Service for Environmental, Technological and Nuclear Supervision Alexei Aleshin.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Aleshin, the subject of our conversation today is unfortunately a grave matter: the tragedy at the mine in Vorkuta.
A number of decisions were made recently, particularly after the tragic events, to increase safety in mines and to raise owners’ liability, decisions pertaining to safety equipment in mines and to greater discipline among the miners themselves, even in terms of changes of the remuneration system in some of its components.
What really happened in Vorkuta? Such a tragedy and such horrible consequences. It may be too early to draw definite conclusions. However, in your view today what has been established and what do you think brought about this tragedy?
Head of the Federal Service for Environmental, Technological and Nuclear Supervision Alexei Aleshin: Mr President, you are right when you say that the final conclusions will be made later, because this is not only a great tragedy, but it is also difficult to grasp the reasons that caused it.
To clarify, I would like to say that the accident on the Severnaya mine occurred in a course called Moshchny (Powerful). What makes it unique is that it is highly dangerous in terms of gas exhausts, coal dust and rock burst. We applied all the measures to establish the technological production methods and ensuring safety proceeding from these features.
Here we applied the most efficient method for combatting rock burst and gas exhausts – lower underworking of the seam. This is a very complicated and costly method, but the most effective one today in terms of preventing these developments. It was used here.
We also used forced draining of gases and a number of other methods. It is generally considered that all this should make a dangerous seam safe.
Now over to the developments on the section where the accident happened. This section has been developed since September 2014. There has been constant surveillance there as this is a section of a mine rated first category in terms of danger.
Over this time, our inspectors have been to the mine more than 10 times. They found some minor violations and, naturally, penalised those responsible and imposed fines. Work never stopped on this mine and in this section because none of these violations were critical in terms of posing a threat for people’s lives or health. Throughout the time of observation, there was no threat of excessive gas or coal dust content, which are the main components of an explosion.
In February, our inspector paid three visits to the section where the explosion occurred. There were no violations in gas and dust content. Moreover, this section had such a ventilation regime that it received 900 cubic metres of air instead of the required 400. Therefore, right until the accident, gas content was not only within the norm, but it was even lower than average, which means the environment there was quite comfortable.
Now over to the events of the 25th. At 14 hours 9 minutes and 28 seconds – we checked with the equipment that was operating there and timed everything down to a second – on the 28th second there was a sharp increase in the content of methane in individual sections of the long face. When I say ‘sharp increase’, I mean 20 and 100 times, in other words it was as if a single methane cloud passed through momentarily. The change occurred within 2–3 seconds or even fractions of a second.
On the 28th second, the automatic equipment switched the power off. The next measurement was taken 30 seconds later. During these 30 seconds all systems were violated, which means that the blast took place between the 28th and 58th seconds. Overall, it lasted no more than a minute: the cloud came, the equipment reacted and the explosion occurred.
Now about the causes and why we speak of preliminary causes. Generally, the technology used on this mine rules out anything of the kind. Such developments were considered impossible with these technologies. Therefore, this was probably some anomaly in the gob. Most probably – and this is only a hypothesis – there was a big overhanging level bank that did not break apart, although it should have, it caved in momentarily and, like a plunger, went down and forced the remaining methane into the long face where the people were working.
Why did this happen? We are now getting all our top experts together, specialists from universities and from the Academy of Sciences, so they provide us with answers why this happened and how it can be predicted, and, most importantly, prevented.
Vladimir Putin: This is of utmost importance. We need conclusions for practical use, to avoid such tragedies, any tragedies in the future.
As for social issues, I will definitely keep this under control and tomorrow the Government will report what they are doing for the people who were injured and for the victims’ families.
I would like to ask you to conduct the investigation with great care to get to the bottom of this tragedy, to draw practical conclusions in terms of technology and improving the equipment in mines to ensure the people’s safety.
<…>
See also
Instruction to establish a commission to investigate the causes of the accident at the Severnaya mine
February 26, 2016
Geography
Komi Republic
Topics
Industry
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 1, 2016, 16:45
Text versionEvents
Chamber of Commerce and Industry Congress
Vladimir Putin took part in the VII Chamber of Commerce and Industry Congress.
March 1, 2016
16:10
The Congress is dedicated to a review of the activities of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry during the past five years, development of small and medium-sized business in the regions, Russian companies’ entry into foreign markets and ways of attracting investment.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
I would like to begin by thanking you for your invitation to take part in this Congress of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry – one of the largest business unions with many years of history and traditions.
The Chamber of Commerce and Industry represents small, medium-sized and big businesses in practically all branches of the economy: industry, agriculture, trade, banking and services.
This is a truly nationwide association. Chambers of commerce and industry operate in every region and in many cities of this country, totalling 181 chambers nationwide. This is a great resource.
I would like to note that the Chamber of Commerce and Industry is a reliable partner of the state in resolving significant social and economic matters. Here I would like to recall a remarkable man who headed the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Russia for 10 years – Yevgeny Primakov. For the first time in many years, this Congress is taking place without him.
He was an outstanding scholar, diplomat, state and public figure and a wise politician who placed national interests above everything else and was able to look years ahead. Yevgeny Primakov helped establish partnerships between the business circles of Russia and other countries around the world and he did a great deal to make the Chamber of Commerce and Industry an influential association focussed on improving conditions for doing business.
A key factor of a favourable business climate is a reliable guarantee of the rights, dignity and property of businesspeople and all citizens.
In my Address to the Federal Assembly and at my recent meeting with the judicial community, I spoke in great detail of the need to improve the law enforcement and judicial systems and to abide by legal norms in business.
As you may know, a working group has been set up within the Presidential Executive Office to monitor and analyse law enforcement practices in business. It involves entrepreneurs and representatives of big business associations, including the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. I expect to see our close cooperation in resolving the existing issues and in developing relevant legislative solutions.
Among our important tasks is ensuring absolute trust within the entrepreneurial community for corporate dispute resolution procedures within Russian jurisdiction, creating authoritative mediation courts that use the best international practices in their operations and attracting respectable and professional legal experts.
On September 1, the new Law On Arbitration (Mediation) is to come into effect. It is of major importance to ensure the proper application of all its norms.
I would like to stress that a lot here depends on the business community itself. This includes substantive work of its representatives within the Chamber of Commerce and Industry and its structures, like the Mediation Council.
I would like to note that the Chamber itself has probably the most extensive experience in this sphere in this country. The International Commercial Arbitration Court and the Marine Arbitration Commission have been in operation for 80 years. We should make broader use of these respectable institutions’ potential. They could resolve disputes involving companies with public ownership, as far as the legal terms of the agreements permit, of course.
Colleagues,
The history of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry is closely linked to Russia’s industrial and economic rise in the early 20th century. It was then that the first chambers of commerce were set up to help local businesses develop new markets and establish ties with foreign partners.
Today the Chamber of Commerce and Industry plays a major role as an instrument of ‘informal diplomacy’, as a venue for business contacts and for expanding economic cooperation between businesses in various countries. You know all this, so I do not need to go into detail to explain why this is so.
You are well known abroad, there are business councils and bilateral chambers of commerce and industry with a number of states. All this is a good cooperation infrastructure.
It is important to make better use of the existing potential. I would like to ask the Chamber of Commerce and Industry to expand cooperation with its foreign colleagues, with our trade representations and with regional authorities to jointly assist foreign businesses in discovering Russia, in setting up facilities here, and in investing with profit into the Russian economy.
Chambers of commerce and industry should also play a significant role in promoting national goods on foreign markets. This includes assistance to the Russian Export Centre, which presents a broad range of services to our exporting companies on a one-stop basis.
There are many small but very efficient companies with a good export potential operating in the regions. Their goods often exceed similar foreign-made goods in both price and quality. We should be proud that such products are made in Russia.
I can give you many examples, but I will limit myself to just one: there is a company based in St Petersburg that produces security and fire safety systems, and its exports last year amounted to $1 billion. This is not bad at all.
At the same time many entrepreneurs, and this mainly applies to small and medium-sized companies, do not have the necessary information about who to turn to for support when they want to access foreign markets and what they need to do to achieve this. I would like to ask local, regional chambers of commerce and industry to serve as a link between small and medium-sized businesses and the Russian Export Centre.
One more thing. Our businesspeople often do not know which country could have a demand for their goods, how to find customers there, or the specifics of the local legislation concerning foreign trade – or our national legislation either, let alone foreign.
These seem to be minor technical issues. However, if they are not properly worked out, they can hinder progress and prevent companies from reaching a new level of development.
Businesses must learn how to access foreign markets, and everyone should learn this together. I would like to ask the Russian Export Centre, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry and regional chambers to arrange a series of educational programmes in the regions for representatives of small and medium-sized businesses.
Another issue that the business community has raised actively: Russian companies exporting goods other than raw materials should shortly be granted the opportunity to apply simplified and expedited VAT deductions. I would like our deputies to pass the appropriate draft law as quickly as possible. It has already passed its first reading at the State Duma and we need to speed up the process.
We can all see how unstable the global hydrocarbon market is. It is influenced both by fundamental economic factors, primarily a noticeable slump in the world economy, and by speculative elements. All this, including political risks, affects the market.
As a result, over the past year the price of Urals crude oil dropped roughly three times. This is a very significant drop, a significant blow to companies’ revenues. Obviously, the oil companies launched their long-term investment programmes proceeding from a more favourable external market situation. Nevertheless, I would like to note that capital investment into oil production by Russian oil companies in 2015 was 7.8 percent greater than in 2014.
Our task is to retain the stability of Russia’s oil industry, to ensure its consistent development and the implementation of long-term projects. As you may know, the Energy Ministry and its Minister Alexander Novak personally, along with experts are working to resolve issues pertaining to the stabilisation of the world energy market and they regularly consult our partners, leading players on the world oil market. They are discussing measures to ensure market stability, and to balance supply and demand. As the Minister reported, they are negotiating with their partners and have practically reached agreement to the effect that this year we will not increase our production.
According to the Minister, you all agree with this proposal and some even have more radical suggestions, but not all support them. The purpose of our meeting today is for me to hear this from you. Do you really support this proposal made by the Minister? What do you think about it?
To be precise, the proposal is to freeze Russia’s oil production in 2016 at the level of January production. We are talking about an average figure for the entire 2016.
Let us discuss this proposal. I would like to hear your ideas.
 <…>
Topics
Economy and finance
Support for business
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 1, 2016, 16:10
Text version