Events
Meeting with President of OPORA Russia public association Alexander Kalinin
Vladimir Putin met with Alexander Kalinin, president of OPORA Russia public association for small and medium-sized entrepreneurship.
September 20, 2017
16:50
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 2
At the meeting with President of OPORA Russia public association Alexander Kalinin.
Among the topics discussed were the introduction of cash registers that report fiscal information to tax agencies in real time and economic consequences for small and medium-size businesses of implementing the initiative to make the minimum monthly wage equal to the subsistence level.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Kalinin, first of all I would like to congratulate and all of your colleagues on the anniversary of one of the most active organisations supporting small and medium-size entrepreneurship in this country.
Fifteen years have passed and you and your colleagues have done a lot of work in cooperation with the Government of the Russian Federation and the Presidential Executive Office.
You are directly involved in elaborating draft laws, bylaws and other acts that impact business directly or indirectly, primarily small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. I would like to thank you and your colleagues for your active participation in these efforts and for working with us.
I know that you held an anniversary forum quite recently, the other day, where you also discussed specific issues that are of interest to people involved in business. In this context I would like to discuss a couple of issues separately today.
The first issue deals with the introduction of new cash registers that report fiscal information to tax agencies online in real time. I know that some business representatives voiced different ideas and concerns that the transition to the new registers does not take into account the peculiarities of the business conducted by certain small and medium-sized companies. These cash registers are already being introduced, and the next big step is planned for the middle of next year. I believe it will affect almost two million business owners. Let us discuss this issue to see what you think about possible solutions.
And the second important issue (you certainly know this as well) is our decision to make the minimum monthly wage equal to the subsistence level. This is one of the fundamental decisions that, I believe, should ensure that basic human necessities are not out of the reach of the wages that some of our citizens still continue to receive.
But at the same time this decision will have an economic impact on small and medium-sized businesses that must pay the corresponding taxes to social funds. It is necessary to be very careful here so as not to create more problems by solving one and not to create difficulties for small and medium-sized businesses and self-employed people.
I suggest that we discuss these issues and then any other matters that you consider important.
<…>
See also
Greetings on 15th anniversary of OPORA Russia public association
September 18, 2017
Topics
Support for business
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 20, 2017, 16:50
Text versionEvents
Meeting with newly elected heads of regions
Vladimir Putin met with the heads of regions elected on the unified voting day.
September 20, 2017
14:40
The Kremlin, Moscow
3 of 3
Meeting with newly elected heads of regions.
Elections at various levels were held in 82 Russian regions on the single election day, September 10. Governors and heads of republics were elected in 17 regions, with one elected by direct vote of the republic’s parliament.
The meeting was attended by Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Anton Vaino
, First Deputy Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Sergei Kiriyenko
and Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Kozak
.
* * *
Opening remarks at a meeting with newly elected regional heads
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
First of all, I want to congratulate you on being elected to the high positions of heads of Russian regions.
I must say that I am pleased with the results, but it is a special responsibility for you: most of you received over 60 percent of the vote. It shows a high level of trust, but also the high expectations of those who came to polling stations and voted for you.
Much has been done, but more needs to be done. A bridge is being modernised in Yaroslavl; housing has been built for the victims of wildfires in Buryatia. There are improvements in such important areas as healthcare, housing and utilities, and education.
At the same time, I would like to note that in this hall, there are very experienced people who have gone through election campaigns many times and who have received high praise from the voters, but there are also many young people who have also won great support. This means that voters expect a turn for the better from you and that they hope that young, energetic and skilled people will take well-considered but prompt measures to improve the situation in the relevant regions of the country.
As you know, we have held several events related to the public selection of candidates for various spheres. We began with the Agency for Strategic Initiatives, but we also did this in several other areas. This system of selecting personnel has proved its worth and is being widely used. I hope that you will use this open and transparent system of attracting people to the regional bodies of government and management, so that young people understand what we do and see that the social lift is effective regardless of left- or right-wing influences or connections, and that their careers depend above all on their skills, training, as well as a desire and ability to work in the interests of the people.
We have senior members of the Presidential Executive Office with us today, and the Government knows about the instructions to organise this work at the federal, that is, nationwide level. I strongly hope that you will do the same at the regional level.
I wish you success. I hope that you will develop good business-like relations with the Presidential Executive Office and the Government, and that you will make use of your skills, experience and energy to fulfil the tasks on which you set your eyes when you aspired for these high positions, for this is why the people have elected you. I wish you success and the all the best.
<…>
Topics
Civil service
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 20, 2017, 14:40
Text version