Events
Meeting with Minister of Culture Vladimir Medinsky
Vladimir Putin held a working meeting with Minister of Culture Vladimir Medinsky to discuss the ministry’s performance over the past nine months.
November 13, 2017
12:25
The Kremlin, Moscow
4 of 4
With Minister of Culture Vladimir Medinsky.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Medinsky, three quarters have passed, and the year is drawing to a close. Any good news?
Minister of Culture Vladimir Medinsky
: With your permission, I would like to start with the rural areas. This year, for the first time, we launched a programme to support the building, renovation and equipping of rural cultural centres. To put this in perspective, a nationwide project like this was only ever supported in the best years of the Soviet Union.
We started by allocating 1.8 billion rubles annually (funds have already been set aside for next year as well) to build new cultural centres and to renovate existing ones. Over 100 cultural centres will be built under this programme annually.
Also, as part of a United Russia project, almost 1.5 billion rubles are allocated annually to equip and repair a wider range of rural cultural centres, this time in smaller allotments.
Under your instructions, this year we are completing a programme for the construction of cultural promotion centres in small towns with a population of under 100,000 people. We intend to build 37 such centres.
These are actually new-generation 21st century cultural centres. We had planned to build 39 of them, but, unfortunately, not all regions were able to take this on. Since we are co-financing on a 50/50 basis, two regions had to return the money.
There is a remarkable programme underway to create innovative cultural centres complete with cinemas, libraries, and dance studios. Two centres like this are already operating in the Urals and in Kaluga.
Unfortunately, we were unable to build one such centre in Vladivostok. The local authorities returned the money to the federal budget, as there were certain issues with construction. However, this is a very exciting and promising project.
As for theatre activities in the first nine months of the year, the number of spectators and ticket sales at federal theatres has increased by 22 percent. Overall, the theatre statistics are quite impressive.
Ticket sales at federal theatres have grown by 109 percent over the past five years, while the overall figure for the country’s theatres is 69 percent. I believe this is one of the most rapidly growing sectors in the national economy. The figure is only higher for museums.
Seeing the demand for good theatre performances, especially in small towns and reginal centres, we have launched the Small Town Theatre programme this year. It has been supported by Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev.
Starting this year, 670 million rubles are allocated annually to small towns and small theatres, which could barely survive with municipal allocations before. They use this money to stage new performances and buy theatre equipment. In other words, it is what they have dreamed about for years.
In addition, 220 million rubles are allocated annually for children’s and puppet theatres, also starting this year. The Big Guest Performances programme, which you initiated back in 2014 to finance the federal theatres’ tours in outlying regions, is growing by leaps and bounds. Allocations from the federal budget have increased only slightly, whereas regional governors and businesses are investing heavily in this programme.
When they see there is government support, they end up taking on all the further expenses for guest performances and even pay the performing theatres additional fees.
This year, for the first time a federal theatre gave guest performances on the Chukotka Peninsula. Guest performances have been held in nearly all regions.
I would also like to note that, surprisingly, all the good things I have been saying about theatres concern classical music to an even greater extent. Musicians call it a philharmonic boom.
Here are some statistics on the sale of season tickets. Although philharmonics offer classical music, people are eagerly buying many season tickets and attending performances. We always think people are forgetting about classical music, and that young people mostly like pop music.
This is true certainly, but there should be a good balance everywhere, and our people have always been renowned for their good taste.
We are now working on a programme to rebuild and upgrade our philharmonics. This programme is very interesting because demand is running high. Our philharmonic annually sets new season ticket sales records.
I should mention the nine-month results of the cinema industry’s performance. Here are the most popular films; you have probably seen some of them.
Last year, we set a record for the number of people who watched Russian films and for box office revenue, an all-time high since 1991. And we have already broken this 12-month record in the nine months of 2017.
We believe that Russian box office revenue will top 10 billion rubles this year, and that the share of audiences watching Russian films will finally exceed 20 percent. All this is taking place under the conditions of our free market economy. I am always saying that we would like to adopt the European system of state protectionism.
We are successfully opening cinemas in district centres and small towns. In all, 326 modern cinemas have already been opened. This number will reach 437 before the year is out, and we are set to open 1,000 cinemas by 2019.
The Cinema Foundation has provided only minimal federal funding. The business community and regional municipal authorities are getting involved, and we are reinstating what has been destroyed in the 1990s when all cinemas were closed in small towns.
Vladimir Putin: This is a great amount of work.
Vladimir Medinsky: We are doing our best.
Mr President, you know the situation at our film studios. You have recently visited Lenfilm. I would be happy if you would find half an hour to visit Soyuzmultfilm, which is being rebuilt from scratch, as per your instructions.
Vladimir Putin: By the way, how well are these instructions being fulfilled?
Vladimir Medinsky: They are being overfulfilled. For example, you ordered the allocation of 50 million rubles in state subsidies annually. We allocate much more: 200 million rubles a year.
We have provided substantial funds to relocate Soyuzmultfilm to a new building. We found a suitable building and cleared out all kinds of sub-lessees. It is a very good building located across from the television centre.
Vladimir Putin: It was not only about money. They also made several other proposals.
Vladimir Medinsky: Yes, we also needed to settle the problem with artists, many of whom complained about wage arrears. Much work is still ahead. We are now working to restore the studios’ intellectual property rights, because in the past these rights were sold out at will.
As you know, a large contract has been signed with Danone, and now Danone is paying to print images from the cartoon Three from Prostokvashino on milk cartons.
Overall, this will bring Soyuzmultfilm 500 million rubles over three years. It is likely the largest contract of this kind.
Vladimir Putin: They had several specific requests. Please, look them up.
Vladimir Medinsky: I will certainly do this.
Here is the new Soyuzmultfilm building. We hope it will work as a full-scale complex. Actually, the studios’ personnel have briefed you on this.
Soyuzmultfilm is working on six TV series and a full-length animation titled Suvorov.
This year we will also complete the reconstruction of several circuses. We have repaired 13 circuses, starting with the one in St Petersburg. The renovation pace is unprecedented for the past years.
Our circuses need to be thoroughly overhauled. We are creating new facilities, but we also need to think about the further development of our circuses, because working as we did before is no longer acceptable.
To sum up this review of our efforts in the first nine months of the year, I would like to say a few words about our museums. We have opened two new museum centres at VDNKh: the long-awaited Cinema Museum, which did not have a building of its own for 20 years, and the Books Pavilion.
Besides, federal museums’ revenues have increased by 125 percent over the past five and a half years. Museum attendance has grown by 42 percent. More people go to museums, this has become a fashionable type of instructive entertainment.
Vladimir Putin: Increased museum, music and theatre activity and attendance are a very good sign.
Vladimir Medinsky: It speaks well of our people.
Vladimir Putin: Exactly.
<…>
Topics
Culture
Persons
Medinsky Vladimir
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 13, 2017, 12:25
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan in restricted format
November 13, 2017
17:45
With President of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, welcome to Sochi.
As we agreed during my visit to your country, we will hold a working meeting today. Thank you for accepting my invitation.
It is true that we are quite close, as you said, just an hour’s flight or so. Let me stress at the beginning of our meeting that our relations can be considered almost fully restored.
While trade declined by 34 percent last year, this year it has grown by 38 percent, which was in the first 8–9 months of the year. We are working in practically all spheres. We cooperate very closely on security in the Syrian region.
I am very happy that we have a chance to discuss current issues and map out future solutions in real time – we have very good experience in this regard.
It is very good to see you. Welcome.
President of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan
(retranslated): Mr President,
I am happy to have this opportunity to meet with you after the short time that elapsed since our last meeting. Since we started normalising relations between our countries, we have met very frequently, which helps to develop bilateral relations.
Naturally, our bilateral relations as well as cooperation in solving regional issues give us a chance to look to the future with greater clarity. Every day we are further deepening our political, military, trade, cultural and tourism relations.
In addition to meeting in person, we continue to speak by phone at the highest level. These contacts are becoming more frequent.
Let me thank you once again for the invitation. I am certain that our meeting today will be very effective and that we will leave tomorrow for Kuwait and Qatar with a great sense of satisfaction.
<…>
See also
Russia-Turkey talks
November 13, 2017
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Erdogan Recep Tayyip
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 13, 2017, 17:45
Text versionEvents
Press statements following Russia-Turkey talks
November 13, 2017
21:25
Sochi
Press statements following Russia-Turkey talks
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen,
During my recent telephone conversation with Mr Erdogan, we agreed to hold a meeting in Sochi to thoroughly discuss the current state of bilateral affairs, give additional impetus to their development, and continue our exchange on the situation in the region, including, of course, the Syrian settlement process.
As regards Russia-Turkey cooperation, you could say our relations have been practically fully restored. This is evidenced by the growth of bilateral trade: in the first nine months of this year, it increased by 36 percent. There is every reason to believe that we will be able to compensate for last year's decline.
See also
Russia-Turkey talks
November 13, 2017
Such progress is largely due to the consistent removal of trade barriers and restrictions. In line with the agreements following my meeting with Mr Erdogan in Ankara, imports of a wide range of products resumed starting October 30.
Today we have discussed joint measures to eliminate restrictions on other kinds of agricultural products. Together with ministers and heads of top companies, we considered key aspects of strategic cooperation in the energy industry.
This concerns the Turkish Stream and the construction of the Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant. Soon, Rosatom Corporation is due to start the practical stage of the project’s implementation. Our plans also include the launch of the first reactor as early as 2023.
Of course, the Syrian settlement was also on the agenda today. Taking into consideration the recent achievements in the fight against terrorists, the President and I agreed on the need to step up efforts to promote a lasting settlement in the country. These efforts must above all focus on a political settlement and on assisting the Syrian people in post-conflict recovery.
I informed Mr President that at the APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting in Danang, the President of the United States and I approved a joint statement on the main approaches to the situation in Syria. Specifically, we highlighted the need to secure a definitive victory over ISIS, and rigorously respect the sovereignty, unity and territorial integrity of the Syrian state.
Russia-Turkey relations have been practically fully restored. This is evidenced by the growth of bilateral trade: in the first nine months of this year, it increased by 36 percent. There is every reason to believe that we will be able to compensate for last year's decline.
I told Mr President of the results of my recent visit to Tehran and the meetings with the Iranian leadership. In this regard, let me note that our joint efforts with Turkey and Iran as guarantor countries of the Astana Process continue to yield tangible results. Violence has clearly receded, and favourable conditions are being created for promoting intra-Syrian dialogue under UN auspices.
In conclusion, I would like to thank Mr President and all our Turkish colleagues and friends for our productive talks. We have a positive record of exchanging views in a business-like, informal manner, adjusting our plans and reviewing results.
These meetings are arranged on short notice, and are free of red tape, quasi-diplomatic procedures or protocol encumbrances, but at the same time, they are very effective. For that, we thank our Turkish friends and hope that we will continue working together along these lines.
Thank you.
President of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan (retranslated): Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am happy to greet you.
I would like to express my gratitude to you, primarily, Mr President and the Russian agencies concerned, for your hospitality.
This is the third time that I have visited Russia this year. This is also my sixth meeting with Mr Putin this year.
Mr Putin and I have come to an agreement on the deepening of our bilateral relations. We maintain active contact in the form of personal meetings and telephone conversations.
Based on this, we can say that we have started preparations for the seventh meeting of the High-Level Russian-Turkish Cooperation Council. Like our political dialogue, our economic relations have reached a high level.
During my visit to Russia in March this year, my dear friend Mr Putin delighted us by saying that restrictions on the import of certain Turkish agricultural products had been lifted and that they are working on visa-free travel for Turkish citizens.
Since then, we have maintained intensive contact to remove all of the obstacles. The Intergovernmental Commission held a successful meeting last month.
We were pleased to learn about the decisions taken at that meeting, including those on facilitating the import of Turkish egg-plant, tomatoes, pomegranates and other agricultural produce to Russia. However, we would like to see all other restrictions lifted as well.
Taking into consideration the recent achievements in the fight against terrorists, the President and I agreed on the need to step up efforts to promote a lasting settlement in the country Syria. These efforts must above all focus on a political settlement and on assisting the Syrian people in post-conflict recovery.
In the first quarter of this year, our economic ties increased by 26.5 percent compared to the same period last year, exceeding $15 billion.
However, we still need to remove all barriers in our economic ties, primarily for our business people, to reach the $100 billion target. The reintroduction of visa-free travel is extremely important in this respect.
On the other hand, we attach great importance to continuing the Turkish Stream and Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant projects. We believe it is very important that these projects be completed on time.
We were happy to learn that the laying of the gas pipeline in Russia has been completed. As for the construction of the Turkish section, we are closely monitoring this process.
We intend to hold the first concrete pouring ceremony at the Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant in the coming weeks. If Mr Putin’s schedule allows it, we would like to take part in this ceremony together.
We would also like to take our relations to a new level in tourism and culture. In the first nine months of 2017, more than four million Russian tourists visited our country. In 2019, Turkey will hold the Year of Russia and Russia will hold the Year of Turkey, which I hope will mark a milestone in our relations.
Our joint efforts with Turkey and Iran as guarantor countries of the Astana Process continue to yield tangible results. Violence has clearly receded, and favourable conditions are being created for promoting intra-Syrian dialogue under UN auspices.
During the meeting, we also discussed regional and international issues with an emphasis on the Syrian conflict. We believe that the Astana meetings, as well as the memorandum on the de-escalation zones helped curtail violence in this region.
We agreed that a foundation has been laid for promoting a political settlement. We also attach great importance to the joint statement issued by Mr Putin and Mr Trump in Vietnam.
I would also like to express satisfaction with the fact that relations between our countries have reached a new level and become stronger. However, we believe that more can be done. Both sides agreed on the need for closer cooperation between our countries and peoples. I attach special importance to our joint efforts in the defence sector.
I would like to thank Mr Putin, my friend, once again, as well all the relevant agencies, for your hospitality.
Thank you very much.
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Erdogan Recep Tayyip
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 13, 2017, 21:25
Text version