Events
Opening of WHO ministerial conference
Vladimir Putin spoke at the opening of the first WHO Global Ministerial Conference titled Ending Tuberculosis in the Sustainable Development Era: A Multisectoral Response.
November 16, 2017
14:00
Moscow
The Global Ministerial Conference to end TB, which the World Health Organisation is holding together with the Russian Healthcare Ministry for the first time, is a key international event in global healthcare as well as in the context of the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). Healthcare ministers and ministers from related sectors from 194 WHO member states, heads and representatives of UN bodies and other international organisations, NGOs, civil society representatives, as well as the heads of national programmes dedicated to ending TB are taking part at the conference.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, friends.
I am glad to welcome all of you to Moscow, the capital of Russia and the venue of the first WHO Global Ministerial Conference to end TB.
I would like to thank you all for accepting our invitation to visit Russia and for supporting our initiative on holding an international conference on this serious problem. I am confident that the only way we can stand up against this truly global threat is if we join forces.
Despite the rapid development of diagnostic and treatment methods and progress in pharmaceuticals, TB still poses a major threat to people’s health around the world.
Experts cite a horrible figure for the number of affected people: about one third of the global population. This disease claims more lives than any other infectious disease, sparing nobody, including people in prosperous countries with high living and medical standards. The situation is compounded by direct and indirect socioeconomic losses from TB.
Taken together, this is a most serious concern both at the national and international levels. It is not surprising therefore that ending TB is among the Sustainable Development Goals. Global research and the nations’ consolidated efforts must be focused on this goal.
The death rate from TB will have been reduced by 95 percent by 2035, and its incidence by 90 percent. A difficult and ambitious task by all accounts, especially for the high burden countries, that is, countries with the highest number of TB cases in a year. Unfortunately, such situation with TB is cause for our concern here in Russia too. We are aware of our responsibility and the extreme importance of this matter, and we are concentrating major efforts and resources to resolve it.
I would like to inform you that reducing mortality from TB is among our state priorities along with reducing mortality from cardiovascular diseases and cancer.
We are implementing a number of programmes to combat this disease and providing stable budget financing for these programmes. We pay much attention to improving the diagnostics and treatment, and creating modern vaccines and tests based on biotechnology. In addition, we are improving the system for preventive medical examinations and introducing customised approaches to treating TB based on genetic analysis of the pathogen.
In general, we continue to promote a healthy and active lifestyle and to encourage people to quit bad habits. As you may be aware, smoking is one of the risk factors accounting for more than 20 percent of TB cases worldwide.
Our measures have brought positive results. I think that our experts ‒ your colleagues ‒ will share more about this, expecting to receive useful information from you.
Notably, the death rate from TB in Russia has declined by more than 66 percent, and the incidence rate by 37 percent over the past eight years. During the specified period, the incidence has been decreasing by an average of 1.5 percent internationally, whereas in Russia the rate of decline was 2.8 percent.
However, in order to achieve a radical change in the fight against this disease, of course, new approaches are needed, both at the national and international levels, as well as the joint work of governmental agencies, public and professional organisations.
Another important success factor is to step up scientific tuberculosis research and develop effective diagnostic tools, vaccines and medicines, including those aimed at treating resistant forms of tuberculosis. In this regard, I believe that the initiative of the BRICS countries to create a network to study tuberculosis is very important. Specialists are already working on this project.
I would like to emphasise once again: only coordinated and consistent actions will help us achieve a final victory over tuberculosis. I hope that your conference will contribute to strengthening such a global partnership.
I know that the Moscow Declaration will be signed following this meeting. Our Healthcare Minister Veronika Skvortsova said that it has been practically agreed upon. Over 100 countries, international non-governmental organisations, WHO regional offices and independent experts have been involved in drawing it up. I am confident that such wide participation will allow us to make the most effective, coordinated proposals for fighting tuberculosis.
We expect these steps to be supported at the highest level – by the General Assembly of the United Nations, whose meeting next year will focus on the problems of tuberculosis.
In conclusion, I would like to wish you once again fruitful work and express hope that your meeting will contribute to improving the quality of life and protecting the health of people around the world. You are engaged in a very noble task. I sincerely wish you success.
Thank you very much for your attention.
Topics
Foreign policy
Healthcare
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 16, 2017, 14:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom and UN First Deputy Secretary-General Amina Mohammed
Following the opening ceremony of the first Global Ministerial Conference of the World Health Organisation, Vladimir Putin held a separate meeting with WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom and UN First Deputy Secretary-General Amina Mohammed.
November 16, 2017
14:50
Moscow
1 of 4
Meeting with WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom and UN First Deputy Secretary-General Amina Mohammed.
Russia’s Healthcare Minister Veronika Skvortsova
was also present at the meeting.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Tedros Adhanom and Ms Amina Mohammed, I am pleased to once again welcome you to Russia.
I would like to thank you for supporting the idea to hold a conference on TB control in Russia. This is not the first WHO event of this scale that is being held in this country. Back in 2014, we held a similarly large international conference on tobacco control.
Russia has been a member of the World Health Organisation since 1948, I think, or perhaps 1949, and we have been active in this organisation since then. In 2009, our country signed an agreement on interaction with the WHO, and a strategy for cooperation with the WHO for the period up until 2020, is being currently implemented.
We plan to continue to cooperate with you in the most active manner. We hope that the UN in the broadest sense of the word – we are pleased to have First Deputy Secretary-General of the United Nations here – will support this work in every possible way, and it will benefit both Russians and all citizens of the countries who are members of the UN.
First Deputy Secretary-General of the United Nations Amina J. Mohammed: Thank you very much, Mr President. I bring the greetings, of course, of the Secretary-General. As the Deputy Secretary-General responsible for the SDGs, we are really, really pleased and congratulate you on hosting the meeting for TB. Not just because of tuberculosis, but you are talking about ending it. This I think is a historical turn in trying to get TB ended. But it is a good building block too for the ambition that we will get in September at the General Assembly. The level of attendance at this conference signals a good declaration. So we are very happy to support this, and we look forward to the next year where, of course, Dr Tedros will be ensuring that we get a good high-level meeting in New York at the General Assembly.
It is underscoring the importance of the new era of the Sustainable Development Agenda. It is one that is universal. An so the leadership and the support that we see Russia giving to many of the agencies of the UN currently, such as UNHCR, UNDP – these are all for us signals of the way the world can come together better to solve many of the complex challenges that we have.
Maybe if you allow me, we have had the privilege of having Dr Tedros join us as a former minister of health and foreign affairs, and a track record where we know the partnership with the WHO will only get better universally. So maybe you would like to say a few words about this as well.
Director-General of the World Health Organisation (WHO) Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus: Thank you, Your Excellency.
First of all, thank you so much for gracing us with your presence despite your busy schedule. This shows your commitment. And thank you also for your message, which is really energy and inspiration for us. Very brief, but to the point and strong. And this will give us energy in going forward towards the preparation of the high-level meeting in New York in 2018 on the margins of the UN General Assembly.
During the UN General Assembly in 2018, we expect real commitment from the member states, and I believe you will continue leadership on the implementation of this declaration.
As you know, my “sister” Veronika Skvortsova is now the president of our assembly. And she also has that leverage also. Together we will do our best to make this a success and to support you under your leadership. But not only on TB. I also commend you on your leadership on non-communicable diseases. There was a conference here in 2011. It is when it all started. And now we are aiming also to have a high-level meeting in 2018 for non-communicable diseases. And Russia is one of the leaders in pushing this agenda with Uruguay and also Finland. We commend you for that leadership, and we expect also that to be strengthened from Russia’s side.
And not only your leadership on these two among others, I would also like to use this opportunity to thank you for your financial support we are getting for TB, NCDs, malaria and other priority areas.
We have just finished the five-year strategic plan, and it is under consultation. And I hope your support will continue in realising the five-year strategic plan. And I would like also to share with you that the five-year strategic plan is actually well in line with Russia’s priorities.
The conference is going very well. All is “khorosho.” Thank you very much.
<…>
See also
Opening of WHO ministerial conference
November 16, 2017
Topics
Healthcare
UN
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 16, 2017, 14:50
Text versionEvents
Meeting on developing Zvezda shipyard
The President held a meeting on developing Zvezda shipyard in the Russian Far East.
November 16, 2017
15:50
The Kremlin, Moscow
Meeting on developing Zvezda shipyard
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
I gathered you to discuss a very specific matter, which seemingly does not concern everyone here. While this is an issue on the current agenda in the shipbuilding industry, it is not a routine matter. It concerns the development of shipbuilding in the Russian Far East, a region that is critical to us. That is my first point.
Second, it concerns developing the Arctic, the Northern Sea Route, and expanding the capacity of the domestic fuel and energy complex and other industries. I am referring to developing construction and further developing the Zvezda shipyard.
As you are aware (almost all of you visited this enterprise), the first production facilities were put into operation in September 2016. The construction of four reinforced ice-class ships, ordered by Rosneft, began this autumn. The pace of construction and the pace of work in general should be maintained at current levels.
This is a nationwide task to develop production facilities and to create modern jobs in the Russian Far East.
As we have already discussed, the successful operation of the enterprise depends on effective utilisation of its capacities and steady long-term demand for its output. I am aware of a long-term plan for loading Zvezda up with orders to 2035. We talked about this at the enterprise during my most recent visit there. Of course, this plan must be strictly followed not only by Rosneft, but by other customers as well.
Today, I would like to hear how the signing of contracts is progressing, whether the customers submit technical specifications for the construction of ships and marine equipment in a timely manner, and what is planned additionally to ensure steady work load for enterprises. With that in mind, I would like to remind you about the mutual responsibility of shipbuilders and customers. When placing orders, the customers should be confident that the contract will be followed to the letter and they will receive products of proper quality at an economically reasonable price within the agreed timeframe. The shipyard owners must provide clear financial guarantees on this account.
I would like to end my opening remarks by saying that Rosneft is involved in this at my instruction. This is not just the task of Rosneft, but the entire Russian shipbuilding industry. In fact, this is a nationwide task to develop production facilities and to create modern jobs in the Russian Far East. So, I am asking you to not look at it as a departmental, industry-specific task, or a task which only one enterprise is accountable for. This is our shared responsibility. We will talk more about it later.
At the meeting on developing Zvezda shipyard in the Russian Far East.
The second issue that I would like to raise is providing the ships that sail under the Russian flag with an exclusive right to transport and store hydrocarbons in the waters of the Northern Sea Route. This step will allow us to increase the volume of maritime shipping, to strengthen the position of domestic shipping companies, and to create additional opportunities for upgrading their fleets.
The corresponding draft law is being considered by the State Duma. I hope it will be adopted soon. However, I also know that there are proposals to extend this rule to other marine areas of our country. Let us analyse all these matters to make sure all of our steps are properly balanced and thought through.
Let us get to work.
<…>
Topics
Industry
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 16, 2017, 15:50
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Rogozin
Dmitry Rogozin informed the President about progress in the construction of the Tu-160M2 supersonic strategic missile bomber.
November 16, 2017
17:20
With Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Rogozin.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Rogozin, you wanted to report on the Tu-160?
Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Rogozin
: That’s right.
Mr President, you adopted a decision to reinforce the Russian nuclear triad, including its air component, and to resume the production of the Tu-160 strategic missile carrier on a new technical and technological basis.
I can report that now, as the Kazan Aviation Factory n.a. S.P. Gorbunov is celebrating its 90th anniversary, the Tu-160M2 aircraft, created on the basis of an earlier design, has been unveiled. What this means is that the factory has accomplished the very complicated challenge of recovering lost production techniques, including electron-beam welding, and handling titanium. The aircraft is equipped with innovative radio-electronic on-board avionics. The Kuznetsov plant in Samara recreated, also on an innovative basis, the production of the NK-32 series 2 engine. We have already made the first aircraft available for flight tests. It will mark the beginning of the process to resume the production of strategic bombers.
According to our plans, the aircraft will be created, as we say, ”from ore” in 2019 and tested. In 2023, we will begin serial deliveries, while the maiden flight of the Tu-160M2, which was unveiled today, will take place in February 2018.
Vladimir Putin: Well, that is excellent. I congratulate the aircraft builders on this event, and I think that the Defence Ministry will be pleased. They insisted on resuming the production of this version of the Tu-160 on a new base. As a matter of fact, it is a tried and tested carrier and supersonic aircraft. Excellent. Congratulations.
Dmitry Rogozin: Thank you.
<…>
Topics
Armed Forces
Industry
Persons
Rogozin Dmitry
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 16, 2017, 17:20
Text version