Events
Unveiling of monument to Grand Duke Sergei Alexandrovich
Vladimir Putin took part in a ceremony unveiling a monument to Grand Duke Sergei Alexandrovich on the site of his assassination in the park by the Kremlin’s Nikolskaya Tower.
May 4, 2017
13:20
The Kremlin, Moscow
6 of 10
Ceremony unveiling a monument to Grand Duke Sergei Alexandrovich.
Acting on Mr Putin’s instruction, the Russian Military Historical Society and the Foundation for Revival of Traditions of Compassion and Charity St Elizabeth – St Sergius Educational Society carried out the work to restore the memorial, which was paid for by public donations and raised in 1905 and demolished in 1918.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Your Holiness, ladies and gentlemen,
Today, we remember events more than a century distant from us. On February 4, 1905, a terrorist threw a bomb that killed Grand Duke Sergei Alexandrovich.
This crime was one of the harbingers of the dramatic events, turmoil and civil war that would engulf Russia, bringing tremendous losses, genuine national catastrophe, and threatening the existence of Russia’s very statehood.
There is never any justification for violence and murder, not matter what political slogans they use. The Grand Duke’s death shook Russian society back then and people from all backgrounds saw it as a tragedy. The memorial cross raised at the site of this cruel vengeance was a symbol of sorrow and regret. It was raised at the people’s will and funded solely by public donations.
Outstanding Russian artist Viktor Vasnetsov took part in erecting the memorial, and the Grand Duke’s widow, Grand Duchess Elizabeth Feodorovna, gave her blessing to the memorial.
I should say a few words separately about this remarkable woman. She worked tirelessly and was active in charity efforts. The Russian Orthodox Church conferred sainthood on her. She did not leave the country even during the darkest days and to her death remained true to the ideals of Christian forgiveness and love. The cross raised on this site bore, too, the mark of her personality, destiny and inner spiritual strength.
This cross was among the first monuments destroyed after the revolution. The Chudov Monastery in the Kremlin and countless other monuments around the country met the same fate. In the end though, truth and justice always prevail.
Today, we see how churches are rebuilt, monasteries open anew, and holy places that were lost are returned. Russia’s history is regaining its unity. We treasure each page in this history, no matter how difficult. These are our national spiritual roots.
The cross raised in memory of Grand Duke Sergei Alexandrovich’s death has been restored to its historical place. It stands as a symbol of the price we had to pay for hatred, division and hostility, and reminds us that we must do everything we can to preserve our people’s unity and harmony.
Today, we should say again that we only have one Russia, and no matter what our individual views and positions, we must all defend and look after this Russia, make our people’s future, the happiness of our people and our children and grandchildren our priority.
I thank sincerely all who took part in restoring this memorial.
Thank you very much.
See also
Instructions following visit to park on site of dismantled Kremlin Building 14
August 1, 2016
Topics
Culture
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 4, 2017, 13:20
Text versionEvents
Joint meeting of the State Council and the Commission for Monitoring Targeted Socioeconomic Development Indicators
Vladimir Putin chaired a joint meeting of the State Council and the Commission for Monitoring Targeted Socioeconomic Development Indicators in the Kremlin.
May 4, 2017
14:45
The Kremlin, Moscow
The agenda focused on three main sets of issues: Provision of state and municipal services through the network of multifunctional centres, independent evaluation of social sector service quality, and relocating people from dilapidated housing.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
Today, together with Government members and representatives of public organisations, we will discuss the progress made towards the goals set in the presidential executive orders of May 2012.
Let me say at the outset that over these last years, we have set positive change in motion in the areas of most importance for our people’s life, sectors such as healthcare, education, culture, and housing and utilities.
Of course, there are still many problems and more outstanding issues than problems resolved. But implementation of the executive orders has reinforced the partnership between the state authorities at all levels and civil society to reach our national goals.
The public supervision system the Russian Popular Front organised has raised effectiveness substantially. We must continue developing the dialogue with professionals, volunteer groups, civil society organisations and NGOs, and create new opportunities for people to carry out their initiatives.
I would like to note, too, the work done by the regional heads and their teams. In regions where the authorities have acted competently and responsibly, concentrating resources and effort on addressing people’s problems, they have achieved significant and visible results despite all the difficulties.
Let me stress that these achievements should form the foundation for further progress. Only this way can we meet people’s demands and expectations. People today look to the highest world standards, and this makes our tasks ever more difficult. This applies to the social sector, state governance, job creation, doing business, housing quality, the environment, and conditions and space for life in general.
It is for this reason that many of the provisions in the May 2012 presidential executive orders were given logical continuation in the Government’s priority projects and other programmes and plans. Now, we need to make a general review of the progress accomplished, identify the problem areas, and outline our next steps.
In this context, I propose that we discuss the items on our agenda today, namely, developing independent evaluation of social sector quality and performance, pursuing the programme to relocate people from dilapidated housing, and enhancing the work of multifunctional centres. Let’s begin with these three issues.
Colleagues, just a few years ago, obtaining a certificate or a document of any kind invariably meant waiting in lines and visiting various agencies, and paying intermediaries. It is true that many issues in this area remain, but the overall situation is beginning to improve.
Today, many people can visit multifunctional centres to get the paperwork done for obtaining the Maternity Capital subsidy, registering as a self-employed entrepreneur, claiming title to property and receiving other services. Such multifunctional centres have opened in almost all regions of Russia.
As many of you probably remember, I have recently visited one such centre in Veliky Novgorod. This was not the only place where I saw a centre of this kind in action. I visited similar facilities in other Russian regions, but the last one was in Veliky Novgorod.
Three thousand multifunctional centres currently operate across the country covering almost the whole range of public services. Last year, the number of visits exceeded 60 million. Let me emphasise that while this project is already a success, there should be no place for complacency.
After all, there are still waiting lines in some centres, as strange as it may seem. Not all centres offer the whole range of services, and it is not uncommon that their quality falls short of expectations, even at multifunctional centres.
Make no mistake, it is what people think and their wishes that should serve as a starting point for further efforts to improve the operations of multifunctional centres.
It is essential to create conditions enabling people to use multifunctional centres regardless of where they live or have their registered address. This would be an important step towards creating a holistic, integrated framework for providing public and municipal services.
Colleagues, we began developing an independent system for evaluating social sector performance as part of the work to implement the May 2012 executive orders. Let me say here that we do not need independent evaluation simply for formality’s sake.
This represents a real opportunity for people to influence change in the work of the organisations of most importance in their concrete, practical, everyday life, establishments such as hospitals, local medical centres, schools and universities, and cultural establishments.
The aim is for people, including people with health impediments, to be able to express their views on service quality, establishments’ material and equipment base, and so on. It enables them to evaluate employees’ friendliness, and ultimately, lets them see what has been done to take their proposals into account, what decisions have been made, and how they are being implemented in practice.
The results obtained must not be simply filed out of sight. We need to establish a clear mechanism for encouraging social sector establishments that respond to people’s needs and demands, and provide for tough measures against those that do not listen to people and do not want to work on raising their effectiveness.
Of course, it is crucial too to ensure that evaluation is genuinely independent. Today, we still see cases when public sector organisations survey and evaluate each other, keeping everything in the family. And then it turns out that a medical centre, say, has a high result on paper, but in reality, people cannot get appointments with the specialists, and the level of service is low in general.
We must exclude conflicts of interest in the independent evaluation process. To do this, we should involve the Russian Popular Front, NGOs with a social focus, and regional public chambers more actively in this work. I ask the civic activists to keep us regularly updated on how the work is going, is the process becoming more objective, and are people happy with the evaluation results and the decisions that follow.
Colleagues, another item on our agenda, a big issue of great importance for millions of people in our country, is the relocation of people from dilapidated housing, including all forms of housing that was initially intended as only temporary shelter, but later, people ended up living there for decades, without even basic amenities. This concerns millions of square metres of housing. We have set the very ambitious goal of providing more comfortable housing to more than 700,000 people by September this year. I remind you of the concrete goals and figures.
From January 1, 2014, to September 2017, the goal was to relocate people from 11.15 million square metres of housing, which is home to 711,600 people. By April 1, 2017, 520,000 people had been relocated from 8.13 million square metres of housing (this is close to 73 percent of the target figure for housing and slightly over 73 percent of the target figure for the number of people). This is the picture today.
The figures show that the great majority of regions are carrying out this work, despite the difficulties we face today. I propose reflecting on measures, including financial measures, to encourage them. I also address the governors and heads of regions that are clearly not on schedule in this work, and for the reasons we have spoken of in the past, including clear management mistakes. I ask you to take personal responsibility for the situation. Do not send your subordinates to deliver the message, but go yourselves to people and tell them clearly when they will be able to move into new homes.
At the same time, I want to warn those who attempt to meet the deadlines by forcing people to move into houses where the roofs leak and the plaster is flaking off, acting on the principle that they’ll take whatever they’re given, just so that you can report the work completed. Let me say again that not only is the deadline important, but so is the quality of housing provided. I ask you too to investigate thoroughly and settle the cases when people have not been included in the relocation programme, often for invented pretexts.
I note once more that the scale of the problem is great, of course, and there were buildings that were not categorised as dilapidated at the start of 2012, but are such now. Of course, we would like to expand this programme, but for now, we must complete what we began, at least.
Nonetheless, I ask the Government, together with the regions, to develop permanent mechanisms for relocating people from dilapidated housing and get these mechanisms into operation starting on January 1, 2019. During the transition period, I propose that the Housing and Utilities Fund [the Fund for Promoting Housing and Utilities Reform] continue work, as it has proven its effectiveness overall. This seems the best option, all the more so as the Government has already prepared the draft law and it is ready for adoption.
Let’s now turn to the first item on our agenda.
<…>
Topics
Budget
Social services
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Commissions and Councils, State Council
Publication date: May 4, 2017, 14:45
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Gazprom CEO Alexei Miller
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Chairman of the Gazprom Management Board Alexei Miller. Mr Miller briefed the President on the situation with Russian gas exports to Europe and the company’s current activities, including work at the Tambey fields in the Yamal region and the state of progress on the Turkish Stream pipeline project.
May 4, 2017
17:10
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 4
With Chairman of the Gazprom Management Board Alexei Miller.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Miller, we wanted to discuss with you a number of big projects. You said that you have information on reserves, more precisely, on their substantial increase.
Gazprom CEO Alexei Miller
: Yes.
On January 1, 2017, Gazprom’s explored gas reserves came to 36.4 trillion cubic metres. Since 2005, Gazprom has had an annual reserve replenishment to annual production ratio of more than 1.
Our main geological exploration regions are the Far East and Eastern Siberia, and the continental shelf of the Okhotsk, Barents and Kara seas. Of course, there is also our prime new production region – the Yamal Peninsula.
Gazprom has carried out comprehensive geological exploration work at the Tambey group of fields, conducted 3D seismic studies over an area of 2,650 kilometres, and drilled 14 exploratory wells. We have an increase in reserves of 4.1 trillion cubic metres of gas. The Tambey cluster’s reserves thus come to 6.7 trillion cubic metres.
Vladimir Putin: When did you reach this conclusion on the increase in reserves?
Alexei Miller: Mr President, this is a recent conclusion, based on the geological exploration results.
Vladimir Putin: But what was the timeframe for work in these fields?
Alexei Miller: The work began in 2008.
Vladimir Putin: And now you have the confirmation.
Alexei Miller: That’s right.
Vladimir Putin: I want to congratulate you. This is important news and a big event for our country’s energy sector. I think that this is very important news for us here in Russia and for our partners.
I ask you to present proposals on your plans for work with these new reserves, but I ask you to pay attention to at least two important circumstances.
First, when choosing your partners, work on the principle that they must be able to raise the needed financing for joint work independently, if you need such partners.
Second, make maximum use of the technological possibilities offered by Russian science and industry. The more independent we are in this area, the better. This should support our economy’s high-tech sectors, and Gazprom can play an important and prominent role here.
Alexei Miller: Mr President, without question, this substantial increase in reserves enables Gazprom to look at carrying out new liquefied natural gas, gas processing, and gas chemical projects.
This is all the more so as the Tambey group of fields contains what we call wet or rich gas, which has high ethane concentration. Deep processing of the wet gas components will certainly increase effectiveness of all reserves in the Tambey group.
Projects of this kind are capital intensive, of course, and technologically complex, and it is common international practice in carrying out such projects to bring in partner companies in order to reduce the risks.
Gazprom is ready to look at the possibilities for establishing joint ventures. Of course, we are looking primarily at Russian companies, which already have capability in liquefied gas and have experience working with reserves of wet gas.
Vladimir Putin: Good. You wanted to say a few words about your big projects.
Alexei Miller: Mr President, regarding our gas transportation projects for delivering gas to Europe, our supplies to the European market continue to grow.
Our supplies to the European market have increased 15 percent since the start of 2017, compared to the results for the same period last year. In absolute terms, this is 8.6 billion cubic metres more than last year.
This increase in demand confirms our plans to carry out new big gas transportation projects, in particular, the Turkish Stream project. We have already fully completed the preparatory and mobilisation work, and I can tell you that we are ready to start laying the marine section of the Turkish Stream pipeline within the next few days.
Vladimir Putin: Very good. We discussed this project with our Turkish colleagues yesterday. I am sure that our Turkish colleagues will offer effective support.
You need to begin this work and we will see how the project develops. Go ahead.
Alexei Miller: Yes, Mr President.
<…>
See also
Russian-Turkish talks
May 3, 2017
Topics
Energy
Persons
Miller Alexei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 4, 2017, 17:10
Text version