Events
Meeting on economic issues
Vladimir Putin held a meeting on economic issues in the Kremlin.
May 30, 2017
17:45
The Kremlin, Moscow
Meeting on economic issues.
The main speakers: Commissioner for Entrepreneurs’ Rights Boris Titov
and Chairman of the Board of the Centre for Strategic Research Alexei Kudrin
presented their expert proposals on ensuring the stable development and technological modernisation of the national economy.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
As you may know, last week the Government presented a comprehensive programme of action until 2025, which is aimed at matching and exceeding global economic growth rates no later than 2019–2020. This is certainly a key document for the long-term strategy of Russia’s economic development.
We know that expert groups and representatives of the business community are working on these tasks, drafting of this strategy, as well as proposals and initiatives aimed at reaching the same goals.
It goes without saying that after a thorough and deep analysis of these proposals we need to determine what we will do next: either adopt some proposal as a whole because as a rule they are complete, or after in-depth analysis and additional consultations or some new ideas we will decide that we should link certain things, unite and supplement them and after another serious analysis make a final decision on what road to follow, what initiatives to carry out and on what scale.
I would like to emphasise the main point once again: the plans for national economic development must be clear and realistic, address current and future challenges in the best way possible and reflect the interests of the people and the consensus views of the state, business community and civil society institutions.
It is important to focus our efforts on improving the business climate and making the national economy more competitive, increasing labour productivity and the return on major investment projects, developing small and medium-range businesses, building up non-energy exports and creating new sources of growth in the regions.
Today we will consider expert proposals on ensuring the stable development and technological modernisation of the national economy and discuss whether they are competitive and practical.
Let us start the discussion.
<…>
Topics
Economy and finance
Persons
Kudrin Alexei
Titov Boris
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 30, 2017, 17:45
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Russian Academy of Sciences members
Vladimir Putin met with members of the Russian Academy of Sciences.
May 30, 2017
19:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
3 of 4
Meeting with Russian Academy of Sciences members.
The discussion touched on the situation in the Academy of Sciences and the current state of affairs in academic research.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
As we are all aware, the strategy for the scientific and technological development of the country was adopted in late 2016, and we agreed back then that one of the most important tasks in this regard is to fill it with concrete projects, areas of research, and so on.
Of course, in the first place, you and your colleagues, members of the Academy of Sciences and scholars, must say what you have to say. We are aware of the importance of the role of interdisciplinary research. That is why, not long ago, we decided to merge two other academies, the academy of medical science and the academy of agricultural science, into one large institution.
Mr Fortov and I discussed these issues and came to the conclusion that we need to think about ways to further shape the administrative structure, to make it more efficient and adapted to current tasks, so that the Academy of Sciences becomes the headquarters of research that determines the scientific research prospects.
We wanted to get together in this format and discuss these issues. I would like to hear what you have to say.
<…>
Topics
Science and innovation
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 30, 2017, 19:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Deputy Crown Prince and Defence Minister of Saudi Arabia Mohammad bin Salman Al Saud
Vladimir Putin received Mohammad bin Salman Al Saud, Deputy Crown Prince, Second Deputy Chairman of the Ministers’ Council and Defence Minister of Saudi Arabia, at the Kremlin.
May 30, 2017
15:25
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 4
With Deputy Crown Prince and Defence Minister of Saudi Arabia Mohammad bin Salman Al Saud.
The discussion covered the countries’ cooperation to stabilise the global oil market and the situation in Syria.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Your Highness, dear friends, I would like to welcome you in Moscow.
I would like to start our meeting by noting that relations between our countries are making steady headway. As for economic ties, there was a certain decline but in the beginning of this year, growth already reached 130 percent.
We are maintaining contacts at the political level and between military departments. Together we are searching for ways to resolve complicated situations, for instance in Syria. Obviously, energy agreements are very important for our countries.
We are grateful to you for your ideas and assistance in cooperation of the OPEC countries with those that are not part of the cartel. Our coordinated actions make it possible to stabilise the situation on world hydrocarbon markets.
We are, of course, looking forward to the visit of the King of Saudi Arabia. I am convinced that the first visit of the King of Saudi Arabia to Russia will be a good sign, a good signal and a good impetus in the development of our interstate ties.
Please convey our best wishes to his Majesty.
Deputy Crown Prince and Defence Minister of Saudi Arabia Mohammad bin Salman Al Saud (retranslated): Mr President, thank you very much for this opportunity to meet. I am glad to see you in Moscow again. Let me convey to you respects on behalf of his Majesty King of Saudi Arabia.
Today relations between Saudi Arabia and Russia are going through one of the best stages. Our countries have attained mutual understanding on many issues. As for those issues on which we are divided, we have efficient mechanisms for overcoming our differences. We are moving ahead at a fast pace and the current visit will become a big achievement in consolidating relations between Russia and Saudi Arabia.
The main point is that we are building a solid foundation for stabilising the oil market and energy prices and this is creating good opportunities for building our strategic future.
As you rightly pointed out, there are many economic cooperation programmes between Saudi Arabia and Russia, and this is bound to help us build up our cooperation in the future.
There are no points of conflict in our respective policies and we hope we will manage to steer them in the right direction in the interests of both countries. We achieved much in the previous brief stage but more work lies ahead of us.
<…>
Geography
Saudi Arabia
Topics
Energy
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 30, 2017, 15:25
Text version