Events
Meeting with Defence Ministry senior officials and defence industry representatives
Vladimir Putin chaired a meeting with Defence Ministry senior officials and defence industry representatives.
May 16, 2017
15:40
Sochi
The discussion focused on the state and development prospects of the Armed Forces and the defence industry.
Participants reported to the President on the fulfilment of the state defence order in 2016 and progress in placing orders for 2017.
* * *
Opening remarks at the meeting with Defence Ministry senior officials and defence industry representatives
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues,
Today we are starting the ninth cycle of meetings with Defence Ministry senior officials and defence industry representatives to discuss the state and future of Russia’s Armed Forces and defence industry.
We have been holding regular meetings of this kind since 2013 to assess the preliminary results of the large-scale effort to modernise the army and the navy, identify issues that arise as we work on this complex, comprehensive task, and of course, outline measures to achieve the set objectives on time.
The implementation of the 2011–2020 State Armament Programme continues. In 2016, the state defence order fulfilment rate was 97 percent. The armed forces received 5,600 items of state-of-the-art arms, as well as 3,000 units of military equipment and special-purpose machinery after repairs and renovation. As a result, the overall share of standby modern arms and equipment at the armed forces’ disposal reached 58 percent.
All in all, last year’s success in implementing the state defence order facilitated the comprehensive development of the armament system and helped strengthen the combat capability of the strategic forces.
These indicators are the result of effective and coordinated efforts by all those who were involved in planning, placing and fulfilling defence orders.
However, a number of issues have yet to be resolved. It is for this reason that as we sum up the results, special attention should be paid to system-wide issues. The fulfilment of the state defence order in 2017 will depend on whether these issues are resolved.
Let me remind you that this year, the share of modern arms and equipment is expected to reach 62 percent. I would like to ask the Defence Ministry and representatives of the defence industry to focus on achieving this objective.
I would also like to note that the approach to re-equipping the troops had to be adjusted in order to factor in the combat experience acquired in Syria and the need to reinforce Arctic territories, as well as the western and southwestern borders. For this reason, we will also review the key parameters of the new State Armament Programme. As you know, it is already being drafted.
So, let us turn to the reports. I would ask you to report on the highlights of the state defence order fulfilment in 2016 and the progress in 2017.
<…>
Geography
Krasnodar Territory
Topics
Armed Forces
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 16, 2017, 15:40
Text version