Events
Meeting with Rodion Shchedrin
The President congratulated People’s Artist of the USSR, composer Rodion Shchedrin on his 85th birthday
December 16, 2017
12:15
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 4
People’s Artist of the USSR, composer Rodion Shchedrin.
Vladimir Putin signed an Executive Order awarding Rodion Shchedrin the Order of Honour for his great contribution to Russian music and many years of creative work.
The message of greeting, sent earlier by the President of Russia, reads, in part:
“Your creative work, which embodies great traditions of classical music and daring novel endeavours, has become a truly significant factor in Russian and global music, enriched it with the wonderful pieces you composed in a wide variety of genres, styles and trends.”
Rodion Shchedrin is a winner of the Lenin Prize and State Prizes of the USSR and the Russian Federation, the author of seven operas, five ballets, three symphonies, 14 concertos, a large number of chamber, instrumental, vocal, choir and topical music pieces as well film soundtracks and theatre music pieces.
Vladimir Putin presented the composer with a painting by Vasily Denisov called High Rigger. High Riggers was a popular song from the 1957 feature film The Height, and Rodion Shchedrin was the author of the soundtrack.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Shchedrin, I am so happy to see you, hello.
It is a great pleasure and great honour for me to congratulate you on your Birthday.
Rodion Shchedrin: Thank you. It is just an occasion for me. Thank you for finding the time.
I watched your news conference, all your flights – to as many as three countries.
Good afternoon, welcome.
Vladimir Putin: I would like to wish you a happy Birthday sincerely, from my soul, on behalf of hundreds of thousands, may be even millions of your fans around the world.
I am certainly no music critic but one does not have to be a music critic to know that your music is famous not only in our country but also around world.
Everything is within your powers: ballet and opera music, music for separate instruments – for the piano, the viola, the cello, I know that. You composed the widely celebrated Carmen Suite dedicated to Maya Plisetskaya.
Rodion Shchedrin: Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Few people know that you also wrote wonderful music for many famous films, films that are still popular in our country. In this connection, Mr Shchedrin, I would like to present to you this picture, which is called High Rigger.
Rodion Shchedrin: These are “sins” of my green years. Thank you very much.
Vladimir Putin: These are no sins, not at all.
Rodion Shchedrin: This is definitely a meaningful present.
Vladimir Putin: It is exactly that.
Few people know that the soundtrack was composed by you.
Rodion Shchedrin: Yes, I used to do a lot of film scores. Now I am retired, it is over.
Vladimir Putin: Maybe you will take it up again.
Rodion Shchedrin: Thank you.
<…>
Topics
Culture
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 16, 2017, 12:15
Text version