Events
Meeting with Government members
Vladimir Putin met with Government members.
September 27, 2017
17:00
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
Today we will primarily discuss the budget, because work on it is wrapping up and the draft will be submitted to the State Duma soon. I will give you more details in a minute.
But I would like to first address the situation around VIM-Avia airline. Yesterday, I spoke with the Transport Minister about this. Mr Sokolov told me that the company had fully met the requirements for airline companies. He knows my response, I do not want to repeat myself. I will only repeat one thing. If you developed criteria, what good do they do if you cannot see the actual situation behind them? What kind of criteria are these? A company may meet all requirements and still not be able to operate.
Tens of thousands of people, tens of thousands found themselves in a very difficult situation. I would understand if it was the first time but similar cases occur year after year. And we are still unable to develop functional and efficient legal regulation.
Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Anton Vaino and First Deputy Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Sergei Kirienko prior to the meeting with Government members.
I understand very well that we want to create adequate conditions for businesses without the excessive burden of additional costs related to various forms of protecting people’s interests, insurance and so forth. But it is not possible to run a normal business without them. After all, business is not for business people but for the customers.
By the way, the same is taking place in construction. We have been endlessly talking about housing equity holders and so what? We are investing funds, of course, and remedying some payments – many but not all – but the problem is still there. And now law-enforcement agencies report that apart from this predicament of so-to-speak official housing equity holders, there is also a different problem linked with illegal construction. This problem is many times larger than that of housing equity holders. Some companies are building housing on sites that have not been properly registered, and people have absolutely no idea where to go and whom to contact. Yes, of course, I understand that without the use of private funds this business would not have been as effective as it is now. We know about the problems facing the construction industry. Everything is clear. But why are we still unable to regulate properly the normal, civilised functioning of these vital economic sectors?
I have just discussed this with the Prime Minister, and I would like to draw the attention of the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of transport to this issue: you do not pay enough attention to this sector. Not enough. Maybe you are overloaded? We have already spoken about this.
And I want to tell the Minister that this is a reprimand for incompetent performance. If you cope with this problem quickly and successfully, Mr Medvedev and I will think about what to do about this incompetent performance. If you fail, we will think about that as well. Please resolve this problem quickly and effectively, and not only resolve it but also submit proposals on settling this situation in general, intensifying the legal regulation of this sector and enhancing responsibility of carriers. It is necessary to monitor the implementation of norms, requirements and standards. They must be effective, understandable and transparent.
Deputy Prime Minister and Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoy to the Far Eastern Federal District Yury Trutnev and Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Kozak prior to the meeting with Government members.
I do not want to repeat anything, I have a reference here. I do not want to talk about this issue anymore. You know everything yourself, please work more actively in this regard.Today I would like to focus in more detail on the issue I just mentioned at the start of our meeting, I mean the draft federal budget which is to be submitted to the State Duma this week, the budget for 2018–2020. I have to say that a lot of complicated work has been done. The main financial document of the country was prepared at a time when the national economy is only beginning to move into a period of steady growth. That naturally imposes certain constraints, above all those connected with the national treasury revenues.
I have to note that like in previous years, we managed to stick to a responsible approach in the planning of public spending and ensure the overall balance of the federal budget and address the main priorities of the country’s development. These are support of the economy and the development of infrastructure, strengthening national security and defence capabilities and, of course, meeting the social obligations of the state to its citizens, investment in education and healthcare, support of science and culture.
Ahead lies close joint work with parliament. Together with the State Duma deputies we will have to go over every budget item. I repeat, I am aware that resources are limited. We all know it only too well, but still I urge you to see if there are untapped reserves for supporting key sectors of the economy, for solving the tasks of raising living standards, developing cities and communities. I would like to note that all these topics have been discussed repeatedly in various formats and at various meetings.
One of the key areas of the economic part of the budget is support for agriculture. Over the past several years this sector has registered robust growth rates and a bumper grain harvest is expected this year. We have to maintain the positive dynamics in agriculture and stimulate the continued development of domestic producers. Of course it is necessary to raise the rural living standards, to build new social infrastructure facilities, create modern comfortable conditions for work and recreation. Again, we have discussed this at various meetings in my office and I know you have discussed it with the Prime Minister. I urge you to allocate an additional 20 billion roubles every year over the next three years for the development of agriculture and the social sphere. We have discussed this topic, and there are such opportunities. I want you to keep it in mind
Deputy Prime Minister Olga Golodets prior to the meeting with Government members.
We have to carry on the urban improvement programme in cities. If you remember, we discussed it at the meeting of the Council for Local Self-Government in Kirov on August 5. Questions were raised as to what amounts of financing were needed. We are talking about creating a modern urban environment, creating public gardens, museums, recreation places, as well as about additional support for such projects in small and historical towns, which is particularly important for safeguarding our national memory. This programme has just got under way, and it is working effectively. I am requesting more federal funds to finance these areas of activity.
We have to plan a large-scale ecological programme to save the River Volga. We have to repair the harm inflicted on the ecosystem of that river and ensure prudent use of the Volga’s resources. I would like to stress that this is a very important and sensitive topic for tens of millions of our citizens. This topic has also been discussed more than once in various formats, and I urge you to remember it and address all these needs in the budget.
Finally, one more question. It has to do with culture, grant support, the financing of creative groups and cultural institutions. We have to work out a uniform approach to indexing such grants, and they have not been adjusted for quite some time. It is not such a large amount of money. I urge you to take that into account.
The Government in preparing the budget worked very intensively on every aspect. I would just like you to remember some things I consider sensitive. Let us discuss all these topics. And not only those I have mentioned, but broader, global issues that you dealt with in preparing the budget.
Mr Siluanov has the floor.
Finance Minister Anton Siluanov
: Thank you Mr President.
The Government has completed the drafting of the budget. In drafting this document we sought to solve several tasks.
The first is to support the economic growth which began late last year, and we see good rates exceeding the forecasts. For next year we put interest rate cuts into the budget parameters, which is to say the cost of loans to entrepreneurs, and this translates into a corresponding boost in investment activity. We are expecting real investments to grow next year which would actually be one of the foundations for increasing sources of economic growth.
The second goal. We have drafted the budget assuming we will meet our obligations regardless of the conditions of external markets. We have assumed a fairly conservative oil price of $40 per barrel, a decrease of the oil and gas budget deficit to below six percent in 2019–2020 and around 7 percent in the following year. We are also taking into account the meeting of our obligations via those parameters, independent of what happens with the external restrictions.
We expect the budget deficit to decrease from 2.2 percent of GDP this year to 1.4 percent next year, and below one percent in subsequent years. What does this give us? It gives stability to the budget, resilience of the budget structure to different external factors which used to significantly impact budget performance. We do not need to cut expenses, we do not need to reconsider our programmes next year.
The second task is meeting all the social obligations specified in the May 2012 Executive Orders, primarily on government workers’ wages. The funds for that have been allocated in full. Starting in 2018, the provision of the Order on increasing wages to government workers will be fulfilled in full. We are confident that there will be a corresponding increase in the quality of services.
We have envisioned wage growth in budget-funded sphere, which makes it possible to predict that wages will grow in the whole economy. According to forecasts, real wages will grow 4.1 percent next year, in part thanks to our increase of wages and benefits in the budget-funded sector.
The next point I would like to make is the consolidation of next year’s budget structure. What does this mean? 64 percent of total federal budget revenues now come from non-oil and gas revenues that are not linked with short-term factors. Remember that some time ago everything was the other way round. The bigger part of budget revenues depended on short-term factors, creating risks during implementation of the budget.
Both this year and next year we will continue carrying out all measures aimed at improving tax collection and administration without increasing the tax burden. We have planned measures to merge the data bases of the Federal Taxation Service and the Federal Customs Service. They are increasingly integrating their systems to improve fiscal performance. We will introduce systems for product traceability as well as markers. Cash register equipment will be installed in accordance with our timetables. All these measures will provide additional revenues to the treasury, which are accounted for in next year’s budget. Let me repeat once again that this will be done without increasing the tax burden for responsible taxpayers.
Our draft budget also provides for improving the quality of expenditures, which will increasingly take the form of priority projects that differ from state programmes in that they fix the indicators for the implementation of these projects. Their number is limited as distinct from state programmes when there were 2,500 key indicators for 40 state programmes. Naturally, it is impossible to monitor all of them, whereas priority projects will have a limited number of such indicators. We in the Government are regularly monitoring the implementation of these projects and holding accountable those in charge of implementation. More and more spending on such projects will be or already has been reflected in the draft budget for 2018–2020.
Importantly, there will be a qualitative change in inter-budget relations starting next year. In accordance with your instruction, Mr President, we factored in budget loan refinancing for the regions of the Russian Federation. On the one hand, this will considerably alleviate their debt burden. We have already met with governors at the session of the regional development commission in the Government of the Russian Federation. We discussed the issue in detail and explained how this will be done. This is the first point.
Secondly, we are substantially changing the system of inter-budget transfers. For the next three years we are allocating a large part of funds with due account of the assessments, the so-called model budgets of the Russian regions that we are drafting by assessing their spending commitments. The Government of the Russian Federation has carried out this work and this will make fairer the distribution of inter-budget transfers.
In general, we have envisaged incentives for the regions – grants that will be given to those regions of the Russian Federation that achieve the best results in economic growth, attracting investment and increasing their own budget revenues.
On the whole, next year the structure of federal budget expenditures will be based on the priority of the social sphere: 36.4 percent of spending will go to the social sphere, 29 percent to defence and security and about 15 percent to support for the economy. Social spending will be higher than in the previous budgets. We believe this is an absolutely correct re-orientation of spending toward the human capital that is producing immediate returns and contributing to economic development.
Mr President, we have already started working with MPs. In July we held parliamentary hearings on budget policy for the next three years. Next week we will conduct parliamentary hearings on the draft budget in the Federation Council. I am sure we will make a joint decision with MPs during the discussion and probably certain revisions of the draft budget in the parliament of the Russian Federation. I hope MPs will support us. The policy that we discussed (in fact, it was supported) will now be expressed in specific figures and programmes. I am sure that MPs will back us. Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Since much has been done and, as always, such work is the result of compromise, I would like to ask heads of relevant departments to speak during debates in parliament as one team, to represent the interests of the entire Government rather than their sectoral interests. The interests of the Government as a whole are expressed in the draft budget. Obviously, it is impossible to meet the interests of everyone in everything. This is understandable and natural but we must proceed from the premise that the budget is a uniform balanced document. I would like to ask you to treat it as such.
<…>
Topics
Transport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 27, 2017, 17:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with newly elected President of the Russian Academy of Sciences Alexander Sergeyev
Vladimir Putin met with newly elected President of the Russian Academy of Sciences Alexander Sergeyev. During the meeting, the President announced that he has signed an executive order confirming Alexander Sergeyev as President of the Russian Academy of Sciences.
September 27, 2017
19:00
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 4
With newly elected President of the Russian Academy of Sciences Alexander Sergeyev.
On September 26, Director of the Nizhny Novgorod Institute of Applied Physics of the Russian Academy of Sciences Alexander Sergeyev won the election for President of the Russian Academy of Sciences.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Sergeyev, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on your convincing victory in the election for President of the Russian Academy of Sciences. You received over 70 percent of votes in the second round. This means that the academic community trusts you and hopes that, as the leader of the academy, you will continue to strengthen and develop it, and raise its prestige, role and significance in the country’s affairs. Of course, I hope this is what happens.
On that note, I would like to request that you give due attention to the implementation of the strategy that was adopted some time ago. For this, it will certainly be necessary to establish working relationships, very good relationships with the state authorities at various levels, including the Government and the Executive Office. It will certainly be necessary to build a relationship with the Federal Agency for Scientific Organisations. I hope that together we will be able to think about how to organise this work. If you consider it necessary, we can and should think about improving the regulatory framework to guarantee that the academy continues to develop as the leading organisation in the sphere of science.
And when I mentioned the strategy, if you recall, we agreed that a relevant council would be created for each area of focus. I think it would be reasonable to put this work on a practical footing, to create a coordinating body led by you and possibly involving various ministries and departments, an interdepartmental body headed by the President of the Academy of Sciences that would coordinate the work of these councils in key areas related to promoting science.
Alexander Sergeyev: Mr President, first of all, it is very important for me, and I think it is very important for the academy that you took the time to meet with me the day after the election.
I want to say that the election was held in a completely democratic atmosphere, after we met on June 22, when you told all the candidates that the election should be held. Everyone heard you loud and clear. Yes, a new federal law was adopted, and everyone passed through this filter. But we understand that the Academy of Sciences is a state institution, so it is clear that such an agreement is necessary.
When yesterday I spoke to the academy as the newly elected president, I said that it is very good that the election was absolutely democratic. It is also very important that the government also acted very democratically during the entire election campaign. So there is a basis for a consensus that will allow us to cooperate.
Thank you very much for finding an opportunity to receive me today.
I have not been confirmed as president yet by you, but I hope that I will be confirmed.
Vladimir Putin: You are already confirmed. Here is the Executive Order I have just signed. I want to wish you good luck.
Alexander Sergeyev: Thank you very much. It is very important.
<…>
Topics
Science and innovation
Persons
Sergeyev Alexander
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 27, 2017, 19:00
Text versionEvents
Chemical disarmament completed in Russia
The President listened to a report via videoconference on the destruction of Russia’s last remaining chemical weapons.
September 27, 2017
15:20
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
Mikhail Babich
, Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoy to the Volga Federal District and Chairman of the State Commission for Chemical Disarmament, reported to President Vladimir Putin on the completion of chemical disarmament ahead of schedule.
Also in attendance at the videoconference were Denis Manturov
, Minister of Industry and Trade, Valery Kapashin, Head of the Ministry of Industry and Trade’s Federal Directorate for Safe Storage and Disposal of Chemical Weapons, and Hamid Ali Rao, Deputy Director-General of the Technical Secretariat of the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW).
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues, good afternoon.
We are witnessing an important, you could even say historic, event because the last chemical ammunition from Russia’s chemical weapons arsenal will be destroyed today.
Without exaggeration, we can say that this is a historic event considering the massive amount of chemical weapons inherited from the Soviet Union – an amount that, experts believe, would be enough to destroy every living creature on the planet several times. This is a huge step towards greater balance and security in the modern world.
Today’s event means our country will fulfill the main international obligation under the Chemical Weapons Convention, which is to completely eliminate its chemical weapons. Russia was one of the first to sign this treaty and has worked closely with its partners to relieve humankind of the threat of the use and proliferation of such barbaric, lethal weapons. On a related note, I would like to remind you of Russia’s key role in resolving the chemical weapons issue in Syria.
We can say that this is a historic event considering the massive amount of chemical weapons inherited from the Soviet Union. This is a huge step towards greater balance and security in the modern world.
Implementation of the Russian programme got underway back in the 1990s when our country was experiencing serious economic difficulties. In the early 2000s we found the resources to step up implementation. A truly enormous amount of work has been done over the course of 20 years. Modern high-tech enterprises were established and domestic technology developed to ensure that the chemical weapons were destroyed safely, in line with the toughest environmental standards and requirements.
It is important to make effective use of this experience and built facilities to develop the production of high-tech civilian products. Minister of Industry and Trade Denis Manturov is here today and I would like to ask him to report separately on what is planned to do in this regard. We have repeatedly discussed this issue at different meetings.
Colleagues, I would like to emphasise once again: Russia is strictly fulfilling its international commitments, including its obligations on disarmament and non-proliferation of the weapons of mass destruction. We are well aware of the potential dangers and risks associated with the resumption of the arms race and attempts to upset strategic parity. We are always open to meaningful dialogue on enhancing global security and strengthening confidence-building measures.
We expect that Russia’s efforts to eliminate chemical weapons will serve as an example to other countries as well. As is known, the largest chemical weapons arsenals belonged to Russia and still belongs to the United States that, regrettably, does not abide by its commitments on deadlines for chemical arms destruction. The deadlines for their elimination have been postponed three times, including supposedly due to a shortage of necessary budget funds, which sounds strange, to be honest, but let it be. We expect the United States and other countries to fulfil their commitments under international agreements.
Russia is strictly fulfilling its international commitments, including its obligations on disarmament and non-proliferation of the weapons of mass destruction. We are always open to meaningful dialogue on enhancing global security.
I would like to thank all those who took part in implementing this programme, who displayed the utmost professionalism, responsibility and, at times, courage. I congratulate you on successfully eliminating the last of Russia’s chemical weapons.
I would like to note that our country planned to complete this work by 2020 but completed it ahead of schedule this year, 2017. This is a great success, the result of large-scale, comprehensive and important work of large teams of scientists, workers, and engineers who worked at enterprises specially built for this task.
Congratulations to all of you once again.
Go ahead, please. You have the floor.
Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoy to the Volga Federal District Mikhail Babich: Mr President,
Today, as per your instructions, we are completing the implementation of the presidential programme on the complete elimination of chemical weapons in the Russian Federation. This effort covered six regions where seven state-of-the-art industrial complexes were built.
The President listened to a report via videoconference on the destruction of Russia’s last remaining chemical weapons.
Let me stress that the technology and all the equipment that was used were developed by Russian researchers and engineers. In addition, in accordance with your instructions, in all municipalities where the facilities for the elimination of chemical weapons were located, social infrastructure facilities were renovated or built, with some 11.5 billion rubles allocated. These funds went towards building more than 400 residential buildings, 20 schools and kindergartens, 14 hospitals, 3 sports complexes, more than 160 kilometres of roads, 640 kilometres of gas pipelines, 240 kilometres of water utilities, and many other social and utility infrastructure facilities that will continue to serve these municipalities and their residents.
As you have noted, in accordance with international treaties Russia was to complete the elimination of chemical weapons by 2020. However, in accordance with your instruction that seeks, among other things, to ensure the safety of the population in cities and districts where chemical weapons were located, this work has been completed three years ahead of schedule. The fact that today, on September 27, 2017 the last chemical ordnance was destroyed here in Kizner village of the Republic of Udmurtia, was made possible by the efforts of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the Defence Ministry, the Federal Security Service, the Foreign Ministry, as well as the staff of the Federal Directorate for Safe Storage and Disposal of Chemical Weapons.
As you have already noted, out of more than 70,000 tonnes of chemical weapons that existed across the world, 40,000 tonnes were located in the Russian Federation and 28,000 tonnes in the United States. However, the Russian Federation has completed this work more than six years earlier than our US colleagues, despite having a much larger stockpile.
The President listened to a report via videoconference on the destruction of Russia’s last remaining chemical weapons.
Representatives of international organisations and countries that are party to the Convention who are here today express their gratitude to the Russian Federation and you personally for completing this work so fast while observing the strictest environmental requirements. This is a big contribution to international security. It is important to note that during all these years not a single accident took place at a single Russian facility.
Mr President, the State Chemical Disarmament Commission has completed all tasks set before it. All these years you personally monitored the implementation of this most difficult task. Starting today, the Russian Federation will be country that is completely free of chemical weapons. To begin the process of destroying the last chemical ordnance, allow me to turn things over to Head of the Federal Administration for the Safe Storage and Elimination of Chemical Weapons Lt-Gen Valery Kapashin.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Kapashin, go ahead please.
Head of the Federal Administration for the Safe Storage and Elimination of Chemical Weapons Lt-Gen Valery Kapashin: Comrade Supreme Commander-in-Chief! We are ready to eliminate the last ordnance bearing the toxic substance VX. Requesting permission to initiate destruction.
Vladimir Putin: Permission granted.
Valery Kapashin: Initiate destruction.
What we are seeing is an ordnance after it was drilled and placed in position to remove the chemical agent where the ordnance is clasped. The device is checked to ensure that it is hermetically sealed, it is rotated 180 degrees, the chemical agent leaves the ordnance, then it is moved back into the initial position and washed with a de-gassing solution after which it undergoes thermal decontamination and deformation.
The President listened to a report via videoconference on the destruction of Russia’s last remaining chemical weapons.
Comrade Supreme Commander-in-Chief! Chemical weapons in the Russian Federation have been fully destroyed.
That concludes my report.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you. Congratulations!
Mr Ali Rao, go ahead please.
Deputy Director General of the Technical Secretariat of the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW) Hamid Ali Rao:
Mr President, it is a momentous occasion today which signals the full elimination of all chemical weapons stockpiles declared by the Russian Federation.
It is truly a historic milestone for the Russian Federation, the OPCW and the international community.
This joint success further contributes to strengthening provisions of the Convention and highlights its effectiveness in our journey together to eliminate the chemical weapons and work together for a chemical-weapon-free world.
It showcases Russia’s steadfast commitment and contribution to disarmament and nonproliferation.
I sincerely appreciate your personal interest and decisions to achieve this and offer warm congratulations to you, Mr President, the Russian Government and all those who worked tirelessly to make this remarkable success a reality.
Thank you, Mr President.
The President listened to a report via videoconference on the destruction of Russia’s last remaining chemical weapons.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Ali Rao,
In turn, I would like to thank you, all your colleagues and the entireOrganisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons for the joint work conducted over many years to reach the goal that it took us almost 20 years to accomplish. We worked together for 20 years to move closer to today.
I would like to thank you again and express hope that your organisation will continue working with the international community to enhance confidence-building measures and make the world safer, more stable and more secure. Many thanks to you for cooperation.
And now I would like to ask our Minister of Industry, Mr Manturov, to report on plans for using the facilities, structures and infrastructure that has been built, to address national economic tasks.
Minister of Industry and Trade Denis Manturov: Thank you, Mr President.
Eight facilities were built for the destruction of chemical weapons. This is cutting-edge infrastructure. Almost 300 billion roubles were spent from the federal budget for this purpose alone over these years. We would be interested in using these facilities for commercial purposes. For instance, we plan to organise the production of pharmaceuticals and chemicals at the Pochep facility in the Bryansk Region and the Maradykovsky facility in the Kirov Region. We are planning to use the Kizner facility, where the last chemical arms stockpile was destroyed today, to produce gunpowder and explosives. We are ready to shut down the gunpowder plant in the centre of Kazan and transfer gunpowder production to a completely new site.
Mr President, I would like to stress that at present Russia, in fact, does not have the necessary capacities to neutralise industrial wastes of hazard class 1 and class 2 which total about 400,000 tonnes per year. To treat the bulk of this amount, we are going to set up interregional centres of hazardous waste decontamination, using such facilities as Kambarka in Urdmurtia, Gorny in the Saratov Region, Shchushye in the Kurgan Region and Leonidovka in the Penza Region. To attract businesses, we intend to grant a concession to operate those facilities, since the most interested parties are companies, including those which use pension funds. Accordingly, under the law, only a concession agreement is possible.
Some legislation has to be amended. At the same time, in order to ensure that all the seven facilities are handed over to investors now that the chemical weapons have been destroyed, we have to completely restore those enterprises to a healthy state. To do this, we have earmarked 5.3 billion rubles in the 2018 budget.
The President listened to a report via videoconference on the destruction of Russia’s last remaining chemical weapons. With Minister of Industry and Trade Denis Manturov.
But taking into account the clean-up work that follows the destruction of chemical weapons, we have prepared a separate sub-programme for the period 2019–2024. With your support, we will be able to submit it for consideration, submit it to the Government and, jointly with the Finance Ministry, to reserve funds for the period 2019–2024.
Vladimir Putin: All right. Have the final details worked out and submit it to the Government.
Denis Manturov: Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Colleagues, I am addressing our colleagues in Kizner, let me thank you again for the work you have done, and express hope that the plan laid out by the Minister of Industry of the Russian Federation will be implemented. All the infrastructure that has been built, all the assets invested in the noble cause of eliminating chemical weapons, will not be buried here, at these enterprises; they will be used in the future for positive work aimed at creating and developing. There are also enterprises connected with the defence complex. By the way, gun powders are used not only in the defence industry but also in civilian industries, so all that should contribute to the development of the respective regions. And the jobs created, I hope, will not end up on the chopping block, we will do everything possible to preserve them.
Thank you very much. All the best!
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 27, 2017, 15:20
Text version