Events
Meeting with WorldSkills-Russia national team
Vladimir Putin met in the Kremlin with members of the WorldSkills-Russia national team that took first place in team scoring at the 44th WorldSkills Abu Dhabi 2017 Competition.
October 24, 2017
15:50
The Kremlin, Moscow
7 of 7
Meeting with members of WorldSkills-Russia national team.
The Russian national team was represented by 58 competitors and 52 experts from 24 regions of the country and took part in the competitions in all 52 competencies at WorldSkills International.
Apart from high scores the Russian team was fifth in the number of medals won. It took 11 medals, including six gold, four silver and one bronze.
WorldSkills International is an effective tool for personnel training in accordance with world standards and the requirements of new high-tech production lines.
Participants demonstrate their professional skills in the categories Construction and Building Technology, Information and Communication Technology, Creative Arts and Fashion, Manufacturing and Engineering Technology, Social and Personal Services, and Transportation and Logistics.
A total of 78 countries have joined the competition during its half century history. Russia joined in 2012 and has taken part in three world and two European championships.
* * *
Speech at the meeting with WorldSkills-Russia team
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much for your applause. Let me return it to you, because you deserve applause for winning WorldSkills.
All those who worked with you, and you yourselves, put in an enormous amount of work. I am referring to your coaches, experts and teachers. Perhaps you noticed that I just spoke at the Russia Calling! forum that is organised by one of our leading banks – VTB.
I mentioned your victory and recalled that we only joined this movement in 2012 and competed for the first time in 2013 when we placed just 41st. And now you placed first in total points. This is simply stunning progress.
I would like to congratulate you and our young participants because they also took first place in this segment of professional skills in school disciplines. This is a wonderful result and I congratulate you from the bottom of my heart!
Moreover, this is incredible progress. I am pleased to note that about half of all efforts, all fields were in a very important area for the future – the so-called digital economy. And this is particularly impressive because a modern successful specialist should by all means have this knowledge: skills of the digital economy, robotics and software engineering. You demonstrated these skills and did so brilliantly.
I must say that this inspires pride in you – those who achieve such results – pride in the country, pride in working people because it is owing to them that the economy and the country in general are becoming stronger, more powerful and acquiring good prospects.
Naturally, proceeding from what you have achieved we will draft future personnel training programmes, and this is one of our most important areas. The Government and relevant agencies are taking into account all these modern trends so that colleges and other secondary and higher educational institutions make adjustments to training programmes, including the training of those who work with you, your teachers.
As you know well, next time (apparently, you took part in the ceremony) this event will take place in this country, in Kazan. I am sure that the very fact that we will host WorldSkills will encourage us to continue upgrading the skills, knowledge and methods of training that were so wonderfully displayed with your help this year. I congratulate you and wish you all the best.
Incidentally, how many members did your team have – 58? You did a brilliant job. But the economy needs hundreds, thousands, hundreds of thousands of specialists like you. Let me congratulate you once again and wish you all the best.
<…>
Topics
Professional training
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 24, 2017, 15:50
Text versionEvents
Press statements following Russia-Cyprus talks
October 24, 2017
18:10
The Kremlin, Moscow
Press statements following Russia-Cyprus talks. With President of Cyprus Nicos Anastasiades.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, colleagues,
President of the Republic of Cyprus Nicos Anastasiades and I have just concluded extensive and substantive talks. There was a detailed exchange of views across the entire range of Russia-Cyprus relations and important international and regional problems. We have outlined ways to further develop our mutually beneficial partnership across various areas.
Our countries are historically linked by close and friendly relations, and Cyprus has become our important and promising partner. We appreciate the aspirations of our Cypriot friends and President Anastasiades, and we appreciate his desire to strengthen our close and multifaceted cooperation.
This cooperation is marked by high intensity at all levels. Russia and Cyprus have signed over 40 intergovernmental and interdepartmental agreements. A number of new important documents were signed today. Among them I will, of course, highlight the Joint Programme of Action for 2018–2020, which outlines a variety of steps to further build up bilateral ties.
We paid particular attention today to the economic aspects of Russia-Cyprus interaction. The unfavourable international situation and external constraints caused by political factors have been marring the trade dynamics in the past three years. However, thanks to our joint efforts, bilateral trade was up 36 percent during the first eight months of this year.
We agreed to promote cooperation in the field of innovation, energy efficiency, medicine and pharmaceuticals, and discussed possible supplies of Russian aircraft and shipbuilding products.
We attach great importance to direct contacts between members of our business community. The island of Cyprus is home to branches of major Russian banks such as VTB, Promsvyazbank, and Gazprombank. Together they perform the full range of investment and financial transactions.
Prospects in the sphere of defence industry cooperation are good as well.
Cultural and humanitarian contacts are traditionally a priority area in Russia-Cyprus relations. The President and I have talked about expanding this cooperation.
I know that Cyprus has always attached great importance to study of the Russian language. I hope that our friends will continue to foster school and college students’ interest in studying Russian in Cyprus.
Cyprus is one of our most popular tourist destinations. Last year, over 800,000 Russian citizens visited the island and in the first nine months of this year, this number already exceeded 700,000.
Naturally, topical issues on the European and global agenda were also addressed during the meeting.
I reaffirmed to the President Russia’s principled position in favour of a comprehensive and just settlement in Cyprus based on UN Security Council resolutions and the agreements between the Cyprus parties. We consider it important that the final decision be made by the Cypriots themselves, without outside interference and the imposition of ready-made prescriptions.
Cyprus is close to the Middle East. I brought the President up to date on our efforts in fighting terrorism in Syria.
We talked about the need to restore the Christian presence in this part of the world. We also discussed the need to restore communities and normal dialogue between them.
I also briefed the President on the situation that is developing within the framework of the Minsk process to achieve a settlement in southeastern Ukraine.
In conclusion, I would like to express my gratitude to you, Mr President, and to all our Cypriot friends for today’s substantive and constructive dialogue.
Thank you.
Press statements following Russia-Cyprus talks. President of Cyprus Nicos Anastasiades.
President of the Republic of Cyprus Nicos Anastasiades
(re-translated): I would like to express my special satisfaction with the constructive nature of today's meeting and note that this is my third visit to Moscow and the second meeting at the top level since I have become president. I would like to express special gratitude for the invitation and hospitality extended personally to me and members of my delegation.
Just like last time, in 2015, our discussions today were very constructive and creative. We would like to note that the current contacts prove the importance of Cyprus for Russia and the importance of deepening and expanding our relations across all areas.
There is no need to repeat that Cyprus and Russia are connected by many years of relations based on cooperation and affinity in the cultural and political spheres. Common cultural, religious, spiritual, and civilisational values strengthen our dialogue both in the economy, politics, and trade.
The issues that we discussed today during our candid dialogue included both the Cyprus issue and bilateral relations in their entirety, the relations between the European Union and the Russian Federation, a number of regional and international matters, including Ukraine and the role of the European Union in this matter, as well as a serious issue such as the crisis on the Korean Peninsula and in Syria.
With regard to the Cyprus issue, we have once again expressed the gratitude of the people of Cyprus and the Cypriot leadership for the continued and principled position of support from the Russian Federation, including within the UN Security Council, in favour of reaching a solution to the Cyprus issue. These principles are based on the principles of international law, as well as relevant resolutions adopted by the UN Security Council on the Cyprus issue.
Regarding the Cyprus problem. We noted that we are ready for dialogue on the domestic aspects of this problem. As for guarantees, I pointed out that this requires thorough preparations for relevant meetings both with the participation of the UN Secretary-General and within the framework of the UN Security Council with the participation of all five permanent members of the Security Council. I therefore updated the President on the latest developments on the Cyprus issue.
The signing of five new documents, agreements related to various spheres of our cooperation, will help expand and deepen this cooperation in all these spheres. For your information, I would like to add that 67 various agreements have been signed between our countries, including 19 that were drafted and signed in the past five years.
As stated earlier, the President and I discussed the relations between the European Union and Russia, noting that it is necessary to normalise and advance them for the common good. I would like to stress that in our conversations and discussions with our partners in Brussels, we have always called for a pragmatic approach toward our relations, which is necessary to deal with serious problems such as fighting terrorism, as well as various regional issues.
Press statements following Russia-Cyprus talks. With President of Cyprus Nicos Anastasiades.
Regarding international issues, we talked about the need to implement the Minsk agreements and the Normandy format and also addressed such serious problems as Syria, North Korea and denuclearisation, noting that these problems can only be dealt with through dialogue. We also talked about the role of Cyprus and the role that Cyprus can play in the region, taking advantage of its position given the situation prevailing now.
I would like to say that I am particularly pleased with the atmosphere and warmth of the dialogue with President Putin, as well as the understanding that we achieved in addressing various problems. Therefore, Mr President, I would like once again to express my very warm gratitude for the invitation to come to Moscow and for the hospitality that has been accorded to me, my wife and the entire delegation.
I hope that I will have an opportunity to return your hospitality and show warmth on my own behalf and on behalf of the entire people of Cyprus, hosting you in my country, Cyprus.
See also
Russia-Cyprus talks
October 24, 2017
Geography
Cyprus
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Anastasiades Nicos
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 24, 2017, 18:10
Text versionEvents
Beginning of meeting with President of the Republic of Cyprus Nicos Anastasiades
October 24, 2017
16:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
With President of Cyprus Nicos Anastasiades.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, friends. Let me welcome you in Moscow.
Our meetings are always meaningful and constructive. This is not surprising considering our relations, which have developed over a long period of time.
Let me recall that the Soviet Union was the first country to recognise independent Cyprus. The way our relations are developing today is very positive.
I am sure we will discuss the entire range of our relations, including international issues and the domestic settlement of the Cypriot problem. You know that Russia has always supported a fair settlement.
I am very glad to see you. Welcome, Mr President.
President of the Republic of Cyprus Nicos Anastasiades
(retranslated): My dear friend, Mr President. This is my third visit to Moscow as President and my second top level meeting with you at your kind invitation. This is surely evidence of the close relations that exist between our countries. Not only our good-natured relations but also the cultural, religious and historical affinity that exists between our countries and peoples.
I have no doubt that despite our already good relations, this meeting will give us another opportunity to consider how to deepen and expand them.
We will have to discuss the Cypriot problem, relations between the European Union and Russia, as well as regional and bilateral issues. We will have to deal with these issues and I am particularly grateful to you for this.
I would like to thank you personally and on behalf of the Cypriot people for Russia’s unwavering, principled support for us on the Cypriot issue, for finding a solution to this long-standing problem.
Let me thank you once again for your invitation, your warm hospitality and the prerequisites that you are creating for even closer and friendlier relations of cooperation between our countries and peoples.
<…>
See also
Russia-Cyprus talks
October 24, 2017
Geography
Cyprus
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Anastasiades Nicos
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 24, 2017, 16:30
Text version