    Events Meeting with business community representatives   Vladimir Putin met in the Kremlin with representatives of the Russian business circles and associations. The meeting was attended by over 50 business leaders, CEOs of leading private companies and companies with government participation, banks
and public organisations.     September 21, 2017  15:50  The Kremlin, Moscow                                                                2 of 5 Meeting with representatives of the Russian business community.        President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon,Before we start working and take our
seats let us wish a happy birthday to VTB President Andrei Kostin. Please
accept our sincere congratulations. I would like to present you with this
watch. Although modest, it is called “Chimes.”Good afternoon, colleagues,You know we do not meet often but
still regularly get together in approximately the same line-up and compare our
positions on the developments in the economy and in specific sectors. I must say that despite certain limitations,
including external restrictions, the Russian economy is stabilising. As you
know, it is perfectly obvious that it has overcome the recession, is gaining
momentum, and has been growing for several quarters running.As you also know, we planned for fairly
modest growth of about 0.8 percent. In the first quarter of the year the GDP
increased by 0.5 percent but it has already gone up 2.5 percent in the second
quarter. Investment increased 6.3 percent, which is the highest since the second quarter of 2012. Naturally, this is a good foundation for future
development. Importantly, inflation is fairly low – less than 4 percent, which
I would call the lowest in history.Industrial production is increasing.
Its growth was 2 percent and certainly looks very impressive in some sectors.
The manufacture of semiconductors has increased by over 24 percent, computers
by 64.2 percent, grain harvesters by 31 percent, cars by 21.5 percent, buses by 16 percent, freight carriage by 78.5 percent, sunflower oil by almost 20
percent and knitwear by 23.5 percent. As I said, this growth is being recorded during
historically low inflation.Naturally, it is important to understand why this is taking place and maintain these positive trends. This is
actually what I would like to discuss with you. Considering that external
restrictions still exist and may even be extended, I would like to hear your
opinions on this situation, your assessments and proposals. This is probably all I need to say for now.Thank you.<…>         Topics  Support for business                          Publication status Published in sections: News, Transcripts  Publication date:    September 21, 2017, 15:50  Direct link: en.kremlin.ru/d/55675    Text version        NaN /  