Events
Meeting with Government members
Vladimir Putin held a regular meeting with Government members.
October 25, 2017
14:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 3
Meeting with Government members.
The meeting participants also discussed current issues. Minister of Construction and Housing and Utilities Mikhail Men
reported on the readiness of the housing and utilities sector for the heating season.
Minister of Labour and Social Protection Maxim Topilin
updated the Government members on the payment of wage arrears. Vladimir Putin pointed out that more attention should be given to such matters and said he would alert the prosecutor’s offices and the Investigative Committee to this.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
The Government, in particular the Finance Ministry, worked at the State Duma today to amend the 2017 budget ahead of discussions of the budget for 2018 and the subsequent two years. What I would like you to take note of is military pensions.
This is what I would like to say. It is true that military pensions nearly doubled, or more precisely, increased by 90 percent, between 2011 and 2017. In the past, we indexed military salaries and military pensions simultaneously. I have noticed that the 2018 budget stipulates the indexation of military salaries on January 1 and the indexation of military pensions on February 1. This decision concerns 2.6 million people. I think we can act as we did in the past, that is, index military salaries and military pensions, as well as the salaries and pensions of the staff and veterans of the other uniformed services, which include Interior Ministry personnel, the Russian National Guard, firefighters, etc., on January 1.
However, to be able to do this we need to earmark the funds already this year, because military pensions are paid in advance. If we index military pensions on January 1, military pensioners must receive their money in December, which means that it must be available. We have sufficient budgetary revenue for this.
I would like the Finance Minister to report on this.
Finance Minister Anton Siluanov
: Indeed, Mr President, our revenues this year are sufficient for implementing your instructions on indexing military pensions and the pensions of other uniformed veterans from January 1, 2018. We will take this into account this year and we will implement your instructions.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, please do. I request that the Government oversee this process and take this into account when making plans for the future.
<…>
Topics
Armed Forces
Pensions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 25, 2017, 14:30
Text versionEvents
Press statements following talks with Federal President of Federal Republic of Germany Frank-Walter Steinmeier
October 25, 2017
19:15
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 4
Press statements following talks with Federal President of Federal Republic of Germany Frank-Walter Steinmeier.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen,
We are pleased to receive President of the Federal Republic of Germany, Mr Steinmeier, who is visiting Russia for the first time as President of the Federal Republic of Germany. He is an experienced diplomat and statesman. We have known each other for a long time. He has visited our country often, and we met many times, but we are receiving him for the first time in this capacity.
During the talks, we discussed in detail various aspects of bilateral cooperation, and exchanged views on important international and regional matters. It was noted that despite the well-known political difficulties, Russian-German relations are not treading water, and we are willing to work together to further develop them.
Even in the face of various restrictions of a political nature and the decline in bilateral trade, which largely stems from that, Germany remains one of our leading foreign economic partners and a key investor in the Russian economy.
We noted with satisfaction that trade has started to grow this year again. While in 2016 bilateral trade declined by 11 percent, it was up as much as 25 percent in January-July 2017. The inflow of direct investments from Germany has also increased. In the first quarter of this year alone, they reached $312 million, significantly exceeding the 2016 total of $225 million.
There are over 5,500 enterprises with German capital successfully operating in Russia. Their total revenue exceeds $50 billion. I should also add that German business is set to expand its operations on the Russian market. As you may know, this was discussed, in particular, at a meeting with senior members of the German Committee on Eastern European Economic Relations and top executives of leading German companies in Sochi on October 12. The event was also attended by President Nazarbayev of Kazakhstan.
During the talks with Mr Steinmeier, we also addressed a traditional sphere of bilateral relations – energy. We spoke in favour of fostering industrial cooperation. I would like to point out that since the start of the year, several new plants built with German business participation have opened in Moscow and Samara regions.
In addition, in June, on the sidelines of the St Petersburg Economic Forum, a contract was signed with the German company Linde to launch a new large-scale petrochemical facility in Tatarstan with a total investment of $10 billion.
Scientific contacts are forging ahead. The world’s largest X-ray laser was built with advanced Russian technology within the framework of the XFEL project in Hamburg. This will make it possible for scientists to address tasks that were once deemed technologically impossible.
Regarding cultural cooperation, first of all, I would like to mention the German President’s participation in today’s ceremony of handing over the Cathedral of St Peter and St Paul in Moscow to the Evangelical Lutheran Church of Russia. The event was timed to coincide with the 500th anniversary of the Reformation – a religious and socio-political movement that, as is known, originated in Germany.
We agreed to facilitate the further expansion of interregional cooperation and contacts, including through non-governmental organisations. The bilateral Year of Municipal Partnerships was launched in June. Delegates from 90 Russian and 46 German cities attended its opening. Plenary meetings of the Petersburg Dialogue Forum and the second Potsdam Meetings youth forum are planned for November.
We naturally covered important issues of the international agenda and thoroughly discussed the situation in Syria. We share the opinion that it is necessary to achieve the complete and final elimination of terrorists in that country, and to step up efforts to promote a political settlement.
Of course, we also touched upon the state of affairs in Ukraine. The President is fully aware of all the intricacies involved in this subject. As you may be aware, when he was foreign minister, he proposed a number of solutions, which bear his name. I hope that they will be seen to completion in the course of future work.
The President and I once again noted that unfaltering compliance with the Minsk agreements is the basis for a sustainable and comprehensive settlement in southeastern Ukraine. In this context, we discussed the Russian initiative to establish a UN mission to ensure the security of OSCE observers in the conflict zone.
We also exchanged views on the Iranian nuclear programme and the crisis on the Korean Peninsula.
In general, the talks were very useful and took place in a constructive and very businesslike atmosphere. I would like to express my gratitude to the President for that. I am confident that this visit will be beneficial for promoting bilateral relations between the Federal Republic and the Russian Federation.
Thank you for your attention.
Federal President of the Federal Republic of Germany Frank-Walter Steinmeier
: Thank you very much, Mr President.
I am very pleased to be in Moscow, and, as you mentioned, not for the first time, but this is my first time as Federal President.
I am very grateful to you for the important and very generous gesture you made today, which is to return the St Peter and St Paul Cathedral in Moscow to the Evangelical Lutheran Church. Not only was it a respectful ceremony, I am confident that this gesture was received here in Moscow and in Germany as an important message for the Evangelical Lutheran community in Moscow and Germany, which celebrates the 500th anniversary of the Reformation this year. A grand ceremony will soon take place in Wittenberg.
I came here and used this meeting as an opportunity to have a very detailed conversation about the state of relations between our countries. I think we are united in the opinion that we cannot and should not be satisfied with the current state of affairs. We are still far from enjoying normal relations; there are still open wounds and unresolved issues, primarily, with regard to the annexation of Crimea and the conflict in eastern Ukraine, which continue to burden our relations. In addition, we have also spoken about recent arrests here in Moscow.
I do not think that a single meeting or a single conversation can help overcome the situation that has taken shape over the past few years. Nonetheless, I am convinced that we need such meetings as today’s, and we should have more meetings like today's – not only abstractly between our countries, but absolutely concretely between high-ranking representatives of our states.
Today I would like to see if there are ways out of the negative spiral that you have observed during the past few years. The loss of trust, mutual recriminations and misunderstanding – can we overcome all this? The Russian President told us today what he thinks about the future of relations between Germany and Russia.
I believe we cannot erase the alienation of the past, but we should aim to counteract the significant discord of recent years with more predictability and the restoration of some minimal level of confidence. Our mutual relations (I am referring not only to those who are responsible for them in the Government, but also to people in Russia and Germany) are too important for us to have no dialogue, considering that we can clearly convey our ideas to each other.
Russia and Germany are linked by a history that goes back more than a millennium, and this history is too diverse to be viewed in black and white. This is why it is so important for me to resist the alienation of the past few years and to keep saying that we live in Europe together. It is our duty to our nations to always continue looking for what we have in common despite all the disagreements and conflicts. We spoke about this today during the lunch with representatives of the Russian leadership.
I think in addition to the subjects mentioned by your President, Russia is highly interested in cultural and scientific exchanges and in making them more intensive than they were in the past few years.
I believe we are realistic enough to say that something may be achieved in the course of one conversation. But we will make our joint efforts our homework, with the goal of not only strengthening our relations but also improving them.
Thank you very much.
See also
Talks with President of Germany Frank-Walter Steinmeier
October 25, 2017
Geography
Germany
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Steinmeier Frank-Walter
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 25, 2017, 19:15
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Federal Customs Service Head Vladimir Bulavin
The Head of the Federal Customs Service updated the President on the service’s performance.
October 25, 2017
16:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 3
Meeting with Head of the Federal Customs Service Vladimir Bulavin.
At the beginning of the meeting, the President congratulated the customs service staff on their professional holiday.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Bulavin, today is your professional holiday, Customs Officer’s Day. I would like to congratulate you and the staff of Russia’s Customs Service on this holiday and to wish you success and good luck.
I know that you and the personnel of the Russian Customs Service have been working smoothly and successfully this year. The Customs Service is one of the most important state agencies responsible for budget revenues. You have a special responsibility. Like the border guards, you are the first Russian officials foreigners meet. Moreover, you have not just fiscal but also economic responsibilities. Much depends on the proper organisation of this work.
I hope that the service will pick up steam under your guidance. You have assumed this position only recently, and you know about the service’s problems. You must keep working to introduce new technologies so as to streamline the operation of border facilities, including the arrival and inspection stations, so that foreign trade operators feel your support and see the customs service as not just a fiscal agency, but as an agency that is responsible for export-import transactions, which are a vital element of the country’s economic life.
Of course, you must never forget about the personnel’s compliance with law. I hope this will be done routinely, and the customs service personnel will be concerned above all, with the interests of the country and the national economy, and that the service, with support from the Government, will also take care of social matters, including salaries and the social protection of its employees.
Once again, congratulations on your professional holiday and good luck.
Federal Customs Service Head Vladimir Bulavin
: Mr President, thank you for your appreciation of the work of the customs officers and the Federal Customs Service as a whole.
Today, on our professional holiday, I am happy to report on the positive dynamics and practical results achieved by the Federal Customs Service in all spheres of its operation.
Customs and tax payments have been made in full. In the first nine months, the revenue side of the budget received 3.21 trillion roubles.
Vladimir Putin: What was the planned figure?
Vladimir Bulavin: We have hit our projections and even surpassed them by three percent. I must say that we are registering the same trend as last year: the import component of customs payments is a bit higher, 55 percent, and the export component is 45 percent. This has to do not only with the increase in declarations and weight of imports but also with better administration of commercial consignments that are brought in by our businesses.
Speaking about business, we are working on the task that you set a while back – to enhance our cooperation with business and step up our dialogue with it. Our public council, expert advisory council is actively working. I can say that we listen to each other and hear each other.
A comprehensive programme on developing customs to 2020 has been drafted with the active participation of businesses. It has a very important section, 10 Steps to Meet Business Halfway. We set forth fairly ambitious goals, for instance, to bring the level of automatically registered declarations to 99 percent (that is, without the involvement of a customs inspector) and to raise the level of automatically issued declarations to 80 percent, but I must make a caveat here – this applies to risk-free supplies alone. In all, 64 percent of all declarations will be issued automatically.
Major reforms in customs administration are an important component of our comprehensive programme. We have reported to you about our approaches and would like to thank you for your support. Today we have 672 locations for customs procedures in this country and we want to reduce them to 16. We plan to establish online customs offices in the capitals and major cities and online declaration centres in the existing customs centres – the regional Kaliningrad and Moscow customs centres, the energy and excise customs centres; separate online declaration centres in the ports of St Petersburg, Novorossiysk and Vladivostok.
In the process, we will move from private premises that do not belong to the state to public spaces, which will allow us to resolve one more important task: we will break personal contacts between our customs inspectors and foreign economic actors, thereby substantially reducing corruption risks – the task you set us. In addition, it will be much easier to control 16 online declaration centres than 672 customs offices.
Vladimir Putin: But it is important to make sure they will cope with all the work.
Vladimir Bulavin: No doubt, they will be enough, all the more so since our programme is designed for three years. We plan to carry out the reforms in stages, depending on the region in question. Businesses support us. I would like to repeat that they took an active part in drafting our comprehensive programme.
Vladimir Putin: Fine.
<…>
Topics
Customs
Persons
Bulavin Vladimir
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 25, 2017, 16:00
Text version