Events
Meeting with heads of CIS member states’ security and intelligence agencies
Vladimir Putin met in the Kremlin with heads of security and intelligence agencies of the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) members states.
December 19, 2017
16:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
4 of 5
Meeting with heads of the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) member states’ security and intelligence agencies.
Earlier today the President sent his greeting to the participants of the 43rd meeting of the Council of Heads of Security and Intelligence Agencies of the CIS countries.
* * *
Opening remarks at meeting with heads of CIS security and intelligence agencies
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon,
I am very glad to welcome all of you – participants in the 43rd meeting of the Council of Heads of Security and Intelligence Agencies of the CIS countries.
Our meeting is taking part on the eve of the 100th anniversary of the All-Russian Emergency Commission for Combatting Counter-Revolution and Sabotage (VChK).
I understand that it does not sound like it did say 15 or 20 years ago, and that this date is very charged politically. However, despite all the politicisation and all the things linked with certain tragic events in our common history, repression and so on…
This is not what I want to speak about. I want to speak about how our security bodies have always carried out – in those difficult times as well – a very important government function. They have been protecting the interests of the country and its citizens against external encroachment, all kinds of abuses, terrorism and organised crime, while sustaining heavy losses.
Naturally, I would like to make special mention of the veterans that defended the state’s interests during the Great Patriotic War. They deserve to be spoken about and remembered by us.
Today’s world is complex, your staff face difficult challenges, and you face difficult challenges as well, such as fighting terrorism and the forces that are trying to thwart the development of our nations.
With regard to terrorism, I do not need to say anything to you on this account, since you know everything yourself, and you are the ones who give us the necessary information on these matters. It is extremely important for us to closely follow events in this sphere.
The international situation has become very tense, and we care about where the terrorists will return to as they flee their current whereabouts following the fairly effective actions, as you are aware, of the Russian Armed Forces, say, in Syria. We know which way this scum is flowing, and we are fully aware of the threats posed by these ”flows“ to our states and our peoples. That is why cooperation between us is so important.
I want to thank you all for cooperation and the information that you provide to our special services, in particular the Federal Security Service. For our part, we will do our best to provide information to you in a timely manner, and to conduct, as it was until now, the necessary measures to ensure the security of our countries and our people.
In addition to this major and most dangerous threat, international terrorism, there are other challenges, and we are well aware of them. However, in order to be effective in our efforts against terrorists, we need the international community to act jointly.
We have repeatedly suggested creating a registry of the most dangerous criminals. Unfortunately, we have not received a final definitive answer yet, but this is okay given all we are doing together. I hope this work will continue.
As for organised crime, illegal migration and other issues that we constantly deal with, this is also part of your responsibility. This is hard and complex work, which, unfortunately, involves loss of life for some of our comrades. But all of that is not in vain, as it strengthens our state from within, and improves our unity in general.
I want to thank you for this and express hope that we will continue to work as effectively in the future, as we have so far.
Thank you very much.
See also
Greetings to heads of CIS security and intelligence agencies
December 19, 2017
Topics
Fight against terrorism
National security
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 19, 2017, 16:00
Text versionEvents
Press statements following Russian-Serbian talks
December 19, 2017
18:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
Press statements following Russian-Serbian talks. With President of Serbia Aleksandar Vucic.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Esteemed Mr President, ladies and gentlemen,
Talks with the Serbian President took place in an open and friendly atmosphere as always, and they were extensive and productive. We discussed in detail the entire range of bilateral cooperation and exchanged views on current international and regional problems.
This is our first meeting since Mr Vucic became Serbian President. But I would like to note that we met before more than once, in particular when Mr Vucic was Prime Minister.
We share the desire of the Serbian leadership to maintain an intensive political dialogue and steadily develop our interstate relations. Literally in a few months, in February 2018 our countries will celebrate the 180th anniversary of diplomatic relations.
During the talks, the bulk of our attention went to economic cooperation. This year bilateral trade has seen confident growth. In January-September trade went up by 26 percent to reach $1.5 billion.
Mutual investment is also on the upsurge. Serbia has accumulated over $4 billion of Russian capital. In turn, our Serbian partners invested about $500 million in the Russian economy.
The intergovernmental committee on economic, scientific and technical cooperation is looking closely at ways of deepening our investment cooperation. It will hold a regular meeting in the near future.
The intergovernmental declaration on cooperation in economic modernisation will facilitate the committee’s work a great deal. We hope the declaration will facilitate the implementation of new joint projects and the development of industrial cooperation and high-tech production.
Energy remains a priority area between us. Our country almost fully meets Serbia’s natural gas needs – by over 90 percent. This year our supplies increased by a quarter to exceed two billion cubic metres of gas. By 2022 this figure will be brought to 3.5 billion.
Apart from being a large market for Russian natural gas, in the long term Serbia may become an important link in its transit. The issue of involving our Serbian partners in Gazprom’s project to build a new route for energy supplies – the Turkish Stream – is being considered.
Other Russian companies are also successfully operating in the Serbian market. Gazprom Neft continues upgrading the region’s largest holding, Petroleum Industry of Serbia, which provides 11,000 jobs and has already invested over $3 billion in it.
LUKOIL has a network of 115 fuel stations and two oil plants.
Silovye Mashiny [Power Machines] is upgrading the Djerdap hydroelectric power station and is ready to start technical re-equipment of other power plants in Serbia.
Cooperation in the area of transport infrastructure is growing stronger. Russian Railways is implementing a programme for comprehensive development of railways in Serbia and upgrading its rolling stock. The project is funded from a Russian state loan in the amount of $800 million.
We intend to enhance cooperation in the credit and banking area. Sberbank and VTB are operating in Serbia. They are guiding the investment activities of Russian and Serbian companies and offer a broad range of services for individuals.
The creation of a free trade area between the Eurasian Economic Union and Serbia would create new opportunities for developing business ties. This issue is already being discussed at expert consultations. We hope they will produce a mutually beneficial agreement on a free trade area.
During the talks, special attention was paid to cultural and humanitarian cooperation. A mosaic on the dome of St Sava’s temple in Belgrade has been installed with Russia’s help. This November, the Alexandrov Ensemble of the Russian Army performed in Serbia, and I thanked the President of Serbia for his decision to name a park in the centre of Belgrade after this army ensemble to honour the tragic deaths of its members in an air crash last December.
Interest in the Russian language has been coming back in Serbia, and close educational ties are maintained. We have agreed to continue promoting contacts between people, including expanding tourism exchanges and creating favourable conditions for Russians to stay and work in Serbia and for Serbians in Russia.
A memorandum of cooperation in tourism and an agreement on social insurance have been signed following negotiations to resolve these issues.
We have discussed the current situation in the Balkans. Russia is interested in the region’s stabilisation and in the development of mutually beneficial ties with the region’s countries. I reaffirmed to President Vucic that Russia would continue supporting Serbia in terms of sovereignty and territorial integrity.
Regarding Kosovo, we believe the situation should be settled by political means, based on dialogue between parties in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution 1244. We will support any mutually acceptable decision Belgrade and Pristina come to.
In conclusion, I would like to thank President Vucic once again for a comprehensive and constructive conversation. I am convinced that the agreements we have reached today will serve to further promote the progressive development of our bilateral relations.
Thank you for your attention.
President of Serbia Aleksandar Vucic
: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your attention.
Mr President,
First, I would like to thank you for a very warm reception and your hospitality. With your permission, I will make part of my statement in Russian and part in Serbian.
Allow me on behalf of the Republic of Serbia to express our special gratitude for the Russian Federation’s support in, as you said, preserving Serbia’s territorial integrity and sovereignty. Russia has always been Serbia’s friend and we Serbs have always seen this. Today, we notice the difference in Russia’s attitude to our country before Vladimir Putin entered office and after.
Serbia has never interfered in Russia’s internal affairs, nor will it ever do so. As a representative of a small but proud and dignified people I would like to tell the friendly Russian people that Serbia greatly appreciates the hand of friendship extended to us by President Putin.
I would like to wish him success in the forthcoming [presidential] election, so he could continue to pursue his policy of further strengthening relations between our two countries. In political terms, Serbia will always be grateful to President Putin for many things of importance for us but I would like to specially emphasise three of them.
First, on July 8, 2015, Russia vetoed a UN Security Council resolution, thereby sparing the Serbian people, who were hit hardest, of being branded with the shame of genocide. It is only thanks to the Russian veto that the Serbian people do not have the stamp of genocide on their foreheads.
Second, it is only thanks to Russia’s support and Mr Putin’s efforts that Serbia still has the opportunity to stand up for Kosovo and Metohija – of course, by peaceful means and by pursuing an earnest and responsible policy.
Third, as all of you know, Serbia is moving towards European integration but it is a neutral state and it is not seeking membership in military alliances, NATO included.
Owing to the support and gifts sent to us by President Putin, we managed to partially restore our aviation and thus preserve the status of a militarily neutral state in the future.
We have signed several agreements today. I consider most important the agreement on increasing gas supplies to the Serbian market in the forthcoming period. The fact that we are using more gas is important both for Serbia and Russia. This is evidence of our country’s steady industrial progress.
I am grateful to Russia and President Putin that Serbia had no problems buying and receiving gas for its consumers. I would like to emphasise for the Russian side that Serbia is complying with its commitments unlike seven, eight and ten years ago.
As President Putin has already said, our trade is growing with every year. This year trade was much higher than last year. President Putin and I believe that we have many opportunities to increase our trade to three or three and a half billion.
As a militarily neutral state, we spoke about our continued defence industry cooperation. The Republic of Serbia needs more transport helicopters and we hope to reach agreement with our Russian colleagues on this issue.
As I said more than once, Serbia is a small country in terms of its population and territory but we are one of the few nations that behave fairly and honestly towards our Russian friends. I know this is not very important for Russia but it is my duty to emphasise again that the proud Serbian people have never imposed and will never impose any sanctions on Russia and that we will do everything to preserve our sincere traditional friendship with the Russian people. I am convinced that it will work out for us because the policy pursued by the Serbian leaders is honest, independent and responsible.
I would like to wish the Russian people and all citizens of the Russian Federation a happy New Year and Christmas. I want relations between our countries and peoples to be even deeper and stronger.
(Retranslated) I would like to tell the citizens of Serbia that President Putin met with me and our delegation in a restricted format, one on one, as well as in the expanded format. These meetings were very intensive and constructive. We talked about all aspects of life and work. We have developed our relations and have improved and strengthened our friendship and trust.
I am sure that we will attain the best results in culture, sports and in all the other spheres. Next year we will mark 75 years of the Battle of Stalingrad. Serbian top-level officials will attend the celebrations of this battle in which 1.2 million Russians died.
Serbs are among the few nations that did not take part in that battle on the side of Nazis. On the contrary, we are proud of our anti-Nazi tradition. I expressed gratitude to President Putin and invited him to Belgrade, because we plan to open the St Sava Temple in 2019 to mark the 800th anniversary of the autocephaly of the Serbian Orthodox Church.
We expressed gratitude to Russia for its assistance to Serbia. We also discussed all the important economic issues. Nearly half of the Serbian Government has come to Russia. We have coordinated ways to settle problems within the framework of the international community as an institution.
We also discussed the further development of our economic cooperation to improve living standards in Serbia. I hope, moreover, I am sure that this will also help improve life for the citizens of Russia.
I congratulate President Putin on Security Agency Worker's Day, which will be marked tomorrow. I know about the importance of this day for the President and Russia. I wish all the best to the President and to Russian citizens.
I would like to tell Serbian citizens that we have had good, very good talks and I expect to have fruitful and successful cooperation with the Russian Federation and President Putin.
See also
Russian-Serbian talks
December 19, 2017
Geography
Serbia
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Vucic Aleksandar
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 19, 2017, 18:30
Text versionEvents
Beginning of Russian-Serbian talks
December 19, 2017
17:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
Meeting with President of Serbia Aleksandar Vucic.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, friends, allow me to cordially welcome all of you!
This is your first visit to Russia since you took office as President. We are very glad to see you in Moscow. You and I already enjoyed a good, long-standing relationship during your tenure as Prime Minister. I hope that this will continue in the future.
Next February, we will be celebrating a remarkable date – the 180th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations. It is my great pleasure to note that our relations are developing, above all, in the economic sphere. More goods are being traded and direct investments are increasing.
In short, we have things to discuss. We are glad to see you.
President of Serbia Aleksandar Vucic
: Mr President, thank you for your warm welcome and hospitality here in Moscow. And as always, there is no need for me to repeat that Serbia and Russia are friendly countries.
What should be stressed, as you have already said, is that we have successfully managed to increase our trade and have done much as far as our cooperation is concerned. We expect that this political and economic cooperation can be brought to the highest level.
Once again, thank you very much for your personal support and Russia’s support for the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia.
Let me congratulate you on your decision to run for President of the Russian Federation. I know that the Russian people will decide their own future, but I want to wish you every success.
And I want to assure the Russian people that Serbia appreciates all that you have done for us. We will be forever grateful for your help and support. Again, thank you very much.
I am confident that we will be able to get a lot done today. My thanks to the Russian people and you as President of the Russian Federation.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
<…>
See also
Russian-Serbian talks
December 19, 2017
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: December 19, 2017, 17:30
Text versionEvents
Vladimir Putin addressed Russian Popular Front Action Forum
The President took part in a plenary session of the Russian Popular Front (ONF) Action Forum.
December 19, 2017
14:20
Moscow
10 of 21
Plenary session of the Russian Popular Front Action Forum.
The President was also updated on several ONF projects, listened to a report on the operations of the forum’s themed platforms and talked with presentation participants.
Vladimir Putin was updated on the ONF Cleaning Project launched to get rid of illegal landfills. The main element of the presentation was an interactive map of landfills. The President asked about the number of such landfills. Project coordinator Dmitry Mironov said there are over 15,000 of them.
The ONF representatives also told the President they had reviewed the results of this project and used them to select the best and the worst regions in terms of effectiveness of removing the illegal landfills. They also said that the interactive map of the landfills would be forwarded to the Ministry of Natural Resource and Environment.
After that, Vladimir Putin was told about the ONF Youth project. Project coordinator Sergei Boyarsky pointed out that several independent projects have been launched within ONF Youth over the past four months and that some of them have already produced results. For example, the President learnt that over 10,000 people took part in the Russia’s Future Image project and provided statistical data on the interests of Russia’s young people.
This year’s forum is the largest in the ONF history. It is being attended by over 4,000 delegates from across Russia, including active ONF members and representatives from public and volunteer organisations and from federal and regional authorities.
* * *
Transcript of address to participants of the Russian Popular Front Action Forum
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends,
I am very glad to be with you today at the Russian Popular Front’s forum. First of all, I would like to thank you for your active and fruitful work.
I have just held a meeting with your colleagues to discuss some of the projects you are implementing. It is for this joint work in the interests of Russia and Russian citizens that we have created the Popular Front.
Your actions are designed to consolidate the principles of honesty and openness and to combat all forms of bureaucracy, indifference, wastefulness and corruption. Your actions force the authorities to more actively satisfy the needs and requirements of our people.
The essence and the main mission of the Popular Front are to help people, to uphold the truth and justice and to protect our people. It is not surprising, as I have said, that the idea of the Popular Front was proposed in Volgograd, a city that fought to the bitter end during the Great Patriotic War, when our soldiers died for their families and for our future. Of course, we are living in peaceful times now, but you have identified correct and useful areas for protecting people’s interests.
These concern your famous projects, such as public control in the fields of state procurement, healthcare and education, environmental protection and town planning, as well as roads, that is, infrastructure development.
The main thing is that these and your other initiatives have produced concrete results for our people. It is very important that these results have been achieved thanks to thousands of caring and active people in all Russian regions. You are doing very well. My congratulations. Good work. Thank you.
I am very happy to note, as I said earlier, that the very idea to establish the Russian Popular Front has not deteriorated into some nonsense, if you don’t mind me saying so. It has turned into a broad nationwide project, which is alive and responds to the most pressing challenges and issues the country has to face. The aspiration to work for the common good and to care for the country’s destiny and future is the most reliable foundation for successfully solving the tasks we have now.
Of course, there are still many of them, many unresolved issues, both routine and more long-term, strategic. We are moving forward and trying to be modern, successful and strong. I am sure we will succeed.
We have already proven that we can make our dreams and most ambitious plans come true and overcome the most difficult obstacles despite the situation. We heard all kinds of prophesies at the beginning of the 2000s: they said the country would break apart, the state would collapse, the nation would die off, that we would fail to tackle the challenges facing us as we fought international terrorism and that we will never be able to resolve many of our social and economic problems.
And it is true, the situation was very difficult, and even critical sometimes. But we not only managed to preserve Russia’s unity and sovereignty and to travel the complex path of revival, but to achieve true breakthroughs in the most important development areas.
We have made a giant step forward: in the economy, the social sphere and the country’s security. We have created a powerful foundation with reserves and up-to-date potential needed to continue our steady progress.
We have managed it ourselves, through the efforts and will of our workers, engineers, farmers, researchers, businesspeople, teachers and military personnel, through our faith in ourselves and in our country, in Russia.
Remember that after the dissolution of the Soviet Union we heard a lot of magnanimous and sympathetic words, but in reality, nobody did anything to help us. And we did not expect them to. We do not need help. We were building a new country and reviving an independent Russia. We have learnt to defend our interests, we realised our strength and the continuity of our common history, the value of our achievements and the reliability of cohesion.
I will repeat: there is still much that needs to be done. Above all, for the sake of people's wellbeing and in order to overcome poverty and inequality. So far, the level of these problems remains, unfortunately, too high. We must properly face these crucial, historic challenges. What are these challenges?
Preserving and enlarging our nation, building a new economy, developing the Arctic, the Far East, Siberia and, in fact, all regions of our enormous country.
Finally, there is a challenge of the future – a real breakthrough in medical technologies, in technology in general, in a broad sense. In education. Shutting ourselves off from these global trends or just trying to follow in someone's stead is certainly not our choice. This cannot be our choice.
We have every opportunity to restore the competencies in which we were always undisputed leaders, and we have succeeded much already. We will, by all means, break through to new competencies that we need for our development. There is no doubt about that.
We must be leaders in knowledge, intellect and social and cultural development, while at the same time preserving, of course, our identity and relying on our best traditions.
Those are our tasks for years ahead. We must not stumble, must not turn off the chosen course, otherwise we will have to start everything virtually from zero.
There are so many young people here in this hall today. But all of us, young and old, as the saying goes, we must all remember that Russia, our people, and, in fact, all our families, lived through a very complicated and extremely hard period in their history in the past century: through revolutions, wars, cardinal overhauls of their lifestyle.
Today, it is our obligation to safeguard our statehood and freedom, stability and social harmony, safeguard everything, even the modest successes we have achieved so far, so that our achievements and real improvements become irreversible and our strength benefit the wellbeing and development our Fatherland.
In this I see our common task, my personal duty and my civil and human responsibility, both as the active head of state and a candidate for President of the Russian Federation. We all need a strong and future-oriented Russia and everything depends only on us!
Thank you very much for your support. Good luck!
Topics
Public control
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 19, 2017, 14:20
Text version