Events
Meeting with Deputy Prime Minister and Presidential Envoy to the Far Eastern Federal District Yury Trutnev
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Deputy Prime Minister and Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoy to the Far Eastern Federal District Yury Trutnev to discuss the socioeconomic situation in the district’s regions and Far East development plans.
January 20, 2017
17:50
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Trutnev, the Far Eastern Federal District accounts for over 36 percent of the Russian Federation’s territory.
Deputy Prime Minister and Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoy to the Far Eastern Federal District Yury Trutnev
: That is correct.
Vladimir Putin: What is the situation in the area of your responsibility? What have you accomplished there over the past year and what do you plan to do?
Yury Trutnev: Mr President, we continue working to fulfil your task to accelerate the socioeconomic development of the Far East. We prioritise the creation of system-critical conditions.
Last year, five federal laws were adopted that are designed to improve people’s lives and the investment climate. I would like to mention the tariff unification law as the most important development. We have created four new free ports, improved the mechanism for regional investment projects and made the decision to provide people one hectare of land free of charge.
This work is continuing. We have 11 draft laws pending this year, including a bill facilitating the issuance of visas to enter the free port of Vladivostok, 22 Government acts, including such comprehensive ones as the development of Komsomolsk-on-Amur – that is with regard to legislative activity.
On the practical level, 24 new enterprises opened and over 1,000 jobs were created last year within the framework of state support mechanisms. Five priority development territories and four new free ports were created. The total number of investment projects underway now is nearing 500.
Mr President, you made a critical comment at a Security Council meeting about the need to pay more attention to high-tech projects.
Vladimir Putin: It was not criticism. I believe it’s what we should do.
Yury Trutnev: We are very attentive to your comments.
We have analysed the situation. At present, high-tech projects account for 24 percent of all projects implemented in the Far East in terms of investment volume. We have a list. We understand that this is not enough. We are currently working with the Far East Development Fund and the Russian Venture Company to create a new instrument that will help support the development and introduction of new technology in the Far East. We expect to finalise this instrument in the first quarter of the new year and report to you.
Projects that were frozen are slowly beginning to get off the ground again. This includes the Nizhneleninskoye-Tongjiang bridge. We will put it into operation in June 2018. Work is in full swing. All the required financing has been provided. Work got underway on the construction of the Blagoveshchensk –Heihe bridge. The Elga coal project is being revived. On your instructions, work is in progress to build housing for people who will work at the Zvezda shipyard. Financing was provided by the Far East Development Fund at an annual interest rate of 4.5 percent. The Kimkano-Sutarsky mining and processing works has been put into operation. There were also some problems there, but now everything is running smoothly.
One of our major responsibilities this year is probably related to the construction of infrastructure for priority development territories and investment projects. Work is underway at 107 sites simultaneously. Over 500 kilometres of power transmission lines, about 300 kilometres of railway lines, motorways, water pipelines and essential infrastructure are being built. We are convinced that this infrastructure will not only help the projects that are already in progress but will also create conditions for the implementation of new projects.
Now regarding the plan for 2017. In 2017, we will open about 50 new enterprises. In all, within the framework of new instruments, there will be 76. In addition, more than 2,000 jobs will be created. We put the number of investment project at 900 by the end of year.
We are preparing for the Third Eastern Economic Forum. We very much hope that political dialogue will also continue there. We are counting on your participation, Mr President.
We are continuing to work on the One Hectare initiative. So far, we have received over 30,000 applications. Ten days from now, starting February 1, it will launch on the entire territory of the Russian Federation. Interest is very high, and we are doing our best to properly ensure this interest. We believe we need to create the proper instruments to support the people who have received this land. Forty-seven percent of the people who received land are saying that they don’t have sufficient access to financial resources. All they need is a loan.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Trutnev, what about the demographics? How does the process look?
Yury Trutnev: The current demographics are the best they have been in the past 25 years. The out-migration is down, but it is still there. Mr President, I think we will completely resolve this issue in 2018. In 2017, we will be close to resolving it.
Vladimir Putin: We were planning – you know how – to resolve tariff issues in certain regions of the Russian Far East.
Yury Trutnev: The law was passed, and the Ministry of Energy and RusHydro are now developing a mechanism to make it happen. This will probably take about three months, but we will recalculate the amounts so that people can start enjoying the benefits provided by the law beginning early this year already. In accordance with your decision, the tariff will be set at the national average throughout the Far East.
Vladimir Putin: The average for Russia is probably about…
Yury Trutnev: 3.19 [rubles per 1 kilowatt-hour].
Vladimir Putin: Good.
Why does it take so long, three months?
Yury Trutnev: Mr President, this is a fairly complicated mechanism. I am monitoring this work, because we must provide subsidies to all energy suppliers. We need to make sure that the money effectively reaches the intended recipients without any cheating or other associated problems.
Vladimir Putin: Ok.
<…>
Topics
Economy and finance
Regions
Persons
Trutnev Yury
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 20, 2017, 17:50
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Gazprom CEO Alexei Miller
The CEO of Gazprom reported to the President on the company’s performance in 2016.
January 20, 2017
16:30
1 of 3
With Gazprom CEO Alexei Miller.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Miller, tell me about the company’s 2016 performance results and your plans for this year.
Gazprom CEO Alexei Miller
: Mr President, in 2016 Gazprom produced a little over 419 billion cubic metres of gas. We delivered 2.3 percent more gas to the domestic market than over the previous year. I would like to note that the sectors of the Russian economy that required larger supplies were such fundamental industries as the power industry. Household gas supplies have increased by 5.7 percent. The growing energy consumption and, particularly, gas consumption are an indicator of the economic growth in the country in 2016.
We have achieved record-breaking figures in gas exports to non-CIS states. In 2016, total supplies amounted to almost 180 billion cubic metres, with a 12.5 percent increase compared to 2015. These are historic figures. We have never seen such results in the Soviet Union or post-Soviet Russia. Gazprom’s share in the European gas market has increased by 3 percent to 34 percent over just one year.
Our number one market, Germany, showed the highest growth in absolute figures. With an increase of 4.5 billion cubic metres, we delivered a total of 49.8 billion (10 percent more).
We continue to post record numbers even now, at the beginning of this year. In the past two weeks, we have achieved a steady supply of over 600 million cubic metres daily to non-CIS countries. Mr President, yesterday, on January 19, we set a new daily record of 627.2 million cubic metres of gas supplied to non-CIS countries. This is unprecedented.
The Nord Stream main pipeline is operating to its full capacity. For over ten days, we have been transporting 167.4 million cubic metres, which is 11.1 percent more than its design capacity.
We tested the pipeline, received technical verification, and the current capacity is even higher than the projected one. No doubt, this means that the Nord Stream 2 project is in demand by consumers, and they vote for it.
Gas supplies to Russian consumers this winter have been stable. By the start of the autumn-winter period, Gazprom pumped the maximum possible volume of 72.1 billion cubic metres of gas. The daily output is the maximum in the history of the gas industry, amounting to 801.3 million cubic metres of gas. At the same time, average temperatures during the October, November and December were really low, below normal.
But we have not been hitting the maximum peak volume of pumping, including the extraction and selection of gas from underground storage facilities. We have good reserves: our annual production capacity exceeds the average annual output by 150 billion cubic metres of gas.
In 2016 we continued to carry out your instruction under the gas infrastructure development programme. Over 1,800 kilometres of gas pipelines were built, gas infrastructure was built in over 270 towns and villages, and as of January 1, 2017, the programme is 67.2 percent complete. We will continue this work in 2017.
Vladimir Putin: What are the plans for building gas infrastructure in the country?
Alexei Miller: We plan to maintain the same numbers. Last year, we invested 25 billion rubles in the gas infrastructure development programme. In fact, we can allocate more money, as we invested 27, 29 and 30 billion rubles in the past. Of course, this depends on the Russian regions, as the gas infrastructure development programme is implemented as part of synchronisation programmes.
Currently, we are finishing up our work to coordinate the programme for 2020 with the Russian regions. The figures will at least remain the same as in 2016. Hopefully, they will increase.
Vladimir Putin: I would like to congratulate you once again on the Bovanenkovo project. It was a big job and the results have been very good.
Alexei Miller: Thank you very much, Mr President.
Vladimir Putin: The work was started seven years ago, in 2009, after the Russian Government resolution was signed.
Alexei Miller: For these seven years, we have gradually increased the volume of production at the Bovanenkovo field. As you know, the first gas supplies began in 2012 and amounted to only 4.9 billion cubic metres of gas. The Bovanenkovo – Ukhta gas pipeline was built. We gradually increased our production capacity and now we extract 264 million cubic metres per day at one field.
We will continue or work and create Bovanenkovo gas field no. 3 by 2019 and will extract 115 billion cubic metres of gas per year by 2022.
The Yamal gas extraction centre is becoming the main one in Russia. The Bovanenkovo gas field accounts for 4.9 trillion cubic metres of gas. As I reported to you, the field will be used for the next 70 years in accordance with the extraction plan.
In accordance with the plan to synchronise extraction and transport capacities, the Bovanenkovo – Ukhta 2 gas pipeline was put into operation. A critically important point is that the streaming scheme of gas supplies to the Russian regions is changing: the northern corridor is becoming the main one for supplying gas to the European part of the country, and the Bovanenkovo – Ukhta gas pipeline is becoming part of the new main route to supply Yamal gas across the Baltic to Germany.
As for our obligations to create transport capacities and a resource base for the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline, we are meeting these obligations on time.
Vladimir Putin: Good.
<…>
See also
Launch of Bovanenkovo-Ukhta 2 gas pipeline and Zapolyarye-Purpe and Kuyumba-Taishet oil pipelines
January 18, 2017
Topics
Energy
Persons
Miller Alexei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 20, 2017, 16:30
Text version