Events
Presentation of state decorations
Vladimir Putin presented state decorations and certificates conferring honorary titles to over thirty Russian citizens for their exceptional achievements in science, culture, medicine, work and mentoring activity, in a ceremony that has taken place in the Kremlin’s St Catherine Hall.
January 26, 2017
13:25
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 36
Presentation of state decorations.
The President also presented special decorations For Beneficence, recognising significant contributions to philanthropic and public work, to Viktor Vekselberg and Alisher Usmanov.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends,
It is a great pleasure to welcome to the Kremlin everyone taking part in this presentation of state decorations today.
Let me start by congratulating with all my heart those whose outstanding achievements in their professional, military or social activity have earned the country’s high recognition.
You represent the fields of science, education, culture, spiritual life, industry, agriculture, and the mass media. What unites you is your high level of craft and skill, and your ability to work with complete dedication, and most important, to achieve your goals.
Your labour, sense of responsibility, and personal qualities provide moral and professional beacons for thousands, if not millions, of people, and this is no less important than the results you have achieved.
Our history has known many moments when scientists inspired by innovative ideas made memorable discoveries, when a newly created masterpiece went on to give birth to entire new currents in culture and the arts, or when the courage of past heroes inspired their descendants and led them to accomplish bold and original new feats.
Test pilot Valery Potashov, for example, was raised on the glorious traditions of our country’s pilots and has risked his life on many on occasion. He deservedly receives the Gold Star medal of the Hero of the Russian Federation.
The representatives of our country’s healthcare system present today are worthy successors to past traditions and create new professional traditions. They include Renat Akchurin, Sergei Mironov, and Vladimir Kharchenko.
Many of those present today have earned a reputation not only as top-class specialists but also as talented mentors. Such is the case of ship repair worker Valery Grigorovich, reindeer herder Maria Shcherbakova, and electrician Yury Pushkin, who actively share their rich experience and pass on their skills to the young generation.
I want to make particular mention of the importance of the spiritual mentorship to which Metropolitan Panteleimon of Yaroslavl and Rostov and Archimandrite Tikhon have devoted themselves, and also their tremendous contribution to preserving our country’s cultural and historical heritage.
The arts community representatives receiving decorations today have also made a significant contribution to Russian culture. This is certainly true of Vasily Livanov, a ‘people’s artist’ in the full sense of the world, beloved by all generations, and Alexander Maslyakov, the longstanding head of the Club of the Merry and Ingenious [KVN].
Friends, the names that sounded just now in this hall deserve particular words, for each of them represents a unique personality, talent, and tireless labour. You are following your roads through life with honour, and your achievements contribute to our country’s successful development.
I thank you all sincerely and congratulate you on these deserved awards. I wish you good health, prosperity, and new achievements.
Thank you for your attention.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: Friends, let me say just a few more words in conclusion.
State decorations and honorary titles are awarded for specific work results or for the totality of a person’s achievements, but in both cases, what they signify is that each of you climbs a little higher and makes your field or job a little better and more reliable.
This is your collective achievement. As is tradition, present here today are not only people of different ages and generations, but people from very different walks of life, and all of you together are raising our country bit by bit. It is in this way, slowly but surely, that we will keep moving forward.
Thank you for your work and achievements. I wish you new success and achievements for the good of our country.
Thank you.
Topics
State decorations
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 26, 2017, 13:25
Text versionDeputy Prime Minister, Chairman of the Military-Industrial Commission and Chairman of the Commission Board Dmitry Rogozin: Thank you.Events
Videoconference with Russian Aircraft Corporation MiG
During a videoconference with Russian Aircraft Corporation MiG, Vladimir Putin was briefed on the start of flight tests of the new multipurpose MiG-35 fighter.
January 26, 2017
16:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends,
Let me start by congratulating you on this important event – the start of our new MiG-35 light fighter plane’s flight tests. My congratulations go, of course, to the designers, engineers, workers, and pilots, to everyone who worked and continues to work on this big and important project to put a new aircraft in the skies.
I note that the new multipurpose MiG-35 fighter has enhanced flight and technical characteristics and is equipped with the very latest weapons systems. You know this better than I. It can follow from 10 to 30 targets at once, and can operate over land or sea. This is a genuinely unique and promising aircraft, 4++, you could say, very close to being fifth generation.
I hope very much that this fighter will contribute substantially to bolstering our Air Force and Aerospace Forces. The plane also has good export potential, given that more than 30 countries actively operate another model, the MiG-29, and these countries have a good infrastructure for using these fighters and have the trained personnel. At the same time, of course, industry and everything related to these planes’ operation must be ready so that we can offer potential partners the best possible maintenance and servicing available in the world today.
Another point to which I want to draw attention is that one of the MiG facilities plans to manufacture a civilian aircraft for which there is great demand in the national economy and from the public. This is the medium-haul propeller plane for use on domestic routes.
I hope that this work will progress according to schedule, all the more so as we have decided on financing sources, and we will gain a modernised aircraft that will be widely used on domestic routes.
Please, begin your report.
Yury Slyusar: Mr President, colleagues,
Director of United Aircraft Corporation [OAK] Yury Slyusar reporting. Here at my side is Chief Designer of the OAK Sergei Korotkov and Chief Pilot of MiG Corporation Mikhail Belyayev.
Mr President, today, we started flight tests of the new light multipurpose MiG-35 fighter. The fighter was designed specifically for combat in high-intensity conflict and dense air defence conditions.
The plane’s excellent results were achieved through using a new on-board defence system and new infrared search and track. The plane’s radar visibility has been reduced by a several-fold factor. We have increased from six to eight the number of suspension points, which will make it possible to use current and future airborne weapons systems, including laser weapons.
The plane’s range has been more than doubled. This was achieved through bigger capacity of internal tanks and mid-air refuelling functions, which can be done in tanker regime with aircraft of the same family too.
All systems used in the MiG-35 are Russian designed and made, including the newest systems – the inertial system and helmet-mounted targeting system.
The plane was planned as part of the state arms programme with mass production starting in 2019. Tomorrow, here in Lukhovitsy, we will present this aircraft to prospective customers from other countries. We have great hopes that the plane will sell well on markets abroad and we already see a lot of interest in it. Of course, we hope too that the orders the Defence Ministry places and the orders coming in through military-technical cooperation, will keep the plant busy.
But, as you noted, here in Lukhovitsy, we are using the MiG production facilities to develop in parallel production of a regional propeller plane, the Il-114. We have started work on the decisions taken at the meeting you chaired six months ago. The resources have been allocated and we have received them.
At the same time, the design bureau is preparing documentation that will be sent to the plant, and here on the same production floor where the MiG-35 aircraft will be made, we will be building at least 12 Il-114 airplanes a year. This will make it possible, among other things, in keeping with the tasks that have been set, to balance the corporation’s portfolio, increase the share of civilian products and meet our strategic targets to increase the number of civilian aircraft to 45 percent of the corporation’s portfolio by 2025.
Mr President, we would like to show you video footage of today’s flight, if you will.
Vladimir Putin: Please.
(Video footage.)
Yury Slyusar: I would like to give the floor to the pilot who took this machine on its maiden flight: Mikhail Belyayev.
Mikhail Belyayev: Comrade Supreme Commander-in-Chief, comrade members of the Military-Industrial Commission,
As part of the MiG-35UB (two-seat version) trial programme, a crew of Russian Aircraft Corporation MiG – test pilots Mikhail Belyayev and Stanislav Gorbunov – have performed a flight to demonstrate its stability, controllability and manoeuvrability characteristics.
The objectives and results of the flight have been fully accomplished. All on-board systems worked properly. The engine and the integrated aircraft control system worked properly. The crew’s evaluation is positive. The quantitative evaluation will be made following the processing and analysis of the materials received from flight recording equipment. That concludes my report.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you, Mr Belyayev.
Mr Korotkov, how do you evaluate the work?
United Aircraft Corporation General Designer and Vice President for Innovations Sergei Korotkov: Mr President, members of the Military-Industrial Commission,
We have created a multi-spectrum system that was integrated into the armament system and additionally installed aboard the MiG-35, and along with other systems, we have developed the Generation 4++ complex. We hope that after the trials, the Defence Ministry will buy this machine and that foreign customers will also come to sign contracts with us. I hope this project will have success.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much.
Please convey my warmest and sincerest congratulations to the entire staff that has worked on this product, on this machine.
All the best. Good luck.
Topics
Armed Forces
Industry
National security
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 26, 2017, 16:30
Text version