Events
National Award presented to Daniil Granin
Vladimir Putin presented writer and public activist Daniil Granin with the National Award for outstanding achievements in humanitarian activity in 2016.
June 3, 2017
13:00
St Petersburg
4 of 6
National Award presented to Daniil Granin.
The ceremony was attended by cultural workers and arts professionals, the writer’s family members, St Petersburg Governor Georgy Poltavchenko and Presidential Aide Andrei Fursenko.
Following the ceremony, Vladimir Putin had a conversation with Daniil Granin. The writer presented the President of Russia with a photo album devoted to St Petersburg.
The National Award has been presented since 2006 to individuals involved in educational and peacemaking activities to promote enduring values and consolidate society, which received wide public recognition in Russia.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Granin, friends, colleagues,
Writer and publicist Daniil Granin is not only a renowned classical Russian author. This is a person who has earned the greatest moral authority in our country and the respect of millions of people for his civic position and his passionate and proactive attitude to the spiritual and cultural development of Russian society.
Mr Granin initiated the creation of the first Relief Society in the Soviet Union. It was established in Leningrad and contributed to the revival and consolidation of the charity tradition as one of the most important principles of our lives.
Tens of thousands of people participate in this movement. Your contribution to this work is invaluable. As they say, its development can hardly be overestimated.
You have always cared for and thought a great deal about the ethic, moral and cultural development of society in general, about the importance of bringing up the young generations on these principles.
You have always given your utmost attention to the original, fundamental human qualities: honesty, decency and conscientiousness, rightly believing that these qualities determine a person’s fate and his or her deeds.
These issues have been at the centre of your attention as a writer as well. Thus, in your works you have consistently defended the integrity of science, the selfless obsession of scientists, their devotion to their work and scientific search.
In your numerous travel notes and essays on great Russian writers and statesmen, you have always, raised the issues of ethics and morality. Your educational television shows inevitably touch upon the civic role of culture and its influence on the minds and hearts of people.
All of your life has been closely linked with humanitarian work. This is why the National Award of the Russian Federation for outstanding achievements in this field has been awarded to you.
Thank you very much. Congratulations.
Ceremony of presenting the National Award.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Granin, friends,
Mr Granin, you once wrote wonderful words – that is, you have written many wonderful words but one of your key phrases in my opinion, a pivotal thought that recurs in a great may of your works, goes something like this, if I am not mistaken: “Conscience is like a small representation of the God.”
This truly is a pivotal thought that always reminds us that the enduring values of kindness, morality, love, decency and honour must lie at the core of our lives, of our existence.
Thank you for fostering these qualities in us.
See also
Executive order on awarding National Award to writer Daniil Granin
June 3, 2017
Additional
All news about trip to St Petersburg
June 1 − 3, 2017
Geography
Saint Petersburg
Topics
Culture
State awards
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 3, 2017, 13:00
Text versionEvents
Naming ceremony for Christophe de Margerie tanker
Vladimir Putin has attended the naming ceremony for the Arctic LNG tanker Christophe de Margerie, a flagship in a line of 15 similar vessels. The event was held at the Bronka deepwater port in St Petersburg.
June 3, 2017
14:15
St Petersburg
The ceremony was attended by Federation Council Speaker Valentina Matviyenko
, Energy Minister Alexander Novak
, Transport Minister Maxim Sokolov
, Economic Development Minister Maxim Oreshkin
, Novatek CEO Leonid Mikhelson, Total CEO Patrick Pouyanné and Christophe de Margerie’s family members.
The tanker has been designed for year-round transportation of liquefied natural gas (LNG) in the severe environment of the Kara Sea as part of the Yamal LNG project. This project allows for the development of the Yuzhno Tambeiskoyegas condensate field and the construction of a plant with a capacity of 16.5 million tonnes of LNG per year.
The vessel will bear the name of Christophe de Margerie, a French entrepreneur and former Total CEO, who died tragically in a plane crash at Moscow’s Vnukovo Airport in 2014.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends, good afternoon,
I am extremely glad to welcome you at today’s solemn ceremony dedicated to the naming of the new Arctic LNG tanker of the Sovcomflot company. After successfully going through ice testing in March, the tanker has made its first arrival at the Russian port of Sabetta in the North.
Naming ceremony for Christophe de Margerie tanker.
From now on, this modern vessel will bear the name of a French entrepreneur and a real, big friend of our country, of Russia – Cristophe de Margerie.
He possessed a unique strategic vision and did so much to strengthen friendly, partnership relations with Russia, while being the driving force behind the implementation of a range of large joint energy projects.
Naming the ship in his honour serves as another symbol of our sincere and kind disposition to this outstanding man and as a commemoration of his memory.
Cristophe de Margerie, the most modern tanker of a high ice class, will become the flagship in a line of 15 similar vessels. They have all been designed for Yamal LNG, a large-scale project being carried out jointly with both our French and Chinese partners.
I would like to stress that this project, without exaggeration, is highly important, not only for our country, and not only for Europe: but this project, in general also contributes immensely toward the development of the world’s power industry.
It serves to promote the successful development of global spaces, creates demand for innovative technology in production and transportation of hydrocarbons, and creates jobs, both in our country and abroad.
Yamal LNG plays an important role in the development of the Northern Sea Route, and in the further study and exploration of the Arctic. I hope that the pace at which the project is being implemented will only grow and that all our joint plans will be, unquestionably implemented.
And, of course, I am counting on the successful launch of new, promising, large-scale projects with our French, Chinese and foreign partners, as well as on our growing cooperation in the extremely rich Arctic Region.
Once again, I would like to congratulate everyone on the today’s solemn event and wish our friends all the very best and much continued success
Thank you for your attention.
See also
All news about trip to St Petersburg
June 1 − 3, 2017
Geography
Saint Petersburg
Topics
Transport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 3, 2017, 14:15
Text version