Events
Meeting with Accounts Chamber Chairperson Tatyana Golikova
Vladimir Putin had a meeting with Accounts Chamber Chairperson Tatyana Golikova to discuss the agency’s 2016 results and plans for 2017.
March 3, 2017
17:00
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
With Accounts Chamber Chairperson Tatyana Golikova.
Accounts Chamber Chairperson Tatyana Golikova
: Mr President, we are currently summarising our performance results for 2016. But I believe it is particularly important that we have started a new fiscal year. And while informing you of the last year’s results, I hope that the mistakes that were made will not happen again or happen less frequently in 2017.
Over 2016, we carried out 320 supervisory checks, analytical and expert reviews within our competence, which extended to 2,165 facilities. We are conducting another 20 checks regularly to ensure adherence to the federal budget, the budgets of state non-budgetary funds and regional budgets that receive funding from the federal government.
According to our preliminary data, we have revealed 3,825 violations of law at various levels, which is similar to the 2015 statistics. This means there was no increase in violations – or, to be more precise, there was a slight decline. These violations can be classified as follows (there are certain important aspect that must be taken into account): 899 violations in state procurement and excessive budgetary allocations for procurement contracts.
All the violations in state procurement have been seen before. These include violations during execution, delivery of services, works or equipment different from those specified in contracts, extensions of contractual terms which were sometimes unsubstantiated.
These issues could be addressed by establishing an integrated system that would comprise the budget, the state procurement registry and fiscal support of the entire process. This is very important right now. Both the Finance Ministry and the Federal Treasury have quite significant powers. What is required is to build this integrated system. My colleagues and I are working on this project.
The second group of violations concerns how public property is used and how corresponding tax and non-tax payments are calculated. For example, we had an inspection campaign. At issue was temporary imports of vehicles into Russia.
Vladimir Putin: Is that similar to public procurement?
Tatyana Golikova: No, it’s more to do with computing revenue – temporary imports. The inspection revealed that a fairly large number of vehicles were not taken out of Russia in a timely manner.
Vladimir Putin: They got stuck here?
Tatyana Golikova: Yes, 22,600 vehicles. Since they didn’t make it into the reporting…
Vladimir Putin: The state received less money.
Tatyana Golikova: Correct, taxes were improperly assessed. With regard to state property, I think, there will be quite a lot of work to do, because, broadly speaking, there will be violations of two types. The first involves investment contracts dealing with land under relevant agencies, which is usually the subject of an investment contract.
We have checked 46 investment contracts and, unfortunately, uncovered 86 violations. The estimated damage under 13 contracts alone amounts to 7.5–13 billion rubles. That’s an estimate, but, as a rule, investors do not fulfil their obligations under the contracts. Housing construction is underway, flats are being made available to owners, but the terms and conditions of state contracts are not being complied with.
Vladimir Putin: Prices and volumes are out of sync with the market.
Tatyana Golikova: Correct. With respect to taking an inventory of state-owned property, unfortunately, there are major discrepancies: there are 76,000 facilities on the state books overseen by the Federal Agency for State Property Management (Rosimushchestvo), whereas the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography (Rosreestr) shows three times more, which translates into underpaid taxes. We will not achieve anything until things are put in order in this department.
Another topic that I would like to focus on appears technical. It’s about the inaccurate representation of economic information in budgetary reporting. This also results in tax evasion. Newly opened facilities or newly purchased equipment are not delivered on time and, therefore, are not subject to taxation, because they are not in the reporting. In administrative terms, budget reporting is subject to approval at the legislative level.
A review of the budget execution for 2015 – we did not have yearend performance results for 2016 at this point – has revealed 14 instances of unreliable budgetary reporting. We worked closely with the Finance Ministry and the Treasury on this issue and managed to fix many shortcomings. The most important thing is that the issue did not concern top officials, but second- and third-tier ones. Unfortunately, many shortcomings we have revealed are the result of unprofessional conduct by government officials.
The most recent shortcoming we have revealed concerns the implementation of the Federal Targeted Investment Programme. It is regrettable that in some cases budget funds were allocated before the submission of design specifications and estimates or the allocation of land plots. The money that is transferred from the budget in such cases is misappropriated through placement in deposit accounts or used contrary to the intended purpose.
We are working closely with the Government, the Parliament and law enforcement agencies. Our work with the Government is mostly focused on problems connected with gaps in the current legislation and efforts to fill these gaps. For the past three years since I was appointed to this position, we have moved forward on amending the legislation and introducing regulatory changes.
We only forward documents to law enforcement agencies when we uncover cases subject to legal prosecution, so that these agencies hold the required inspections.
Regarding the year 2017, we will focus, as usual, on the implementation of your and parliamentary instructions and will conduct preliminary, ongoing and follow-up monitoring of the execution of all budgets of the budget system.
One of the new elements in 2017 is our ability to monitor and oversee the implementation of priority national projects and compliance with their targets, when and if necessary, as well as update the council, which you chair, on our priority projects.
Vladimir Putin: Ms Golikova, in order to finally settle these issues, please put everything you have or have not said here on paper in a concise form, including everything you need from your documents, the solutions you propose, the areas in which this should be done and the partners with whom you will be doing this.
Tatyana Golikova: Yes, certainly, we’ll do this.
<…>
Topics
Budget
Persons
Golikova Tatyana
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 3, 2017, 17:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Khloponin
Vladimir Putin met with Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Khloponin to discuss the Year of the Environment in Russia, including ways to reduce emissions and the adverse impact on the environment, to introduce best available technologies, and to protect rare animals.
March 3, 2017
14:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 3
Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Khloponin.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Khloponin, the Year of the Environment is underway in Russia. You were in charge of organising this work as Deputy Prime Minister. What do you think about the activities planned by the Government? What and when do we expect to accomplish as a result of this work?
Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Khloponin
: Mr President, in accordance with your executive order, the Government approved an action plan as part of the Year of the Environment whereby we will hold 234 events to clean up environmental damage, introduce the best available technologies, and to conserve rare animal populations. This is one area of our focus.
Our major corporations and companies such as Rosneft, Gazprom, EVRAZ and RUSAL, plan to carry out 64 events during the Year of the Environment with a budget of over 100 billion rubles. These measures will reduce emissions and other negative impact on the environment. The emissions will be reduced by almost 70,000 tonnes per year. This is a very good figure.
In total, we plan to spend 347 billion rubles as part of this effort, of which federal funds will account for around 145 billion, regional budgets for about 11 billion, whereas our major private companies will provide the biggest share of financing in the amount of about 190 billion rubles.
The Clean Country project is another area of focus of the Government, which comprises two main activities. The first one is connected with building five pilot plants for thermal treatment of municipal waste. This project covers the Moscow Region and Tatarstan. The Government has already developed incentives using the green tariff in order to implement these projects. We hope this project will be critical and valuable for achieving success. The Moscow Region is home to about 19 million people, and this will be a landmark event, indeed.
The second area concerns reclaiming and cleaning damaged land. This project involves about 20 regions and 25 facilities, including the city of Dzerzhinsk in the Nizhny Novgorod and Chelyabinsk regions and Franz Josef Land. Also, upon your instruction, we will start the clean-up of Lake Baikal this year.
The conservation of animals is a separate project. In accordance with your instruction, we will adopt a corresponding law this year.
Vladimir Putin: How is the introduction of the best available technology going?
Alexander Khloponin: Most of our major companies have joined this programme. They should approve projects and programmes for transitioning to the best available technology by 2019 and start implementing them in 2020.
We have some questions regarding a number of companies. Indeed, they are putting together projects, but are saying that they will start implementing technology projects in 2020, 2021 or even 2022. We are focusing on each individual company. For us, it is important to make sure that these are real programmes, not some abstract ideas written on paper.
Vladimir Putin: I am sure you understand why I asked you this question. Speaking in bureaucratic parlance, business representatives are asking me to push all these plans back. Please make sure that these proposals and requests are treated very carefully, and proper calculations are made.
You also mentioned the protection of rare animals. What’s your opinion of the law enforcement practice? We have adopted the laws toughening punishment for killing animals, especially the ones on the endangered species list. How are things going in reality?
Alexander Khloponin: We are closely following the legislation, especially with regard to endangered species. To date, the restrictive measures have already brought positive results. We are restoring the populations of rare animals. I am personally involved in a project to restore the population of the Persian leopard. There are projects for the Far Eastern leopard, birds, bison, and several other species. Indeed, we are doing a lot in this regard.
Many non-governmental and charity organisations are involved in restoring populations of rare animals. Today, we are applying harsh measures to unauthorised hunting and killing of these animals. Opinions vary, but I think that the current law-enforcement practice does allow us to increase the populations of these animals.
Vladimir Putin: People may disagree, there is nothing unusual about it. But there is the law which stipulates punishment for culprits, including criminal liability. It is applied or not?
Alexander Khloponin: Yes, it is. Of course, the territory is vast, and, perhaps, there are not enough rangers to cover it in full.
Vladimir Putin: Please assist the Prosecutor General's Office in carrying out an inspection.
Alexander Khloponin: Will do.
<…>
Topics
Environment
Persons
Khloponin Alexander
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 3, 2017, 14:30
Text version