Events
Meeting with representatives of Perm Territory information and communications cluster
During his trip to Perm, Vladimir Putin met with representatives of the information and communications cluster of Perm Territory.
September 8, 2017
18:30
Perm
1 of 5
Meeting with representatives of Perm Territory information and communications cluster.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends, colleagues.
As you may be aware, we have been talking a lot recently, and not just talking, but trying to do more, as you may have noticed, in the high-tech industry, information technology, and other such spheres. We adopted a strategy for developing a digital society, and a plan for developing a digital economy.
With regard to Perm, how did you manage to get this far? Perm has always been primarily a major industrial centre for the fuel and energy sector, engineering, the metallurgical industry, including both ferrous and non-ferrous metallurgy, and the processing industry. Of course, large companies, such as the one run by Andrei Kuzyaev, ER-Telecom, can be the drivers behind this movement. This company has become Russia’s second largest in terms of the number of clients among internet providers and cable television operators. It is nothing short of great.
What we saw here is impressive as well. The way our colleagues spoke, the interest they have in their work, and their enthusiasm and professionalism, are truly impressive.
Let us talk about what you do here. I would like to hear what you think about the developments in the regulatory framework which is designed to further expand your field of activity, and what may still be lacking. Let us have a free and open discussion, without any restrictions.
To be continued.
Geography
Perm Territory
Topics
Science and innovation
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 8, 2017, 18:30
Text versionEvents
Working meeting with Acting Governor of Perm Territory Maxim Reshetnikov
The President concluded his trip to Perm Territory with a working meeting with Acting Governor Maxim Reshetnikov.
September 8, 2017
19:00
Perm
1 of 2
With Acting Governor of Perm Territory Maxim Reshetnikov.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Reshetnikov, how much time has passed since you began?
Acting Governor of the Perm Territory Maxim Reshetnikov: Mr President, it has been seven months, fairly intense ones at that. These months have been busy. During this time, I visited all the 48 districts of the Region. I held meetings with local residents in each district in Perm and worked out a development programme. Moreover, the development programme was drawn up based on the questions posed by the residents.
Actually, citizens of the region do not expect anything from the authorities other than what they can and should provide. Therefore, they raised issues concerning health, education, roads, gasification, communications, the internet, promoting sports and jobs, of course. This is exactly what we can and should provide. We developed a programme based on these requests, presented it to the people and discussed it with them.
In each district, I tried to visit a central district hospital, a school, agricultural and industrial enterprises. I spoke to war veterans a lot, because, firstly, they have a lot of energy, and secondly, they have a very clear, sensitive take on things, and are very professional too. It really is a great support. And, of course, I talked a lot with young people.
As a result, a programme was developed, and there is an understanding of what to do. The programme has enough funding for the long term; we analysed everything so as not to make empty promises. And now there is an understanding of what to do, a team is being formed, and I am sure that we are able to provide what people expect from us, from the region, from the authorities.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Reshetnikov, you are local, you know about everything first-hand, both the strengths and weaknesses. There are still a great many issues to be worked out and solved. You and I have just spoken about it.
You are a young man but fairly experienced. You also used to work in the Russian Government. Which department did you work in?
Maxim Reshetnikov: I worked in the Department of State Administration, Regional Development and Local Self-government. It dealt with reforms and inter-budgetary relations.
Vladimir Putin: And that was when I was Prime Minister.
Then you were a Minister in the Moscow Government, which is also considerable experience. It is a megacity of 12 million people. Yet Perm is a special place, a major economic cluster with industry: chemical, petrochemical, you name it, metallurgy. We are now witnessing an IT boom, such interesting professional people; we see how fast it is progressing. There are a lot of things to deal with here, and I would like to wish you success.
Maxim Reshetnikov: Thank you very much, Mr President.
Thank you for your support and your visit. It matters a lot for the residents here.
<…>
Geography
Perm Territory
Topics
Regions
Persons
Reshetnikov Maxim
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 8, 2017, 19:00
Text versionEvents
Visit to Zvezda shipyard
Concluding his trip to the Far East, Vladimir Putin visited the Zvezda shipyard in Bolshoi Kamen.
September 8, 2017
06:30
Bolshoi Kamen, Primorye Territory
Russia’s first dockyard producing large-capacity vessels with an annual capacity of 330,000 tonnes is being built at the Zvezda shipyard. In the next few years, a commercial shipyard will open here that will manufacture medium and large-capacity vessels and marine equipment, including tankers, gas carriers, elements of drilling platforms, support and seismic survey vessels.
During his visit to the shipyard, the President took part in the keel laying ceremony for the Vladimir Monomakh, Alexander Nevsky, Yekaterina Velikaya and Svyataya Maria multi-purpose high ice class supply vessels, which will be built here for Rosneft.
Speech at the keel laying ceremony
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends,
A year ago, we met here at the Zvezda shipyard, which was under construction at the time, and inspected its new facilities together.
I am happy to see – and I know what is going on here since have I followed the progress closely – that this large-scale project, which is important for the entire country, is developing at a good pace. Almost all work is proceeding in accordance with the schedule. Most importantly, the construction of ships and marine equipment has already begun.
I would like to congratulate you on a major landmark: four high ice class supply vessels have been laid down. Commissioned by Rosneft, they will strengthen the company’s potential and that of the entire national fuel and energy sector, as well as promote the development of the Northern Sea Route, a highly important project for the entire country. And not only for our country – you may have watched, followed the Eastern Economic Forum in Vladivostok: virtually all countries in the region have shown an interest in it.
Today, it is important to start accomplishing the main long-term strategic task and to launch production of full-fledged medium and large capacity vessels and marine technology as soon as possible. I know that a long-term plan for utilising the enterprise’s production facilities up to 2035 has already been approved. I hope that this plan will be implemented. In fact, I will monitor this project closely because it is probably a key precondition for the enterprise’s success. Not only Rosneft but also Gazprom, Novatek and other Russian companies must put this plan into practice and place orders on time. Maybe, they should submit even more orders because Zvezda certainly has the potential for handling more orders than provided for in this plan. I would like to note that all the principal clients ordering vessels must submit technical specifications for the required products on time.
I am confident that the company’s staff, you and your colleagues comprehend the scale and importance of our tasks, and that you will do everything possible to establish a competitive shipbuilding centre capable of manufacturing modern and highly popular products. Zvezda is sure to join the list of leading shipyards in Russia and internationally.
I would like to thank the management and all Zvezda employees for their conscientious work, for their achievements, and I wish all of you, all your colleagues and partners, including foreign and Russian colleagues and partners, every success and all the best.
Thank you very much, and I wish you good luck.
See also
Vladimir Putin visited Zvezda shipyard
September 1, 2016
Geography
Primorye Territory
Topics
Industry
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 8, 2017, 06:30
Text version