Events
Meeting of Federal Security Service Board
Vladimir Putin took part in an annual expanded meeting of the Federal Security Service (FSB) Board to discuss the FSB’s results for 2016 and the priority tasks for ensuring Russia’s national security.
February 16, 2017
13:50
Moscow
Meeting of Federal Security Service Board
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon.
These annual FSB Board meetings give us a chance to meet and not only thoroughly analyse and review the results of the agency’s work over the period, but also to discuss at length all important national security issues in general and outline the priorities for the immediate future and the longer-term.
The FSB plays a key part in protecting our constitutional order and our country’s sovereignty, and in protecting our people from threats at home and abroad.
Let me say from the start that last year’s results were positive and show good development. This concerns your work to counter terrorism and extremism, a series of successful counterintelligence operations, your efforts to combat economic crime, and other areas.
You ensured a high standard of security for major public events, including the State Duma election and regional and local elections.
I would like to thank both the executives and staff for their conscientious attitude towards their work and their timely and efficient performance of their duties.
At the same time, demands on the quality and results of your work grow constantly. The global situation has not become any more stable or better over the past year. On the contrary, many existing threats and challenges have only become more acute.
Military-political and economic rivalry between global and regional policy makers and between individual countries has increased. We see bloody conflicts continue in a number of countries in the Middle East, Asia, and Africa. International terrorist groups, essentially terrorist armies, receiving tacit and sometimes even open support from some countries, take active part in these conflicts.
At the NATO summit last July in Warsaw, Russia was declared the main threat to the alliance for the first time since 1989, and NATO officially proclaimed containing Russia its new mission. It is with this aim that NATO continues its expansion. This expansion was already underway earlier, but now they believe they have more serious reasons for doing so. They have stepped up the deployment of strategic and conventional arms beyond the national borders of the principal NATO member states.
They are provoking us constantly and are trying to draw us into confrontation. We see continued attempts to interfere in our internal affairs in a bid to destabilise the social and political situation in Russia itself.
We also see the recent serious flare-up in southeast Ukraine. This escalation pursues the clear aim of preventing the Minsk Agreements from going ahead. The current Ukrainian authorities are obviously not seeking a peaceful solution to this very complex problem and have decided to opt for the use of force instead. What is more, they speak openly about organising sabotage and terrorism, particularly in Russia. Obviously, this is a matter of great concern.
The events and circumstances I have mentioned require our security and intelligence services, especially the Federal Security Service, to concentrate their utmost attention and effort on the paramount task of fighting terrorism.
We have already seen that our intelligence services dealt some serious blows to terrorists and their accomplices. Last year’s results confirm this: the number of terrorism related crimes has decreased.
Preventive work has also brought results. The FSB and other security agencies, with the National Antiterrorist Committee acting as coordinator, prevented 45 terrorism related crimes, including 16 planned terrorist attacks. You deserve special gratitude for this.
You need to continue your active efforts to identify and block terrorist groups’ activity, eliminate their financial base, prevent the activities of their emissaries from abroad and their dangerous activity on the internet, and take into account in this work Russian and international experience in this area.
The murder of our ambassador to Turkey was a terrible crime that particularly highlighted the need to protect our citizens and missions abroad. I ask you to work together with the Foreign Ministry and the Foreign Intelligence Service to take additional measures to ensure their safety.
You must also work to take our counterterrorism cooperation with partners abroad to a new level, despite the difficulties that we see in various areas of international life. It is a priority, of course, to intensify work with our partners in organisations such as the UN, the CSTO, and the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation.
It is in our common interests to restore dialogue with the US intelligence services and with other NATO member countries. It is not our fault that these ties were broken off and are not developing. It is very clear that all responsible countries and international groups should work together on counterterrorism, because even simply exchanging information on terrorists’ financing channels and sources and on people involved in or suspected of links with terrorism can substantially improve the results of our common efforts.
Our priorities include firmly suppressing extremism. Security methods must go hand-in-hand with constant prevention work. It is essential to prevent extremism from drawing young people into its criminal networks, and to form an overall firm rejection of nationalism, xenophobia, and aggressive radicalism. In this context, of great importance is open dialogue with civil society institutions and representatives of Russia’s traditional religions.
Counterintelligence services also face greater demands today. Operational data show that foreign intelligence services’ activity in Russia has not decreased. Last year, our counterintelligence services put a stop to the work of 53 foreign intelligence officers and 386 agents.
It is important to neutralise foreign intelligence services’ efforts to gain access to confidential information, particularly information concerning our military-technical capabilities.
This makes it a priority to improve our system for protecting classified information comprising state secrets, particularly with agencies going over to an electronic document circulation system.
I would like to note that the number of cyberattacks on official information resources tripled in 2016 compared to 2015. In this context, each agency must develop its segment of the state system for detecting and preventing cyberattacks on information resources and eliminating their consequences.
The public expects greater results in such key areas as economic security and the fight against corruption. I ask you to be particularly thorough in monitoring the funds allocated for state defence procurement (a subject I have spoken about before), major infrastructure projects, preparation of big international events, and implementing federal targeted and socially important programmes. Regrettably, we still see many cases of state funds being embezzled or misappropriated.
Reliable protection of our state borders plays a big part in ensuring our country’s comprehensive security. The priority here is to close off channels through which members of international terrorist and extremist groups enter Russia, and put a firm stop to all forms of smuggling, from weapons to drugs and various bio-resources.
Of course, we must continue the work to develop border infrastructure where it is not yet sufficiently developed, particularly in the Far East and in the Arctic.
Colleagues, let me stress that we will continue to bolster the FSB’s central and regional branches and ensure you have the most advanced arms and equipment. We will also continue to give attention to social provisions for FSB personnel and their family members.
I wish you success in protecting our national interests and the security of our country and our people. I am confident that you will continue working towards your targets with dignity.
Thank you for your attention.
<…>
Topics
National security
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 16, 2017, 13:50
Text versionEvents
Russian-Uruguayan talks
Vladimir Putin met at the Kremlin with President of Uruguay Tabare Vazquez.
February 16, 2017
18:15
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 13
With President of Uruguay Tabare Vazquez.
On the agenda were various bilateral cooperation matters and prospects for expanding trade, economic, cultural and humanitarian ties and developing foreign policy cooperation in various international organisations, primarily the UN, and in regional integration organisations.
Following the talks, the two presidents signed a Joint Declaration and witnessed the signing of a package of cooperation agreements, particularly dealing with customs regulation and defence.
Mr Putin and Mr Vazquez also made statements for the press.
* * *
Beginning of talks with President of Uruguay Tabare Vazquez
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, friends, colleagues,
Let me welcome you to Russia’s capital.
The previous visit by the President of Uruguay to Russia took place a very long time ago, in 1988, but our two countries maintain strong and good relations in practically all areas.
This year, we are marking the 160th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations. We are pleased that you have decided to include Moscow in your current European tour.
We certainly need to discuss the development of our trade and economic ties. We know that our bilateral trade is not high. Agricultural produce and foodstuffs account for slightly more than 90 percent of our trade, but there are certainly opportunities for expanding our cooperation.
It is a pleasure to note that your country is probably the only country in the southern hemisphere that can boast a town, San Javier, where more than 90 percent of the population is of Russian origin. I would like to thank you for supporting these people and supporting their traditions, including their desire to keep alive their native language and Russia’s cultural heritage.
We know, of course, of the active work underway on the international stage. Uruguay is a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council and we are in constant contact on matters on the current agenda.
Welcome!
President of Uruguay Tabare Vazquez(retranslated): Thank you very much.
See also
Press statements following Russian-Uruguayan talks
February 16, 2017
Mr President, on my own behalf and on behalf of my Government and the people of Uruguay, I want to thank you and your Government for receiving us with such warmth and understanding. This is very important for us.
You very rightly noted that this year we are celebrating the 160th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between our countries. As the Russian Federation Ambassador to Uruguay Alexei Labetsky rightly noted in 2014, our relations have withstood the test of time.
Of course, much has happened in Russia and in Uruguay over this time. However, despite all the events in the world, our countries maintain solid trade ties and cooperation, and most importantly, solid friendship. This is possible because we share the same values and principles. We support freedom, democracy, social justice and solidarity. Here, we can also note our common obligation to fight terrorism, regardless of its origins. We want our peoples and all of humanity to live in peace, and we hope that through dialogue and mutual understanding, we will achieve mutual respect and take our cooperation to a new level.
Mr President, it would be a great honour for the Government and people of Uruguay if you were to visit our country. This would give us a chance to go together to San Javier, where 300 families from Russia settled at the start of the 20th century. We could go and see them together. It is important that these families brought to Uruguay their culture, traditions and way of life, and in this way enriched Uruguay’s culture. They have taught us much. For example, they were the first to start cultivating sunflowers in Uruguay.
We are happy to be here on this visit and I am sure that we will work intensively to bolster our relations.
<…>
Geography
Uruguay
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 16, 2017, 18:15
Text versionEvents
Press statements following Russian-Uruguayan talks
Following bilateral talks, Vladimir Putin and Tabare Vazquez made statements for the press.
February 16, 2017
18:20
The Kremlin, Moscow
Press statements following Russian-Uruguayan talks
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen,
Our talks with President of Uruguay Mr Vazquez have just ended. Let me start by saying that the talks took place in a friendly atmosphere and were constructive and substantive. We met in a narrow format first, and then together with the heads of our ministries and agencies we had a detailed discussion of our bilateral relations and plans for the future.
Uruguay is Russia’s reliable partner in Latin America. We are celebrating a remarkable date this year – the 160th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between our countries. We reaffirmed our common desire to further develop our bilateral cooperation in the Joint Declaration we have just signed.
See also
Russian-Uruguayan talks
February 16, 2017
Our talks focused particularly on developing trade and economic ties. Unfortunately, our bilateral trade has decreased over the past four years, and this situation is at the centre of our intergovernmental commission’s attention.
Agriculture is a key area of our cooperation. Foodstuffs and agricultural produce account for more than 90 percent of Uruguay’s exports to Russia. Quality has improved of late and Uruguay has started exporting greater volumes of other agricultural products, fish and seafood. Advanced Uruguayan agricultural technologies are also of interest.
We discussed the prospects for joint projects in the energy sector. In particular, companies such as Gazprom and Siloviye Mashiny could take part in modernising Uruguayan hydroelectric power stations and supplying the necessary materials. We also proposed that our partners examine the possibility of buying Sukhoi Superjet and MS-21 aircraft.
We agreed to continue our cooperation in the healthcare sector. President Vazquez will visit the Dima Rogachev Federal Research Centre for Paediatric Haematology, Oncology and Immunology tomorrow, where our colleagues will present the latest Russian developments in treating children’s diseases, and Mr Vazquez will give a lecture.
We noted the importance of cultural and humanitarian bilateral ties. Last year, Uruguay hosted with success the Days of Russia, and a monument to famous Russian navigator, Admiral Bellingshausen, was unveiled in Montevideo.
We value Uruguay’s good treatment of our compatriots abroad. We have more than 7000 compatriots in Uruguay. We are grateful to our partners for their support of Russian language studies.
We exchanged views on a number of key issues on the international agenda. Russia and Uruguay have identical or similar views on many issues. This is the basis for our effective cooperation at the UN, and the Security Council in particular, where Uruguay is a non-permanent member in 2016–2017.
Press statements following Russian-Uruguayan talks.
We discussed in detail prospects for developing Russia’s cooperation with Latin American countries and underscored the importance of developing cooperation between regional integration organisations in which our countries take part. This concerns above all the Eurasian Economic Union, and MERCOSUR, the South American common market. We noted the importance of political dialogue between Russia and the community of Latin American and Caribbean countries.
In conclusion, I would like to thank President Vazquez and our Uruguayan colleagues for the substantive and engaged discussion today. I am certain that these talks will contribute to further developing our bilateral relations.
Thank you very much. Thank you for your attention.
President of Uruguay Tabare Vazquez (retranslated): Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, good evening.
I would like to say once again that we are greatly honoured to be here today with President Vladimir Putin. As he said, we have held robust and productive talks. As part of my visit, I would like to thank the Government and all the people of this wonderful country for the wonderful hospitality that was accorded us, as well as for the kindness and welcome extended to the Uruguayan delegation as a whole.
Now regarding the bilateral agenda that we are determined to develop. I would like to single out the following.
First of all, we have consolidated and diversified the ties that exist between Uruguay and Russia and stressed the strategic importance of these relations for our small country. We discussed the bilateral agenda. We talked about what needs to be done for bilateral political, economic and cultural activities. Yesterday we were at the Bolshoi Theatre. I simply must express my admiration.
We also addressed defence and security cooperation. All points of view that coincided, the consensus and bilateral initiatives were reflected in the Plan of Action that we adopted during this official visit, and the implementation of this plan will be indicative of our countries’ pragmatic approach toward our future. Indeed, this is an important point. It is an important point for the future. Next year the World Cup in football will take place here and I hope Russia and Uruguay will play the finals.
Press statements following Russian-Uruguayan talks. President of Uruguay Tabare Vazquez.
Indeed, this visit has allowed us to take another step forward in developing our wonderful bilateral ties. In politics, we have an open dialogue based on mutual respect. This strengthens the ties between Uruguay, a small country, and Russia, one of the world’s leading powers. We will be marking the 160th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between our countries.
Our history is rich. Russian families came to us in the past and they forged ties between our countries. They helped establish deep ties that exist to this day. A wonderful case in point is the city of San Javier and the Russian community in Rio Negro Province. Russian settlements played an important role in South America and they wrote our history. These are Russian families. These are people who worked tirelessly and who studied. These are people who introduced us to their traditions and their history. Our relations are marked by numerous historical events. For example, the Russians who lived in San Javier were the first to cultivate sunflower in Uruguay. They contributed to production, to my country’s economy.
And I would also like to note that we emphasise the importance of the documents signed during this visit – those related to customs, defence and education, among others. This reflects the diversity of Russian-Uruguayan relations. And now we have added a strategic dimension to them.
As for multilateral relations, Uruguay and Russia share important positions on disarmament, nuclear disarmament, fighting terrorism, development and defending human rights, among others.
As you know, Uruguay is taking part in the work of the UN Security Council as a non-permanent member for the second time in the country's history. As part of these activities, we have had the opportunity to carry out political cooperation, important cooperation with Russia on major issues of the international agenda. We hope this cooperation and these links continue this year as well, particularly in May, when Uruguay will for the second time take over Presidency in this major body of the United Nations.
As for trade, I would like to emphasise that Uruguay is also interested in expanding cooperation in food deliveries, primarily dairy and meat products. We must develop stable, mutually beneficial trade relations, as Mr Putin mentioned. There are opportunities for boosting this cooperation and diversifying it through adding new products with high added value.
I believe that Uruguay can become a stable, important and attractive platform for bringing in foreign investment, and we welcome all Russian businessmen that show an interest in cooperation with Latin America. In Uruguay, they will find favourable conditions for doing business in our country and our region.
Press statements following Russian-Uruguayan talks. With President of Uruguay Tabare Vazquez.
President Putin and I discussed the importance of cooperation between MERCOSUR and the EAEU. We spoke about cooperation and how it is essential to identify issues that are of interest to all in order to move forward.
As I have said, the present international context speaks to the need to eliminate impediments to international trade. Protectionism is not an option to us and in this respect, Uruguay believes it is very important to maintain dialogue and hold talks. This is an important tool for economic cooperation in the world and for building an international architecture that is just, balanced and open to all. Therefore, I would like to reiterate: our country is open to investment and trade. Our business people have come here with me. We told our Russian colleagues about business opportunities in Uruguay. I invited Russian businessmen to use the platform offered by Uruguay, as well as the opportunities that we provide.
Once again, I would like to thank you, Mr President, for your kindness, hospitality and the welcome that you extended to us. And I would like to thank the fraternal Russian people for the warm welcome.
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Mr President, thank you for your kind wishes to our athletes at the World Cup. Uruguay is a small country but it was the champion of the first World Cup in football. I do not know where the secret lies – maybe in the quality of the Uruguayan meat and milk you feed your football players with, but let me assure you that the quality of Russian food today is excellent as well.
We will cooperate in agriculture, industry and naturally in humanitarian areas, including sport.
We will look forward to the results of your visit, which will definitely –I have no doubt about this whatsoever – provide a strong boost to the development of our bilateral ties.
Thank you. Thank you very much.
Geography
Uruguay
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 16, 2017, 18:20
Text version