Events
Meeting with chess player Sergei Karyakin
Vladimir Putin met with Russian chess grandmaster Sergei Karyakin. During the meeting they discussed the development of chess at the regional level, among other topics.
July 6, 2017
16:50
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
3 of 4
Chess player Sergei Karyakin.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Karyakin, you became a grandmaster at 12, didn’t you?
Sergei Karyakin: Yes, I was the youngest.
Vladimir Putin: You have achieved great success since then, and I congratulate you on it. At the end of last year, you won the World Blitz Championship.
Sergei Karyakin: Yes, I became the World Blitz champion.
Vladimir Putin: My congratulations.
Sergei Karyakin: Thank you very much.
And thank you very much for inviting me, I am very happy to be here.
Vladimir Putin: I would like to thank you for what you have been doing to promote chess and discuss what else can be done. You know that we opened a chess section at the Sirius Centre for Children in Sochi. Have you been there?
Sergei Karyakin: Yes, I have been there. We actually saw each other briefly during the school opening. I also wanted to discuss this subject. There are several topics for us to discuss related to developing chess in the regions.
But first, I would like to invite you on behalf of the Russian Chess Federation. The Chess Club on Gogolevsky Boulevard recently opened after its renovation with Mr Sobyanin’s [Moscow Mayor] support. It has an absolutely unique chess museum and we invite you to visit it. It has some truly unique items on display and I think you would like it very much.
Vladimir Putin: Indeed, our school of chess is very good and, I should mention, both in St Petersburg and in Moscow. Therefore, I will be glad to visit. We will choose the best time for the visit.
Sergei Karyakin: Yes, of course.
<…>
Topics
Regions
Sport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 6, 2017, 16:50
Text versionEvents
Working meeting with Orel Region Governor Vadim Potomsky
Vadim Potomsky briefed the President on the socio-economic situation in Orel Region. The questions local residents asked of the head of state during Direct Line were addressed separately.
July 6, 2017
18:20
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 3
Working meeting with Orel Region Governor Vadim Potomsky.
In keeping with the President’s instructions, the Presidential Executive Office is analysing questions that came in during Direct Line by region and federal subject. Vladimir Putin stressed that this work should be systematic, covering practically the country’s entire territory.
The President drew the Governor’s attention to a number of issues that are a source of concern to people living in Orel Region, in particular, employment, unsafe housing, the lack of medications for those entitled to free or subsidised medications, rising utilities and housing maintenance costs, water supply, the lack of free school textbooks and the condition of roads.
The President gave Mr Potomsky summary materials and specific issues to work on, stressing that this work will be conducted with practically each Russian region, with the results to be reviewed at a corresponding meeting.
The Governor responded to some of the questions that were raised and promised that after studying the situation thoroughly, he would respond to all questions from residents.
Governor Potomsky also commented on the situation in the region in general.
Geography
Orel Region
Topics
Regions
Persons
Potomsky Vadim
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 6, 2017, 18:20
Text versionEvents
Meeting of Commission for Military Technical Cooperation with Foreign States
Vladimir Putin held a meeting of the Commission for Military Technical Cooperation with Foreign States.
July 6, 2017
14:30
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 2
Meeting of Commission for Military Technical Cooperation with Foreign States.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues. Today we are holding a regular meeting of the Commission for Military Technical Cooperation with Foreign States. Before we turn to the agenda, I would like to mention, or, to be more precise, recall an event that has a direct bearing on our discussion.
As you may know, on June 28 the Kremlin hosted a gala reception in honour of distinguished graduates of military academies. It is no exaggeration to say that they are the backbone of our Armed Forces, highly skilled professionals with the most advanced military knowledge.
I would also like to note that this year over a thousand army service personnel from 30 countries graduated from Russia’s schools of higher learning. About 8,000 foreign students study in Defence Ministry schools, with about a third of them from the CSTO member-states.
There is growing demand in the global arms market for qualified military specialists. In this context the training of military personnel, teaching them to operate Russian weapons and equipment, and building up the export of military services, should remain a major component of the military technical cooperation system.
Furthermore, competition in the world arms market is obviously growing; you know this better than anyone does. The combat efficiency of arms is a decisive criterion for potential buyers. I would like to note that Russian weapons have demonstrated reliability and wide-ranging functionality during the anti-terrorist operation in Syria, something we have discussed. It is necessary to carefully analyse this combat experience both for upgrading existing systems and for developing new and advanced combat hardware.
At the same time, it is necessary to enhance the military industrial cooperation framework itself. For this purpose, major structural changes have been made to the Russian defence industry. Major defence holdings have been brought together under one administration for the convenience of cooperation, production upgrades and higher financial stability.
Several major groups were granted the right to foreign trade, which significantly increases their independence in talks and accelerates contractual work. Moreover, this measure is supposed to make military industrial cooperation easier and more convenient for foreign customers as well. I am referring to the opportunity to directly negotiate with arms manufacturers and to conduct the entire scope of operations from marketing to maintenance and repair of supplied equipment. In other words, these conditions provide for more efficient cooperation between the Russian defence industry companies and their foreign partners for the sake of further innovative development of the domestic industry.
I will emphasise that the defence industry companies that were granted the right to engage in foreign trade are assuming all responsibility for the quality of their products and compliance with the contractual terms of their foreign supplies. However, the Commission and other involved agencies should still be monitoring these activities. It is important to prevent any disruptions in the new procedure and to carefully monitor the operations.
I already spoke about the current use of Russian weapons, particularly in the fight against terrorists in the Syrian Arab Republic. I would like to thank both the military personnel, and the designers and developers of one of our latest missile systems, Kh-101. This missile system has proved highly reliable. It is indeed the most advanced weapon with high precision and capacity, and a range of 4,500 km, which is quite good. A weapon of this class must be in the centre of our attention and the attention of our defence agencies and industrial companies.
All our decisions on supplies of arms to external markets are based on the current international situation in various regions – in order to prevent any imbalances and to avoid an escalation of conflicts. On the contrary, our weapons must be used to contain conflicts at the early stages.
Let us discuss all these topics in more detail.
<…>
Topics
Armed Forces
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Commissions and Councils, Commission for Military Technology Cooperation with Foreign States
Publication date: July 6, 2017, 14:30
Text versionEvents
Article by Vladimir Putin published in the German business newspaper Handelsblatt
July 6, 2017
07:00
Ahead of my trip to Germany to take part in the Summit of the Group of Twenty, I would like to share some thoughts about cooperation within the G20 framework with the readers of Handelsblatt, one of the most popular and reputable German newspapers.
Over the years of its existence, the Group of Twenty has established itself as an important mechanism for aligning the interests and positions of the world’s leading economies. By taking coordinated action, the G20 contributed to the adoption of necessary measures that not only helped overcome the financial and economic crisis, but also laid the foundation for improving global governance, which has found itself in dire straits for a number of reasons. Importantly, by working together we have been able to find solutions to a number of long-standing issues.
For instance, Russia highly values practical steps to counter base erosion and profit shifting to so-called ‘safe havens.’ All economies suffer from such practices. Irresponsible corporate behaviour of this kind affects the quality of life of millions of people, resulting in high social costs.
Implementation of the financial regulation reform is another achievement of the G20. For example, special regulations for those banks whose bankruptcy would be undesirable or too risky because of their size.
For the first time in history, supervision bodies started monitoring transactions in the non-bank, “shadow” financial sector. Decisions regarding the key attributes for preventing and overcoming bank sector crises, organising the work of deposit security agencies and a number of other initiatives have had a major impact.
Of course, the creation of the Financial Stability Board (FSB) was a major step forward. On the back of its efforts, financial regulation reform took on a system-wide dimension and became routine, while the FSB established itself as an important partner of the IMF in its regular risk assessment studies. The FSB’s creation led to the emergence of similar structures on the national level.
Even against the backdrop of growing geopolitical risks and uncertainty, the G20 has not become less efficient as a global governance tool. This is largely attributable to the exceptional responsibility demonstrated by its presiding countries in fulfilling their mission. I am saying this based, among other things, on Russia’s own experience, since our country chaired the Group of Twenty in 2013, and benefited from substantial support and encouragement from all of its partners.
The success of the G20 is based on respect for the opinions and position of each member, regardless of the size of its economy and its place in the international monetary and financial system. Constructive discussions and the search for compromise have become the signature style of the G20, the unwritten law of relations, which its current President – Germany – is also putting into practice.
The upcoming meeting of the G20 in Hamburg is an opportunity to discuss key issues on the global agenda. We share the priorities of Germany’s Presidency and we are ready to help implement them, provided this continuity is maintained.
We welcome the decision to expand the agenda addressed by the G20 to include sustainable development, climate change, countering terrorism and corruption, healthcare, migration and refugees. It is very important that the Group is giving more attention to the digital economy as a growth driver and a new factor of global governance thanks to China’s Presidency in 2016 and Germany’s Presidency this year.
We are facing several major challenges. The old economic models have all but exhausted their possibilities. Protectionism is becoming the norm, while unilateral, politically motivated restrictions on trade and investment, as well as technology transfer, are nothing but masked protectionism. We believe that these sanctions are not only doomed to fail, but also run counter to the G20 principles of cooperation in the interests of all countries.
I am confident that only open trade based on common norms and standards can stimulate global economic growth and the gradual improvement of interstate relations. Just as it is set forth in the fundamental principles of the World Trade Organisation’s activities.
The G20 is doing substantive work on combating climate change. Human activity is greatly increasing the burden on the planet’s environment and is hence complicating the achievement of sustainable development goals. As a leading country within the international climate process,
Russia has exceeded its commitments under the Kyoto Protocol. In other words, we have compensated the growing emission in other countries and regions. We view the Paris Agreement of April 2016 as a reliable international legal framework for a lasting climate settlement and intend to do our best to facilitate its implementation.
Over the past few years, the G20 has been working on the issue of migration. According to the UN, in 2017 labour migrants will remit over $500 billion to developing countries. This is three times more than the volume of official development assistance or foreign direct investment.
The G20 has been working on issues related to the migrants’ integration in the host countries’ labour markets, as well as their cultural adaptation and social protection. In addition, the G20 has formulated decisions this year that could help settle the issue of forced displacement. They are based on the strengthening of regional and global stability and the economic growth of the countries that are generating the unprecedented numbers of refugees.
Security of and in the use of ICTs is a new issue on the G20 agenda. Russia consistently advocates free access to communication technologies, including the Internet. We consider it highly important to protect human rights in the information space. At the same time, freedom in the digital sphere, just like in any other, should by no means be replaced by permissiveness and impunity. This leads to a rampage involving cyber-criminals, hacker groups and all those who encroach on the privacy of individuals or the sovereignty of states by using cutting-edge technologies.
Russia, which was among the first countries to note the danger of this challenge, has for several years been advocating the conclusion of universal international agreements under the UN auspices that are called on to combat these negative phenomena. We hope this will evoke a positive and interested response from other countries. The G20 agenda should also include digital literacy issues, a key element of protecting consumer rights in e-commerce.
I would like to note that various opportunities opened up by the digital economy and a switchover to new industrial and technological patterns simultaneously increase the gap in the development levels between rich and poor countries and aggravate inequality between various social strata. Therefore, our efforts should focus on people, their interests and concerns. I consider this to be a key-priority for G20 activities.
Obviously, the G20 can make a weighty contribution to strengthening the stability of the global economy and to maintaining its balanced development. Only by acting together and pooling our efforts can we overcome the current imbalances, ensure sustainable growth, develop fair trade and competition rules, reduce poverty and resolve acute social issues.
The Russian delegation will be actively involved in the work of the Hamburg summit, which I am sure will be highly productive. I wish our German colleagues every success in organising the summit. And, of course, we will team up with our G20 partners in implementing the agreements that will be reached at the meeting.
In conclusion, I would like to wish all Handelsblatt readers and all Germans health and prosperity.
Geography
Germany
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 6, 2017, 07:00
Text version