Events
Meeting with Head of Coptic Church, His Holiness Pope Tawadros II
Vladimir Putin met with the Head of the Coptic Church, His Holiness Pope Tawadros II. The conversation with Pope Tawadros II took place in the residence of the primate of the Russian Orthodox Church where the head of state was visiting Patriarch Kirill of Moscow and All Russia on his Name Day.
May 24, 2017
21:00
Moscow
2 of 5
With Head of Coptic Church, Pope Tawadros II and Patriarch Kirill of Moscow and All Russia.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Your Holiness, please allow me to welcome you here! The Patriarch of Moscow and All Russia told me in some detail about the Coptic Church and about you.
The Coptic Church is one of the very first Christian churches. There are 30 million Copts in the world, including 14 million in Egypt. I am particularly pleased to note this because we have very good relations with Egypt, of course with all Egyptian people regardless of their religion.
Nonetheless, we are particularly pleased to spend time with you, the person who represents Christianity in Egypt. This is a special connection with Egypt for us.
I know that President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi
, a great friend of our country, is actively supporting Copts in Egypt. When you have the opportunity, please convey to him and the entire Egyptian nation the best wishes from Russia.
Head of the Coptic Church, Pope Tawadros II (retranslated): Thank you for the time you have accorded me. I have long wanted to meet you.
Two years ago, I was on a visit to Armenia, and this is the second time I am in Russia, meeting with my dear brother His Holiness Patriarch Kirill. This is also especially important for me on the occasion of celebrations in honour of St Nicholas. Also, thank you for the award that was presented to me yesterday.
The relations that connect Russia and Egypt are very good. We are proud of that. I can also say that the relations between our two churches are very good. Our cooperation is developing in various spheres.
I thank God for the fact that the situation in Egypt is improving every day. We have a very good relationship with President Sisi, the Government and Parliament of Egypt. We also make efforts to maintain national unity in Egypt between Christians and Muslims.
The activities conducted within the church are aimed at the only goal: to uphold national unity. Thank you for your hospitality and for your special attitude toward Egypt. We will pray for these relations to get better every day at both the interstate and inter-church level.
Vladimir Putin: We attach great importance to developing relations between churches.
You just mentioned the relics of St Nicholas. This event has become possible thanks to the agreements reached during a meeting between the Patriarch of Moscow and All Russia and the Pope. It is a major event for Orthodox believers in Russia. We are very grateful to the Pope and the Holy See for the decision made at the Patriarch’s request.
The church plays a very important role in bringing nations closer together. In your case, this is the most prominent manifestation of a very useful modern trend.
<…>
See also
Meeting with Patriarch Kirill of Moscow and All Russia
May 24, 2017
Topics
Religion
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 24, 2017, 21:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Government members
Vladimir Putin held a meeting with Government members.
May 24, 2017
18:10
The Kremlin, Moscow
6 of 10
Meeting with Government members.
The meeting participants examined a number of current matters, including wage rises for those categories of public workers not listed in the May 2012 Executive Orders.
In addition, the President heard reports on the organisation of work to implement the decisions of the joint meeting of the State Council and the Commission on Monitoring Targeted Socioeconomic Development Indicators and on the progress in preparing for children’s summer recreation.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
Today, I suggest that we discuss progress in implementing an important part of the May 2012 Executive Orders, namely provisions concerning public sector wages. This is a very important and sensitive matter for many people, for millions of our fellow citizens.
I would like to remind you that the May 2012 Executive Orders set targets in this area and a timetable for reaching them. In 2018, we should reach the targets for wage increases for the categories of public sector employees that people have already dubbed the ‘executive order categories’.
Overall, we are meeting our commitments as planned. Some regions have been experiencing difficulties, however. I therefore hope to hear your proposals today on immediate measures to rectify the situation.
However, what I particularly want to underscore today is that the May 2012 Executive Orders did not cover all public sector employees. Some categories of public sector workers have not had their wages raised for several years now.
In this respect, I propose that we also carry out wage indexation for these categories, the so-called ‘non-executive order categories’, taking into account inflation and what the federal and regional budgets can realistically support.
I ask the Government to draft and present relevant proposals. Please do not delay this work. We must discuss this soon, given that work is actively underway on drafting the 2018 budget.
Turning to current matters, we recently held a joint meeting of the State Council and the Commission for Monitoring Implementation of the May 2012 Executive Orders. This meeting took concrete decisions, and I would like to hear today about how you are organising their implementation.
Let us begin.
<…>
Topics
Budget
Social services
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 24, 2017, 18:10
Text versionEvents
Presentation of state decorations
In a ceremony at the Kremlin, close to thirty outstanding Russian citizens were awarded state decorations for their services in the fields of science, industry, culture, healthcare, and sport.
May 24, 2017
15:20
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 24
Presentation of state decorations.
Mr Putin also presented state decorations to several officers from the Russian Armed Forces’ Special Operations Forces for their services in the fight against terrorists in Syria. Over a period of two days, the servicemen provided cover for a frontline section in Aleppo Province, fighting off attacks from a large group of militants. The President had promised earlier to personally decorate the service members.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends.
This ceremony to present state decorations at the Kremlin is not just an official ceremony, but is an act of high recognition of the achievements of our citizens, and it brings together exceptional, talented and genuinely unique individuals.
I sincerely congratulate everyone receiving state decorations today. You have achieved important results for our country in a broad range of areas: the economy, the social sector, science, culture, and statebuilding.
The records you have set in your labour, and your military feats and creative triumphs contribute directly to our country’s successful development and will serve our society for years, even decades to come.
Protecting our country’s security and our citizens’ lives is a paramount task. We all know that work in this area demands courage, devotion, and sometimes even self-sacrifice.
First-class test pilot Mikhail Belyayev has known many emergency situations over his career, moments that have pushed him to the limits of human capabilities, and has demonstrated top-notch pilot skills, courage and self-possession. He is awarded the title of Hero of Russia for his flawless professionalism and his contribution to developing the legendary MiG fighters.
We have a whole constellation of wonderful and world-renowned Russian cultural figures present here today.
Our ballet’s genuinely global fame is linked to the name of outstanding choreographer Yury Grigorovich. His works are memorable and original and incarnate his multifaceted talent and labour. These works are undeniably part of our national heritage.
Here today is the brilliant conductor, musician and teacher Gennady Rozhdestvensky. His repertoire includes hundreds of works by composers representing different eras and styles, and he works with leading orchestras. He is deservedly called the pride of world performing.
I am genuinely pleased to see here today President of the Pushkin State Museum of Fine Arts Irina Antonova. Your fruitful activity and devotion to museum work and education have earned our boundless respect. Your entire life affirms the great significance of culture.
I congratulate the renowned actors, musicians, directors, influential doctors, scientists and teachers honoured here today. Let also us remember those working in the various trades, who give us examples of honest and conscientious work. In this respect, I note the achievements of tractor driver Alexander Dolgopolov, from Rostov Region.
I thank everyone working on the land, producing the foodstuffs that guarantee our food security, and developing our industrial potential.
Friends, people such as yourselves are acutely sensitive to the march of time and are often a step ahead and leading others on. This is the way that all innovations make their entry into life, and the way that pioneers gain their fame.
One of these pioneers was cosmonaut Valentina Tereshkova. Your difficult and heroic flight will always remain a bright and unforgettable event in our history.
One of our current active cosmonauts, Oleg Kononenko, who has taken part in several space expeditions, is decorated today.
Once again, I congratulate you all on these decorations, friends, and I wish you good health, prosperity, and all the very best.
Thank you.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: Friends, laureates,
In her remarks, our famous coach [figure skating coach Tatyana Tarasova] said, “Believe in us and we will win!” Any of those honoured with awards today could say, “We believe in ourselves and we win”.
Thank you for being such marvellous role models. Thank you.
Topics
State decorations
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 24, 2017, 15:20
Text versionEvents
Meeting with South Korean Special Presidential Envoy Song Young-gil
Vladimir Putin received South Korean Special Presidential Envoy Song Young-gil at the Kremlin. Song Young-gil gave the Russian President a message from his country’s president. In particular, the special envoy said that the message outlines the new South Korean government’s intentions and principles.
May 24, 2017
21:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 4
Meeting with South Korean Special Presidential Envoy Song Young-gil.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Song Young-gil, I am very happy to see you and your colleagues, and to meet with you again.
I would like to begin our meeting by saying that we greatly appreciate your personal contribution to strengthening Russian-Korean relations. I remember very well that the jack from the Varyag cruiser was sent to Russia in 2010 with your personal support.
You know that during a telephone conversation with the newly elected President of the Republic of Korea, we agreed on a future meeting between us.
I am glad to see you. Welcome!
South Korean Special Presidential Envoy Song Young-gil (retranslated): Thank you for making time in spite of your busy schedule and meeting our delegation personally.
Thank you on our President’s behalf. I would like to express gratitude for your telephone call and your congratulations on the election of a new President.
Our new President Moon Jae-in has a strong will and a great interest in and love for Russia and relations between Russia and Korea. I have a feeling that it will be very easy for you to work with our new President.
I would like to take this opportunity to pass along a message from our President, which outlines our new government’s intentions and political objectives.
<…>
See also
Telephone conversation with President of South Korea Moon Jae-in
May 12, 2017
Geography
Republic of Korea
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 24, 2017, 21:30
Text version