Events
Meeting on resource support for Armed Forces technical refurbishment
Vladimir Putin conducted the final session in a series of meetings with Defence Ministry and defence industry officials.
November 23, 2017
18:00
Sochi
4 of 5
At a meeting on resource support for Armed Forces technical refurbishment.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon.
Colleagues, today we are holding the final session in a series of meetings with officials from the Defence Ministry and major defence industry enterprises.
During our joint work, we have reviewed the major parts of the state armament programme and the implementation of the defence procurement order, and we have mapped out areas for the further development of the armament system and upgrading our capacity for mobilisation (yesterday we dealt with this subject alone).
See also
Meeting with Defence Ministry leadership and defence industry heads
November 20, 2017
Meeting on fulfilling state defence order
November 21, 2017
Meeting with Defence Ministry and defence industry senior officials and heads of ministries and regions
November 22, 2017
Now we will discuss resource provision for the technical refurbishing of the Armed Forces and analyse how well our defence industry and the MTC system are adapting to current economic conditions.
I have to say that the comprehensive modernisation of the Army and Navy continues as planned. The defence industry contractors are promptly resolving the most urgent production related issues.
Yes, there are still some problems but that is inevitable. There will always be problems and the only thing we can do is react promptly. But generally, the defence industry is meeting its commitments on the state procurement order.
As for problem areas, I would like to ask the Defence Ministry and leading enterprises to put together a separate analysis. In fact, such an analysis has already been made, but I would like to look at it again and see a separate report on how our defence industry has performed with modern arms systems during the anti-terrorist operation in Syria. This issue is being analysed, and I would like to hear a separate report on it, but not now and not here.
I would like to see how our industry representatives were doing in areas where Russia’s cutting-edge weapon systems were used. I know that engineers and even researchers and design teams were there, not just repair technicians. Let us see if we can analyze what they did, once again. Their efforts were interesting, timely and very efficient. Many improvements can be made when using the latest weapon design in a combat situation. Let us look at this one more time.
In this context, the potential of our military-industrial complex and the ongoing arms improvement, which I just touched on with regard to the use of such weapons in combat, is the reason Russia remains a leader in military exports and why it can strengthen its cooperation in military technology with other nations at a faster pace.
In 2017, Russian arms have been delivered to 59 countries. Stable military contracts have been concluded with 80 countries. What is important is that the stock of orders of Russian military products is not declining. This is a result, among other things, of the timely steps taken by the government to fund military-industrial companies, issue loans or otherwise assist them.
Still, we need to plan for the risks and assess the negative impact of the possible use of the external limitations that are already in place, and of the possible imposition of new limitations. We need to plan and undertake measures that will help us to respond to such a scenario quickly so that no harm comes from this possible outside influence.
Let us get to work.
<…>
Topics
Armed Forces
National security
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 23, 2017, 18:00
Text versionEvents
Russia-Sudan talks
In Sochi, Vladimir Putin held talks with President of the Republic of the Sudan Omar Al-Bashir, who is currently in Russia on a working visit.
November 23, 2017
15:00
Sochi
2 of 5
With President of the Republic of the Sudan Omar Al-Bashir.
During the consultations, the sides exchanged opinions on the development of Russian-Sudanese relations and topical international issues, including the situation in the Middle East and North Africa.
* * *
Beginning of conversation with President of the Republic of the Sudan Omar Al-Bashir
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr. President, friends,
I am happy to greet you.
We are confident that your first visit to Russia will prove very useful and will benefit the cause of expanding bilateral relations.
We are very happy to see you, welcome.
I know that you are also planning to meet with the Prime Minister of Russia and to sign documents. But it is already possible to state that our relations, primarily economic relations, continue to develop. Total volumes remain unimpressive, but the pace is good. Last year, there was a 66 percent growth, and over 80 percent in the first nine months of 2017.
The Sudan is a major buyer of Russian grain. This year, we are expecting to boost Russian grain supplies to your market to one million tonnes.
We have very good prospects in the energy sector, including geological prospecting, production and resource exchanges. The hydrocarbons sector, the power industry and the development of the civilian nuclear power industry also have good prospects. On the whole, we have many cooperation venues.
We are very happy to see you, and I am glad to have this opportunity to discuss cooperation in all these possible areas.
I am confident that your visit will benefit expanded interstate ties.
President of the Republic of the Sudan Omar al-Bashir (retranslated): First, I would like to thank you for the invitation to visit Russia. We have long been dreaming about this visit.
We attach great importance to the development of relations with friendly Russia. Our friendship is a long-standing tradition. We are grateful to Russia for its position at international venues. We appreciate its efforts to protect the Sudan.
Our positions coincide on the majority of issues. We are primarily opposed to US interference in the domestic affairs of Arab countries, in particular US interference in Iraq.
We believe that the problems the region is now facing have been caused by US interference. We think the situation that developed in our country (the same applies to Darfur and South Sudan) has the same roots – US policy. As a result, our country split into two parts, which made a bad situation worse. We need protection from aggressive US actions.
We believe that what is happening in Syria today is also due to US interference, which resulted in such a disaster there.
We think peace cannot be achieved without President Bashar al-Assad
. We believe that Syria would have been lost without Russia’s assistance.
In this context, we favour development of cooperation with Russia in all areas.
As for defence cooperation, the weapons we have are of Russian make. This is true both of our land troops and aviation.
We had a very good meeting with the Russian Defence Minister in the morning. Now we are launching a large programme to reequip our armed forces and we agreed with the Defence Minister [Sergei Shoigu]
that Russia will help us in this. We would like to augment our presence in Russia by sending more military attaches here.
We are also concerned about the situation in the Red Sea. We believe US interference there is also a problem. We would like to discuss the use of military bases in the Red Sea.
As for the re-equipment of our armed forces, we will exchange experts, as we agreed with the Defence Minister.
In addition, we would like to talk about the work of Russian companies, in particular, in geology, peaceful uses of nuclear energy and construction of nuclear power plants. We are interested in these areas and have the potential for developing them.
As for the grain imports that you mentioned earlier, one million tonnes is a very good figure for us, and we are very grateful to you. We are highly interested in developing relations with Russian business in oil production, agriculture and railways.
Sudan has extensive ties in Africa and we can help Russia develop relations with African countries. Sudan may become Russian’s key to Africa. We are a member of the African Union. We have great relations with all African nations and we are ready to help. We are also interested in developing relations with BRICS
.
<…>
Geography
Sudan
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 23, 2017, 15:00
Text version