Events
Meeting of the bureau of the Russian Engineering Union and the League for Assisting Defence Enterprises of Russia
Vladimir Putin took part in a meeting of the bureau of the Russian Engineering Union and the League for Assisting Defence Enterprises of Russia.
June 27, 2017
18:40
Izhevsk
6 of 6
During a meeting on the development of machine building and the military industrial complex at the Kalashnikov Concern.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon.
It is a pleasure to welcome the participants of the expanded meeting of the bureau of the Russian Engineering Union and the League for Assisting Defence Enterprises of Russia.
I have been well acquainted with many of you for a long time and I know that you are realistically assessing the situation in the economy as a whole, in the industry and at your enterprises. Therefore, I hope that this meeting will be substantive, detail-oriented and productive and will allow us to reach specific decisions that would provide an additional impetus to the development of the national economy and the growth of high-tech production lines.
See also
Trip to Izhevsk
June 27, 2017
Today we have gathered in Izhevsk, a city that is known for its large machine building enterprises and its defence industry. For many decades, they have been producing quality and reliable hardware for our Armed Forces and many key industries, thereby making a contribution to the consolidation of the country’s defence capability and its economic and technological potential.
I must say that in recent years the majority of machine building enterprises – both in Izhevsk and other regions – have managed to adapt to external restrictions and other difficulties and concentrated their resources on priority areas of their work.
New technological competences and intellectual centres are appearing in the country. Russia is establishing advanced science-intensive centres and production that meet the requirements of the global market.
I can say for reference that in the first five months of this year, compared to the same period last year, the output of freight cars, for example, grew by 86.8 percent, passenger railcars by 56.9 percent, buses by over 30 percent, lorries by over 18 percent, passenger cars by over 20 percent, and tractors by 15 plus percent.
We have traditionally had strong positions in military machine building. In the past years, its manufacturing capacities have undergone modernisation and a policy has been adopted to diversify and expand the manufacture of high-tech civilian products. As a result, the output of military goods in the military defence complex grew by 9.5 percent last year whereas the output of civilian goods went up by almost 17 percent.
Apparently, there are also some problems in the engineering industry. I have said this more than once, and so have you in different formats, yet I would like to repeat a few things: we are ready to support domestic machine building, there is no doubt about it. We are going to do so through a number of state programmes and by providing significant budget funding.
Let me remind you of just some of the programmes we have up and running. These include state programmes like Developing Industry and Increasing Its Competitiveness, Developing the Shipbuilding Industry to Utilise Shelf Deposits in 2013–2030, Developing the Electronics and Radioelectronics Industry in 2013–2025, and Developing the Aviation Industry in 2013–2025. The overall funding under these programmes in 2017 totals 283.2 billion rubles, 187 billion in 2018, and 172.3 billion in 2019.
We shall continue using such support tools as the Industry Development Fund and special investment contract mechanisms. Apart from that, we will partially subsidise research and development costs and the interest on loans taken out to implement new comprehensive and investment projects.
Colleagues, I will mention very briefly some of the tasks on which we should concentrate our efforts. Firstly, machine building enterprises should substantially build up their export potential. In the first four months of this year, exports of civilian and engineering products went up by 17 percent to reach $4.5 billion. However, we certainly have an opportunity and the reserves to increase this figure.
For its part, the state will continue providing comprehensive support to exporters. We are already carrying out many measures in this area. To support industrial exports, 20 billion was allocated to fund a package of measures for 2017.
You know what this money is spent on via the Russian Export Centre: transportation, certification and so forth. I know that this is not enough. Industry leaders talk about this all the time – Mr Rogozin [Deputy Prime Minister] and Mr Manturov [Minister of Industry and Trade], during our meetings you have said the same more than once.
We will think about how to expand these opportunities. We will think about what else we can do to strengthen the positions of domestic machine builders on the global markets.
Secondly, it is important to speed up the technical renovation of the engineering complex, primarily by introducing programmes for the innovative development of enterprises, improving the environmental standards of production and broader use of digital technology that helps to considerably reduce costs.
A meeting of the Council for Strategic Development and Priority Projects is scheduled for July 5. I would like to ask Minister of Industry and Trade Denis Manturov to present proposals on how to more efficiently organise this work.
Furthermore, it is necessary to diversify the defence industry more actively and increase investment in this area, in particular by using public-private partnership mechanisms. Let me repeat that the Ministry of Industry and Trade has already launched this work – it is running its course and producing results.
However, more can be done with the capacities of defence companies. Last September, as you will recall, at a meeting in Tula we discussed measures to utilise the capacity of the defence industry to manufacture high-tech civilian products.
I suggest meeting again this autumn to make sure we are on the same page, so to speak, to see how the plans are being carried out and to discuss the situation in the industry once again.
Finally, the training of personnel is a very important core task. I know that you are paying serious attention to the training of young and talented specialists, seeking them out and encouraging them, and organising different academic and creativity competitions. But this is what I would like to tell you: quite recently I met with school teachers from different regions of the Russian Federation – maybe you saw this meeting since it was covered by the media. All of them agreed that there are not enough contacts with small and medium companies, especially high-tech ones. They do not even notice them because they are so few. However, I know that those present here are working on this problem.
I would like to ask you again to devote more attention to this issue, and not only via your flagship enterprises but maybe via your industry peers, your partners. They should be encouraged to work with young specialists not only in universities but also in the higher forms at school.
Openness and readiness for cooperation are important for young people by motivating them to choose an occupation. I hope you will continue pursuing your thoughtful, far-sighted personnel policy.
Let me recall that Russia has joined the international association WorldSkills that seeks to popularise blue-collar professions and introduce high professional standards. Machine building enterprises should play a more active role in this movement.
In conclusion, I would like to wish you productive work. I would also like to congratulate the Russian Engineering Union on its 10th anniversary. I hope that it will continue playing a major role in consolidating and developing domestic industry.
I wish you success.
Thank you for your attention.
Excerpts from transcript of a meeting of the bureau of the Russian Engineering Union and the League for Assisting Defence Enterprises of Russia
Rostec State Corporation CEO Sergei Chemezov
: Thank you, Mr President,
Indeed, we held our founding congress in the Hall of Columns, which you attended 10 years ago. Thank you for your support.
The Russian Engineering Union has grown into a large organization of engineering companies from many industries. Today I would like to focus on the five key trends that constitute the agenda of our industry’s development. I certainly take into account the experience of the Russian Engineering Union and the Rostec companies that are members of this Union.
I would like to begin by saying that industrial production is on the rise in Russia. Growth in the first three months of this year was almost one percent. This is a modest figure, but it is evidence of positive dynamics, which, I hope, will persist.
Of course, the Western sanctions have influenced the development of our industrial companies. However, the crucial thing is that some of them have used these sanctions to their benefit and have advanced to new export markets. For example, the order portfolio of the Kalashnikov Concern, where we are meeting today, stands at $300 million or six times its portfolio before the sanctions. This achievement is especially important considering that the company has lost its main foreign market – the US market for civilian and service weapons – and actually had to start its search for partners from scratch.
An additional impetus to the development of our exports of civilian and service weapons will be provided by the draft of a new federal law, which has already been submitted to the State Duma. Under this law, Rosoboronexport, a Rostec company, will be given corporate powers to export civilian and service weapons.
Today, only the producers of these weapons can export them, but since Rosoboronexport has strong ties in the market, it can provide marketing support for our commodities, including those of the Kalashnikov Concern, in foreign markets.
Our import replacement programme is an important component of our long-term industrial development strategy. We are implementing this project in sectors such as engine and aircraft manufacturing, avionics, electronics, the electronic components base, information technology, medicine, pharmaceuticals, robotics and others.
Military goods production plays a particular part in the import replacement programme. By 2018, we plan to have completed full replacement of goods previously produced in Ukraine. We will complete the import replacement programme for goods from NATO and European Union countries by 2020. This is my first point.
Second, making successful use in our economy of the achievements of the fourth industrial revolution is another important component of our industrial development. We still lag behind developed countries in this respect. The digital economy accounts for 5.5 percent of their economies, but less than 3 percent in Russia, according to last year’s figures.
To speed up growth, we have set key development directions and comprehensive projects that facilitate digitalisation. They include the Smart City project, putting the healthcare sector online, an industrial internet of things, and data storage systems for large and super-large data volumes. Rostec recently signed an agreement with the Yaroslavl Region on the Smart City project. Elements of this project have already been put in place in Nizhny Tagil and Ulan-Ude.
Attracting private shareholders and technology partners is a big priority for industrial development. There are companies and businesspeople today ready to carry out long-term investment. They are interested in these opportunities despite the fact that high-tech sector projects take a long time to start turning a profit and it is not possible to make a quick return on investment.
A good example here is the partnership between Mikhail Shelkov and Rostec with VSMPO-AVISMA, one of the world’s biggest producers of titanium and titanium goods. This alliance resulted in the company’s net profit under international financial reporting standards increasing by close to 80 percent – from 14 billion to 26 billion.
Another good example is here, at the Kalashnikov Concern. Here, Andrei Bokarev and Alexei Krivoruchko are the shareholders, together with Rostec. Kalashnikov’s transfer to private hands has brought the company new growth opportunities. Last year, they opened five new production facilities and all are turning a profit.
We also have an interest in cooperation with foreign partners. There are quite a few examples here: Pirelli and Boeing, to name two. They continue working with us despite the sanctions. We are establishing joint ventures such as those with Renault Nissan and a number of other companies.
In which areas must we work? We need to increase the share of civilian goods. This is something you spoke about, Mr President. Rostec’s updated development strategy calls for raising the share of civilian goods to 50 percent or more by 2025.
With regard to defence industry conversion, let me note a recent agreement signed with Vnesheconombank setting up a joint venture – NPO Konversiya. This organisation will ensure transfers of technology and production from defence industry companies to civilian sectors. It will identify market needs and look for ways to promote defence enterprises’ civilian goods and facilitate efforts to attract financing.
One trend that we cannot ignore is bringing in new resources into companies’ human resource pools. The work accomplished so far has produced results and we see a positive trend. The average age of workers at defence enterprises and corporations is 42–43 now, and the average age of employees has been coming down by around 12–18 months every year of late.
It is enough to cite the case of Kalashnikov, where the average age is 35–36 years. There is no question that one of the big factors attracting young people are the decent wages offered. With this in mind, we are raising average wages on an ongoing basis at our companies. Last year, the average wage was 44,000 rubles, which is really quite good for industry.
The Russian Engineering Union, together with Rostec enterprises, are pursuing a number of interesting projects and are working together closely with the country’s leading technical universities.
<…>
Among the Union’s long-term successful projects is the international forum Engineers of the Future. This project has been going on for many years now. More than 1,000 young specialists, including from abroad, take part in this event every year.
Another project is the multi-profile non-state engineering competition Zvezda. This is the biggest of such events and attracts around 300,000 participants.
One of the problems for carrying out the 2018–2025 State Armament Programme is ensuring regular orders for defence industry enterprises. This is a particular problem in the aircraft-manufacturing and shipbuilding sectors. There are fluctuations with big orders one year and two or three times fewer orders the next year.
This creates a whole range of problems, including the need to allocate funds for supporting production facilities during the quiet periods – the same facilities into which considerable investment was made in modernisation. We have carried out large-scale modernisation, purchased modern equipment and machine tools, and they are not always being used in full measure.
We need to optimise human resources, and this involves the risk of creating social tension. We have trained specialists, but when there is no work, we either need to cut numbers or to reassign them to lower paid jobs. There is also the risk of losing cooperation ties that have developed within work on state defence order, and higher production costs due to low series production and lower profitability.
Today, the industry is getting stable and regular orders. Overall, the 2018–2025 State Armament Programme will support and keep the defence industry enterprises active.
<…>
In conclusion, let me thank you, Mr President, for supporting our proposals on enhancing the federal law on state defence order as regards control of budget expenditure on it. We see this too in the amendments to the law that you introduced to the State Duma on June 18. This resolves a substantial problem.
We have discussed this law in great detail at our bureau, at the companies, and in our Union’s cells. All of our proposals were taken into account and the proposals are now before the State Duma.
Colleagues,
I want to congratulate everyone once more on the Union’s 10th anniversary and wish you all new successes in your work and new victories for the sake of our industry’s continued growth.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: As I said before, I meet regularly with many of those present today in Sochi, twice a year, in autumn and in spring. I think your mood was similar to mine 2–2.5 years ago. We did feel some worries inside about what would happen and whether we would be up to the major tasks in difficult circumstances. My own mood has changed since then, and I imagined that yours has too, because we see that we are up to the task. You are coping and your teams are coping. This demonstrates that our machine-building sector and our industry do have quite a solid fundamental base.
There are still a good many problems, yes, but we are confident that we have overcome past difficulties, and with the needed efforts from your part and from the state authorities, we will continue moving forward. I have no doubt of this today. Of course, we must do this at minimum cost and with maximum effectiveness.
<…>
Geography
Udmurtian Republic
Topics
Armed Forces
Industry
Persons
Chemezov Sergei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 27, 2017, 18:40
Text versionEvents
Working meeting with Acting Head of Udmurtia Alexander Brechalov
Vladimir Putin held a working meeting with Acting Head of the Republic of Udmurtia Alexander Brechalov.
June 27, 2017
19:40
Izhevsk
1 of 2
With Acting Head of the Republic of Udmurtia Alexander Brechalov.
The discussion dealt with the socioeconomic situation in the region, with a focus on the relocation of people from dilapidated and hazardous housing.
Earlier, the President visited a hazardous residential building in Izhevsk that is home to a woman who asked the President a related question during Direct Line.
* * *
Beginning of the meeting with Acting Head of the Republic of Udmurtia Alexander Brechalov
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Brechalov, how long have you been in office?
Acting Head of Udmurtia Alexander Brechalov
: For almost three months.
Vladimir Putin: Quite a short time, of course. However, you have probably realised that this is a very interesting republic, with good and well-qualified people, industry, agriculture and culture. It has everything.
Additional
Trip to Izhevsk
June 27, 2017
We need to give a boost to development. What do you think we should focus on?
Alexander Brechalov: Mr President, you are completely right.
First of all, I would like to thank you for my appointment. This is a very serious challenge.
And you are absolutely right – the republic is unique. It has a very compact territory: 280 kilometres from north to south and 180 kilometres from west to east.
It has not only great industrial and agricultural potential but also great human capital and potential.
There are certainly very good people here, original and creative people. I have been able to see for myself what a unique story and what marvellous national traditions there are here. Our future wealth is our people, our ability to give children the opportunities they need to develop and realise their potential. Today, we have signed an agreement on Quantorium with the Kalashnikov Concern, and this is the first step in strengthening our position.
Let me recall that Udmurtia is a national leader in terms of the number of winners at competitions for students in various fields. Our students consistently bring home prizes in maths, physics, and robotics at these competitions. We therefore have great potential resources and opportunities.
What did we start with? We first made clear our ideology. Udmurtia is part of the globalised world and not somewhere on the edges of civilisation. We have civilisation here and are ensuring all conditions needed to develop it.
What have we accomplished? I already briefed you on our republic’s large debt, which is equivalent practically to our entire budget revenue.
Vladimir Putin: Did you refinance it in part?
Alexander Brechalov: No.
Vladimir Putin: Not at all?
Alexander Brechalov: No.
Vladimir Putin: You moved none of it from the commercial banks?
Alexander Brechalov: We reduced it by using 2 billion rubles from our own reserves in order not to have to make interest payments. We raised around 1.5 billion rubles through cutting ineffective spending and starting active work on raising effectiveness.
In particular, there is the project that you approved, the priority project for safe, high-quality roads. This is an important project that is being implemented in Udmurtia too, in the greater Izhevsk area.
We saved 168 million rubles at tenders. As you know, we have major problems with our roads and the public is very much concerned over this. The 168 million saved will allow us to repair more roads in the city. All of this is done in public and open fashion. These are our main steps.
Effectiveness is our main focus. We are not just asking the country at large and you to help, but are turning above all to our colleagues, from the municipal to the federal level.
We are developing a new management model based on a project approach. This is of vital importance because when you have officials responsible for a wide variety of areas at once they end up not responsible for anything. We are dividing our priority projects along lines of this project approach and we are already seeing the results.
Children are a priority, of course. I briefed you on the Mentorship project. There are projects such as the one we signed today with Kalashnikov, and we will have projects in the sports field too. Udmurtia has strong sporting traditions, particularly in hockey, biathlon and skiing. We will take all of this to a new level.
I particularly want to note our work on preserving the ethnic and cultural heritage. We have excellent work with ethnic and cultural associations in this area. Udmurtia is home to more than 130 different ethnic groups and the people working on these issues do so very professionally.
We have an excellent House of Friendship, excellent cooperation between Muslims, Orthodox and all ethnic groups, and we are supporting this and making this a focus. In particular, we recently took an important decision. Udmurts make up close to 30 percent of Udmurtia’s population, and they have long been asking for an Udmurt cultural centre to be opened in Izhevsk.
Vladimir Putin: You plan to build a village?
Alexander Brechalov: That is a different project. This one is an Udmurt cultural centre. We met with Udmurt Kenesh, the main Udmurt association, and decided to open this centre. It will open on the site of the former Vladimir Korolenko Theatre. Vladimir Korolenko is a symbolic figure in Udmurtia. The centre will open in time for the 100th anniversary of Udmurtia’s statehood as the Republic of Udmurtia, in 2020.
With regard to the village, you note this quite rightly. We studied the experience of Kaluga, the Kaluga Region, where the Etnomir village has been a very successful project. We discussed this with the various ethnic and cultural associations and they all support the idea. The project will see the development of an ethnic village of the different ethnic groups living in Udmurtia. This is what we are going to do here.
For now, we are putting the focus on ethnic groups living in the republic. People here responded well to the idea, which has been welcomed by the Armenians, Chechens, Udmurts and Mari. Initiatives have followed immediately. We give great attention to preserving ethnic and cultural heritage.
In work to develop communities, my previous work in the Russian Popular Front and the Civic Chamber will help me. You recall the Community forum of active citizens, at which we laid the bases of a new culture of cooperation.
We held very original Russia Day celebrations on June 12, with a programme entirely made up of proposals from the public. People proposed making June 10 Yard Day, June 11 District Day, and June 12 Izhevsk City Day, as Izhevsk’s anniversary happens to coincide with Russia Day.
There were some attempts to hold opposition events, but no one showed any interest.
Vladimir Putin: Anyone has the right to propose initiatives.
Alexander Brechalov: Certainly, but we had wonderful events going on in yards and districts over three days.
We see great potential in the economy and we have two main directions here.
The first direction is the Made in Udmurtia project. Here, we are working actively to promote our high-tech, high-quality goods not just in Russia but also on markets abroad.
Our region is a pilot region for the Russian Export Centre. We therefore consider that we have substantial reserves to draw on for increasing our gross regional product.
There is also the Investing in Udmurtia project. On August 2, we will make a detailed presentation of a map of our investment opportunities, and I hope for the support of [First Deputy Prime Minister] Igor Shuvalov.
We carried out a full inventory of all opportunities, from village to city level. This was a huge undertaking. Our municipalities and mayors were genuinely surprised to realise the true extent of opportunities. Their first reaction was to say that we have practically nothing to offer beyond agriculture and the defence industry. But I can tell you that 30-page reports were put together for each municipal district, identifying opportunities in sectors ranging from roadside services to events-based tourism. There are some big projects possible here. This is our second main direction and we will present it on August 2.
I can say confidently that we are going to present Udmurtia’s investment opportunities to the world. We are setting our companies, business community and officials, my colleagues, on the idea that we must compete in the broader world, not just with neighbouring regions, with Russian regions, but with the world in general.
We already sent a business mission with [Plenipotentiary Presidential Envoy to the Volga Federal District] Mikhail Babich to China. This was a success and they saw the great opportunities that we can offer. This is the departure point for Udmurtia’s more intensive development.
All of this illuminates the possibilities we have, and these opportunities will help us to resolve the tasks ahead.
Vladimir Putin: This is interesting information. We will discuss it further, but, at the risk of seeming tedious, you must sort out the dilapidated housing problem.
Alexander Brechalov: We have had this issue under particular control right from the start.
Vladimir Putin: You said there are people with limited means and possibilities there, not just the family that called during the Direct Line, but other people also living in similar conditions.
This project you spoke about just before when we met with people today, it is a good project, the project to renovate the avenue [renovation of Kalashnikov Prospekt], but you should proceed with great care and take into account the wishes of those who wish to remain in the district and those with other wishes. You need to take an individual approach in each case.
Alexander Brechalov: Yes, of course. I know how much importance you place on this.
Right from the start, we are taking the approach of giving priority not just to the existing waiting list of people looking to be relocated from dilapidated housing, but to those in greatest need.
<…>
See also
Vladimir Putin inspected hazardous residential building in Izhevsk
June 27, 2017
Geography
Udmurtian Republic
Topics
Regions
Persons
Brechalov Alexander
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 27, 2017, 19:40
Text version