Events
The Main Naval Parade in St Petersburg
Vladimir Putin arrived in St Petersburg on Navy Day to review the Main Naval Parade held in the Neva and inner harbour of Kronstadt.
July 30, 2017
11:20
St Petersburg
In accordance with the Presidential Executive Order of July 27, 2017, the Main Naval Parade was held for the first time in Russia’s modern history. The parade featured the passing of ships and a marine air force unit overflight. Sailors from the Baltic, Black Sea, Northern and Pacific fleets and the Caspian Flotilla participated in the parade.
* * *
Speech at the Main Naval Parade
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Comrade sailors, midshipmen, petty officers, officers and admirals,
Dear veterans,
My congratulations on Navy Day!
This holiday is celebrated in each Russian region and with special solemnity, at the bases and in the garrisons of the Northern, Pacific, Baltic, Black Sea fleets and the Caspian Flotilla.
Russia’s history is inseparable from the victories of its courageous and fearless Navy. Our country’s status as a strong marine power has been achieved through the brave acts of sailors and officers, the inventive talent of our shipbuilders and the daring exploits of sea explorers.
Throughout the centuries, the fortitude and tenacity of Russian sailors was tempered in battles. Both on land and at sea, they mastered their military skills, strengthened the traditions of their unique naval brotherhood.
During the Great Patriotic War the Navy fought to the bitter end on the coasts and sea borders of our native lands. The Battles of Odessa and Sevastopol, heroic deeds of the Northern Sea Fleet sailors, legendary raids by Soviet submarines, the defence of Leningrad and the impregnable Kronstadt have been forever enshrined in the chronicles of history.
The Navy and commitment to Fatherland are inseparable. As Admiral Nakhimov used to say, a sailor has neither an easy nor difficult path, but rather a glorious one.
And everyone currently serving, in our ground forces and submarines, in the marine air force, in the coastal defence, and those who work in the shipbuilding industry, all are faithful to these vows. Their high moral and professional qualities have been and will remain the foundation of successful service in the Navy, and the state will offer its full support.
Much is being done today for the development and renovation of the Navy. New ships are being commissioned, the fleet’s combat training and readiness are being perfected.
Seamanship is chosen by the vigorous and strong-willed, by those who dare to defy the elements, who cannot imagine themselves without the sea, without difficult and noble service to their Fatherland.
Friends,
Today the Navy is not only solving its traditional tasks but is also nobly responding to new challenges, making a significant contribution to the fight against terrorism and piracy.
The children and grandchildren of today’s sailors will take pride in their forefathers. Of this I am certain. Because your exemplary training, promptness and discipline are borne out during both training exercises and combat operations.
I want to express gratitude to those who wait for you in your homes and keep you warm with their love.
Thank you for your readiness and your ability to solve the most complicated tasks, for your worthy service and your unwavering allegiance to our Motherland and to our people.
Glory to the Navy!
Happy holiday!
Hurray!
Geography
Saint Petersburg
Topics
Armed Forces
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 30, 2017, 11:20
Text versionEvents
Visit to Admiralty building
A reception to mark Russian Navy Day was hosted at the restored Admiralty building, which houses the Russian Navy Headquarters.
July 30, 2017
15:00
St Petersburg
The Supreme Commander-in-Chief of the Russian Armed Forces, accompanied by Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu and Commander-in-Chief of the Russian Navy Admiral Vladimir Korolev, toured the library premises and viewed its unique Russian naval history documents, including those from the Peter the Great era.
The President was also shown the office of the Russian Empire's last Naval Minister, Ivan Grigorovich. Once restored, the room can again be used as the main office of the Russian Navy Commander-in-Chief. Vladimir Putin left a note in the distinguished visitors’ book saying, ”My congratulations on completing the restoration. I wish you success in your work in the name of the Russian Fleet.“
In the Admiralty building, the President also viewed an exhibition of the Central Naval Museum.
The restoration of the Admiralty building began in 2013, with repairs being made on the facades and the roof, and reinforcements done to the tower and the building’s foundation. At the end of 2013, the Church of Saint Spyridon, Bishop of Trimythous, was opened in the tower with the steeple at the intersection of Admiralty Embankment and Dvortsovy Proezd.
Following the visit to the Admiralty, the President attended a reception to mark Russian Navy Day.
* * *
Speech at the reception to mark Russian Navy Day
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ladies and gentlemen, veterans,
Once again, my heartfelt congratulations to you on this holiday!
Navy Day is among the most popular holidays with the Russian people, who have hold in high regard people in naval uniforms, their nobility and heroism, and their professional traditions.
Today, we honour courageous, strong-spirited people. You have chosen to serve in the navy, protect the interests of our Motherland and provide security of its citizens, while making a great contribution to the strengthening of Russia's defence capacity and global stature.
My most heartfelt congratulations to the veterans of the Great Patriotic War. You fought to bring victory on board military ships, on land, and as part of combined naval units, marine infantry units. You have always been an example of perseverance and bravery.
My special words of gratitude go to workers, engineers and designers. Shipbuilders’ Day, a holiday that was established this year, is the result of the well-deserved appreciation people have for the work of the many generations of people who have given life to ships and continue to do so.
Today, thanks to the potential of the country's industry and science, we are strengthening the national defence and replenishing our Navy with state-of-the-art vessels and equipment. Last year, the fleet received 24 surface ships, two general-purpose submarines, and a service ship. This year, we plan to commission 30 ships and vessels.
We will strictly follow our other plans for the Navy's development to boost our arsenal of modern weapons and raise the quality of combat training. And, of course, we will provide all necessary social support and assistance to servicemen and their families.
Friends,
We are rightfully proud of our legendary naval commanders, brave and bold officers and mariners, fearless pioneers of Arctic travels and the world’s oceans, we are proud of today's generation of Russian Navy mariners, of all those who consider fidelity to duty and the oath to serve, honour and responsibility, and the spirit of military brotherhood as being of the utmost importance.
Here is to Russian Navy and the prosperity of our dear Motherland!
Congratulations!
Topics
Armed Forces
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 30, 2017, 15:00
Text version