Events
Meeting with President of Vietnam Tran Dai Quang
Vladimir Putin met with President of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam Tran Dai Quang on the sidelines of the APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting in Danang.
November 10, 2017
15:15
Danang
1 of 2
With President of Vietnam Tran Dai Quang.
The two leaders discussed issues of bilateral cooperation. The President of Russia congratulated his Vietnamese counterpart on his country’s successful hosting of the APEC forum.
Following the meeting the two presidents adopted a joint statement on cooperation in international information security.
 * * *
President of Vietnam Tran Dai Quang
: (retranslated): Mr Putin, comrades.
Thank you for accepting our invitation to take part in the APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting. We realise that you have a very busy agenda, including the preparations for the elections in the beginning of next year but you still came to see us and we appreciate this very much.
We highly value your participation in the current meeting and we are sure that it will make an important contribution to its results.
It is unfortunate that you will not be able to pay an official state visit to our country this time but we are looking forward to your visit any other time.
Using this opportunity I would like to thank you again for the warm reception you gave us last June.
I would also like to thank you for your understanding and assistance to our people who suffered damage from the Damri typhoon recently. We highly appreciate the aid extended to us by Russia as well as other countries and international organisations in disaster relief.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: First of all, I would like to express my condolences over the loss of life and large-scale destruction caused by the typhoon in Vietnam’s central regions. As for humanitarian assistance, it is absolutely natural, especially for such long-standing friends as Russia and Vietnam. I am sure that Vietnam can cope with these problems on its own and this is just a sign of attention and respect for the Vietnamese people.
Comrade Tran Dai Quang, I would like to congratulate you on your country’s the successful hosting of the APEC forum. I am convinced that the APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting will produce results and allow us to discuss the most important issues.
Our bilateral cooperation is making steady headway on the basis of the principles of comprehensive strategic partnership. During your official visit to the Russian Federation last June we held detailed talks and now have an opportunity to discuss the implementation of the agreements we reached then.
Thank you for the invitation to pay an official visit to Vietnam.
<…>
See also
Russian-Vietnamese talks
June 29, 2017
Additional
Visit to Vietnam
November 10 − 11, 2017
Geography
Vietnam
Topics
APEC
Foreign policy
Information society
Persons
Quang Tran Dai
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 10, 2017, 15:15
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of the Philippines Rodrigo Duterte
Vladimir Putin and President of the Philippines Rodrigo Duterte met on the sidelines of the two-day APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting, which opened today in Danang, Vietnam.
November 10, 2017
11:15
Danang
1 of 4
Meeting with President of the Philippines Rodrigo Duterte.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, I am very pleased to meet with you again.
I remember that you had to cut short your trip to Russia due to a terrorists’ attack on your country. I remember that you told me before the departure that you had to restore order and fight back the terrorists. I want to congratulate you on having achieved that. I have to say, countering terrorism today is one of our common tasks, objectives and challenges. In this regard, we are ready, as we have agreed, to develop our relations, including the military and technical cooperation.
Additional
Visit to Vietnam
November 10 − 11, 2017
Of course, we need to lay a special emphasis on economic ties. Unfortunately, they are at a fairly low level even though a certain growth in bilateral trade can be observed this year.
I am very glad to meet with you again, Mr President.
President of the Philippines Rodrigo Duterte
(transcript):
Thank you, Mr President, President Putin, sir. I am very happy to see you again, this time with double enthusiasm and gratitude of my country of the Philippines. I really wanted to stay longer at that time, but as I explained to you it was very important for me to go home because I had to declare martial law. And it was really an ISIS-inspired raid on the city and they wanted to take control. So I had to declare martial law and send my troops there to quell the rebellion. And I was able to prove to everybody that the Armed Forces of the Philippines and the national police would take care of our country. And there are still pockets of resistance and the mopping up operation but it continues to be a very dangerous city. And I would like to convey to you the gratitude of the Filipino people for your timely assistance, especially the trucks and arms that you sent because we had to replenish the supplies which were getting low. According to my soldiers the arms that you sent are very accurate and they were able to take care of the snipers that abounded in the city. I lost almost all of my troops because of the snipers, which were covered in buildings just like in Syria. There’s a new kind of war and the cover is cement, concrete and iron. So we had to hurt them just like in the other places in the Middle East because we had to wipe it out, building for building.
And that is my dream that before I finish my presidency I want to build a strong Armed Forces and strong police. It is very important for you to know that we are buying our arms from Russia this time. Because at the time we were short of arms for the police. And we wanted to buy it from America, but because of the almost equal power of the US Congress and the President it is only stymied by the legislators, so the 23,000 that I ordered were scrapped. And your timely assistance to my country helped us to replenish the old arms. And we have the new stock, so the new arms that we got from you, sir, were given to the special units of the Armed Forces of the Philippines. In a way, you had us turn the tide and to shorten the war there because all of your assistances.
So again I thank you very much, the Russian people and the President. We will remember your help.
Vladimir Putin: Weapons are very important, but what is most important is your resolve and the readiness of the Armed Forces, security agencies and the police to counteract the terrorist threat. So I congratulate you.
See also
Meeting with Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte
May 23, 2017
Geography
Philippines
Vietnam
Topics
APEC
Foreign policy
Persons
Duterte Rodrigo
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 10, 2017, 11:15
Text version