Events
Gala reception marking Cosmonautics Day
Vladimir Putin attended a gala reception to mark Cosmonautics Day.
April 12, 2017
18:00
Moscow
1 of 2
Gala reception marking Cosmonautics Day.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends, I wholeheartedly congratulate former and current employees of the space industry and all citizens of our country on the occasion of Cosmonautics Day!
This holiday unites all generations. It is about admiring the feat of the pioneers of the cosmos, the genius of outstanding designers, the tireless efforts of engineers and workers, faith in the power of talent and dreams, a sense of national pride and a focus on the future, on future victories.
On April 12, 1961, Yury Gagarin opened the way into space for humanity. Cosmonauts and those who designed and developed rocket and space technology ensured our country’s technological triumph and its leadership in space.
Our first satellite, the first space flight, the first woman in space, and the first spacewalk will forever be part of history. We have no need to invent heroic stories. We have a glorious chronicle of our space history filled with great feats. I am sure that they can serve as inspiration for our film makers, writers, artists, and for schoolchildren and students still at the moment of choosing their path in life.
I would like to thank our veterans for all they have done for our country. Your selfless and heroic labour is an example of true patriotism and love for your country. All who work in the space sector today continue what you began and strive for leadership. The desire to be the best is in our blood.
However, to meet all the challenges we face today, we must develop our own potential, and Russia has ensured that it has independent access to space. We have built the Vostochny Space Launch Centre on our own soil. The town of Tsiolkovsky will be built next to the site, and, as you know, we will also develop a new techno park there, offering unique conditions for space research.
It will become an integral component in the modern research infrastructure we are developing, together with the research centres and new laboratories that will work in close cooperation with the most renowned design bureaus and high-tech businesses.
Within the next decade, we will come up with new competitive breakthrough designs, including advanced materials, our own component base, and new types of carrier rockets and manned spacecraft.
Our space programme must lead our country forward and become a powerful stimulus for promoting technology and education, work in the interests of the national economy and research, and contribute to expanding our knowledge not only about outer space, but our planet as well. This is why the first Arctic centre for remote sensing of the Earth has been deployed in Murmansk. A similar centre will be established at the Progress station in the Antarctic.
Of course, international cooperation in space, primarily in the sphere of applied and fundamental research, should be further strengthened. The Russian-European mission to explore Mars, as well as work on the International Space Station are two such examples. You are well aware that today Russia is the only country that delivers cosmonauts to the ISS.
Friends, the success of our space programme depends on the people. Therefore, it is important to engage younger generations of researchers who are responsible, motivated, and knowledgeable professionals with advanced competencies. We must believe in ourselves and our own power, pursue our dreams, and strive to achieve technological and scientific breakthroughs.
Once again, I congratulate you on your holiday, Cosmonautics Day. I wish you new achievements for the benefit of our Motherland.
Topics
Space
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 12, 2017, 18:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Government members
Vladimir Putin held a meeting with Government members.
April 12, 2017
15:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 4
Meeting with Government members.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: It is our colleague’s birthday today. Let us congratulate him.
Mr Siluanov
, this is a collection of works by Sergei Vitte, [Russia’s] finance minister [in 1892–1903]. He was also a diplomat and held other official positions. No, we are not transferring you to a new post. (Laughter)
Finance Minister Anton Siluanov: Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues. Today we will be discussing a very important issue: the development of the contractual system for state and municipal procurement.
But first I would like to congratulate you on a holiday that concerns all of us, because we take a keen interest in the work of the industry that marks its professional holiday today. It is not a narrow professional but a truly nationwide holiday, Cosmonautics Day. Congratulations!
I would like Mr Komarov to tell us about the performance of Roscosmos State Corporation in 2016 and its strategy to 2030.
Please proceed.
General Director of State Space Corporation ROSCOSMOS Igor Komarov: Mr President, colleagues, in 2016, ROSCOSMOS met the set targets on developing and using rocket and space technology, and met Russia’s international obligations.
From the Vostochny Space Launch Centre, we carried out the successful first launch of a Soyuz-2.1a launch vehicle, which put into orbit the satellites Lomonosov and Aist-2D. The International Space Station programme was carried out in full. We launched four Soyuz-TMA piloted transport spacecraft, our new Soyuz MS spacecraft, and two Progress MS freight transport spacecraft as part of the ISS work programme.
We carried out the first successful launch in a long time of a spacecraft travelling to Mars as part of our joint programme with the European Space Agency. The spacecraft was launched by the Russian-made Proton launch vehicle. Now, we are continuing our work with the European Space Agency on the 2020 mission to Mars. The work is running to schedule.
With the launch of the Resource P space-based optic-electronic earth observation satellite, we have established a high-resolution remote space-based Earth observation system, which is providing data to the federal and regional authorities. We have begun work on the commercial use of this data. The orbital satellite group came to 141 satellites at the end of 2016, including 84 satellites for socioeconomic, scientific and dual-purpose use.
We ensured the GLONASS global navigation system’s stable and reliable work and continued to carry out our scientific programmes, including with the unique Spektr-R satellite, launched in 2011.
Russia today is one of the few countries that has a full-cycle rocket and space industry, from development and production to use of space and rocket equipment and waste treatment. Our launch vehicles are competitive and account for around a quarter of the launch services market. We continue steady work to build up our orbital group, and Russia is well known as the leading player in piloted flights.
There are also problems, above all the insufficient size of our orbital groups. Serious efforts are also needed to ensure the quality and reliability of our rocket and space equipment. We also have to work on making the use of the International Space Station more effective.
We have big tasks ahead and much work to do to better commercialise our space services, so that the investment we make in space and the results we achieve bring greater returns for the economy and industry here on Earth.
At the same time, we understand the need to substantially increase our range of products and services for national defence, socioeconomic development, science, and international cooperation. We will soon activate key development instruments to achieve these goals. This includes our human resources. We also plan a serious optimisation of our production potential, a radical increase in labour productivity, developing our commercial potential, and improving our legal framework.
Our corporation, in accordance with its approved development strategy for 2025 and through to 2030, is facing the following strategic targets:
– To bring the number of satellites in our orbital group up to the planned operational number for each system, enabling them to carry out their tasks in full. We are to have 164 satellites by 2025, and more than 200 by 2030;
– To raise the number of successful spacecraft launches to 99 percent by 2025, and restore our global leadership in the launch services market, both in the number of launches and in reliability;
– To guarantee active operational lives of spacecraft that meet world standards and radically improve the financial situation in the corporation and the sector. To achieve this goal, we plan to practically double commercial earnings on the global space services market, where we currently have a share of 4.8 percent. We plan to increase this share to 10 percent. This will only be possible if we actively develop our space-rocket industry.
We have set the goal of raising labour productivity 3.2-fold. We will carry out a thorough modernisation and optimisation of our fleet, equipment and capacity in order to increase the share of equipment under 10 years in age to 56 percent.
In terms of commercialising space activity, in the launch services sector, we are one of the key players today, with 24 percent of the market. The market itself is hardly growing at all, but new players are emerging all the time. We therefore see our task in saving our market share through optimising the costs of existing launch vehicles and developing new ones. We are developing a new medium-class launch vehicle that will provide the first stage for a future super heavy-class system, and a lighter version of the Proton launch vehicle. There is also the development and production of the light version of the Angara rocke
In the spacecraft production segment, we account for about 10 percent of the market, with the bulk of this amount being provided by the programmes focusing on delivering astronauts to the ISS. The contract expires in 2018–2019. We plan to not only keep doing our ISS-related work, to which end we are going to commercialise and promote space tourism, commercialise the use of the ISS and to improve the effectiveness of experiments, but we also have major plans to develop projects for creating space telecommunications and remote probing of the Earth.
In the segment of navigation services and ground infrastructure, we plan to increase our share and take it from the ground up (since we are at the early stages of this work now) to 7 percent through developing transport and cargo monitoring services, creating high-precision navigation fields and systems for the use of this kind of navigation, developing equipment projects for autonomous robotic complexes, including transport, as well as precision farming.
In the segment of satellite services, we plan to focus on mobile satellite communications projects, sales of remote Earth probing data and processing products. With regard to remote probing of the Earth, we have already taken the first steps and, in the near future, we plan to expand our commercial activities related to selling photos.
We discussed the Roscosmos development strategy at a meeting with you in November. Instructions were issued to develop areas such as commercialisation of space services, including increased efficiency of the International Space Station and enhanced quality. Action plans have been developed with regard to these areas of focus, and about 10 Government meetings were held. Also, discussions were held at expert councils and with the expert community, and the Roscosmos supervisory board approved the strategy just several days ago, and we started implementing it.
That concludes my report.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Mr Donskoi, at the St Petersburg media forum on April 3, there were questions related to solid household waste disposal. Please say a few words.
Minister of Natural Resources and Environment Sergei Donskoy
: We are currently working on reforming waste disposal management. The goal is to put in place a separate waste-recycling sector in our country.
Here is the way I see it. One crucial component of the reform is the institution of the manufacturer’s extended responsibility, which has long been working effectively in different countries. Essentially, within the framework of this institution, the business sector assumes responsibility for recycling manufactured goods and packaging that are out of use.
Independent disposal can also be replaced by an environmental tax. Today, considering that we are only at the initial stage, environmental tax revenues should be in by April 15, and so we will see, on the one hand, how much waste is processed by manufacturers and on the other hand, the volume of environmental tax revenues that we can use to finance waste-recycling systems in the regions.
The second part that we are working on and that was mentioned at the media forum was the preparation of territorial waste management schemes. Eighty-one regions already have an approved programme. It is one of the key documents that defines the volume of waste generation, places where this waste should be generated, places where waste sorting and recycling facilities should be based – in short, a territorial scheme that effectively describes the entire flow of waste and therefore the way everything will be recycled.
(Next, the minister touched on the preparation of territorial diagrams and their public discussion.)
I would also like to say, Mr President, that today 27 pilot regions have reaffirmed their readiness to launch the new system before the end of the year. We have included these 27 pilot regions in the Clean Country priority project and are now finalising with them the entire system – territorial diagrams, the selection of regional operators, regional recycling construction investment programmes – and we hope that by the end of the year, these 27 regions will have switched to the new system.
Since it has been mentioned that fines should be increased and that they should be better defined, a relevant bill has been drafted on your instruction, which will clarify the terms of certain infractions and fines. It has already passed the first Duma hearing. So we are working on this issue and we expect to see it resolved this year.
Another issue I would like to speak about is the Nasha Priroda [Our Nature] app that we are to launch this spring as part of the Clean Country project. It is to become an efficient tool in public hands to fight illegal dumping sites. Every user will be able to report an issue and the Federal Service for Supervision of Natural Resources will address it. The app is ready, and we are now working with the Ministry of Communications and Mass Media to register it as a federal information application, which we are hoping to accomplish by mid-May.
Overall, I have addressed the issues raised at the media forum of the Russian Popular Front. Of course, we work closely with our regional authorities and colleagues from the Front. If there are any issues, we have a year to address them, and draft new legislation if needed.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you, Mr Donskoi.
The sowing campaign has started and cropland area has increased this year. What is the progress?
Vladimir Putin: Thank you, Mr Donskoi.
The sowing campaign has started and cropland area has increased this year. What is the progress?
Agriculture Minister Alexander Tkachev
:
Mr President,
The early spring has enabled us to begin sowing as early as in March, and the work is in full swing in Southern Russia, in Crimea, the North Caucasus, in Central Russia and the Volga River region. This year we continue to increase the area of arable land, which now stands at over 80 million square hectares for the first time in 15 years, or almost half a million more than last year. This was made possible thanks in part to a law drafted on your instruction, which saw unused overgrown areas put to agricultural use. Such areas have since been ploughed, sowed and are producing their first harvest.
According to regional data, farms have enough seeds, fertilizers, fuel and lubricants, equipment and other resources. Agriculture producers have about three percent more seeds than they will need. There is no shortage of fertilizers.
 I would like to point out that our agreements with fertilizer producers and cooperation with the Russian Ministry of Industry and Trade has led to lower prices on fertilizers, an important step to cutting production costs, and the price of grain.
Fieldwork season lending is going smoothly, with no disruptions. For the first time, we managed to ensure easy-term loans with an interest rate of under five percent this year, which we did on the instruction of Prime Minister Medvedev
. First and foremost, this made borrowing easier. Over 25 banks are part of this programme, and the number is set to increase. As of April 6, banks approved 92 billion rubles of short-term loans, a 15 percent increase over 2016.
For instance, Rosselkhozbank granted 80 billion rubles in loans, and Sberbank 12 billion. The bank competition meant that the loan rate decreased by two or three percent to stay below the five percent threshold, just as we planned. We expect that the smooth cooperation of central government, regional authorities, and agricultural producers and the fine weather will allow us to harvest at least 110 million tonnes of grain this year. This will fully supply Russia’s domestic market and the country will keep its status as the world’s top wheat exporter. We will also be able to export greater quantities of other crops as well, and to make headway in meat exports, which we have been actively working on.
Vladimir Putin: What about fuel and lubricants?
Alexander Tkachev: Prices on fuel and lubricants have gone up in the past two to three years by about three, four, may be five percent, but the increase has been within normal limits considering inflation.
Vladimir Putin: You are working with the producers, aren’t you?
Alexander Tkachev: Yes, we are in contact, of course, and Deputy Prime Minister Dvorkovich
and I have recently had a corresponding meeting.
Vladimir Putin: Good, thank you. It is important that there are no price spikes.
<…>
Topics
Budget
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 12, 2017, 15:00
Text versionEvents
Interview to Mir broadcasting company
Vladimir Putin gave an interview to Mir television and radio broadcasting company on the eve of his visit to Kyrgyzstan. The interview took place on April 11.
April 12, 2017
12:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 4
Interview to Mir broadcasting company.
President of Interstate Television and Radio Company Mir Radik Batyrshin: The Collective Security Treaty Organisation celebrates its 25th anniversary this year. The benefits for Russia’s allies are clear. Firstly, they receive the latest Russian arms at discount prices. Secondly, their armed forces personnel receive training at Russian military academies. Thirdly, they have access to Russian armed forces’ intelligence data, and then there is the space and air defence the Russian Federation provides, and much more.
Furthermore, we should not forget that if any of the CSTO member states is attacked, the Russian armed forces have an obligation to defend it. The Russian armed forces are the biggest in the CSTO today, and, as the operation in Syria has shown, they are among the most effective in the world. The advantages for our allies are therefore clear, but what does Russia gain from membership in the CSTO?
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Russia has a vital interest in maintaining stability in the post-Soviet space. We are well aware of the threats that exist on our borders, and we will probably touch upon this later. I will not speak now about our western borders, but in the east, we have Afghanistan. The fewer the threats Russia has in the various directions, and the more effective our common actions, the better.
We should not forget that there are threats today that do not stop at borders but are trans-national in nature. They include terrorism, organised crime and drug trafficking, and we can fight these threats effectively only if we combine our efforts. We have proposed joining forces on a global scale. I made this call at the UN, as you may know. At the regional level, we can achieve this, and, as we can see, we are doing so quite effectively.
An organisation such as the CSTO has certainly justified its existence. This year, we are celebrating the 25th anniversary of the CSTO treaty signing, and also the 15th anniversary of the CSTO’s existence as an organisation. These important milestones give us the opportunity to look back and assess ecerything we have achieved in the security area. This must be a critical analysis. We need to make changes if necessary, take additional steps to coordinate actions and strengthen our legal base. Overall, I strongly believe that security cooperation is a priority for both us and our partners, and all participants in the Collective Security Organisation benefit from this work.
Radik Batyrshin: If we were to make a list of the threats for the CSTO countries’ security, how would it look?
Vladimir Putin: First on the list would be terrorism and extremism of all kinds. I would include drug trafficking and trans-border crime, and we cannot forget about the more global threats, of course. We know the various theories being tried out around the world, causing serious destabilisation in the affected regions. We cannot allow such a thing to happen in our region, of course, and we will take the necessary measures in Russia itself and support our CSTO partners.
Radik Batyrshin: We have seen some success in combating ISIS, which is banned in Russia and the CIS countries, but we must also remember another front in the fight against terrorism – Afghanistan. Every day, we see how Taliban militants and other radical Islamists are creeping ever closer to the CIS borders. How do you assess the CSTO’s efforts in this area?
Vladimir Putin: This is a very dangerous area for us all. We already know examples, tragic examples, when militants crossed the border from Afghanistan. I am not talking here about drug trafficking and criminals infiltrating our countries, but about large armed groups entering our territories. There was a case in Kyrgyzstan several years ago, for example, when the armed forces had to be deployed to fight these armed groups.
We are conscious of the great danger this poses to our own country, the Russian Federation. It is for this reason as well that we maintain our 201stmilitary base in Tajikistan. This is an important element of stability in the region. The biggest threat is terrorism, and the terrorist threat coming from Afghanistan is very serious indeed. However, as far as the Taliban are concerned, many countries have contacts of one form or another with this organisation [the Taliban]. Of course, they have many radicals in their ranks, but together with our partners, including UN representatives, we always take the view that we must develop relations with all forces in Afghanistan based on three main principles: recognition of Afghanistan’s constitution, disarmament, and reaching full national accord.
We strongly hope that we will never have to use our armed forces, including the units at our 201st base in Tajikistan. This is certainly an area of concern, like the Afghan border, which is long, more than 1000 kilometres, 1,300 kilometres. Our view is that by assisting Afghanistan’s legitimate government, together with other participants in the settlement process we will eventually achieve reconciliation there and will help to set Afghanistan on the track of a peaceful resolution of its internal problems and development.
Radik Batyrshin: But Afghanistan also means the transit of drugs, which you mentioned, and drug trafficking is one of the terrorists’ ‘feeding grounds’.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, this is so. Sadly, drug trafficking is increasing, production volumes, if we can speak in these terms, are increasing too. A third of Afghanistan’s rural territory is under Taliban control today. We see that ever more frequently the so-called international coalition (it is mostly made up of American troops) has to engage in various combat operations, and we even hear talk of plans for a full return of the US military contingent to Afghanistan. This is related to the complicated processes underway in that country.
Radik Batyrshin: Effective border protection is essential for the security of the CSTO as a major political alliance. How do you assess the CSTO’s efforts to protect its external borders?
Vladimir Putin: Yes, this is a very important area and we are bolstering our cooperation here at Kyrgyzstan’s initiative. Last year, we took appropriate decisions to intensify work in this area. We hold frequent joint exercises and our border guards and intelligence and security services are not simply in contact with each other, but work together and exchange information on a permanent basis. We are establishing a data bank and actively using it in our joint practical efforts. Everything we do through the CSTO is translated into practice. This is our daily joint work.
Regarding border guard services in particular, we work together with our colleagues and also supply them with arms and equipment and assist with training.
Radik Batyrshin: Thousands of people from the CIS countries have joined ISIS. The day will come when we vanquish ISIS and these people will return to their home countries and establish new terrorist cells. What is the CSTO doing in this respect?
Vladimir Putin: First of all, we have not yet achieved this victory. To achieve it, we must join efforts, not only within the CSTO, but also in a broader international coalition. Otherwise, there will be scant chance of success.
Regarding your question, I would certainly like to see this victory achieved, and achieved in such a way that no one returns to our country. Our contingent in Syria pursues precisely this goal. Our service personnel are fighting terrorists on foreign soil, not Russian soil, precisely to ensure that none of them returns here. When this does happen from time to time, it is further evidence that we made the right choice and that we must do all we can to minimise any possible return. This is my first point.
Secondly, you are right in that, according to various estimates, around 20,000 foreign militants are fighting in Syria, and nearly 10,000 of them come from the CIS countries. Various estimates put the figure at around 9,000, of which slightly less than half come from Russia and around 5,000 from the Central Asian countries, mostly from the CSTO member-states. The threat is therefore very real and very serious. We are aware of it, understand the scale of this threat, and will do everything possible to minimise it. We are working on it.
Radik Batyrshin: The CSTO heads of state decided to establish the Collective Rapid Reaction Force – the CRRF. Did the establishment of the force take into account the experience of the Russian special operations forces, which have proven themselves quite effective in the North Caucasus and Syria?
Vladimir Putin: Our special operations forces have been working as they do, with the results we know, only in the past year, in other words, after the CRRF was established. Generally, well-trained units went into the CRRF, but the Russian special operations forces are really a new chapter in our military development.
I can say with all responsibility that we never had forces of this calibre before, not even during the Soviet era. These are top-class professionals, well equipped, and able to work effectively in very difficult conditions. These people are highly motivated and professional. I know, of course, what they do and how they do it. They are true patriots.
Of course, we will do everything possible to ensure that the CRRF also learn the latest methods and have the latest equipment available to our special operations forces. We will share our experience, of course, with our CSTO allies.
Radik Batyrshin: The CSTO has often been compared to another military-political bloc, NATO. What are their similarities, and why does the CSTO not make political declarations the way NATO does? How should the CSTO respond to what I would call a demonstrative increase of the NATO contingent along the borders of Russia and its allies?
Vladimir Putin: NATO was established during the Cold War, at a time of confrontation between two blocs. Things have changed today. There is no division along ideological lines between countries today, including in Europe. However, NATO still bears the birthmarks of the era that bore it and continues to live in a paradigm of bloc-based confrontation. It is a highly ideological organisation, despite the various statements about the need to change in current conditions. We have heard many such declarations, but see no real transformation.
The CSTO was created in a new situation, to address today’s threats. I listed them in order of importance: terrorism, extremism, drug trafficking, and trans-border crime. Maybe it is for this reason that we do not make direct joint political or politicised declarations. The CSTO makes its decisions on a consensus basis, not formally, but in substance. This creates a completely different atmosphere within the organisation.
We all witnessed the recent US airstrikes against Syria. How did the American NATO allies react? They all nodded away in docile agreement, without even bothering to analyse what was actually happening. Where is the proof that the Syrian government forces used chemical weapons? There is no proof. However, there has been a violation of international law. This is a clear and evident fact. An airstrike has been carried out against a sovereign state without the UN Security Council’s approval. But despite this flagrant violation of international law, they all just nod their agreement and give their support.
I spoke recently with my Italian colleague, as you probably saw. The same thing happened back in 2003, when a pretext was concocted to justify sending troops to Iraq. The country was destroyed as a result, and it was after this that we saw the rapid emergence of various terrorist organisations and groups, the emergence of ISIS and other organisations. Everyone knows this, but here they go, making the same mistakes again. This is how NATO works. The CSTO works differently.
As I have said, the CSTO was established in a different situation, and above all in order to concentrate efforts on real threats and join forces to combat these threats. At the same time, we cannot ignore the global issues that create a threat for the entire world. We have repeatedly stated our opposition to the deployment of missile defence systems, the deployment of weapons in space and so on. In other words, we believe it is possible to formulate a common approach on such fundamental global issues, and this is what we are doing.
Radik Batyrshin: You said after the meeting with the President of Italy that the chemical attack in Syria’s Idlib province, which led to the US air strike on a Syrian air base, was an ISIS provocation. You also said that ISIS was preparing another provocation with the use of chemical weapons, this time in a Damascus suburb. Doesn’t this mean that the Americans’ actions are helping the terrorists instead of fighting them?
Vladimir Putin: I do not remember saying that it was an ISIS provocation. I did infer that it was a provocation, but I did not say who staged it. There are several possibilities. To give the final answer, this event must be thoroughly investigated. There is no other option. And this is exactly what we have proposed doing.
Moreover, everyone knows very well that a major project was completed at the Russian and US initiative to liquidate the chemical weapons in the possession of the Syrian authorities. They have done their part of the job; they have implemented all their obligations, as far as we know. A specialised UN body has confirmed this. But in case of doubts a verification inspection can be organised.
You know that this can be done easily using modern technology, methods of analysis and equipment. If the authorities used chemical weapons, there will be traces of the powder on weapons and in the area. Modern technology can surely detect them. It should be quite simple: go to the airfield the Americans bombed, from which aircraft with chemical bombs allegedly took off and inspect it thoroughly.
If our partners say that peaceful civilians were injured in the Syrian air strike, these peaceful civilians should allow UN and other international observers to inspect the sites that were hit in the attack. There are several version, two of which I consider as priorities.
The first is that the Syrian bombs hit a secret chemical weapons facility. This is quite possible, considering that the terrorists have used chemical weapons many times, and nobody has contested this fact. They have used these weapons in Iraq against the international coalition and the Iraqi army. These attacks have been recorded, but they are hushed up. There is no outrage over them, although everyone agreed that the terrorists have used toxic agents. This means that the terrorists have these weapons, so why can’t they have them in Syria? They are all together in this. This was my first version.
According to the second version, it was a staged provocation, a deliberate incident designed to create a pretext for increasing pressure on the legitimate Syrian authorities. That is all. But it must be investigated. We believe that no move should be made against the Syrian authorities otherwise.
Radik Batyrshin: Was Donald Trump’s decision unexpected for you?
Vladimir Putin: Yes, it was completely unexpected, aside from the fact, of course, that we learned about it a few hours in advance.
Radik Batyrshin: Can we say that Russian-American relations have deteriorated to an even lower point than before? In other words, have relations deteriorated with Trump in office from what they were under his predecessor?
Vladimir Putin: We could say that at the working level, the degree of trust has dropped, especially in the military area. It has not improved and has probably worsened.
Radik Batyrshin: Let us return to the CIS, after all, we are a CIS broadcasting company. We cannot forget the tragedy of April 3 in St Petersburg. The lone terrorist who exploded a bomb in the metro was a Russian citizen, but he was an ethnic Uzbek born in Osh. Voices were raised immediately in Russia, saying that labour migration from the post-Soviet countries should be stopped and the visa-free regime cancelled. What is your view on this idea?
Vladimir Putin: Firstly, I understand our citizens’ concerns. There have been a good many events that could be seen as a threat to national security coming from militants infiltrating our territory via the former Soviet republics, and not just Central Asia, but other republics as well. Some of these militants come from further abroad. Today’s world is such that it is impossible to completely end migration. This is true not only for Russia, but for practically every country. The issue is how to organise strict control over migration flows.
Secondly, the vast majority of people who come to Russia do so to work and help their families. The creation of the Eurasian Economic Union implies free movement of labour, capital, services and goods. This is a great advantage for our countries’ development, a great opportunity. In today’s world, economic success or failure can decide the fate of entire regions. This is therefore a key issue for our life and our future.
Economic success is possible only with integration. This is the way today’s world works. It is therefore not possible, simply for objective reasons, to include or exclude something. The security services need to work better, more efficiently, and as we work on economic processes, we must not forget our cooperation on security. This was why we established the CSTO.
You mentioned [President of Kazakhstan Nursultan] Nazarbayev’s decision to revoke the Kazakhstani citizenship of those guilty of involvement in ISIS’ criminal activity. Under the Russian Constitution, we cannot revoke anyone’s citizenship, but we can overturn the decisions that served as the basis for granting someone Russian citizenship. We are in consultation with our legal experts and I think that this decision will be taken very soon.
Radik Batyrshin: You have mentioned a project that involves nearly all the CSTO member states: the Eurasian Economic Union. It has started working, although the start was a difficult one. Many of the countries involved have met with dificculties.
Nearly all the countries in the EAEU are now facing the same problems that the Russian economy encountered after sanctions were introduced against Russia. And now they say that the Russian economy has collapsed and buried them, and this is why they cannot demonstrate the obvious advantages of common capital and labour markets. What can you say about this?
Vladimir Putin: This is not true, absolutely not. Frankly speaking, sanctions have nothing or very little to do with this. The really serious problem they encountered is due to the changes in the global market. They have definitely affected the Russian economy, but these negative changes have also influenced our partners’ economies. They did not do so through Russia, but directly. Of course, there is a degree of interdependence, including our partners’ dependence on the Russian economy, but our economy depends on them, too.
However, the obvious part is the advantages offered by these integration processes, if they are managed properly. I believe that we are acting carefully and in an economically balanced manner. We are not trying to leap forward, as some EU countries have done. They introduced a common currency and adopted many other decisions before it was established that some economies cannot operate properly if they are attached to the strong euro. They cannot use monetary instruments to weaken the national currency, which would give them room for manoeuvre in a difficult situation.
If you look at countries such as Kyrgyzstan and Armenia, for example, which joined the Eurasian Economic Union later, the benefits are obvious. Their trade with us has increased rapidly. I think Kyrgyzstan’s trade is up 2.5-fold, and Armenia’s trade has increased by 80 percent. This is one thing.
The other one is that in value terms, some of the figures might seem cause for concern. This is due to exchange rate differences. However, in physical terms, trade has not fallen; moreover, it is growing. Another very important point, in my view, is that our trade structure has improved. The share of mineral raw materials and mineral goods has fallen, and the share of machines, equipment, high-tech and financial services has increased. This is very important and shows that the integration organisation and the instruments we have established do help us to improve our economies’ structure. This is the main road and the main goal of our development. What we want is a high-tech economy with good, well-paid jobs.
Radik Batyrshin: The CIS is a region without visa barriers, the CSTO is about common security, and the Eurasian Economic Union is a common market for capital and labour. Our interstate broadcasting company Mir creates a common information space for the CIS. What would you wish our viewers in our different countries, concluding this interview?
Vladimir Putin: The simplest but most essential things – happiness, health, and prosperity. As we have been discussing our organisation responsible for peace and security, I also wish peace, and confidence that our armed forces and common efforts will preserve this peace.
Topics
CSTO
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 12, 2017, 12:00
Text version