Events
The President visited an academy for people with disabilities
Vladimir Putin visited the Russian State Academy of Arts for Special Needs Students, the world’s only higher education institution with an art focus for people with disabilities, and met with people with disabilities, representatives of public organisations and professional associations that help such people.
December 5, 2017
14:00
Moscow
Vladimir Putin visited a music class, where a visually challenged student performed on the piano Franz Liszt’s Hungarian Rhapsody No. 10 for the President. An exhibition was also organised in the same room, showing landscapes from the Moscow Region and Russia’s Far East.
The President also visited a drama class, where he watched as the students rehearsed the Academy’s anthem, the Melpomene song, in sign language.
In addition, the President toured the opera singing and computer classes, and after that saw an exhibition of devices for the hearing and visually impaired.
After the visit to the Academy, Vladimir Putin met with people with disabilities and representatives of the relevant NGOs and professional associations that work with people with disabilities, as well as Paralympic athletes and participants in the Abilympics competition.
The history of the Russian State Academy of Arts for Special Needs Students can be traced back to 1990, when the All-Union Centre for Rehabilitation Through Creativity was established in the USSR with the specialised art institute as one of its affiliates. In 2013, the establishment obtained state accreditation and was awarded the status of an academy.
The Academy has three departments: music, theatre and fine art. A theatre for people with hearing impairments produces its plays in the Academy. There is also an inclusive opera theatre, while the music department has a folk instrument band, a chamber orchestra and a number of other ensembles.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends. My greetings to you all.
Before we turn to the topic of our meeting, I would like to note that today Russia marks the national Volunteer Day for the very first time. I would like to thank all the participants in this movement for their efforts.
I think that this is the right place for a statement of this kind, since it is not uncommon for volunteers to help people with disabilities, and quite often people with disabilities themselves take on the role of volunteers.
People of this kind not only show how to live a productive life, but also help others move in the same direction. I think that they deserve special attention and respect.
Overall, I would like to say that people with disabilities make a significant contribution to the economy, research and culture, and are active participants in public and political affairs. They achieve great sports results, and win in prestigious international competitions. As I have already said, in all these spheres they show us what any human being is capable of.
Taking this opportunity, I would like to congratulate whole-heartedly the winners and all the participants in the recent national Abilympics skills competition for persons with disabilities. They demonstrated outstanding talent and training, determination and character. Way to go!
As you know, much has been done in the past years to create a comfortable barrier-free environment for people with disabilities.
Much attention is being given to making social and transport facilities more accessible for such people. One fifth of our schools satisfy inclusive education requirements. We will certainly talk about this later, and those present will share their criticisms and proposals regarding what and how we should do in this sphere.
We are developing and applying unique teaching methods to help people with disabilities find their own voices and reach their potential. These methods are being widely used here, at the Russian State Academy of Arts for Special Needs Students.
Frankly, it was a pleasure watching the people who work here. I think it is a unique educational institution without a par in the world.
I would also like to say the following. It is important that public attitude to the problems of people with disabilities is changing; it is becoming more mature, humane and empathic. People condemn and denounce violations of rights of people with disabilities or even lack of consideration for them. Officials at all levels must look beyond the programmes and plans to see the problems of concrete people who need our help.
Of course, there is still much that must be changed or done before we move ahead in the area of the sociomedical examination, employment and rehabilitation, as well as early assistance for children with disabilities. There are many unresolved problems here; we will certainly deal with them and make progress in these areas.
I would like to point out that success is possible only through joint and collective actions. We must join the forces of the bodies of authority, public organisations, as well as volunteers, who I mentioned at the beginning. Only if we do this will we create really equal conditions for everyone.
Let us discuss these issues.
<…>
Topics
Disabled individuals
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 5, 2017, 14:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with RDIF CEO Kirill Dmitriev
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with CEO of the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) Kirill Dmitriev.
December 5, 2017
18:25
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 3
Meeting with Russian Direct Investment Fund CEO Kirill Dmitriev.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Dmitriev, we meet fairly often but nonetheless I know that you have prepared a report on your results for almost a year.
Russian Direct Investment Fund CEO Kirill Dmitriev
: Yes, for 11 months…
Vladimir Putin: Go ahead please.
Kirill Dmitriev: Mr President, during the past 11 months, together with our partners, we invested over 250 billion rubles in the Russian economy. As you know, we focus our investment on infrastructure projects that produce a tangible multiplier effect on other economic sectors, regional projects that increase the revenues of regional budgets and projects to diversify the national economy. For instance, we have actively invested in technological projects.
Literally since last June we have already funded construction of the Kutuzovsky Prospekt relief road, started financing the third section of the Central Ring Road, Pulkovo Airport, two oncological centres in the Moscow Region, and Globaltruck transport company, to name a few.
The Russia-Japan Investment Fund (RJIF) established with your support has started actively functioning and very quickly made its three first investments, including in Transneft. We believe this is a very important investment for our Japanese partners and thank you for the support of the RJIF.
Vladimir Putin: What projects are you referring to?
Kirill Dmitriev: They invest in the development of Transneft and believe in growing its capitalisation.
We are also actively expanding investment in technology and have established our vehicle – RDIF Technologies. We have chosen leading partners from China, Japan, Singapore, Europe, and the United Arab Emirates (UAE). They will invest together with us in technology projects based on your digital economy initiative.
In the near future we will announce our investment in Yandex.Taxi and a number of our websites to expand our activities abroad. We will also invest together with Alibaba in internet logistics infrastructure in Russia.
Vladimir Putin: Well done.
Kirill Dmitriev: In conclusion I would like to say that we have over 40 projects with the UAE and more than 20 with China. Saudi Arabia has already co-invested with us more than $1.2 billion.
<…>
Topics
Investment
Persons
Dmitriev Kirill
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 5, 2017, 18:25
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Moscow Region Governor Andrei Vorobyov
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Moscow Region Governor Andrei Vorobyov. The governor briefed the President on the socioeconomic situation in the region.
December 5, 2017
17:20
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
2 of 3
Meeting with Moscow Region Governor Andrei Vorobyov.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: How are you doing, Mr Vorobyov?
Governor of the Moscow Region Andrei Vorobyov
: Everything is steady, thank God. I would like to report on the socioeconomic situation as of the end of the year.
Overall, it’s business as usual with the economy adding 3 percent this year. Industry is up 12 percent, just like last year.
The agricultural programme is also being supported at the federal level, and there is great interest in the Moscow Region.
We plan to increase budget revenue by 9 percent. This allows us to carry out the policy outlined in the presidential executive orders. We are going at a fast pace, especially in the healthcare system: the infant mortality rate stands at 3.7, which is very low. We are investing in oncology centres, and this allows us to keep them in proper order.
As for investment, this is, perhaps, the most difficult matter we are dealing with, and we are trying to draw investors. With the Government support, we have created three economic areas and industrial parks in order for investors to come to sites with infrastructure already in place.
This year, 650 billion rubles will be invested in the Moscow Region, and that is why we rank second in Russia in terms of economic indicators. Our goal is to create jobs and keep up the good work.
We have implemented an ambitious programme to build a perinatal centre. I reported to you about it in 2013. The Moscow Region didn’t have a hospital where women could give birth in a safe and comfortable environment and enjoy high-quality medical services.
This year – with your support – we opened five perinatal centres, which will accommodate the absolute majority of baby deliveries, not only from our region, but other regions as well, in the Moscow Region maternity centres. I mentioned infant mortality earlier – we owe such results to this programme.
Schools are an important issue for the Moscow Region as well. The population of the region grows by 100,000 annually, and the number of pupils expands by 40,000 as well. We try to keep up with such increases by building more schools.
Prior to 2018, we used to build 20–22 schools a year. Beginning next year, we will need to build twice as many, that is, about 45–50 schools, if we want to avoid two shifts at Moscow Region schools.
With regard to the instructions that you issued during the Direct Line…
Vladimir Putin: I'm listening.
Andrei Vorobyov: There were 90 of them. We are not only keeping tabs on them, but also implementing them with 67 already completed. The Kuchino landfill is the most sensitive of them all.
The residents approached you with complaints about its improper condition. We shut it down, as I reported to you earlier, and are now conducting a reclamation project. We are doing our best to make sure that the landfill does not bother people.
It looked terrible. We have completely filled it in with dirt and drilled 50 holes in order to remove accumulated gas. We did it in conjunction with an Austrian contractor. In March, we will begin comprehensive reclamation of that plot of land.
You supported us with money. Without your help, it would have been impossible to put together that much money, about four billion rubles. We should be able to reclaim the landfill in a matter of 12 months. That is, it will no longer bother the residents.
With regard to solid waste management in general, we are working on it closely with the federal Government and the Moscow Government. We have identified further joint steps, we realise that this is a serious matter, and we need to resolve it in a collaborative effort.
There was also an instruction regarding a large family. The residents were worried about a river crossing, and you issued an instruction to help resolve the issue, because the pontoon bridge was not available during the spring.
Accordingly, we met with the residents of the village of Grishino.
Vladimir Putin: Have you helped them?
Andrei Vorobyov: Yes, we have. We will put in a ferry, which will look like this. (Shows the paperwork.)
They asked us for a ferryboat without an engine, because ice can damage it. This is the ferry they asked for.
Vladimir Putin: All right.
<…>
Geography
Moscow Region
Topics
Regions
Persons
Vorobyov Andrei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 5, 2017, 17:20
Text version