Events
Meeting with Prime Minister of Japan Shinzo Abe
Vladimir Putin held a meeting with Prime Minister of Japan Shinzo Abe. 
April 27, 2017
17:50
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 5
With Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.
The agenda included implementation of the agreements reached during Mr Putin’s visit to Japan on December 15–16, 2016, and the prospects for developing bilateral cooperation in the political, trade, economic and humanitarian spheres.
Following the talks, the President of Russia and the Prime Minister of Japan made statements for the press.
* * *
Beginning of the meeting with Prime Minister of Japan Shinzo Abe
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister, colleagues,
Allow me to welcome you all to Moscow. We are very pleased to see you here in Russia’s capital. Shinzo, we have not forgotten what a warm reception you gave us in Japan, in your home province.
Japan is a good neighbour and very promising partner. During our last meeting in Yamaguti and during our talks, we agreed to intensify our relations, step up our contacts and work together. We can already review the interim results now. Progress has been made.
I hope that this visit by such a high-level Japanese delegation, headed by yourself, will produce results and enable us to outline the next steps in our joint work.
Welcome!
Prime Minister of Japan Shinzo Abe
(retranslated): This is my first visit to Moscow in the last four years. I am very pleased to have this opportunity to meet with Vladimir in Russia’s beautiful capital.
Let me take this opportunity to convey my sincere condolences to the families of those killed in the blast in the St Petersburg metro. We firmly condemn this ignoble terrorist attack. The Japanese stand together with the Russian people. Allow me to express our great solidarity.
As for bilateral relations, for the first time in three years and four months in March we held the 2+2 consultations. This meeting of our foreign and defence ministers produced good results.
Economic relations are developing in accordance with our eight-point cooperation plan. Following our meeting in Nagato, our bilateral relations are on a positive track and I value this step forward in developing our ties.
I would like to discuss a number of areas of bilateral relations today, including the issue of concluding a peace agreement, security, and the regional situation.
I propose that we hold a narrow-format meeting first, and then speak one-on-one.
<…>
See also
Press statements following Russian-Japanese talks
April 27, 2017
Geography
Japan
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Abe Shinzo
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 27, 2017, 17:50
Text version