Events
Meeting with Director of Chinese Communist Party General Office Li Zhanshu
Vladimir Putin met with Director of the General Office of the Communist Party of the People’s Republic of China Li Zhanshu.
April 26, 2017
17:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Li Zhanshu, friends, let me welcome in Moscow.
I know that you and your Russian counterpart Mr Vaino
have discussed the current state of our bilateral relations and upcoming contacts between various agencies and at the highest level.
Our next contact will be with President Xi Jinping
in Beijing on May 14–15, at the international conference the Chinese government is holding to promote the development of economic cooperation in the region and the world.
We supported these plans from the start, all the more so as they match our own plans to develop cooperation and integration processes in the post-Soviet space.
I think that this joint work will give added support to the unprecedentedly high level of bilateral relations our countries have developed over these past years. I would like to ask you to pass on my very best wishes to President Xi.
Director of the General Office of the Communist Party of China Li Zhanshu (retranslated): Mr President,
As Director of the General Office of the Communist Party of China, I know well what it means to work day and night for China’s interests. I think the same goes for you. Today, therefore, I express my great gratitude to you for finding the time to meet me, despite your busy schedule, and I pass on the best wishes from your good friend President Xi Jinping. He is ready to meet with you in mid-May in Beijing.
Thanks to the initiatives and guidance coming from President Xi Jinping and Your Excellency, Chinese-Russian relations of strategic partnership and cooperation have taken on a mature, lasting nature. Our relations have reached a very high level today.
Before my departure, I went especially to see President Xi Jinping and asked him what he wanted to pass on to you. He told me to say that today, Chinese-Russian relations are going through their best period ever in our history.
Today, our relations are deservedly called an example of relations between great powers, characterised by cooperation and mutual benefit. Today, our relations are very solid, mature, and are distinguished by strategic cooperation and a lasting nature.
He also said that despite the serious changes in the international situation, we will continue to work with you unfailingly adhering to three constants, namely: regardless of the circumstances, we will not change our policy of deepening and developing our strategic partnership and cooperation; our policy, based on joint development and prosperity, will not change; and our joint efforts to defend peace and justice and promote cooperation in the world will not change. These were the words of President Xi Jinping.
<…>
See also
Anton Vaino met with Director of Chinese Communist Party Central Committee General Office Li Zhanshu
April 26, 2017
Geography
People's Republic of China
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 26, 2017, 17:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Minister of Labour and Social Protection Maxim Topilin
Vladimir Putin held a working meeting with Minister of Labour and Social Protection Maxim Topilin.
April 26, 2017
16:10
The Kremlin, Moscow
3 of 3
Meeting with Minister of Labour and Social Protection Maxim Topilin.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Topilin, I would like to discuss with you not only current social policy issues but also the upcoming trends that we will definitely encounter due to a number of objective circumstances.
We are certainly happy with the natural population growth. We have achieved this as a result of persistent efforts to stimulate and support births, motherhood and childhood. Life expectancy is growing even faster than we expected and planned. These are, without a doubt, the results of our combined efforts.
At the same time, we know about the problems that lie in store for us and that date back to the 1990s, when the country experienced a massive, if not disastrous, decrease in the number of births.
As a result, in the very near future (experts know this very well) the number of women of reproductive age will decline, and by 2025, according to experts, their numbers will fall by 34 percent compared to 2015.
However, there is no getting away from that, because this is what we inherited from the not so distant past, from the 1990s. In this connection, the structure of our population will be changing as well. The burden on the working-age population will increase. The number of elderly people will grow while the number of births, due to objective circumstances, will evidently decline.
Needless to say, we should and we will attempt to stimulate births and will continue the policy of supporting motherhood and childhood but we need to adjust social policy as a whole. This is what I would like to discuss with you and I propose we start with this.
Minister of Labour and Social Protection Maxim Topilin
: Mr President,
Yes, the birth rate fell in the 1990s, compared to the significant increase in the birth rate 2 generations after the Great Patriotic War. There was an upsurge in the birth rate after the Great Patriotic War, when people returned from war and started families.
Vladimir Putin: This is a post-crisis phenomenon.
MaximTopilin: There was a substantial increase in the 1970s and 1980s as well. In the 1990s, the picture changed dramatically for understandable reasons, and the ‘war waves’ had their impact. In other words, the demographic situation has always depended here on various crises or conflict situations, and Russia was hit repeatedly by such waves during the twentieth century. In the 1990s, practically every year – in 1991, 1992, and in 1998–1999 – we lost practically 150,000–200,000 births every year.
Vladimir Putin: Population decrease was close to 1 million a year.
MaximTopilin: By 2006, when you set the task of drafting the new demographic project, and when the executive order on developing demographic processes was signed, we had natural population loss of around 650,000–700,000 a year.
The demographic measures that we adopted in 2006 and then in 2010 and 2012 have without question made the main contribution to producing the situation we see today. I remember that no one believed that the childbirth capital programme would produce results; no one believed that these financial incentives would work. Everyone thought this was impossible.
The objective economic picture and growing incomes all went together. The measures we took did produce results, results that, as you have said, no one expected, because the overall birth ratio, the number of children per woman of reproductive age, had fallen as low as 1.1, and when we began the demographic programme it was 1.3.
Vladimir Putin: It is 1.76 now.
MaximTopilin: 1.76, 1.75 – Rosstat [National Statistics Agency] is updating the figures. We have reached the goal we set ourselves.
I would like to reiterate that according to experts, it is extremely important that measures to stimulate births are constantly expanding. Thus, in 2006–2007, there was maternity capital and a significant growth in benefits.
At that time, we first introduced benefits for nonworking, uninsured women. That produced an upsurge. If we look at the charts, there is a surge in the number of births and the aggregate birth rate.
In 2010–2011, land programmes were launched. They are working better in some places and worse in others, but overall that also produced a certain increment. In 2013, allowances for third-born children were introduced, that was when we put forth the goal of providing incentives for the birth of a third, rather than second child.
Federation regions receive about 15–16 billion rubles a year to make these payments. They are regional [payments] and ensure a subsistence level for a child. At present, this is 10,000 [rubles a month]. It is an impressive level, significant support for the family.
We have always sought, in keeping with your directives, to use such purely demographic measures as maternity capital to support families’ current incomes, because this is also very important.
For three years, there was natural growth, not very large but a natural growth compared to the minus 600,000 in 2006 that I mentioned earlier. At present, we are considering and analysing this situation with experts. Indeed, it was predictable.
Today women in the 20–39 age bracket – the core childbearing category – number a little more than 22 million. That number will steadily fall until 2035, when there will be about 15–16 million. This figure basically should not change because all of them have already been born and are children now.
Vladimir Putin: 7.1 [million].between 20 and 29.
Maxim Topilin: Between 20 and 39.
Vladimir Putin: And between 20 and 29, it is 7.1 million.
Maxim Topilin: Yes. Today we need to continue what we started, proceeding from what I said, proceeding from the fact that we believe that demographic measures to stimulate births are working.
Secondly, these measures require constant adjustment, constant expansion, given the rather serious decline in the number of reproductive-age women. We need to work out additional measures to stem this trend.
I believe we have everything that is needed at the very least to prevent a significant drop in the number of births so as to neutralise these negative trends as much as possible.
<…>
Topics
Labour market
Social services
Persons
Topilin Maxim
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 26, 2017, 16:10
Text versionEvents
Meeting with FATF President Juan Manuel Vega-Serrano
Vladimir Putin met at the Kremlin with President of the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) Juan Manuel Vega-Serrano. Also taking part in the meeting was Head of the National Financial Monitoring Agency Rosfinmonitoring Yury Chikhanchin.
April 26, 2017
13:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 4
Meeting with President of the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) Juan Manuel Vega-Serrano.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, it is a great pleasure to meet with you.
This is the first time your organisation is holding such a big event in Moscow, an event that aims to implement the principles of the work to combat money laundering, coordinating the efforts of FATF and those of this Asian cluster (the Eurasian group on combating money laundering and financing of terrorism (EAG), which was established at Russia’s initiative and has been operating with considerable success.
I am pleased to see that under your presidency, FATF is firmly intent on actively combating financial terrorism in the world. This is a crucial area of work.
It goes without saying that we will do everything possible to facilitate efforts to reach the goals you have set.
President of FATF Juan Manuel Vega-Serrano (retranslated): Good afternoon, Mr President. Thank you very much for the invitation. It is a great pleasure to be here in the Russian Federation.
Thank you for receiving me today. I think that this meeting is evidence of Russia’s commitment at the very highest level to fighting money laundering and financing of terrorism. This is definitely very important.
It is also a pleasure to see Mr Chikhanchin
, the head of Russia’s financial monitoring service. He is a valuable professional and we appreciate him highly in our organisation, in FATF.
<…>
Topics
Economy and finance
Fight against crime
Foreign policy
Persons
Chikhanchin Yury
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 26, 2017, 13:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Head of Tatarstan Rustam Minnikhanov
Vladimir Putin met with Head of the Republic of Tatarstan Rustam Minnikhanov.
April 26, 2017
19:20
Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 3
Meeting with Head of Tatarstan Rustam Minnikhanov.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Minnikhanov, Tatarstan has long been first in many categories. However, it has unresolved problems and faces formidable challenges, as everyone does. Let us discuss everything – the republic’s socioeconomic situation as a whole.
Head of the Republic of Tatarstan Rustam Minnikhanov: First, I would like to thank you on behalf of all the people of Tatarstan for the distinguished title that you have bestowed on our venerable Mintimer Shaimiev. He fully deserves this award, which is a precious gift to our republic. I believe we will continue to work on ambitious projects with the Russian Federation and do good for our country.
I would like to report briefly on last year and the first quarter of 2017. I have put together a report, but I will cite some figures right now. Industrial output increased by 3.6 percent in 2016, and gross regional product by 2.5 percent. Investments in fixed capital, rural issues and housing – things prioritised by the May Executive Orders – all these targets have been met.
As for the first quarter, industrial output increased by 4.7 percent and gross regional product by 4.2 percent. The economic situation is improving in principle, and we can address all the other issues.
I prepared the programmes that we are implementing: more than 30 programmes for all our cities and regions. I would like to say that on your instructions (your Address to the Federal Assembly makes special note of this) we have developed an ambitious two-year programme concerning primary healthcare. All outpatient clinics and other facilities – about 180 – will be repaired within these two years, most of them this year, and the rest next year.
One of our more complicated problems has to do with banks. It started this year. Several of our banks have gone bankrupt and some depositors lost money and are concerned.
A government commission has been set up and we are actively working with the Deposit Insurance Agency and the Central Bank, and creditors are being organised.
The culprits have been detained and law enforcement officials are analysing every transaction. We will certainly have to find a mechanism: we intend to establish a special fund to support depositors who will not be able to get compensation from sold-off assets, if these assets do not suffice. That is one category.
Equity holders make up another category. We are working with them as well. The managers of two major companies have also been detained in the case.
These are the two matters we are addressing. On the whole, we are implementing big projects and our programmes, and I can say in full confidence that this year will also be a success.
<…>
Geography
Republic of Tatarstan
Topics
Banks
Industry
Social services
Persons
Minnikhanov Rustam
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 26, 2017, 19:20
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Head of Federal Antimonopoly Service Igor Artemyev
Vladimir Putin held a working meeting with Head of the Federal Antimonopoly Service Igor Artemyev.
April 26, 2017
16:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 2
Head of the Federal Antimonopoly Service Igor Artemyev.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr. Artemyev
, I would like to discuss several issues with you. You are aware of the draft presidential executive order on regulating the area of activity that you are in charge of, but which also concerns promoting competition.
You are probably aware of the criticism as well: some experts in the Presidential Executive Office and the Government believe that certain draft executive order provisions should be substantially re-worked. I would like to know what you think about this. That is first.
Second, tariffs. Tariffs are approved differently in different regions, and they vary significantly across the regions.
This affects the economy and our citizens, I mean housing and utilities. You have a proposal to organise this work based on a single ticket principle. I would also like to know your vision of it.
And the law on trade, of course. What is the FAS doing in this area? This issue is brought up constantly at various meetings, be it with business people, or the general public.
Head of the Federal Antimonopoly Service Igor Artemyev: Mr President, first with regard to the presidential executive order on the national plan for promoting competition in our country.
Firstly, this executive order is unlike any other – neither before the 1917 revolution nor after it was there ever an executive order in this country, where the head of state set guidelines for promoting competition in order to make the economy more efficient.
Today the Russian Government has completely coordinated that text. We worked in the Government for about a year and all disagreements were resolved but there are a number of legitimate comments, including some from the Presidential Executive Office, the expert administration, the Office of the Presidential Aide for Economic Issues and naturally, the State-Legal Directorate of the Executive Office.
I met with your aide, Andrei Belousov, this morning to discuss all possible changes and I think the text will be amended; we need to do a little more work to finally reach a consensus.
However, I believe it is very important that there are specific parameters that should be achieved regarding the national plan that is being drafted, analogous to the national plan for fighting corruption, which required a review every three years both by the sectors and overall, in terms of certain indicators.
Today, when the Government and the Executive Office are looking for additional reserves to boost the economy, competition remains an inexhaustible asset that we are not using very much yet.
Here, I believe we will probably need a month or a little more and, with your permission, we will present to you a fully coordinated executive order.
Vladimir Putin: Fine.
Igor Artemyev: Regarding tariff policy, I would describe what happened some time ago as ‘diverging galaxies’. It so happens that Russia never had a law on the fundamental principles of tariff policy that would be concerned precisely with fundamental principles, general rules, for example, of price formation.
For example, our water or heat regulations are indeed “diverging galaxies.” Or, say, power generation – production price formation is totally different there. Only 200 or 500 experts in the country can navigate the complexity while average people have no clue to where tariffs come from.
Of course, we are sometimes surprised when the Government and the Executive Office take a very tough approach and say that a tariff should not grow by more than 4 percent but we see a 26–30 percent growth. Why does that happen?
Because regions and local governments have a lot of loopholes for altering state policy, using these loopholes or the peculiarities of our legislation. If we had such a law – and we have drafted it now – it would not allow anything of that kind to happen.
I would like to say that tariff disparities for some water supply companies can vary by 50 times. Although we understand that there are different technologies, north to south, three-fold, four-fold, but 50 times! Power grid companies’ tariffs differ by a factor of eight. Power distribution companies, by a factor of 12 – not percentages, but times.
This is wrong, of course. Somewhere, loans are factored in – it is not clear what loans, those companies grant themselves, and this translates into a corresponding tariff. It is crucial to work very thoroughly and seriously on this law, and the Government has already recognised the need for it. The same goes for the executive order. This law is the first of its kind. It is fundamental and comprehensive.
The Government should make this effort to bring this law into being so that you could present it as a crucial foundation of future stability in this sphere. Because stability in tariffs is not only stability for our people but also for our entrepreneurs, factories and plants – everything depends on it.
As for the law on trade. After the deputies insisted on tougher language, last year it was passed; we analysed and conducted a total of about a thousand oversight events together with regional authorities throughout the country.
I would like to tell you that the deviation from the norm allowed by the law is 11 to 22 percent. Bonuses have not yet been put in order in accordance with the law; we found such violations in 22 percent of cases. Late payments in 11 percent. What does this mean?
Vladimir Putin: Sorry, one moment please. I met once again with the Council of Legislators…
Igor Artemyev: I have just seen the broadcast.
Vladimir Putin: Now manufacturers are forced to take expired goods back. There are more and more such tricks.
Igor Artemyev: We know this, Mr President. Most importantly, the maximum deviation for all types of violations for federal networks is 22 percent. Eighty percent of the networks brought their contracts and their relations with Russian producers in order; they recognise the law, do not complain, and behave in this sense much better than in past years. Life taught them a good lesson.
For example, it is much less common that we encounter the most flagrant kind of false marketing, when additional services are imposed on Russian manufacturers, which, in fact, is a kind of fraud. Therefore, after having completed all inspections, we published such a report on the website and sent it to the Government.
I am pleased to report that we are moving in the right direction, which we think is very important. And the law that was passed was passed correctly, because it was necessary to eliminate those bad practices.
Vladimir Putin: I would ask you to keep paying attention to this issue and continuously monitor the implementation of this law. And, if necessary, make suggestions for any adjustments based on the results of law enforcement practice.
Igor Artemyev: Yes, Mr President.
<…>
Topics
Housing and utilities
Support for business
Persons
Artemyev Igor
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 26, 2017, 16:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Government members
Vladimir Putin held a meeting with Government members to discuss import substitution in industry and agriculture. Other subjects of discussion included preparations for children’s summer holidays, work on the draft law on responsible treatment of animals, and the programme to build or reconstruct village cultural centres.
April 26, 2017
14:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
Meeting with Government members.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon colleagues.
Today, we will discuss one of the Government’s most important areas of work of late, import substitution in industry and agriculture.
Just yesterday, as many of you may know, since you either attended the event or saw it in the media, at a meeting on the defence industry, we looked at how import substitution is proceeding in the defence industry.
Today, I propose that we discuss the civilian sectors of the economy. Let me recall that the sudden changes in the global situation and the politically-motivated restrictions that we face highlighted our at times overly high dependence on the import of certain goods and services.
At the same time, a unique window of opportunity has opened for developing a whole range of economic sectors. This is true above all for agriculture, as the market was freed up for local producers, and for machine building and the light industry.
State support for import substitution projects is not unlimited. Our main goal is to stimulate the launch of new projects.
Over the past two years, our transport machine building has covered close to 100 percent of the domestic market. The farm machinery sector is developing rapidly. Locally produced oil and gas machinery now accounts for more than half of the domestic market. Pork consumption has risen overall, but pork imports have decreased by around a third, and poultry imports have halved.
I suggest we discuss the interim results of our import substitution efforts and outline some rational steps we can take to continue towards developing our industry to its fullest potential.
Let me single out a few matters of principle.
Firstly, it is crucial to take consumers’ interests into consideration. Russian goods must be competitive in terms of both price and quality, and should meet world demands and standards. I have spoken about this repeatedly, but want to say again now that import substitution is not an aim into itself.
Rather, we should simply seize this opportunity the current circumstances provide us to help industry regain the skills that were lost and that we need, and build new capacity, especially in the high-tech sectors. This is why we are pursuing import substitution, and not as a goal in itself. It is as simple as that.
We do not have such a goal and never did. Our task is not simply to replace imports with locally made goods, but to build up our companies’ export potential.
Secondly, as we carry out our import substitution plans, we need to preserve a competitive market environment that avoids unjustified preferences or greenhouse conditions for individual market players. We have taken the decision that even in cases where we do give preference to local producers competition must be maintained between the different Russian producers.
Thirdly, we should remember that state support for import substitution projects is not unlimited. Our main goal is to stimulate the launch of new projects, and give them a helping hand during the early phase. Their future success will depend on the responsibility and competent management policies their executives pursue.
I propose that we discuss in detail the implementation of sectorial import substitution plans, look at the results achieved and discuss any problems and issues there may be.
I would like the Industry Minister to speak on this issue, but before giving the floor to Mr Manturov
, I would first like to hear from Ms Golodets on preparations for children’s summer holidays. We had many problems in this area in recent years. What is the situation today with preparations for this important period?
At a meeting with Government members.
Deputy Prime Minister Olga Golodets
: Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, yes, we are in the midst of preparations for the summer holiday season.
This year, we plan for 8.2 million children to be involved in organised holidays. Most of them will be making use of special programmes in accordance with the newly approved Federal National Education Standards, and they will benefit from new in-depth educational programmes in various areas.
As you have mentioned, acting on your instructions, we drafted a new normative base for organising summer holidays and amended Law 465. This document established the normative and legal framework for state regulation of children’s leisure and recreation.
The agency fully responsible for coordinating the efforts of all the participants in the summer holiday process is the Education Ministry. In accordance with its current powers and responsibilities, the Education Ministry has taken a number of steps to make children’s holidays interesting and safe.
(Ms Golodets then gave a detailed report on safety matters concerning children’s tourism, road and rail transportation, and training for the accompanying personnel).
Today, the 114,000 people who will be working in the holiday camps and children’s health camps are currently undergoing training under the new professional standards. By June 1, when the season begins, the rest will have gone through the additional training as well and we will have a total of 279,651 people engaged in this sector.
It is also important to speak about education standards. These standards are set by establishments such as Sirius, Artek, Okean, and Smena. These establishments are currently developing unconventional new programmes that will be the yardsticks and models for programmes we will spread across the country.
Today, the holiday camps with their material and technical resources offer educational programmes that truly deserve great attention. These are programmes in such areas as the environment, science and technology, tourism and more.
I hope that our efforts will ensure that the children spend an interesting summer, and we will do everything we can to make their holidays completely safe.
Vladimir Putin: You noted that in St Petersburg I met with the heads of regional parliaments. Some of our colleagues had proposals and concerns to share. I would ask you to work more closely with the regions in this area.
Olga Golodets: We will.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Donskoy, what is the situation with the law on responsible treatment of animals?
Environment and Natural Resources Minister Sergei Donskoy
: Acting on your instructions, we have prepared for the second reading the draft law on responsible treatment of animals and the relevant Government draft amendments.
The agreements have gone through the approvals process with all federal agencies and the Presidential Executive Office. State Duma deputies and senators took part in the discussions and the draft amendments were submitted to the State Duma on March 21.
Russian goods must be competitive in terms of both price and quality, and should meet world demands and standards.
I have to say that this draft law has generated great interest. The first few days of public discussion generated more than 1,500 comments, proposals and requests. We tried to ensure the necessary balance in the amendments, carefully regulating the main requirements concerning treatment of animals on the one hand, and people’s safety on the other. We want to ensure humane treatment of animals, which, as we know, feel pain and fear, and we need to protect them from cruel treatment. Essentially, we have established a new system, a new area of legal relations in our country.
Let me say a few words about the draft law itself. Above all, it will regulate public relations concerning the treatment of pets, stray animals, circus and zoo animals, and service animals. The document addresses the task you set of drafting a unified state regulation policy on treatment of animals, and clearly defines and delimits the federal and regional authorities’ powers in this area.
At the federal level, the draft law sets the common principles and requirements for treatment of animals. In particular, this concerns registration of animals, requirements on their care and use, rules for transportation, walking animals, and the humane regulation of the number of stray animals.
This will enable us to organise work in the regions, taking into account local peculiarities within the limits of the set restrictions or on the federal authorities’ approval, and will ensure consistent implementation of state policy in this area, without any excesses in the regions.
In the draft law, we have tried to avoid excessive prohibitions or restrictions for decent, honest citizens. On the contrary, people who take a responsible approach towards their animals and respect the law should have added legal protection. We have decided to set a list of animals prohibited from being kept at home. These include dangerous, predatory and venomous animals that would create public outcry if kept in people’s homes.
We have planned in detail a system of state and public supervision of compliance with the law. The draft law establishes administrative penalties for cruel or irresponsible treatment of animals. In particular, the draft law sets administrative liability for violations of the law.
The draft law also sets out clearly the relevant concepts, which makes it possible to effectively apply criminal liability provisions in cases of cruel treatment of animals. For our part, we believe that the amendments the Government has drafted will make it possible to establish a comprehensive normative and legal base that regulates relations regarding the treatment of animals. Mr President, we ask you to recommend to the State Duma that it pass these government amendments in the second reading and pass the law during the spring session.
Vladimir Putin: Good. We will work with the deputies, and I recommend that you work with the Government as well.
Sergei Donskoy: Yes, we are working with them.
Vladimir Putin: There is another draft law that has caught the public eye in Moscow. I am referring to resettling residents of five-story buildings. According to the Mayor of Moscow, who reported to me on this account, the goal is to improve housing conditions for the people who live in dilapidated housing built in the 1950s.
Of course, this should be done in such a way and with the use of such tools and means so as not to violate the rights of the citizens, primarily, their property rights. All proposals should be implemented on the basis of citizens' consent to proposed terms and conditions.
Again, nothing may be forced upon people, and citizens’ rights must be respected in full. I ask the Government to pay attention to this and, in consultation with State Duma deputies, to ensure the passage of a law that will secure such rights.
I would like to say right away that I will not sign anything that violates current laws and citizens' rights. Please see to it that this law is worked through properly and thoroughly, particularly in dialogue with the public.
The implementation of a programme to build and renovate rural cultural centres is another matter that I would like to draw your attention to and discuss. I have already brought it up with the Minister of Culture, Mr Medinsky, so I would like him to say a few words about this.
Minister of Culture Vladimir Medinsky
: Mr President, the subject of the condition and the activities of rural cultural centres is long overdue. Mr Medvedev held the United Russia forum on culture in Omsk, and this issue was the subject of lively debates.
No investments have been made in rural cultural centres in the past few decades, as they turned out to be municipal property. There, too, the policy was that they received whatever funding was leftover, and have always been underfunded.
We tried to take a system-wide approach to this issue. We conducted monitoring and looked at the state of these centres. The old rural cultural centres operated in a simple and straightforward manner. There was a large party meeting room occasionally used for infrequent artistic performances and small rooms for educators, all kinds of classes, and folk art circles.
We looked at the experience of the most advanced regions that have been making an effort in this area, for example, Belgorod, Bashkortostan, and Kaluga developed several standard model cultural centres and added them to the standard documentation register, including with regard to the content of their activities.
We think it very important that cultural centres in large villages should be places where people can go for family recreation, places where the whole family can find civilised leisure and recreation options. This includes a big hall with a large television set, where men can watch hockey together.
Vladimir Putin: Why just men?
Vladimir Medinsky: It is always more interesting together than watching it alone at home.
Vladimir Putin: Of course it is more interesting together, but why only men?
Mr Medvedev, do some educational work with the Government members.
Vladimir Medinsky: For women, there is also a place where they can get together to chat with their friends.
Vladimir Putin: Is there a kitchen there?
Vladimir Medinsky: There is a big library, and a hall for choreography classes, gymnastics and table tennis. There are standardised designs that include a first aid centre at the cultural centre, with a separate entrance, which is very convenient. We have examined some of the best standardised cultural centres and have selected designs.
The next issue is finding the funding, because funds for this were not included in the state programme. We found three sources. The first is money from the programme for supporting rural areas, approximately 300 million rubles a year. This money is managed jointly by the Agriculture and Culture Ministries.
The second source is United Russia, which this year has allocated close to 1.5 billion rubles in targeted funding for modernising and repairing cultural centres.
The third source – we also looked in the budget. We found 1.5 billion for building and renovating cultural centres. This gives us more than 3 billion rubles, which will enable us to build 120–130 new cultural centres from scratch and modernise and upgrade around 30 more.
Mr Medvedev said that we would also try to continue this programme next year and further beyond, in order to gradually resolve this matter. The programme also fits in well with the programme for building big multi-functional cultural centres in small towns, in accordance with your instructions. We are completing this construction.
There will be 40 cultural centres in towns with a population of up to 100,000. This programme links in well with the programme to equip cinemas, because we also have a separate programme to buy modern equipment for local cinemas.
In cases where the town’s size makes it possible, we are building modern cinemas. These were cinemas that stopped working in the early 1990s. By the end of this year, we plan to open 467 cinemas and should bring this up to 1000, with our goal being to bring the cinema back to each district centre. We ask for your support.
Vladimir Putin: That is a great programme. Go ahead, but take into account the comments made here on this kind of measure.
<…>
Topics
Agriculture
Industry
Persons
Donskoy Sergei
Golodets Olga
Medinsky Vladimir
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 26, 2017, 14:00
Text version