Events
Meeting with graduating class teachers
The meeting on the eve of Graduate Day was attended by homeroom teachers whose students scored high during the final performance review and distinguished themselves in the preparation and holding of extracurricular events.
June 21, 2017
21:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 6
Meeting with graduating class teachers.
At the meeting with the head of state, teachers spoke about the peculiarities of the educational process in secondary schools and about fostering good values in teenagers, and also discussed opportunities of general educational institutions to provide career guidance.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends. I meet school teachers more or less regularly – not as often as I would like to but still regularly – during meetings with winners of various contests, on celebratory occasions or in connection with student results.
However, I have never met with instructors or homeroom teachers, especially on the eve of graduation day. Therefore, at the outset of our conversation I would like to extend my very best wishes to you, your students and their families on this holiday.
The holiday is truly unique. Every person, almost every person remembers it as a good and vivid event in our lives and destinies. Of course, they and you had to work hard to make it happen.
Today we are witnessing the development of many new, interesting, and effective methods and new ways of teaching. New technology is being introduced. Everything meets the requirements of today – at any rate we are striving for this. This leaves an imprint on your current activities and results.
I know that you are all from successful schools and you are all accomplished and successful teachers. You have medallists and winners of academic contests but naturally, apart from the strictly professional success achieved by you and your students, you also have to deal with a different component of your work – upbringing.
I suggest discussing all components, your thoughts about the results of this year. Maybe you have suggestions on what else the relevant ministry should be doing and in general, how we should adjust the school system to make it even more effective than it is today.
Needless to say, I hope very much and we all hope that on entering their new, adult life and acquiring new qualities, your students will make the most of the knowledge and skills they received at school. I am referring not simply to knowledge but also – and this is no less important – to the fundamental principles of a person’s attitude to life that you certainly tried to develop in them.
Acquiring knowledge is not easy, especially given the extent of it today, but this task is still secondary compared to the upbringing of young people, which develops in them the right attitude to themselves, their friends, families and the Motherland. These are absolutely fundamental things.
Only if this is achieved it is possible to hope that young people will be well-rounded and content with life while being easy to deal with.
This is what you have been doing not only as experts in different disciplines but also as educators, as homeroom teachers.
We do not have a strict agenda. Mr Fursenko [Presidential Aide], Ms Vasilieva [Minister of Education and Science] and I are all at your disposal.
<…>
Topics
School
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 21, 2017, 21:00
Text versionEvents
Press statements following Russian-Brazilian talks
June 21, 2017
16:20
The Kremlin, Moscow
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen,
I have just had very productive talks with President of the Federative Republic of Brazil Michel Temer. On both sides, we reaffirmed our commitment to developing mutually advantageous bilateral cooperation.
I would like to emphasise that Brazil is one of Russia’s key partners. Our bilateral cooperation is based on many years of friendship and mutual respect.
Our two countries established diplomatic relations nearly 190 years ago. Brazil was the first Latin American country with which Russia established official inter-state ties.
Mr Temer and I made a detailed examination of all cooperation areas today, with particular focus on economic matters.
We noted that although we saw a decrease of 11 percent in our bilateral trade last year, this year, not only has our trade recovered, but it is now growing at quite a confident pace.
We supported the ambitious programme for developing reciprocal trade flows and diversifying our import-export operations structure approved during the intergovernmental commission meeting in May.
Russian business is quite actively investing in Brazil. Total Russian investment now exceeds $1.5 billion.
Regarding the energy sector, I would like to note projects successfully underway in Brazil. Our biggest energy companies Rosneft and Gazprom
are working in Brazil. Our company Siloviye Mashiny has built five new hydropower stations in Brazil and will localise production of hydroturbine equipment in Brazil.
Russian transport companies are ready to take part in carrying out Brazil’s new programme for modernising the national infrastructure. Talks are already underway on obtaining concessions for building and operating a north-south railway line.
There are promising projects in nuclear energy. The Russian company Rosatom won a tender at the start of this year to supply uranium to Brazilian nuclear power plants. The company is ready and would also like to win the contract for building a storage facility for spent nuclear fuel at the Angra nuclear power plant site in the state of Rio de Janeiro.
We have close cooperation in peaceful space exploration. An electro-optic facility to detect space junk has opened in Brazil. Four ground stations that are part of the Russian GLONASS
global satellite navigation system are operating on Brazilian soil. We are studying possibilities for joint launches from a Brazilian space launch centre and the production of light and medium-class space launch vehicles.
There are ideas for developing cooperation in earth monitoring from space. We see good prospects for supporting existing technology alliances and establishing new ones. One such alliance has been formed by the Skolkovo Fund and the Brazilian Technopak innovative centre.
We see good prospects for expanding cultural and humanitarian cooperation. I am referring here to educational, tourist and youth contacts. A Brazilian information and cultural centre will open soon in Moscow and a Russian culture and science centre will open in Sao Paulo.
Our countries have established a productive exchange of experience in organising major sports events.
Of course, we also discussed the international agenda. Russia and Brazil work actively together in foreign policy. We have largely similar positions regarding the formation of a just and democratic system of international relations based on respect for the principles of rule of law and equal and indivisible security for all.
Our countries work together constructively at the UN, the G20, the World Trade Organisation, and, of course, we cooperate particularly closely within the BRICS
group.
The President and I have just signed a joint statement on strategic foreign policy dialogue. This document pursues a higher level of coordination of our countries’ efforts in fighting new challenges and threats such as terrorism, in supporting peace and stability, and in non-proliferation and arms control.
In conclusion, I would like to thank Mr Temer and our Brazilian colleagues for the substantive and useful talks. I am certain that they will contribute towards further developing our bilateral partnership.
Thank you for your attention.
President of Brazil Michel Temer
(retranslated): Mr President, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen,
It is my pleasure to say how happy I am to visit the Russian Federation once again at President Putin’s invitation. Yesterday, I had the opportunity of meeting with the Speakers of the State Duma
and the Federation Council
, and today, I met with the Prime Minister of the Russian Federation.
Just a few minutes ago, we concluded very substantive talks with President Putin, during which we reiterated our commitment to supporting and developing the strategic partnership our countries have.
Brazil and Russia are aware of the role they play on the international arena, in particular within the G20 and the BRICS group. Our countries can be justifiably proud of their rich history and Brazilians honour the memory of the Soviet and Russian soldiers who gave up their lives and secured victory over Nazism in World War II.
We also have very strong cultural ties. In general, Russian culture has a very noticeable presence in Brazil. Only yesterday evening, President Putin and I went to the Bolshoi Theatre and watched a ballet performance. The names of Dostoyevsky and Tchaikovsky are an integral part of our cultural scene.
During my talks with President Putin, I told him about the efforts our country is making to modernise its economy. I reiterated my commitment to the policy of reform. Like Russia, Brazil is firmly following the path of economic growth.
Like Brazil, Russia managed to bring inflation processes under control, and we will continue to follow this path.
In fact, this sums up the agreements that we have just signed. In other words, these agreements are designed to expand mutual trade, increase investment, and deepen political dialogue.
President Putin and I have agreed that we still have untapped potential in terms of bilateral trade. Suffice it to say that bilateral trade increased by 40 percent over the first five months of this year compared to the same period last year.
However, we still have an untilled field to work on. As I told Russian entrepreneurs yesterday speaking at a business forum, the opportunities for Russian investors in Brazil are vast.
During talks with Mr Putin, I assured my colleague that during the next six months, when Brazil will temporarily preside over MERCOSUR, it would do its best to advance the preparation of an agreement on cooperation with the EAEU.
We also discussed issues on the international agenda and agreed that international institutions should be more representative and effective. We also exchanged views on critical issues on the international agenda, including peace and international security.
We exchanged views on cooperation in key areas of mutual interest. We agreed that we must put our strategic partnership to work in achieving progress in our relations. We gave a positive assessment to our experience in establishing Russian GLONASS stations in Brazil. We expressed our interest in expanding the network of these stations.
I took the opportunity to wish Mr Putin success in holding the 2018 Football World Cup. I have no doubt that Russia will have everything ready on time. I am also certain that the Football World Cup in Russia will be just as successful as it was in Brazil.
Our national team has qualified for the World Cup and will be coming to Russia in 2018. I believe this will be a big celebration for the Brazilians and the Russians. Who knows, perhaps our teams will meet in the final.
I know well the subject of Brazilian-Russian relations, as I was a co-chair of the high-level intergovernmental commission on cooperation for a number of years. I am therefore aware of what we can do to better serve our peoples’ interests. Mr Putin, I am convinced that today we took a very big step towards this future.
Once again, I thank you for the hospitality my delegation and I have found here. We will return to Brazil with even greater confidence in the future.
See also
Russian-Brazilian talks
June 21, 2017
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 21, 2017, 16:20
Text versionEvents
Beginning of meeting with President of Brazil Michel Temer
June 21, 2017
13:45
The Kremlin, Moscow
With President of Brazil Michel Temer.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, colleagues, friends, allow me to greet you once again.
I think we had a very good evening together yesterday. Today, you have a busy programme. You just had a meeting with the Russian Federation Prime Minister, and you have meetings ahead with the speakers of the two houses of Russia’s parliament, which will give you the opportunity to discuss all areas of our cooperation.
Our relations have deep roots: next year, we will mark 190 years since our two countries established diplomatic relations.
Brazil is undoubtedly one of our priority, most important partners in Latin America. We work together at all international organisations and, of course, this is particularly true of our collaboration within the BRICS
group.
Unfortunately, our bilateral trade underwent a decrease last year, but it has already posted an increase of more than 30 percent over the first four months of this year.
We will have the opportunity to discuss all of these different areas.
It is a great pleasure to see you. Welcome!
President of Brazil Michel Temer
(retranslated): Mr President, it is a great pleasure to see you again. If I recall correctly, we last met in India at the BRICS summit. We had a very good discussion that we continued during the dinner, where we were seated next to each other.
This is now my fourth official visit to Russia. I had the pleasure of visiting Russia as co-chair of the high-level commission on cooperation and we had a number of effective meetings in Brazil and in Russia. These meetings produced concrete results that were translated into practical action.
Russia and Brazil have many things in common. Our countries both have vast territories and large populations, and our economies have many similarities as well. During that dinner at the BRICS summit, we discussed these common features of our economies.
One of these common features is that we are conducting a successful fight against inflation. When I became President of Brazil last year, we had an inflation rate of around 10 percent. Now, we have brought it down to 3.6 percent. This, as you would agree, is an impressive reduction.
Another indicator important for both economies is interest rates. When I became President, the interest rate was 14.25, and it is now down to 10.25 percent. We expect that we will be able to bring the interest rate down even further very soon.
Mr President, you have always said that our countries pursue a very frank and open dialogue. We conduct this dialogue within the BRICS group, the G20, and at the United Nations, where we have similar positions on a great many issues.
<…>
See also
Russian-Brazilian talks
June 21, 2017
See also
Visit to Bolshoi Theatre
June 20, 2017
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 21, 2017, 13:45
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Royal Dutch Shell CEO Ben van Beurden
Vladimir Putin met with CEO of Royal Dutch Shell Ben van Beurden to discuss, in particular, the implementation of the Nord Stream 2 project.
June 21, 2017
17:45
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 4
CEO of Royal Dutch Shell Ben van Beurden (centre).
Royal Dutch Shell is one of the world leaders in the energy and petrochemicals sectors, operating in more than 70 countries, and has a close partnership with Russia.
* * *
Beginning of the meeting with CEO of Royal Dutch Shell Ben van Beurden
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr van Beurden, colleagues,
Allow me to cordially welcome you to Moscow and congratulate you on the 125th anniversary of your company's operations in Russia.
The company started out with kerosene exports from the Russian Empire, namely Baku, to third countries. Now, the company is widely represented in Russia, and we have very good prospects and big plans. I will be pleased to discuss them with you today.
CEO of Royal Dutch Shell Ben van Beurden: Thank you very much, Mr President. As always, it is a pleasure to meet, and it is an honour to be back in Moscow again. You are right, 2017 is a very special year for us because it is, as you said, 125 years since we started working in and with Russia.
You have been well briefed, Mr President. It started, indeed, with the first ever bulk kerosene transport from Baku to Singapore in the Shell Murex. It was a huge success, and one could argue it was the beginning of the modern oil transportation era, and definitely the foundation of the success of our company.
But this success would not have been possible without the strong partnership from our Russian friends in those days. And that partnership, of course, has strengthened and flourished for many years since then. I am very happy and very proud of what we have done in Russia, the contribution that we have made in establishing new energy systems like LNG, and contributing to new field development.
So this time I come to Moscow specially to say “spasibo” to you, Mr President, to Russia, for the trust, for the confidence, and for the welcome that we have enjoyed for 125 years.
But I also come to say that I am optimistic about our business and the future of our business in Russia. There have been some very important developments. Recently we agreed and executed the loan agreements on Nordstream-2. And I believe Nordstream-2 is a very good project, a project that will enhance energy supply security in Europe, and a project that both Europe and Russia will benefit from.
But also, in Moscow today, I detect another sense of optimism – optimism about the match that is going to be played tonight. It is a very important match, Mr President, and I hope that, despite your very busy schedule, you will find some time to enjoy aspects of it.
Vladimir Putin: I am not sure about football, but with regard to our plans, including the Nord Stream-2 project, which you mentioned, it has every chance to be successful.
I always emphasise the fact that this is a purely commercial project and, of course, it is tied to the prospective increase in gas consumption in Europe to 510 billion cubic metres per year at a time when domestic production in European countries, including northern Europe, will be declining.
I think all we need to do is to calmly explain to all our partners, all stakeholder countries and legal entities that this project is not directed against anyone, but, on the contrary, is designed to promote the development of energy markets.
Of course, energy can be obtained from other sources. It is all about competitiveness, logistics and the cost of these components. I believe that we need to maintain a patient and friendly dialogue with all our partners.
<…>
Topics
Energy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 21, 2017, 17:45
Text version