Events
Vladimir Putin supported Viktor Medvedchuk’s proposed prisoner exchange between Ukraine and Donetsk and Lugansk republics
November 15, 2017
15:40
Istra, Moscow Region
During Vladimir Putin's visit to the Voskresensky New Jerusalem Monastery. With Leader of the Ukrainian Choice – People’s Right movement Viktor Medvedchuk (right).
During Vladimir Putin's visit to the Voskresensky New Jerusalem Monastery, Viktor Medvedchuk, the leader of the Ukrainian Choice – People’s Right movement, sought the Russian President’s support for his proposed prisoner exchange between Ukraine and the Donetsk and Lugansk republics.
* * *
Leader of the Ukrainian Choice – People’s Right movement Viktor Medvedchuk: Mr President, may I make a request that concerns hundreds of people behind bars on both sides of the contact line?
It so happens that today marks 14 months since the last such exchange. As you are aware, I have been dealing with exchanges since 2014, and the reason for this situation is that, according to the Minsk agreements, exchanges are to be made according to the ”all for all“ formula.
Ukraine currently faces difficulties in implementing this principle. Objectively, under current law, Ukraine cannot adhere to this principle with regard to all persons, primarily, with regard to those who are charged with particularly serious crimes.
However, despite this, a large number of people are ready to be exchanged. Ukraine is prepared to release 306 people, and expects Donetsk and Lugansk to release 74 people. This could be done before the New Year and Christmas holidays.
That is why I am asking you to use your authority and to show compassion by asking the heads of the unrecognised republics – Mr Zakharchenko and Mr Plotnitsky – to go ahead with this exchange as the first stage of an ”all for all“ exchange and to release these individuals.
As a result, as many as 380 people could return home to their families and friends. I think it would be a very important step towards fulfilling the Minsk agreements and finalising peace in Donbass. If I may, I have the following request.
I believe I have the support of the Russian Orthodox Church represented by His Holiness Patriarch Kirill – who is constantly working on this issue – and the Ukrainian Orthodox Church represented by Metropolitan Onufriy.
Patriarch Kirill of Moscow and All Russia: Mr President, I do support this.
We discussed all these issues and I know that you have very strong feelings about these people’s fate. Blessed Metropolitan Onufriy repeatedly appealed to me with requests and, as you know, some of them were fulfilled and some were not.
The church’s role in such conflicts is, of course, primarily humanitarian. People are suffering. They are victims of this terrible conflict, which has caused the suffering of so many.
For my part, I also ask you to support this idea and to work together to see this excellent effort through.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: I will do all I can and speak with the leadership of the Donetsk and Lugansk republics.
I hope what you are proposing will be done as soon as possible.
See also
Visiting New Jerusalem Monastery
November 15, 2017
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 15, 2017, 15:40
Text versionPresident of Armenia Serzh Sargsyan: Thank you, Mr President. I am happy to have this chance to meet.Events
Meeting with Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin and Russian Railways CEO Oleg Belozerov
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin and Russian Railways CEO Oleg Belozerov.
November 15, 2017
17:45
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 7
Meeting with Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin and Russian Railways CEO Oleg Belozerov.
Mr Sobyanin
and Mr Belozerov
presented to the President a project to build a new above-ground metro line in Moscow.
In addition, the participants discussed Russian Railways’ performance in 2017 and plans to expand transport infrastructure in the Moscow Region.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: We wanted to discuss the joint work of Russian Railways and the Moscow Mayor’s Office on developing transport infrastructure of the capital.
Who wants to begin?
Mayor of Moscow Sergei Sobyanin: Mr President, at your instruction, we are implementing a major project to develop the Moscow transport hub, which includes the construction of roads, junctions, and the metro. We are making strides in this area.
As you correctly said, developing rail transportation is one of the key projects in developing the Moscow transport hub. The Moscow Central Circle, which was implemented under your supervision and at your instruction, is the first such major project.
Currently, more than 400,000 passengers use the Moscow Central Circle every day. It is key infrastructure.
Improving commuter traffic and building new main tracks is our next project, which we are implementing in conjunction with Russian Railways. Two such projects in the Leningrad direction and the Kiev direction have been implemented. As a result, a ride from Zelenograd to Moscow now takes 24 minutes.
Next, we will focus on the Yaroslavl, Gorky, Kursk, Belarus directions, where we will build new main tracks within the next 12–18 months. We are moving fast to get there.
The rolling stock is being quickly replaced, with 30 percent already upgraded. As a result, the number of commuter passengers went up by a third to over 600 million passengers a year, meaning that two million people use commuter transport on a daily basis.
This is an enormous amount of transport work, which, of course, improves the situation. Finally, building freeways is our third project, which we have begun to discuss with Russian Railways, and which we briefly discussed with you.
Today, a commuter train reaches a station in Moscow and stops there, as this is effectively a dead end. Expanding the infrastructure closer to a Moscow station is a problem, since it is already in the city. What we have as a result is inefficient use of this resource, lower speeds, and a disconnection between these tracks.
So, together with Russian Railways, we came up with a solution where we will connect disparate parts of these tracks and create pass-through tracks. Here, using the example of the Belorussky or Savelovsky directions we can see that, in fact, we will be building a new ground-based metro line of about 50 kilometres, which will transport 42 million people.
The speed of travel from one end to the other will double. Today, for example, it takes at least two hours to get to Odintsovo from Lobnya on any type of transport. If you choose to use public transportation, you will have to transfer three times. With our solution, it will take less than an hour without any transfers.
In the case of Moscow, a ride across the city within the Moscow Ring Road will take less than 40 minutes. This is a completely new type of transport.
If we built such a line in the form of a metro, it would take about 250 billion rubles and many years of work. Under our plan, we will do it in 12–18 months while spending a minimal amount of money. Of course, this will have a major social effect.
The Rizhsko-Paveletskoye direction, which will also transport about 40 million passengers and also see a doubling of speeds, is the second such project, which can be implemented in a short amount of time as well.
We can create anywhere from 5 to 15 such directions, depending on the need and the passenger traffic. Of course, we can do the work in the first two directions fairly quickly without capital investments. The remaining directions will require certain capital works, and they can be implemented within five years.
However, this is an absolutely realistic project that will change the situation in the Moscow transport hub. It will be used by about 300 million passengers, and the entire transport infrastructure will have 10 to 12 percent fewer passengers, including the motorways and the Moscow Ring Road.
This will affect not only these passengers, but also all the people who live in Greater Moscow. I hope that our colleagues from Russian Railways will support it, especially since this will be a joint project financed from the municipal budget and the reserve resources of Russian Railways. We do not yet see any need for additional funds from the federal budget. We believe we will cope using our resources.
Russian Railways CEO Oleg Belozerov: Mr President, last year’s decisions regarding passenger transportation, including setting VAT at zero, have produced very good results as we can see this year. First, we plan to cross a psychological threshold at the end of this year when we surpass one billion passengers.
At the moment, we are going at a rate of 9.5 percent growth. In conjunction with the Moscow authorities, we are considering significant projects. For us, they are important from the standpoint of developing digital technologies and the capabilities of our Russian railways.
Colleagues from abroad come to us, look at the Moscow Central Circle and try to learn from our experience. At the same time, we are starting to replicate such projects: St Petersburg, Kazan, and Novosibirsk have expressed interest in them.
Moscow railway stations account for 65 percent of suburban transportation in Russian Railways’ total traffic. The construction of such pass-through tracks will make it possible not only to transport passengers inside Moscow, but also to combine this with region-to-region transportation and launch high-speed rail in Moscow as well.
Moscow will be able to become a good air hub, because, according to our plans, once we complete this project, all rides between the airports will be no more than one hour. This is the time that passengers need for such transfers. So, this new living standard, which is being formed here, will be replicated in the rest of our country.
Sergei Sobyanin: Mr President, we would like you to issue an instruction so that we can consider this project one of the priorities within the Moscow transport hub.
Vladimir Putin: Will do. When can you start working on it?
Sergei Sobyanin: The first two projects are the most efficient and account for 30 percent of the total volume of the project. We are ready to start next year and have it done either in late 2018 or mid-2019. That is, the deadline is fairly tight.
For the remaining projects, we will need five years to do the design and complete capital construction. We will try to have it done earlier.
Vladimir Putin: Good. Let us begin.
<…>
Geography
Moscow
Topics
Transport
Persons
Belozerov Oleg
Sobyanin Sergei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 15, 2017, 17:45
Text versionEvents
Opening of Days of Armenian Culture in Russia
Vladimir Putin and President of Armenia Serzh Sargsyan opened the Days of Armenian Culture in Russia during a ceremony at the Tretyakov Gallery.
November 15, 2017
20:55
Moscow
Opening of Days of Armenian Culture in Russia
The Russian President also presented his Armenian counterpart with the painting “Demon and Angel with Tamara’s Soul” by Mikhail Vrubel, which was stolen in Yerevan 22 years ago.
The two countries’ leaders toured an exhibition by Armenian artist Martiros Saryan.
Earlier today, the Russian and Armenian presidents met at the Kremlin.
* * *
Transcript of opening ceremony of the Days of Armenian Culture in Russia
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Sargsyan, friends,
I am happy to welcome you at the State Tretyakov Gallery for the opening ceremony of the Days of Armenian Culture in Russia.
During my talks with Mr Sargsyan earlier today we both highly praised the multifaceted cooperation of our countries. It has been successfully and dynamically progressing in all areas, both in the bilateral format and in the framework of the multilateral organisations CIS, CSTO, and the Eurasian Economic Union.
This year we celebrate a number of milestone dates, which are of importance to us. In April we marked the 25th anniversary of diplomatic relations, and in August the 20th anniversary of the Treaty of Friendship, Cooperation and Mutual Assistance.
Russia and Armenia are bonded by truly allied ties. Our countries are earnestly striving to enhance mutually beneficial cooperation and all-encompassing strategic partnership.
Days of Armenian Culture in Russia opening ceremony. With President of Armenia Serzh Sargsyan.
We are brought closer together by many centuries of history, spiritual kinship, and genuine interest in each other’s traditions and customs. Bonds between people, friends and families dating back centuries have been carried through generations.
It is no accident that we have always paid special attention to the development of humanitarian collaboration, maintaining close contacts in culture, education and art.
The Days of Armenian Culture are yet another opportunity for Russians to discover new facets of the historical and cultural heritage of the ancient people of this friendly country.
See also
Vladimir Putin and Serzh Sargsyan toured Tretyakov Gallery
November 15, 2017
And in this respect I would like to note the sheer number and variety of the coming events that will take place around Russia until late November. They include shows by the Yerevan Drama Theatre, concerts by the state youth orchestra and dance company, film screenings, exhibitions of jewellery and traditional costumes.
The Over state chamber choir has given a brilliant concert at the Temple Complex of the Armenian Apostolic Church today. An exhibition of architectural cross-stones (khachkars) also welcomed visitors. The State Tretyakov Gallery is opening an exhibition of works by National Artist of the USSR Martiros Saryan, an outstanding painter who naturally blended in his art the style of the Russian school of painting, Oriental traditions and those of 20th century European art. His works and his name are our shared heritage, and, of course, a source of pride for both Armenia and Russia.
Such dazzling, direct projects as Culture Days bring us closer together and unite us, engender sincere emotions in people, and serve to strengthen friendship and cooperation. I am confident that humanitarian cooperation will continue to play a key role in our partnership, which meets the interests of the two countries’ peoples.
Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to hand over to Mr Sargsyan Mikhail Vrubel’s painting Demon and Angel with Tamara’s Soul. It was painted in 1891 and is part of the series of illustrations for Mikhail Lermontov’s poem Demon.
Vladimir Putin hands over Mikhail Vrubel’s painting, Demon and Angel with Tamara’s Soul, stolen from Yerevan 22 years ago, to Armenian President Serzh Sargsyan. Law enforcement agencies recovered the painting, after which it was sent to the Tretyakov Gallery for restoration.
This canvass has a complicated, I would even say dramatic history. It was stolen from the Museum of Russian Art in Yerevan more than 20 years ago in 1995. Last year it was recovered. The best restorers of the Tretyakov Gallery reclaimed its original appearance. They have just told us about it – they worked on it every day for seven months. And now visitors to the Museum of Russian Art in Yerevan will able to see this work by the famous Russian artist.
Additional
Meeting with President of Armenia Serzh Sargsyan
November 15, 2017
In conclusion I would like to thank all the participants and organisers of the Days of Armenian Culture in Russia, and I want to wish the visitors vivid, lasting impressions.
Thank you for your attention.
President of Armenia Serzh Sargsyan
: Mr President, friends,
It is a great pleasure for me to participate in the opening ceremony of the Days of Armenian Culture in Russia here at the Tretyakov Gallery, one of the world’s major and most famous museums.
This event marks the 25th anniversary of diplomatic relations between our countries and the 20th anniversary of the Treaty of Friendship, Cooperation and Mutual Assistance between the Republic of Armenia and the Russian Federation.
President of Armenia Serzh Sargsyan at the opening of the Days of Armenian Culture in Russia.
These significant dates are indicators of the new qualitative level of the Armenian-Russian strategic union built on a foundation of friendship that goes back centuries and unites the fates of our brotherly peoples.
We have always stood side by side, both in times of peace and through difficult ordeals. Our fathers and grandfathers fought together against a common enemy. I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for the memorial of two-time Hero of the Soviet Union, Marshall Ivan Bagramyan, which was recently unveiled in the Central Museum of the Great Patriotic War in Moscow.
With the passage of time, our countries and our peoples’ lives have gone through drastic changes. However, the mutual appreciation and sincerity between Armenia and Russia, influenced by ordinary peoples’ fates, have remained unchanged. In the past 25 years, we have also achieved impressive progress in developing our cultural relations.
Devoted to traditional values and customs, our nations have always been open and deeply interested in sharing their cultures. We have so many things in common, including hospitability, kindness, sociability, passion and, of course, openness to everything new.
Days of Armenian Culture in Russia opening ceremony. With President of Armenia Serzh Sargsyan.
Russia is rightfully seen as one of the world’s cultural centres. There is a reason that a substantial number of Armenian authors, musicians, architects and artists not only studied at Russian arts schools but also continued their glorious traditions and create our common cultural legacy.
We can imagine neither Armenian nor Russian culture without outstanding creative figures like Ivan Aivazovsky, Aram Khachaturian, Arno Babajanian, Mikael Tariverdiev and many other people of culture who became symbols of Armenian-Russian friendship.
It is no coincidence that we are opening the Days of Armenian Culture with an exhibition of masterpieces by Martiros Saryan, one of the greatest artists of the 20th century, who effectively combined the artistic traditions of the East with new trends of 20th century Russian and European art.
A memorial plaque honouring the great master has been unveiled in Moscow today on the building where he once lived. Fifty years ago, Saryan said that art can humanise all marvellous discoveries of science and technology and bring them ever closer to the people. Such was Saryan’s perception of the world as well as his understanding of culture, immortalised by universal human and extra-temporal ideas within his creative work.
I am confident that we will eventually have new cultural masters like Saryan, Aivazovsky, Khachaturian and Tariverdiev and that our cultural cooperation will grow with new vivid and interesting projects.
Friends, indicatively, the Days of Armenian Culture are taking place not only in Moscow and St Petersburg but also in the Russian regions too. This is an excellent opportunity to get to know each other even better, to open up new pages of our country’s history together with that of our nation’s culture.
I am confident that this major cultural project will spur the development of bilateral relations and their subsequent mutual enrichment. Our country has always been interested in the unique literary and musical heritage of Russian culture, Russian architectural landmarks and the traditions of the people of Russia.
Days of Armenian Culture in Russia opening ceremony. With President of Armenia Serzh Sargsyan.
I believe that this feeling is mutual, and that representatives of the cultural and artistic communities and the public at large, including the younger generation, will be equally interested in the events, which are part of the days of Armenian Culture.
In conclusion, I would like to sincerely thank the President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin for supporting this event the scale of which is quite unique. It is precisely these initiatives that weave the living fabric of our friendship.
I would also like to say a specially thank you for returning to Armenia the work of the great artist Mikhail Vrubel, Demon and Angel with Tamara’s Soul, that was stolen from Armenia in 1995.
I would like to thank our Russian friends for organising today’s exhibition as well as the entire cycle of events, due to take place during the Days of Culture, in such a thorough and, what is most important, wholehearted manner.
I would like to wish everyone here as well as all those taking part in the upcoming events all the best and I hope that it will be an interesting experience.
Thank you all very much.
Geography
Armenia
Topics
Culture
Persons
Sargsyan Serzh
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 15, 2017, 20:55
Text version