Events
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad made a working visit to Russia
On November 20, President Vladimir Putin had talks with President of the Syrian Arab Republic Bashar al-Assad who was in Russia on a working visit.
November 21, 2017
08:00
Sochi
3 of 8
With President of the Syrian Arab Republic Bashar al-Assad.
Vladimir Putin also introduced Bashar al-Assad to senior officials of the Russian Defence Ministry and the General Staff of the Russian Armed Forces who were in Sochi to attend another series of meetings on military construction and the State Armament Programme.
* * *
Beginning of meeting with President of Syria Bashar al-Assad
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, friends,
Welcome to Sochi. First, let me congratulate you on Syria’s results in combating terrorist groups as well as on the fact that the Syrian people, despite a very difficult ordeal, are gradually moving towards the final and inevitable defeat of the terrorists.
Mr President, as you know, I will meet with my colleagues – the presidents of Turkey and Iran – here in Sochi the day after tomorrow. We have agreed to hold additional consultations with you during our meeting. Of course, the main subject on the agenda is a peaceful and lasting political settlement in Syria after the routing of the terrorists.
As you know, in addition to the partners I have mentioned we are also working closely together with other countries, such as Iraq, the United States, Egypt, Saudi Arabia and Jordan. We maintain constant contact with these partners.
I would like to talk with you about the basic principles of the political process and the Syrian National Dialogue Congress, the idea of which you have supported. I would like to hear your opinions on the current situation and development prospects and your views on the political process, which should ultimately be implemented under the UN auspices. We also hope that the UN will join the [political] process at its final stage.
I am glad to see you. Welcome to Russia.
President of Syria Bashar al-Assad
(retranslated): Thank you very much, Mr President.
I am very glad to have this opportunity to meet with you two years and several weeks after Russia launched a very successful operation.
Over this period, we have achieved major success both on the battlefield and on the political track. Many regions in Syria have been liberated from the terrorists, and the Syrians who had to flee from these regions can now return there.
It should be acknowledged that the operation brought progress to the political settlement in Syria. And the process which was started and which Russia promoted with various efforts continues, above all, based on respect for the UN Charter, the state’s sovereignty and independence. This stance has been defended at various international platforms, including the talks in Astana. The same goes for the plans to hold the Syrian National Dialogue Conference in a few days. Today we have an excellent opportunity to discuss both the upcoming conference and the upcoming summit, and to coordinate our views on the next steps.
First, I would like to take an opportunity and pass congratulations and gratitude from the Syrian people to you, Mr President, for our joint success in defending Syria’s territorial integrity and independence. We would like to extend our gratitude to those institutions of the Russian state that provided assistance – primarily, the Russian Defence Ministry that has supported us throughout this operation. Also I would like to pass our gratitude to the Russian people who remain a friendly nation to us. They have supported us all along.
Thank you very much.
Vladimir Putin: You mentioned the Astana talks. I also think they were quite a success. Thanks to the Astana process we managed to create de-escalation zones, which allowed us to start the first real and in-depth dialogue with the opposition.
Based on the outcome of this meeting, I will consult further with the leaders of the countries I just mentioned. A conversation with the Emir of Qatar is scheduled for today. Tomorrow, I am speaking with US President Donald Trump
. After that, I am speaking with the leaders of the countries in the region.
As you know, the so-called Riyadh opposition group will hold a meeting in Riyadh on November 22–23. Our representative, Mr Lavrentyev, will attend the opening and closing of this meeting, as well as a news conference, as a special presidential envoy. Therefore, I believe that our meeting today is a very good opportunity to coordinate our approaches on all settlement issues. I am glad that we can do this.
Bashar al-Assad: At this stage, and especially after our victories over the terrorists, we are interested in promoting the political process. We believe that the political situation that has developed in the regions offers an opportunity for progress in the political process. We hope Russia will support us by ensuring the external players’ non-interference in the political process, so that they will only support the process waged by the Syrians themselves.
We do not want to look back. We will accept and talk with anyone who is really interested in a political settlement.
Vladimir Putin: Very good. You have mentioned the completion of the military operation. I believe that terrorism is a global problem and the fight against it is, of course, far from over. As for our joint efforts against the terrorists in Syria, this military operation is nearing completion indeed.
I believe that the main task now is to launch the political process. I am glad that you are ready to work with anyone who wants peace and conflict resolution.
<…>
With President of the Syrian Arab Republic Bashar al-Assad at a meeting with senior officials of the Russian Defence Ministry and the General Staff of the Russian Armed Forces.
Meeting with senior officials of the Defence Ministry and the General Staff of the Russian Armed Forces
Vladimir Putin: I have asked the President of Syria to attend our meeting.
I want him to see those who have played the key role in saving Syria.
Of course, Mr Assad knows some of you personally. He told me at our talks today that the Russian Army has saved Syria as a state. Much has been done to stabilise the situation in Syria. I hope that we will close the chapter on the fight against terrorism in Syria, although some seats of tension will remain or will flare up again.
There are more than enough problems with terrorism in the world, including in the Middle East and Syria. But our main mission is almost accomplished, and I hope we will be able to say that we have accomplished it soon.
We have held very substantial talks with the President of Syria today on all aspects related to normalisation, including subsequent steps on the political track. As you know, we will hold a trilateral meeting here in Sochi. However, I would like to say that conditions for a political process could not have been created without the armed forces, without your efforts and the efforts and heroism of your subordinates. This goal has been achieved thanks to the Russian Armed Forces and our Syrian friends on the battlefield. Thank you for this.
Bashar al-Assad (retranslated): President of Russia Vladimir Putin and I have just held talks. I have conveyed to him, and on his behalf to the Russian people, our gratitude for Russia’s efforts to save our country.
I would like to highlight the contribution of the Russian Armed Forces and the sacrifices they have made to achieve this goal. I was very glad to learn that you, those of you who were directly involved in the operation [in Syria] and who commanded the activities of the Russian Armed Forces in Syria will be present here today.
The operation barely started when I met with President Putin in Moscow two years ago. In the two years since then we can see the success that has been achieved thanks to cooperation between the Russian Aerospace Forces and the Syrian Army. Nobody can deny this success in the fight against terrorism now. Thanks to your actions, as well as the actions of the Syrian Army and our allies, many Syrians have returned home.
Speaking on behalf of the Syrian people, I would like to express our gratitude for what you have accomplished. We will never forget this. Also, I would like to thank personally President Vladimir Putin, [Defence Minister] Sergei Shoigu
and [Chief of the General Staff] Valery Gerasimov
for their direct involvement in this operation.
Thank you very much.
Geography
Syria
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
al-Assad Bashar
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 21, 2017, 08:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting on fulfilling state defence order
Vladimir Putin held a regular meeting with senior officials of the Defence Ministry and defence industry of Russia, focusing on issues related to fulfilling the state defence order.
November 21, 2017
17:00
Sochi
Meeting on fulfilling state defence order.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
During our meetings in May, here in Sochi, we discussed the main parameters of the 2017 state defence order and determined the practical measures to fulfil it.
As part of the fulfilled tasks, the armed forces have received over 3,400 items of advanced and upgraded hardware, including 16 combat vessels, 190 modern aircraft and helicopters, 800 tanks and armoured combat vehicles, 170 missile defence systems, and 1,950 multipurpose vehicles.
Defence industry experts have carried out regular maintenance of the main arms and equipment right in the field.
In general, these measures allow increasing the overall share of modern arms and equipment models at the armed forces’ disposal up to 60 percent by the end of this year.
Let me note that many arms samples were tested in action against terrorists in the Syrian Arab Republic. The tests in actual combat conditions confirmed the high quality of the Russian weapons. Their traditional advantages are simple operation and reliability.
A number of our international partners, including the new ones, have already shown interest in buying Russian arms and equipment and expanding military technical cooperation with Russia.
We have to closely study and use the practical experience of putting our armament systems to use. We also have to encourage positive tendencies in planning, placing and fulfilling the state defence order to make all elements of this interconnected system work effectively together.
Let us start working.
<…>
See also
Meeting with Defence Ministry leadership and defence industry heads
November 20, 2017
Topics
Armed Forces
National security
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 21, 2017, 17:00
Text versionEvents
Press statements following Russian-Czech talks
Vladimir Putin and Milos Zeman made press statements following Russian-Czech talks.
November 21, 2017
16:40
Sochi
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen,
The talks with the President of the Czech Republic were held in a friendly and constructive atmosphere.
See also
Russian-Czech talks
November 21, 2017
We discussed in detail the entire range of bilateral matters and we outlined certain plans for the future. We exchanged views on current international and regional topics as well.
This is my second meeting with Mr Zeman this year which is indicative of the great importance that we attach to the promotion of bilateral cooperation.
A month and a half from now, in January 2018, we will be celebrating the 25th anniversary of diplomatic relations between our countries.
The Czech Republic is not only a major market for Russian goods, but also an important transit link for the Russian fuel supplied to consumers in Western Europe.
Priority during the talks was given to economic ties. This year, by jointly pooling our efforts, we managed to overcome the decline in mutual trade, which had taken place over the past several years. Mr President pays special attention to this at all our meetings. Bilateral trade grew by 42.9 percent during January-September.
The Intergovernmental Commission does its part to promote our trade and economic relations. A representative delegation of Czech entrepreneurs has come to Russia with Mr Zeman, and will take part in two business forums in Moscow and in Yekaterinburg. I am confident that these forums will reinvigorate our business ties.
We discussed cooperation in the oil and gas sector, which is big. The Czech Republic is not only a major market for Russian goods, but also an important transit link for the Russian fuel supplied to consumers in Western Europe. This year, more than 19 billion cubic metres of gas has been pumped through the territory of the Czech Republic.
Cooperation is actively developing in the nuclear power industry. We supply nuclear fuel to power plants in the Czech Republic and provide service maintenance.
We reviewed industrial cooperation, including in the sphere of the car industry. As is known, Skoda assembles vehicles at Russian plants in Kaluga and Nizhny Novgorod. Other Czech companies produce auto parts: the BRISK company makes spark plugs in Togliatti, and Jihostroj makes hydraulic pumps in Tatarstan.
Cooperation is actively developing in the nuclear power industry. We supply nuclear fuel to power plants in the Czech Republic and provide service maintenance.
There are promising joint projects in high-tech and knowledge-intensive areas.
Businesses from the Czech Republic are widely represented in the Russian market, especially in metallurgy, pharmaceuticals, agriculture, chemicals, and textile manufacturing.
Interregional cooperation is also growing: over 20 Russian regions have signed cooperation agreements with Czech regions.
Humanitarian ties are developing. The day after tomorrow President Zeman will open the exhibition, Treasures of Prague Castle, in Moscow’s State Historical Museum. Leading Russian ensembles perform or plan to perform in the Czech Republic.
Press statements following Russian-Czech talks. With President of the Czech Republic Milos Zeman.
I have expressed gratitude to the President and all citizens of the Czech Republic for their concern for our military memorials on Czech territory, where more than 50,000 Russian soldiers, who died in battles for the freedom of Czechoslovakia, in the fight against Nazism, are buried.
Relationships are growing between universities of the two countries: 70 bilateral agreements have been signed. There is also a mutual interest in language study – Russian and Czech, respectively.
Businesses from the Czech Republic are widely represented in the Russian market, especially in metallurgy, pharmaceuticals, agriculture, chemicals, and textile manufacturing.
Mr Zeman has initiated the establishment of a Russian-Czech discussion club, which is intended to be an additional platform for informal communication between representatives of civil society in Russia and the Czech Republic. Of course, we will back this initiative.
We have touched upon the most pressing issues of the European and global agenda. We believe that normalisation of relations between the European Union and Russia would benefit everyone.
I have informed the President of our views on the prospects for resolving the Ukrainian crisis and the results of yesterday's meeting with Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, as well as our antiterrorist plans in Syria and tomorrow’s trilateral meeting with the presidents of Iran and Turkey.
In conclusion, I would like to thank the President and all our Czech colleagues and friends for the open and informative conversation.
The President and his team have an even bigger programme in Russia. I am confident that this work will benefit the development of bilateral relations. And I want to thank the President for the attention he pays to the development of Russian-Czech relations.
Thank you.
President of the Czech Republic Milos Zeman
(retranslated): Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President,
I will pick up where President Putin left off and provide some facts for you.
I brought about 140 Czech entrepreneurs with me, and since the corresponding division of the Czech Army, which provides government services, operates only two Airbus aircraft, we had to lease a third plane.
When I was in France, I was accompanied by 14 entrepreneurs, whereas on this trip to Russia I am accompanied by 140 entrepreneurs, so you can conclude that Russia is ten times more important for us than France.
Relationships are growing between universities of the two countries: 70 bilateral agreements have been signed. There is also a mutual interest in language study – Russian and Czech.
With regard to specific agreements and properly documented agreements, ten of them will be signed in Moscow and three in Yekaterinburg. The total value of the signed agreements will be $20 billion.
It is gratifying to know that 6,000 students from Russia are currently studying at Czech higher education institutions. It is also comforting to be aware of the fact that not only exports and imports are growing, but the number of Russian tourists coming to the Czech Republic is also on the rise.
This confirms that, despite all the sanctions, economic cooperation continues. However, this does not mean that I have reconciled myself to the sanctions. You are well aware that I have opposed them for a long time now, and this concerns not only the sanctions that the EU has imposed on Russia, but also the sanctions that Russia has imposed on the EU.
One fine day, Mr President, we need to put an end to it in the food department. After all, if you do not, you will not be able to enjoy our excellent cheeses and yoghurts.
Vladimir Putin: We will get some beer, and then sort out the yogurt. (Laughter)
Press statements following Russian-Czech talks. With President of the Czech Republic Milos Zeman.
Milos Zeman: I am not sure if the sanctions include beer. I believe not.
However, Mr President, you were too modest in any case, because the idea of establishing a Russian-Czech discussion forum came to both of us at the same time in China. I will be pleased if, primarily, historians will take part in this forum, if they get access to the archives and uncover new documents which will help shed light on certain chapters of our common history.
In closing, I would like to add that I consider it an enjoyable part of my job to present state decorations to WWII veterans who took part in the heroic liberation of Czechoslovakia.
Indeed, there are people who condemn and rewrite history. I think it is just pathetic.
In a recent interview with TASS, I gave an example of former Ukrainian Prime Minister Yatsenyuk, who, speaking before the reporters of the German ARD channel, said the following (I quote): ”In 1943, the Soviet Union attacked Germany, and occupied Ukraine on its way there.“ Again, this was the prime minister. He is no longer in office, but I am afraid that this interview was not the reason for his dismissal or resignation.
So, those who do not remember their past are doomed to repeat it.
Thank you.
Geography
Czech Republic
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Zeman Milos
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 21, 2017, 16:40
Text version