Events
Meeting with President and Board Chairman of VTB Bank Andrei Kostin
Mr Kostin briefed the President on the bank’s lending to the general public.
February 6, 2017
15:35
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
With President and Board Chairman of VTB Bank Andrei Kostin.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Kostin, we met in September last year, when you briefed me on the preliminary results for 2016, and we agreed to look at your progress on mortgages at the start of this year. I also wanted to talk about the bank’s support for some of the programmes for the Far East.
President and Chairman of the Board of VTB Bank Andrei Kostin
: Thank you, Mr President.
The year was quite successful, and as far as mortgages are concerned, total mortgage lending was up by 15 percent, and the number of loans provided grew by 40 percent.
It is important to note that interest rates on mortgage loans returned to their level before 2014. In other words, there has been a significant drop. We expect our mortgage portfolio to reach the symbolic figure of one trillion rubles at the end of the first quarter of this year.
We think that the dynamics will be quite positive this year. We expect a level of at least 10 percent, even with the absence of the state programme for supporting mortgage loans this year. I think the process is underway and will continue to develop with good result.
Regarding programmes in the Far East, one thing I would like to note is that one of our subsidiary banks, Pochta Bank, has reached an agreement with the Far East Development Fund, and starting from mid-year, we will launch a programme offering development support to people taking the chance to receive a hectare of land in the Far East.
This programme will offer small loans of 300,000–500,000 rubles at a preferential interest rate of no more than 8–10 percent. The loans will be for developing the land: building homes or greenhouses and buying farm equipment. We think it will be a good support for developing programme.
Vladimir Putin: Good.
<…>
Topics
Banks
Regions
Persons
Kostin Andrei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 6, 2017, 15:35
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Maxim Reshetnikov
February 6, 2017
13:20
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
3 of 3
Maxim Reshetnikov.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Reshetnikov, you are a Perm native, studied there, and began your career there.
Maxim Reshetnikov
: Yes. I studied there, married there, had my children there.
Vladimir Putin: Actually, your wife had your children.
In any case, you have always kept alive your connection to your hometown, and continue to do so now. You rose up in the civil service there to the position of the Governor’s Chief of Staff.
See also
Maxim Reshetnikov appointed acting Governor of Perm Territory
February 6, 2017
Maxim Reshetnikov: Yes, that was the case. I was responsible for economic matters, and then I was Chief of Staff.
Vladimir Putin: We worked together in the Government when I was Prime Minister. You were a department head at that time.
Maxim Reshetnikov: Yes, Mr President, I attended the meetings you held, and that was a real learning opportunity for me.
Vladimir Putin: What if I were to propose that you return to your hometown as acting governor?
Maxim Reshetnikov: This would be a great honour for me and a sign of trust. It would in fact be a double responsibility for me because this is my native place, and it matters much to me, matters much to all of us. The region has great potential, but there is much work to do to put this potential to greater use for the local people’s benefit. There is plenty of room for progress.
Vladimir Putin: What do you see as the priority tasks for Perm Territory’s development?
Maxim Reshetnikov: I think there are two main tasks.
The first, of course, is social protection and developing the social sector, because undoubtedly we still have progress to make in the healthcare system, and in the education sector, taking into account the objectives that you set.
The other main task is economic development. Perm Territory is part of the country’s industrial backbone and it is very important that industry continues to grow and develop there, making use of new technologies and new opportunities. At the same time, the traditional business sectors linked to natural resources all need to work and develop effectively.
Vladimir Putin: You are quite familiar with the situation in Perm and, I hope, will do your best to live up to the people’s expectations and build on the previous team’s results.
Maxim Reshetnikov: Yes, Mr President. I appreciate your trust in me.
<…>
Geography
Perm Territory
Topics
Regions
Persons
Reshetnikov Maxim
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 6, 2017, 13:20
Text version