Events
Meeting with Russian and Indian business community representatives
Vladimir Putin and Prime Minister of India Narendra Modi met with Russian and Indian business community representatives.
June 1, 2017
17:30
St Petersburg
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen,
It is a great pleasure to be here together with Mr Modi today to meet with top Russian and Indian businesspeople. This meeting is part of Mr Modi’s official visit to Russia. As you know, we make such visits regularly, every year, and dialogue with the business community is practically always an important part of these visits.
We are grateful that India has become the partner country for this year’s St Petersburg International Economic Forum. Prime Minister Modi was invited as the guest of honour and will address the plenary session tomorrow.
We value the fact that such a representative Indian delegation is taking part in the forum. This clearly demonstrates the solid nature of our trade and economic relations and their solid potential, and it also demonstrates the privileged nature of our strategic partnership.
This year, we are celebrating the 70th anniversary of diplomatic relations between our countries. Over these decades, first the Soviet Union and then Russia were active in building steel works, power stations, chemicals plants, gas pipelines, agribusiness facilities, and transport infrastructure. We in Russia are proud of this capital we have developed together.
We think it imperative now to discuss with you prospects for our further cooperation, look at possible new initiatives and projects, and listen to your views on cooperation.
I note that despite the decreases of recent years, our bilateral trade increased in 2016 and exceeded $7.7 billion. It is in our common interest to continue working energetically in this direction.
It is important to move from simply trading goods to more sophisticated forms of cooperation. We invite our partners to localise production in Russia. We know Prime Minister Modi’s idea regarding projects in India in areas where we can support each other and exchange modern technology. We can do this on a bilateral basis, of course, in areas where we are competitive at the global level.
I see good foundations here for deepening our bilateral investment ties. I am sure that if we work together, our businesspeople can create new, high value-added products and build production chains, including for promoting their goods and services on third country markets.
On the agenda we have the launch of promising joint projects in fundamental areas for the economy and high-tech sectors such as nuclear energy, the aerospace sector, and biotechnology. We need to look to the future, and the future is about harnessing the common powerful scientific and technical potential of both countries.
Russia’s market today offers every opportunity for carrying out the boldest business initiatives. We continue to improve our investment and business mechanisms, including with respect to foreign companies and citizens. We will use modern market instruments to stimulate growth in the high-tech sectors.
These are not one-off measures but are a carefully considered strategic policy aimed at further integrating our economy into the global system. The state authorities will therefore continue to support big projects, including projects in which your companies are taking part.
Friends, the great Indian statesman Mahatma Gandhi said “You must be the change you want to see in the world.” I think that businesspeople understand better than many where the modern economy is going and which areas and sectors are most promising, and, thanks to their entrepreneurial spirit and experience, can carry out even the boldest ideas and initiatives.
I wish the representatives of both countries’ business communities productive work at this St Petersburg International Economic Forum, and, of course, new interesting and promising joint projects.
Thank you for your attention.
Prime Minister of India Narendra Modi (retranslated):Your Excellency President Putin, distinguished delegation members,
I am always greatly honoured to be present among business leaders from India and Russia.
In December 2015, when I first visited Moscow and attended an annual Indian-Russian summit, I had an opportunity to meet with many of you, I had an opportunity to hear from you and I also had an opportunity to share my thoughts and initiatives with you. It is a very important tradition when the heads of major companies from both countries get together, especially when they meet with the leaders of their countries and we find solutions on many issues. This also helps us better understand each other and lays the groundwork for future trade and cooperation.
Today, India and Russia are celebrating 70 years since the establishment of diplomatic relations. It has been a long journey, starting from the time when India and the USSR established diplomatic relations based on trust. The relationship between India and Russia has always been special. We have always built this relationship on trust. We have expanded the scope of our cooperation and played a constructive role at the international level.
However, even more important is the fact that we have strong people-to-people ties. These ties have grown stronger, which helps us also strengthen our trust. Time and again, Russia has supported India on many issues at the international level. Russia has always supported us and stood by us.
The international community today understands how important our ties are, and in the rapidly changing global situation, trade, commerce and innovation are the areas that connect the world in an entirely different way. Companies, industrial groups, the business community – all of them play a very important role in this process.
Indian companies’ interest in Russia continues to grow, and Russia has been and remains attractive to them.
I remember in 2015 at the Vibrant Gujarat Summit and then at the same summit in 2017, I had the opportunity to meet with a business delegation from Russia. Even a Russian deputy prime minister attended Vibrant Gujarat and likewise India attended the 2016 INNOPROM exhibition as a partner country. Let me assure you that we will continue our participation in various events organised in Russia.
India is a major production hub. We would like to expand our production capacity to 16–17 percent of our GDP and we would like to develop production in India. Russian companies can participate in all our initiatives and cooperate with Indian companies. I would like to invite them to do so. I assure them that we will provide all the assistance required.
Recently, we agreed to foster strategic cooperation in defence. We made political decisions in this area. I invite your companies to participate in such political decisions so that they can decide for themselves how to cooperate with Indian companies. I invite you all to come to India and work with Indian companies.
Allow me to once again express our gratitude to President Putin because thanks to him our cooperation has become even stronger and more vibrant, and this has given a new impetus to these relations. I believe we will be able to see our dream of a new India come true.
Allow me once again to thank you for inviting me to this meeting.
<…>
See also
Meeting with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi
June 1, 2017
A package of agreements signed following Russian-Indian talks
June 1, 2017
Press statements following Russian-Indian talks
June 1, 2017
Additional
All news about trip to St Petersburg
June 1 − 3, 2017
Geography
Saint Petersburg
India
Topics
Foreign policy
Support for business
Persons
Modi Narendra
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 1, 2017, 17:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with heads of international news agencies
Vladimir Putin began his work at the St Petersburg International Economic Forum by meeting with the heads of international news agencies.
June 1, 2017
13:30
St Petersburg
Taking part in the meeting were President of EFE (Spain) Jose Antonio Vera, Editor-in-Chief of PTI (India) Vijay Joshi, Vice President of Kyodo News (Japan) Juno Kondo, General Director of DPA (Germany) Peter Kropsch, Editor-in-Chief of Anadolu (Turkey) Metin Mutanoglu, First Vice President of Xinhua (China) Zhang Sutan, Vice President of Associated Press (USA) Ian Phillips, Deputy Editor-in-Chief of Bloomberg (USA) John Fraher, President and Director General of ANSA (Italy) Giuseppe Cerbone, CEO and Editor-in-Chief of TT Group (Sweden) and President of the European Alliance of News Agencies Jonas Eriksson. Russia was represented at the meeting by Director General of TASS Sergei Mikhailov.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends, colleagues,
It is a great pleasure to see you again in St Petersburg on the sidelines of the St Petersburg International Economic Forum.
We meet regularly on the forum’s sidelines, but for some reason, these meetings always took place in the evening and went on very late into the night. This time, we have a chance to discuss things with a fresh head, as it were.
I am very happy to see you. I give the floor to Mr Mikhailov, who will say a few opening remarks before we begin our informal discussion. You have the floor.
Director General of TASS Sergei Mikhailov: Thank you, Mr President.
Colleagues, following tradition, I will attempt to moderate our meeting today.
This is the fourth time now that we are meeting on the sidelines of the St Petersburg International Economic Forum. Many of my colleagues present here today are not meeting with you for the first time, but our circle of participants changes each year, and we have new colleagues this year and it is a pleasure to welcome them to St Petersburg. I hope that this inflow of new blood will mix organically with the experience of the old hands and will produce a fruitful and interesting dialogue for all.
Mr President, it always seems that all that needs to be said has been said after each of these meetings, but at the same time, we know that next year will bring new subjects of discussion. This is the case this year too.
We have discussed things together, and we see the stubborn efforts underway to push Russia against its will into conflictual confrontation with the West. The media and some politicians constantly foment anti-Russian sentiments, and some politicians even put us in the same ranks as ISIS and terrorists. Baltic countries have even started suspecting that the popular children’s cartoon Masha i Medved could be used as a tool in hybrid war. You met with the cartoon makers yesterday, this is why I recalled this example.
But excesses of this kind no longer raise a smile and, it seems to me, are even becoming a threat to stability in the world. How long do you think these unfounded attacks on Russia will continue? What should we do to end this political Russophobia? This is the first question that I wanted to put today.
Vladimir Putin: First of all, yes, I would like to share my reflections and thoughts on what is happening and on the reasons for this Russophobia. It is evident and in some countries is simply going beyond all bounds.
Why is this so? I think this is because we are seeing the emergence of a multipolar world, and this is not to the monopolists’ liking. Monopolies are not good things, as we know, but monopolists always fight to keep hold of them, in all sectors and all areas of life.
A multipolar world is emerging and this is partly due to Russia’s efforts to stand up for its interests, for its legitimate interests, let me stress. That is one aspect.
The second aspect is that some of our partners in some countries began making attempts a while back to contain Russia and limit its lawful desire to protect its national interests. They do this through all kinds of actions that are outside the framework of international law, including economic restrictions. Now, they see that this is not working and has produced no results. This irritates them and rouses them into using other methods to pursue their aims and tempts them to up the stakes. But we do not go along with these attempts, do not offer pretexts for action. They therefore need to invent pretexts out of nowhere.
How long will this last? I do not think it will go on forever, because sooner or later, people will wake up to the fact that this is counterproductive and harmful to all. Of course, it causes us some harm, but it also harms those who initiate these policies. I think that people are already coming around to this realisation. We see some very clear change in the situation, change for the better. I hope that this trend will continue.
Sergei Mikhailov: Thank you, Mr President.
Last year, as you rightly noted, we finished after midnight, and the weather prevented some of our colleagues from putting their questions, and so we decided that it would be only fair to start with them this time.
The head of one of Germany’s top news agencies is here for the first time this year. It is pleasure to introduce General Director of DPA Mr Peter Kropsch. He is at the forum for the first time, but he came to St Petersburg before, back in 1981, as part of a youth delegation organised by what was then the Austro-Soviet friendship society, and so he sees much change in the city now.
He also expressed his envy over your 8th dan black belt, because he has a black belt, but only 1st dan, and he said that it would take him 50 years of training to reach your level.
Peter, you have the floor.
General Director of DPA Peter Kropsch: (In German.) I want to thank you for finding the time to meet with my colleagues and me.
(In English.) I’m going to switch to English. This is a little better and I have a question. We will have parliamentary elections in Germany this year and what do you think in the sense of the relationship between Germany and Russia? Would you prefer to work with your partner Chancellor Merkel or could you imagine that with Chancellor Schulz you could even make bigger progress?
And maybe a second question. I know you answered that but I am asking for your advice. There is always a kind of nervosity in Germany about the situation that it could be that some hackers, maybe also from Russia, could try to influence, by leaking information or by false information, this election process. Would you think that could be possible and what would be your advice for Germany and the German officials?
Vladimir Putin: The first part of your question concerns relations with my partners and colleagues in Germany.
I have known and worked together with Angela [Merkel] for a long time now. We do have our differences, but we have many areas of common ground too, especially in economic cooperation. We share similar views on some issues in international politics too. As I said though, there are issues on which we differ in our policy approaches.
I hardly know Mr Schulz at all, but I know he is an experienced person who has been in politics for a long time. He has been in European politics and in German politics, and has recently returned to German politics. In principle, we – and when I say ‘we’, I mean the entire Russian team – are ready to work with anyone. The main thing is to have partners who, like us, seek constructive cooperation. We have no preferences in this respect.
I think that if we and partners act not out of political considerations of the moment, but are guided by our countries’ and peoples’ fundamental interests, not only will we find common ground, but we will find good and effective roads for working together, effective means of cooperation.
I have no doubt whatsoever about this because we have so many interests in common. After all, our cooperation in some economic sectors and our interdependency in some sectors is such that dozens if not hundreds of thousands of jobs in both countries depend on its successful development. This is a powerful factor for our coexistence in today’s world and all the more so in Europe.
Some German producers make big profits out of working on the Russian market. There is no need to be an expert or specialist to understand that the Russian economy needs to develop technology cooperation. In this area, we have been working together with success and we have results. I am thinking of the recovery in our trade with Germany, for example, which was up by nearly 40 percent in the first quarter of this year. This, I think, is significant growth.
But I am thinking too of the many projects that we are carrying out with success, and that increase the amount of high-tech goods produced on Russian soil. In other words, this is a serious localisation effort, and localisation reaches up to 60–70 percent. The automotive sector provides a good example. Despite the political difficulties, not a single German company, and the same is true of our other foreign partners, has left the Russian market. Everyone continues working. And this is despite the political and also economic difficulties, the fall in production, drop in GDP, decrease in people’s real incomes and the corresponding fall in demand. Everyone is working all the same. The state authorities are doing their best to support them and we are continuing this constructive work.
That is not to mention the energy sector. Germany has decided to phase out nuclear energy, but nuclear energy accounts for a big share of Germany’s energy, bigger than in Russia today. Where will Germany get its energy from? We see that Norway’s resources are coming to an end, and Britain will soon be a net consumer country. Their resources are also dwindling. So, where will the energy come from?
At the last forum, we spoke about the prospects on the Yamal Peninsula, where we had reserves of 2.7 trillion cubic metres of gas. Gazprom just briefed me on the new reserves they have discovered there. Can you imagine what this increase represents? It’s a two-fold increase. We have another 4.2 trillion cubic metres there, and that is just in one small region. But these reserves are global in scale, and given Russia’s proximity to Europe and cheap logistics and well-organised procedures and technology, this is an absolutely natural partnership. We offer a cheap and clean energy source, if its hydrocarbons we’re looking at. This is absolutely natural. In the long term, if we look at long-term contracts, this guarantees stable supplies and – also very important – guarantees that the entire German economy is competitive. This is tremendously important. It’s a relatively cheap resource and comes from a reliable source.
We also have historically strong humanitarian ties and contacts between people. This has always been the case. Despite the tragedies of two wars, our peoples have always maintained their contacts.
I say all this simply in the hope that Germany will be led by people who understand all of these relations, and we take the position that no matter who is in power in Germany, these fundamental factors in our relations will play a positive role.
Now regarding hackers: hackers can be anywhere, they can lurk in any country in the world. Of course, the general context of inter-state relations should be taken into account in this case because hackers are free people like artists. If artists get up in the morning feeling good, all they do all day is paint. The same goes for hackers. They got up today and read that something is going on internationally. If they are feeling patriotic they will start contributing, as they believe, to the justified fight against those speaking ill of Russia. Is that possible? In theory, yes. At the government level, we never engage in this. This is what is most important. This is the first point.
Second. I can image a scenario when somebody develops a chain of attacks in a manner that would show Russia as the source of these attacks. Modern technology allows that. It is very easy.
And finally, what is most important is I am deeply convinced that no hackers can have a real impact on an election campaign in another country. You see, nothing, no information can be imprinted in voters’ minds, in the minds of a nation, and influence the final outcome and the final result. This is my answer.
We do not engage in this activity at the government level and are not going to engage in it. On the contrary, we try to prevent this from happening in our country. At any rate, I believe that no hackers can affect the election campaign in any European country, nor in Asia or in America.
Sergei Mikhailov: Thank you, Mr President.
Our next colleague who did not have the opportunity to ask a question last year and reminded me about this for the whole year is Juno Kondo from Kyodo News, Japan’s leading news agency. TASS opened its office in Tokyo and Kyodo in Moscow before our countries exchanged embassies.
This year there has been an unprecedented level of activity in the way our two countries are working to develop relations and business ties and searching to find new approaches to old problems. Just by coincidence, like our previous colleague, Mr Juno Kondo has the third dan in karate and the first dan in judo. There is a surprising amount of enthusiasm about martial arts among our colleagues.
Vladimir Putin: We are a tight circle here. As for those who have not yet mastered the martial arts, I suggest that we, as experts in these arts, should help our colleagues study them up.
Sergei Mikhailov: I suggest simply meeting on the tatami next time, Mr President.
Vladimir Putin: All right.
Vice President of Kyodo News Juno Kondo (retranslated): Thank you very much for letting me ask a question. It is about Russian-Japanese relations and southern Kurile Islands. You agreed with Mr Abe on joint economic activities in southern Kurils. This will certainly help build trust between Japan and Russia.
But as for the attitude of the Japanese, we know that Russia is building up military preparations on the islands of Iturup and Kunashir and we are naturally worried about this.
On the other hand, Russia may also have grounds for concern. If Japan receives two islands after the conclusion of a peace treaty, US troops may be deployed there in accordance with the Japanese-US security treaty.
In this respect, I want to ask, is demilitarisation of the southern Kuril Islands possible? I believe it is not possible to resolve the issue of these islands now, of course, but if you do have a position on this matter, I would very much like to hear it. What possible solutions do you see on this issue?
And a second question concerning North Korea’s nuclear and missile programmes. This is unquestionably a grave threat for security throughout Northeast Asia. What prospects for solutions do you see here, in particular in light of American military activity in the region?
Vladimir Putin: First, concerning the military build-up in the Russian Far East and on the islands in particular, this was not Russia’s initiative. The same applies to the situation in Europe. NATO bases are coming ever closer to our western borders, infrastructure creeps closer, and contingents are being beefed up. What are we to do in this situation? Are we to watch on idly? No, we cannot and will not. We are taking the appropriate responses.
The same is happening in the east. One aircraft carrier sailed to the region, then a second American aircraft carrier arrived, and there are reports of a third heading for the region now. This is not the end of the world – aircraft carriers come and leave again, but components of a missile defence system are being installed as well, and this is a great concern, which we have spoken about for the last decade, because it destroys the strategic balance in the world.
You are all experienced adults with decades spent working in the news field, but you keep silent on this issue. The world remains silent as if nothing were happening. No one is listening to us, and if they are listening, they do not pass on our message further. The global public is living in ignorance of this whole situation, but what is happening is a very serious and worrying process. Missile defences are being put in place in Alaska, and now in South Korea. Like with what is happening to the west of Russia, are we to look on idly at what is happening to the east? No, of course we cannot. We are considering possible responses to this challenge, and it is a challenge in our eyes.
When we raised the issue of the American BMD system in Europe, they cited the problem of Iran, saying that they are doing this to neutralise Iran’s nuclear programme and the threat it allegedly presented. But since then we have signed an agreement with Iran that removed this alleged threat, and the international community has agreed that there are reliable safeguards. The IAEA shares this view. However, the development of ballistic missile defence sites goes on at a fast pace. Who is it designed against?
We kept saying that the above arguments hold no water, and that they are trying to deceive us. They replied that Iran is their only target. Now I am the only one to keep talking about this, while the rest stay silent and pretend not to understand what I mean. But you do know what I mean. Why do you stay silent then? Meanwhile, the situation is getting worse. This is pushing the arms race into a new round. This is obvious. And so we are pondering a response. We are thinking about ways to improve our missile defence system. This is a new round of the arms race exactly.
The same applies to the [disputed] islands. We are concerned with our security. We are thinking about ways to neutralise possible threats a long distance from the border. The islands are a convenient place for this. In other words, I do not agree that we have taken the initiative to militarise them. No, we have been forced to reply to the developments in the region.
Of course, you can refer to the North Korean nuclear missile threat, just as it happened in the case of Iran. But I do not think that North Korea is really the point. If Pyongyang announces tomorrow that it is going to abandon the nuclear tests and its nuclear weapons programme, the United States will continue to develop its BMD system under some other pretext or without any pretext at all, as it is doing in Europe now. We must definitely bear this in mind.
I do not want to build up tensions, but you have asked a question and I had to explain our position.
Coming to your second part, to the theoretical possibility that American troops could be stationed on the islands if they were to become Japanese sovereign territory, yes, this possibility exists. This stems from the treaty, from the protocols that were signed. We have not seen them, but we have an overall idea of their content.
I won’t go into the details now, though I am familiar with them, but the possibility for stationing American troops on the islands exists. Of course, we could ask, does Russia plan to worsen its relations with the United States in some way, and does this possibility frighten us? No, we have no such intentions, and nothing frightens us, but we see, for example, what is happening now in the United States, we see the anti-Russian campaign and the Russophobia that continue there. How will this situation develop? We do not know, and it does not depend on us, as we did not begin this whole process. In this situation, we can theoretically imagine that today everything is fine, and tomorrow they deploy missile defence system components there too. This would be totally unacceptable to us.
Is demilitarisation possible? Yes, of course it is, but simply demilitarising these islands alone is not enough. We need to look at how to reduce tension in the region in general. Only then can we look at serious, long-term agreements. It is difficult to say right now just what kind of agreements they might be, but I do think they are possible.
Sergei Mikhailov: Thank you, Mr President.
<…>
See also
All news about trip to St Petersburg
June 1 − 3, 2017
Geography
Saint Petersburg
Topics
Foreign policy
Media
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 1, 2017, 13:30
Text versionEvents
Press statements following Russian-Indian talks
Following Russian-Indian talks, Vladimir Putin and Narendra Modi made press statements.
June 1, 2017
19:00
St Petersburg
1 of 4
Statement for the press following Russian-Indian talks. With Prime Minister of India Narendra Modi.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen,
First of all, I am pleased to once again welcome Prime Minister of India Narendra Modi to Russia on his official visit, and to thank him for accepting our invitation.
Annual Russian-Indian meetings at the highest level have been held for many years now and have become a good and useful tradition.
Our talks are always held in a warm and friendly atmosphere, and are always substantive and productive. This time was no exception.
I will note one important distinction of Mr Modi’s current visit. This year, India is a partner country of the St Petersburg International Economic Forum, so tomorrow the Prime Minister of India will address the forum’s plenary session as the main guest of honour.
I would also like to point out that 2017 is a special year for Russia-India relations. Diplomatic relations between our states were established 70 years ago. Bilateral cooperation has been developing steadily across all areas in the decades since, on a friendly and mutually beneficial basis. And now the Russian-Indian partnership has a genuinely strategic and especially privileged nature.
Today, the Prime Minister and I considered in detail the implementation of the decisions taken during the previous summit in Goa, and outlined new joint plans for the future. Our agreements made it into the St Petersburg Declaration adopted by us. It outlines steps to further deepen our bilateral cooperation in the political, economic and cultural spheres.
Encouraging the growth of trade, improving its structure, and expanding industrial cooperation constitute our key priority. As we are aware, bilateral trade was declining in recent years. We are pleased to note that this trend reversed this year, and bilateral trade is on the rise. It is gratifying to note that it was up 29 percent already in the first quarter of 2017.
Bilateral investment is also demonstrating positive dynamics. Russia’s cumulative investment in the Indian economy has exceeded $4 billion, and the relevant figure for Indian investment in Russia is $8 billion.
All these facts show that Russian-Indian economic cooperation is returning to a growth trajectory, and we both have a stake in consolidating this positive trend.
Effective work of the Intergovernmental Commission is playing a special role in this respect. We see the importance of assistance to businesses to promote major mutually advantageous joint projects.
As of today the sides have agreed a list of 19 projects aimed at establishing joint ventures for transport infrastructure, new technology, including pharmaceuticals, aircraft and automobile manufacturing, the diamond industry, and agriculture.
We just met with representatives of the business community and saw their interest in developing full-scale cooperation.
I would like to draw attention to our successful cooperation in the civilian nuclear industry, which was noted in my conversation with the Prime Minister. The first unit of the Kudankulam nuclear power plant was put into operation. The most reliable, latest Russian technology was used in its construction. The plant’s second unit has also started to generate electricity. At a joint teleconference in October 2016 with Narendra Modi we launched the construction of the plant’s third and fourth units. And we reaffirmed our intention to build in India at least 12 Russian-designed energy units, which will make a large contribution to the development of India’s nuclear industry.
We also agreed with our Indian partners to deepen cooperation in the military-technical field on the basis of a bilateral programme through 2020.
Notably, our cooperation is not limited to direct supplies of the latest Russian military equipment to our Indian partners. The assembly of high-tech military products has been set up in India with Russia’s participation. We agreed with the Prime Minister to continue to jointly develop and manufacture modern weapons systems.
Of course, the cultural sphere is another important component of the Russian-Indian partnership. The 2017–2019 Cultural Exchanges Programme is designed to further expand such exchanges. I reiterate that the peoples of our countries have always felt a profound affinity for each other and taken a genuine interest in each other's culture, history and spiritual values. The Festival of Indian Culture is currently being held in Russia, which was received with great interest by the Russian public. The Festival of Russian Culture held in India last year received many positive reviews.
Of course, Mr Modi and I focused in particular on international affairs. We agreed to continue to cooperate in the UN and other multilateral formats, such as BRICS, including, incidentally, the Russia-India-China trilateral format and the G20, and to work together to promote security and stability in Asia, and the Indian Ocean and Pacific Ocean regions. In this regard, Russia welcomes India joining the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation as a full-fledged official member. Its full accession will be formalised at the summit of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation in Astana on June 8–9, that is, one week from now.
Of course, we discussed other areas of our interaction. We will have another opportunity to talk in private today. We agreed to meet later in the day and to talk about the situation in Syria, Afghanistan, and other hot spots. I believe such confidential one-on-one exchanges have become customary, and I really appreciate this format.
In closing, I would like to thank the Prime Minister, and all our Indian friends, for a constructive and productive dialogue. I am confident that our agreements will help promote Russian-Indian strategic partnership across all areas and will contribute to strengthening friendship between the peoples of our countries.
Thank you for your attention.
Prime Minister of India Narendra Modi
(retranslated):Your Excellency President Putin, distinguished members of the Russian and Indian delegations,
I am greatly honoured to be here in St Petersburg, President Putin’s hometown. A historical event is connected with this city, with my political career. In 2001, as the Chief Minister of Gujarat, I accompanied the Indian Prime Minister to St Petersburg. I remember President Putin and our Prime Minister standing while I was seated, signing a treaty.
Sixteen years later, I am back in St Petersburg, and I have the opportunity, as the Prime Minister of India, to be on the same stage with President Putin. I express our gratitude to you for the warm welcome given to our delegation. It is a symbol of the friendly and warm relations that exist between our countries.
As you know, this year India and Russia are marking 70 years since the establishment of diplomatic relations. In our relations, we speak the same language in both culture and defence. Despite the rapidly changing global situation, over these 70 years the Indian-Russian relationship has remained viable and strong. Our relationship is based on mutual appreciation, confidence and trust in each other. This is a sound foundation. It is the basis of our relationship, and we are thus developing our cooperation in various areas.
As you know, President Putin and I have had in-depth talks on all aspects of our cooperation. It is very important to accelerate our cooperation to ensure a brighter future for us. Today, we made some very important decisions; we adopted the St Petersburg Declaration. This declaration should pave the way for economic and political strength. This declaration will also serve as a foundation of international stability. Today, we all know that the world is interconnected and we all depend on each other. I think that increasing economic cooperation is an important incentive for us. We should consider ways of accelerating growth and developing our economic ties. This is the goal that President Putin and I have set.
Within the framework of the St Petersburg Forum, you have invited India to attend as a guest and you invited me to speak at a plenary session, which symbolises our close economic ties. I am sure that our relations will become even closer and stronger as a result of this activity. This will foster bilateral ties and by 2025, we will be able to achieve an investment level of $30 billion. This is the target that we have set.
One of the most important goals is to consolidate economic cooperation (energy, oil and gas, the nuclear sphere, Units 5 and 6 of the Kudankulam Nuclear Power Plant). We reviewed our progress and reached an agreement on these units, and as a result of these agreements, we will move to a new stage of cooperation in nuclear power.
India and Russia will not only derive mutual benefit but we will also continue our cooperation with other countries. Even our trade and commercial ties in the private sector greatly contribute to our relations. I invite representatives of the private sector in both countries to become involved and play an active role in these relations because we need both material cooperation and cooperation at the institutional level. This includes cooperation as part of the North-South international transport corridor. This is an area where we can maintain cooperation and give a new impetus to our relations.
We are in talks on a free trade agreement with the Eurasian Economic Union. Technological and industrial cooperation is also an important component of our economic cooperation. It will make a significant contribution to our society and to our economy.
We have joint science and technology programmes that we are working on. We will also do our utmost to support our young entrepreneurs. This will enable our younger generation to take advantage of the innovation economy. I hope that as a result, people who are currently looking for employment will be given new jobs. This year our countries are holding the first meeting of the bilateral science and technology commission. I am sure that this will take our scientific and technological cooperation to a qualitatively new level.
Military cooperation between India and Russia is strong. Whatever the format of global relations, India and Russia have always maintained cooperation in the sphere of security. We have always respected each other’s interests. We have held a military industry conference in India, which will play a major role in ensuring global security.
We have launched the joint manufacturing of the Ka-226 helicopter in India. We also work together to produce frigates. Overall, our military cooperation is moving to a new level and has been given a boost. We are also conducting the joint military exercise, Indra-2017.
Friends, relations between our peoples are a major part of the friendly relationship between our countries. Russian culture has always been popular in India, while Indian culture, including yoga and Ayurveda, enjoy great interest in Russia. We are proud of this, and I am convinced that International Yoga Day, which is marked on June 21, will be marked on a grand scale in Russia this year, just as every year before.
Friends, we had a good opportunity to discuss international issues with President Putin. We have reached agreement on terrorism and the protection of our strategic interests, as well as on other challenges. India and Russia will always support each other.
India is grateful for Russia’s support in the fight against terrorism. India and Russia share views on Afghanistan and the Asia-Pacific region. We express the same positions within the G20 and the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation. Our countries will work to find a new format for international cooperation.
Friends, President Putin has always supported India, and I am grateful to him for this support and guidance. Our relations are a fruit tree that has received nourishment from great people, such as Ambassador Alexander Kadakin. With his death, we have lost a friend of India. To honour his memory, we have decided to name a street in New Delhi after him.
Your Excellency, our relations have been tested by time, and they have benefited the world as a whole. India and Russia have always supported each other, and our relations have always been a pillar of strength. I hope that our cooperation in the future will bring stability and balance to the world.
We had very fruitful talks today, and we have adopted decisions that will light our path into the future. I would like to once again express my gratitude to you and to the people of St Petersburg.
Thank you very much.
See also
Meeting with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi
June 1, 2017
Meeting with Russian and Indian business community representatives
June 1, 2017
A package of agreements signed following Russian-Indian talks
June 1, 2017
Additional
All news about trip to St Petersburg
June 1 − 3, 2017
Geography
Saint Petersburg
India
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Modi Narendra
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 1, 2017, 19:00
Text version