Events
Meeting with Yury Osipov and Sergei Kravets
Russian Academy of Sciences (RAS) member Yury Osipov and executive editor of the Great Russian Encyclopedia Sergei Kravets presented the 35 volumes of the Great Russian Encyclopedia to Vladimir Putin.
December 20, 2017
17:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 4
Before the meeting with Russian Academy of Sciences (RAS) member Yury Osipov and executive editor of the Great Russian Encyclopedia Sergei Kravets.
The decision to publish the Great Russian Encyclopedia was taken in 2002. By executive order of the President of Russia, Yury Osipov was appointed head of the GRE’s editorial board.
Between 2002 and 2017, over 120 members of the Russian Academy of Sciences and staff at leading academic organisations and universities took part in compiling the encyclopedia’s articles.
* * *
Yury Osipov: Mr President, in October 2002, you issued an Executive Order on the publication of the Russian Encyclopedia. This is the first volume that precedes everything, it does not have a number, and it is called ”Russia“. It contains your greeting to the readers.
And here is the 35th volume, the last one. And so, your instruction has been fully implemented, and Russia has a universal encyclopedia. Of course, the Academy of Sciences, Moscow University, St Petersburg University, and many outstanding academic centres, universities and institutes were involved.
The executive order certainly helped get a lot of famous academics, cultural figures, educators and even statesmen involved. They also participated in this. Several hundred writers of professional encyclopedic articles were involved. There are more than 80,000 articles in these volumes.
This is a universal encyclopedia in the sense that it covers the world and all phenomena in the world.
I think, if I may say so, that not every state is able to create such an encyclopedia in its national language. By creating such an encyclopedia, we take our rightful place in this elite club of unique, universal encyclopedias. There are two such encyclopedias in addition to the Russian one. These are Britannica and Brockhaus, German encyclopedia published together with Sweden.
I would like to say that the results of this work, achieved thanks to your support, once again shows that Russia has enormous intellectual capacity.
Vladimir Putin: I remember it almost completely stopped at some point.
Sergei Kravets: It was in 2014. Your instruction had a powerful impact then. We completed the publication of the book. We completed the online version, it is available now. All the Russian-language world can have access to these entries.
Then, thanks to your instruction, we started developing something absolutely new, a national educational encyclopedic portal. We have suggested a name for it: “Russia: Territory of Knowledge.” The aim of this portal is not only to provide access to entries from this encyclopedia or thematic ones, the Orthodox Christian Encyclopedia, the Elementary Mathematics Encyclopedia – we have a lot of contemporary encyclopedias. Another aim is to collect accurate information from museums, institutes and universities and to update it. The most important thing now is for information to be accurate and up-to-date.
We have done this and now we are starting to fulfil your message of creating such a full-scale portal. Of course, we need your support again because this is a common goal for all of us.
Yury Osipov: You issued the instruction back in June2015. Mr Fursenko did a great deal then, helping us.
Sergei Kravets: An interdepartmental group has been set up in the Government to deal with this. The portal concept has already been developed. It is important that when this portal is ready, it will be a huge resource for various educational services and tools.
Vladimir Putin: When was the Great Soviet Encyclopedia completed?
Yury Osipov: In 1978.
Sergei Kravets: Twenty-five years passed between publication of the Great Soviet Encyclopedia and the start of work on the Great Russian Encyclopedia. The Great Russian Encyclopedia is absolutely new. The reason is not only the different political conditions, though they are important. All life has changed in the past 25 years. So now we are updating entries in the initial volumes, just updating them, there are many new entries in the online version. It will be possible to read entries of 2004 and also of 2017.
Vladimir Putin: What should be done to speed up the work?
Yury Osipov: We have prepared a letter to you.
Vladimir Putin: Good.
Yury Osipov: Mr President, I would like to say that besides from the visible part, there is also an invisible one. Russia now possesses a huge verified body of information, which is very large and classified.
In addition, during the work on the encyclopedia, some communities of science editors, experts and authors of entries were formed. This is great, it is actually a large achievement.
Vladimir Putin: I would like to thank you and congratulate you on finishing this very interesting and important work that lasted for many years. You are right, when they read Wikipedia online, people get a lot of varied and important information. However, when it is not entirely accurate, it does more harm than good. This is why this information touchstone is so valuable.
Thank you very much! Congratulations!
<…>
Topics
Culture
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 20, 2017, 17:00
Text versionEvents
Gala evening marking Security Agency Worker’s Day
The President attended a gala evening marking Security Agency Worker’s Day.
December 20, 2017
18:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 3
Gala evening marking Security Agency Worker’s Day.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Comrade officers, colleagues,
I congratulate you, current and former officers of Russian security agencies, as you celebrate your professional holiday.
Today we honour those who defend our national interests, protect our society, our lives, the rights and freedoms of our citizens, and ensure the stable, peaceful, and sovereign development of the country, as well as the inviolability of Russia’s borders.
This year marks the 100th anniversary of the All-Russian Emergency Commission for Combating Counter-Revolution and Sabotage (VChK). We understand that it is an inseparable part of our history, and the history of our internal special services, which, to be sure, dates back more than one century.
Regardless of historical circumstances, the absolute majority of the people who choose this difficult profession have always been true servants of the state and patriots who went about their duties with dignity and honesty, and placed service to the Fatherland and our people above all else.
Our distinguished service veterans set precisely this example of how to do your job and lead your life. The great accomplishments of those who fought against the Nazis, the heroes of the Great Patriotic War who bravely and resolutely upheld the interests of our state, will remain forever in our memory, the memory of our people. These traditions live on as they are passed down from generation to generation.
We remember and will never forget how young men, our comrades-in-arms, rescued hostages, used their bodies to shield people from the bullets of militants, and eliminated terrorists, which they continue to do to this day. I am aware of your skilful and expert field work as you continue to outwit foreign intelligence services and deliver blows to organised crime and corruption.
I am sure that such requirements to security officers as strict adherence to the Constitution and the law, the highest utmost responsibility, honesty and personal decency, and readiness to take on the most difficult and sometimes the most dangerous tasks will always be a constant.
You took on precisely such tasks while supporting the anti-terrorist operation in Syria. The timely information you provided, shutting down channels of support for militants, disrupting their contacts and command systems were a worthy contribution to the efforts of the army and navy and contributed to the defeat of the main group of terrorists and the elimination of a bridgehead from which they threatened Russia.
I would like to emphasise that we will continue to neutralise the hotbeds of international terrorism as decisively as possible, to work together with other countries, with all who are ready to fight this global threat. We are ready to work together and exchange information.
This year Russia’s security agencies have thwarted plans to carry out over 60 crimes of a terrorist nature.
As you know, terrorists are trying to adapt to a changing situation. International terrorism today is both lone-wolf fanatics, and networked, top-secret groups, and underground so-called sleeper cells. Therefore, it is necessary to continue systematic and consistent efforts and to maintain maximum concentration.
It is necessary to strengthen both the external and internal tracks of Russia's antiterrorist security, to work to destroy the financial and recruitment networks of criminals and to counter the attempts of extremists and radicals to influence youth, to spread the ideology of hatred, religious intolerance and aggressive nationalism.
Great responsibility is borne by intelligence and counter-intelligence units. We must erect a solid barrier against foreign interference in our public and political life and disrupt the efforts of foreign intelligence agencies trying to step up their activities in Russia, which is no secret. We should provide analytical and media support to important government decisions in defence and foreign policy.
Your efforts in all other key areas should be equally effective, such as combatting crime and corruption, border control, security at special government facilities, and supporting reliable government communication and management systems.
Friends, I trust that in every concrete task you will aim to achieve the highest results and act resolutely, professionally and effectively.
Thank you for your service and your major contribution to the country’s security and sovereignty.
I wish health and happiness to you and your families. Congratulations again, happy New Year!
Thank you for your attention.
Topics
National security
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 20, 2017, 18:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Head of Tatarstan Rustam Minnikhanov
Vladimir Putin held a working meeting with Head of the Republic of Tatarstan Rustam Minnikhanov. Mr Minnikhanov briefed the President on the region’s socioeconomic situation.
December 20, 2017
17:40
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 3
Meeting with Head of Tatarstan Rustam Minnikhanov.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: How is everything, Mr Minnikhanov?
Head of Tatarstan Rustam Minnikhanov
: Everything is okay.
Mr President, I would like to report to you on the expectations and results of this year. I prepared several presentation materials on our socioeconomic development, on the projects that we are carrying out in our republic.
We expect our gross product to grow by 103 percent.
Vladimir Putin: Regional product?
Rustam Minnikhanov: Yes, two trillion.
Vladimir Putin: This is higher than the national average.
Rustam Minnikhanov: The volume and index of industrial production – 102 or 102.2 percent, or 2,167 billion. Agricultural production has increased by 5.5 percent to reach 260 billion. The scale of construction has not decreased – 356 billion rubles. We will put into service 2,407,000 square metres of housing.
Vladimir Putin: How much more is this compared to last year?
Rustam Minnikhanov: 100 percent. We stick to this figure. The main point is that about 500,000 square metres represent affordable housing for those categories of residents that we included in our programmes.
Fixed investment is 677 billion. I think it will be at the same level as last year. Foreign trade amounts to 16 billion rubles. The processing industry has grown as well.
I have conducted an analysis. Compared with 2010 our production of diesel fuel went up by 10 percent, petrol by 167 percent, we produce 725,000 tonnes of synthetic rubber which is 142 percent, polyethylene production grew by 120 percent, mineral fertilizer production increased six-fold with the construction of a new plant, manufacture of tires 112 percent, lorries 150 percent, and cars 110 percent.
I would like to tell you about the projects that we are carrying out in the republic. First of all, this is the most pressing issue…
Vladimir Putin: Roads?
Rustam Minnikhanov: Yes, roads. This year we have carried out almost 28 billion [rubles] worth of republic-wide programmes. This includes modernisation, repairs, paved roads and roads for our farms. Gravel-sand mixture is a good, low-cost project. It is not asphalt but a special surface for rural streets where traffic is not very heavy.
The municipal road fund. Thank you very much for safe, high-quality roads.
Vladimir Putin: I believe you have used different lane width standards.
Rustam Minnikhanov: Yes, a new category, Category Five roads. This is significantly cheaper; there is no need to spend huge amounts of money.
Vladimir Putin: I agree. This is good, positive experience. Generally, it is a little wider here than in other countries. However, if traffic is light, there is no such need.
Rustam Minnikhanov: We proposed this as a standard. The Transport Ministry supported us.
I would like to update you on our programmes. We have 37 programmes. Next year there will be 38. Total investment is 44 billion [rubles], including 25 billion from budgetary funds. This includes major repairs of outpatient clinics. As I told you, we are to bring all primary-level facilities – outpatient clinics – up to standard within two years. Major repair programmes for educational facilities. Every year, we perform maintenance and repairs at schools and kindergartens. In all, this is about 140 facilities.
There is a very good programme on public spaces. We have done 68 facilities worth nearly 3 billion. In this case we also received federal support.
Resource centres, training centres. To meet the goal you have set – blue-collar jobs – we already have 25 resource centres. In 2018, there will be another five such centres.
Teen clubs, children’s camps. We have launched a maintenance and repairs programme, doing 10 camps a year.
Cultural facilities. We are building at least one club in every district and are also repairing clubs.
The housing renovation programme includes 984 buildings. The programme is up and running.
We are currently helping vegetable and gardening communities with water, roads and gas supplies. They have kind of fallen between the cracks. We have a special programme whereby we provide 550 million [rubles] a year addressing [their problems]. Water supplies, sewage, utilities.
We also have a programme to bring rural facilities up to scratch. [There are] co-financing [programmes]. We provide part [of the funds]. These include cowsheds, silage and haylage trenches, vegetable storage facilities, machine-tractor stations – a total of around 2.35 billion rubles, 646 facilities.
Lighting programmes. In rural areas, transitioning to standalone boilers, the Accessible Environment programme. Boilers. There are many programmes – 37 of them. All are under way.
As for the May executive orders, Mr President, we are also carrying out the roadmap: all targets on education, higher education and medical care are being met. The same goes for this year’s roadmap.
Vladimir Putin: Are you also helping large families?
Rustam Minnikhanov: Yes, we are also carrying out a programme for large families, providing land plots.
Vladimir Putin: I believe this programme has been running since 2007.
Rustam Minnikhanov: There is a social mortgage lending programme; it is ongoing. Almost 10,000 flats a year [are provided] under this programme.
As for budget execution, growth is over 6 percent. We address all these issues.
There is the issue of [defrauded] housing equity holders. We are currently setting up a fund. We will help [them] with land and infrastructure. There is such a category. A federal fund is currently being established, but it is for the future. We will also help those who have ended up in difficult circumstances.
I have also briefed you on the issue of [defrauded] depositors. A fund has also been created. Small amounts have already begun to be paid to legal entities. This work is also in progress.
Vladimir Putin: Good.
<…>
Geography
Republic of Tatarstan
Topics
Housing
Regions
Persons
Minnikhanov Rustam
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 20, 2017, 17:40
Text versionEvents
Meeting of the Council for Strategic Development and Priority Projects
Vladimir Putin chaired a meeting of the Council for Strategic Development and Priority Projects in the Kremlin, which was convened to discuss the implementation of the housing development strategy.
December 20, 2017
14:50
The Kremlin, Moscow
5 of 11
Meeting of the Council for Strategic Development and Priority Projects.
Opening remarks at a meeting of the Council for Strategic Development and Priority Projects
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
Today we will be discussing issues that concern absolutely all people and families in Russia. We will talk about housing, the way our cities will be developed and changed to create a favourable, comfortable and modern living environment and to make new buildings and apartments accessible and of a high quality.
Our construction companies have greatly moved forward over the past few years. As you probably remember, in 2015 we built the largest volume of housing in our history, including the Soviet period – over 85 million square metres. The construction sector continues to hold the bar high.
This result was achieved largely thanks to the development of the mortgage market. This year, banks will have issued over a million mortgage loans worth some 2 trillion rubles, and the current mortgage interest rate has fallen below 10 percent.
I remember that it was only recently that we were dreaming of cutting the mortgage rate back to below 12 percent, and that some people said this would not just be an acceptable target but that it would provoke rapid growth on the construction market. Today the mortgage rate is below 10 percent.
We are completing the programme to relocate people from buildings that were declared to be dilapidated as of early 2012. We will need to think about the dilapidated housing stock as a whole. Overall, 684,000 people will move into new buildings under the relocation programme this year.
However, there are problems remaining in the housing sphere and housing construction. We will discuss them today. At the same time, I believe that we have reached a level and have accumulated the resources that are sufficient for formulating a strategic national goal that I spoke about several times: the goal of enhancing the accessibility of housing for our people in the next few years, especially for young families and for young families with children.
I would like to note that, according to experts, 35 percent of Russian families currently have a real opportunity to improve their living conditions through bank loans. By 2025, there will be 50 percent of such families. According to the Agency for Housing Mortgage Lending, in the early 2000s the figure stood at under 5 percent.
Experts’ assessments show that 110–120 million square metres of housing will need to be built annually. I want to emphasise that people should be able to move not into nondescript blocks of flats, or ant hills as they used to be called, but into comfortable flats with the necessary infrastructure, social and sports facilities, parks and public spaces.
I repeat, it is a system-wide task and its solution will have a huge impact on the demographic situation, people’s quality of life and the country’s economy.
What areas should we focus on? First of all, we need to eliminate bureaucratic obstacles in housing construction, because the system is still too cumbersome despite all the changes and attempts to improve it. There are still not enough land plots for development. Also, not all cities have approved urban development plans.
Between 2012 and 2017 in the Doing Business index, the Dealing with Construction Permits indicator for Russia has changed: we moved from 178th to the 115th position. It seems an improvement, but the 115th place leaves much to be desired. In the top ten regions, developers have to undergo nine procedures and wait for 86 days; in the ten least successful regions it is 16 procedures and 165 days of waiting.
We fall behind as many as 114 countries which can do all this faster. Why are we still in the 115th place?
I want to draw the attention of the Construction Ministry: it is essential to boost the efforts to develop convenient, transparent construction regulations, eliminate bureaucratic obstacles and excessive oversight – of course, without compromising the quality and reliability of the buildings and the interests of the people who invest their money in housing construction.
The same applies to land allocation. All the necessary instructions have been issued, including on the use of vacant, unused land plots and former industrial zones in the city, many of which are in federal ownership. The Government has all the necessary mechanisms, and I would ask to use them to resolve this matter.
Further. No one needs a race for square metres, so we should not build uncomfortable, poor quality housing. We must build not just a large amount of housing, but also housing that is modern. And here it is important not only to update the standards, but also to find economic incentives for developers to build new residential buildings based on advanced design solutions and technologies, using quality modern materials.
Naturally, we must also ensure that mortgage lending grows and interest rates decline, and continue the development of the mortgage securities market by attracting pension funds, insurance companies and individuals to this market. It is necessary to create guarantees against the appearance of bubbles. I would ask the Government, the Central Bank, and the Mortgage Agency to work closely on this issue.
In fact, we have quite good indicators; there is no cause for concern. Mortgage indebtedness in Russia is 5 percent of GDP (in Western countries it is 40–80 percent), and the volume of mortgage securities is less than 1 percent [of GDP] (in Western countries, it may amount to 40 percent). But this does not mean that we should pay less attention to these issues and think that we will not be affected. It can affect us, if we do not keep financial discipline.
Also, in 2018, a special mortgage lending programme will be launched for families where a second or third child is born. They will be able to count on the state subsidising the interest rate in excess of six percent per year.
Another important task is the formation of a sustainable mechanism for financing housing construction. People who invest their money in housing construction sometimes face high risks. This is a very serious, acute and long-lasting problem, both economic and social.
We agreed at one of the recent meetings that we will gradually transit from the mechanism of shared-equity construction to bank financing of construction projects, when risks will be assumed not by individuals, but by professional market participants.
We need to lay the groundwork for such a transition. It is important not to allow failures, not to find ourselves in a situation where one mechanism has already been abandoned, and the other has not yet been adjusted or created at all.
I have issued the corresponding instructions. And I would like to address those members of the Government who are directly concerned: these instructions were made on your proposal, you drafted them and you did it so that nothing would be forgotten, nothing would be left out and so that everything would work properly. Please, prepare the necessary changes as soon as possible.
[The instruction to the Government] was issued on November 5 and it was supposed to endorse a plan of action to replace the funds of housing equity holders with bank loans and other forms of funding during the next three years. Does this plan exist?
Minister of Construction, Housing and Utilities Mikhail Men: Yes, Mr President, the plan exists. It is already with the Government and will be endorsed in the next few days.
Vladimir Putin: It was supposed to be endorsed by December 15 and we are past it. Please speed this up.
Let me add that people should have different options of resolving their housing problems, for instance, by renting. Needless to say, the rental market must follow civilised, transparent rules.
A year ago, we agreed to launch pilot projects on leasehold buildings. The first leasehold building opened in Moscow this year. More facilities are under construction in the Far East and Tobolsk. We must launch more projects on rental housing and build on this experience.
On a par with housing people need parks, squares, playgrounds and sports grounds and social infrastructure – in a word, everything that forms the image of cities and creates a favourable environment for life.
This plan consists of many successful and interesting projects, including those for small cities. It is necessary to build on these successful projects and introduce them all over the country.
I would like you to think about launching a special programme of professional development for Russian architects. I would like the Ministry of Construction and the Agency for Housing Mortgage Lending to jointly elaborate a mechanism for carrying the said programme using the available resources.
In addition, I think it is important to enhance the status of chief architects. They should have an opportunity to offer and carry out their projects, thereby producing a real influence on the formation of a new, modern and bright image of Russian regions and cities.
Let us get down to work. But before giving the floor to Mr Men, I would like to say a few words about one more subject that is worrying people and was mentioned at the recent news conference. I am referring to the growth of fees for the maintenance of buildings. Unlike utility fees they are not regulated at the federal level. We have spoken about this more than once. It is necessary to put things in order in this area. This should have been done long ago. It is necessary to establish limits on housing fees and, as we agreed, to keep managing companies away from managing financial flows.
<…>
Topics
Housing
Housing and utilities
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Commissions and Councils, Council for Strategic Development and National Projects
Publication date: December 20, 2017, 14:50
Text version