Events
Meeting with President of Palestine Mahmoud Abbas
Vladimir Putin met at his Sochi residence, Bocharov Ruchei, with President of the State of Palestine Mahmoud Abbas, who is in Russia on a working visit.
May 11, 2017
14:30
Sochi
1 of 13
With President of Palestine Mahmoud Abbas.
Before the talks, Mr Putin and Mr Abbas
participated via video link-up in the opening of a multifunctional cultural and sports centre built with Russia’s assistance in Bethlehem.
The centre was built at Mr Putin’s initiative and is a gift to the people of Palestine.
* * * 
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, friends, allow me to welcome you in Russia. I am very pleased to see you again.
We have special relations with Palestine and our ties have great significance to us. We spoke just now with our colleagues in Palestine, in Bethlehem, about the deep roots of the relations binding our two countries. And in recent history, our ties have always been very warm and trusting.
See also
Opening cultural and sports centre in Bethlehem
May 11, 2017
Press statements following Russian-Palestinian talks
May 11, 2017
I want to thank you, Mr President, for the attention that you pay to Russian-Palestinian relations and for the support you give to our compatriots living in Palestine and those who come to the holy places as pilgrims.
We have been working together for many years now on one of the world’s key issues today – a Middle East settlement
We have much to discuss, of course. It is a great pleasure to see you. I hope that your visit will be very productive.
PresidentofPalestineMahmoudAbbas (retranslated): Thank you very much.
We are indeed filled with joy at the opening of this wonderful centre in Bethlehem, which was built at your initiative. I note your personal attention, and Russia’s attention to strengthening Russian-Palestinian relations.
This year we are marking the 135th anniversary of the establishment of relations between Russia and Palestine. The Palestinian people take pride in these relations, from their establishment and to this day. This is because the Palestinians have always known that you are together with us, support us, and share similar positions. Russia’s position has always remained unchanged in this sense from the start of our ties and to this day.
Russia is distinguished by its firm stance, a position advocating the creation of an independent Palestinian state within the 1967 borders, with its capital in East Jerusalem. We have always heard this position from you. It is firm, and you always maintain it.
It is not possible to resolve the Palestinian issue without Russia’s real participation. This is our aim and we always say this at all international platforms.
I would like to say again that we hope for your continued support. We have always said that Russia must stand beside us and take a similar position. I hope that this will be the case over the coming days and months, and that, through these efforts, we will ultimately achieve the creation of the State of Palestine.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Geography
State of Palestine
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Abbas Mahmoud
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 11, 2017, 14:30
Text versionEvents
Opening cultural and sports centre in Bethlehem
May 11, 2017
14:15
5 of 7
Vladimir Putin and President of Palestine Mahmoud Abbas participated via video link-up in the opening of a multifunctional cultural and sports centre.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, Ms Mayor [of Bethlehem] Vera Baboun, Mr Bandak, friends,
It is a great pleasure to take part, together with President of Palestine Mr Abbas, in the official opening of this multifunctional centre, built by Russia in Bethlehem. Your city now has a modern centre, complete with the latest equipment, and with a music school, sports school, and a business centre.
This gives Palestine’s young people a new opportunity to develop their talents and abilities, learn more about Russian history, culture, and musical traditions, and train in wrestling and other sports.
The centre’s opening is a notable milestone in developing mutually advantageous relations between Russia and Palestine and is evidence of the genuine friendship between our peoples and countries.
Our cooperation goes back a long way. In the 19th century and early 20th century, Russia built dozens of schools and hospitals in Palestine. Thousands of Palestinians studied in the Soviet Union and Russia to become doctors, teachers and specialists in other fields, and serve their people honourably. Russia today allocates more than 100 state scholarships for students from Palestine every year.
I would like to note that a Russian science and culture centre has been successfully running in Bethlehem for several years now, as has a comprehensive Russian-Palestinian friendship school, where teaching is in the Russian language. In this sense, the newly opened centre will form another prominent part of the ‘Russian neighbourhood’.
We are grateful to Palestine’s government and to Mr Abbas for the support he has given these projects.
I would like once again to congratulate you on the centre’s opening and from all my heart wish the residents of Bethlehem and all Palestinians peace and prosperity.
Thank you for your attention.
Mahmoud Abbas (retranslated): Mr President, my friend,
First of all, I would like to express my heartfelt gratitude and appreciation to you, to the Russian Government and the friendly Russian people for your position and your consistent support for Palestinians and the Palestinian problem.
Also, I would like to thank you for this multifunctional complex, which has been built on your instructions. It is a great joy for us. We are grateful to you for making this present to Bethlehem and to the Palestinian people and for supporting the development of our cooperation in many spheres, including the economy, sport and culture.
Seeking to express my personal gratitude and the gratitude of the Palestinian people, we have decided to establish a governing body for this centre. The centre will be called the Vladimir Putin Association for the Development of Business and Cultural Cooperation in Palestine. As you know, we have decided to allocate a land plot for this centre on the street that bears your name, Vladimir Putin Street, which we opened during your previous visit to Bethlehem in 2012. In this context, we have resolved to create a governing body that will be comprised of top professionals who will be responsible for running this centre.
The opening of this centre is a great pride for us. We see it as a symbol of the further development and strengthening of bilateral relations in many areas. It will take its rightful place among the projects we have implemented. I am referring above all to the Russian School, the Russian Culture Centre in Bethlehem and the Russian Museum and Park Complex in Jericho. I would also like to say that the Russian Government has decided to finance the renovation of the historical centre of Star Street, which leads to the square adjacent to the Church of the Nativity.
In conclusion, I would like to thank everyone who helped us implement this project, primarily the Presidential Executive Office, the Russian company that implemented this project, the Russian Embassy and representative office in Palestine, as well as all Palestinians who helped us.
 Mr President, thank you.
<…>
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: May 11, 2017, 14:15
Text versionEvents
Press statements following Russian-Palestinian talks
Vladimir Putin and Mahmoud Abbas made press statements following their talks.
May 11, 2017
17:45
Sochi
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: President Abbas, ladies and gentlemen,
It is a great pleasure to once again welcome Mr Abbas, the President of Palestine, here in Sochi. We had substantive and constructive talks, which, as always, took place in a spirit of trust and openness. We discussed bilateral relations, the Middle East peace process, and the region’s biggest problems.
Russian-Palestinian relations are traditionally friendly and our regular meetings with President Abbas are evidence of the high level of our political dialogue. We are pleased to see that our ministries and agencies maintain regular contacts. Our intergovernmental commission is working hard, and the biggest issue on its agenda is, of course, to build up bilateral trade and develop investment cooperation.
See also
Meeting with President of Palestine Mahmoud Abbas
May 11, 2017
We hope that the Eurasian Economic Union’s decision to include Palestine among the users of the common preference system will also boost bilateral trade. This decision means that a range of Palestinian goods are now exempt from customs duties when imported to EAEU territory.
Humanitarian ties have always had great significance in our cooperation. I would like to remind you that Russia, for a long time now, has supported Palestine in training specialists. There are 500 Palestinians studying today in medical, technical and humanitarian fields in Russian universities.
We have carried out a number of major cultural projects.
Last year, Russia took part in work to renovate Bethlehem’s historic and religious centre – Star Street. This street opens onto the square in front of the Church of Nativity. I am sure that this restoration of the town’s main sites will bring increased numbers of pilgrims and tourists from Russia. More than 300,000 Russian citizens visited Palestine in 2016.
You saw that President Abbas and I took part via video linkup in the opening of a multifunctional centre in Bethlehem today. It was built with Russian assistance and is a gift to the Palestinian people. The Russian industrial group Alliance and Mr Bazhayev, who is present here today, played a big part in this, and I would like to express special gratitude to him for this.
Our joint work on this project does not end here. We will work with the Palestinian managing organisation to carry out various educational and humanitarian programmes.
This year, Palestine will host the Days of Russian Culture, the programme of which includes film screenings, exhibitions, and musical events. Earlier, last December, the Days of Palestinian Culture were a success, with events in Moscow, Grozny, and Tver.
Of course, Mr Abbas and I discussed in detail the situation with the Middle East Peace Process. I would like to stress that peaceful coexistence of two countries, Palestine and Israel, is an essential condition for ensuring genuine security and stability in this region.
The Israeli-Palestinian conflict has but one solution – a political, negotiated solution based on international law. It is therefore important to maintain bilateral relations, refrain from unilateral steps, search together for mutually acceptable solutions, and fight terrorism together.
As a member of the Middle East quartet, along with the UN, the USA, and the European Union, Russia will continue to give its full support to resuming direct dialogue between the Palestinians and Israelis.
Let me conclude by once again thanking Mr Abbas and our Palestinian colleagues and friends for the substantive and constructive conversation during today’s talks.
Thank you.
Mahmoud Abbas
(retranslated): In the name of Allah the compassionate and the merciful, Mr Putin, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great pleasure to meet with you today.
Mr President, we held good talks aimed at strengthening the relations between our countries and our friendly peoples. Our relations are longstanding and strong. Russia has always been our friend and has always supported Palestine in different international forums.
We will never forget that Russia was one of the first countries to recognise the Palestinian state on the international arena. We seek through every means to continue developing and reinforcing our bilateral ties and activate our bilateral intergovernmental commission’s work. In this respect, let me express sincere gratitude for all that Russia has done in terms of its programme of support for building the Palestinian national state and its institutions.
I would also like to express particular gratitude to President Putin and my highest praise for this large and well-equipped multifunctional centre that Bethlehem has received as a gift. Today via video linkup we opened this centre, which will serve to develop culture, sports and business.
I briefed Mr Putin on developments in Palestine in light of the continued Israeli occupation directed against our people and our land, the policy of building settlements and strangling Palestine by economic means, and the continuing detention of thousands of Palestinian prisoners in Israeli prisons. All of this undermines hopes to bring peace to the region and undermines the very idea of a solution of the issues of the two states.
I would like to note the need to meet the humanitarian demands of the thousands of prisoners who are currently on hunger strike. We are making every possible effort to have them freed. This is a major issue for us and we must resolve it.
We remain supportive of achieving a comprehensive fair and permanent peace based on the rule of law and justice, as well as internationally binding resolutions. Earlier, we welcomed the invitation, which dates back several years, to hold an international peace conference in Moscow. We also welcomed your invitation to hold a trilateral meeting in Moscow. We remain willing to accept such invitations at any time, as the Russian Federation plays a key role in the international arena and in the efforts to achieve peace in our region.
A week ago, I accepted an invitation from President Trump to meet with him at the White House and expressed our total willingness to cooperate with him, and to make every possible effort to conclude a historic peace deal that would put an end to the confrontation between the Israelis and us. We welcome President Trump’s focus on trying to help us find a solution to the struggle between the Israelis and us.
Also, in our conversation with President Putin, we touched upon a number of issues concerning the situation in the region. We appreciate Russia's counter-terrorism efforts, as well as its contribution to strengthening security and stability in the Middle East, including Syria. From the outset, we have stood for resolving crises in the region through dialogue in order to preserve the unity and territorial integrity of these countries.
Mr President, considering the role and influence of Russia in promoting the peace process, we look forward to seeing our people enjoy its freedoms and sovereignty and live in an independent Palestinian state with the capital in East Jerusalem within the 1967 borders, side by side with the Israeli state, which will put an end to the occupation that has been imposed on us for 50 years now.
We believe that fighting terrorism and extremism is an international responsibility, and we, for our part, are committed to it. We believe that our people acquiring their freedom and independence will deny the extremists leverage and help consolidate the foundations of security and peace in our region.
Your Excellency, I would like to once again express our sincere and deep gratitude for your hospitality. We wish you good health and happiness, and Russia and its friendly people – continued prosperity and progress, as well as the continued advancement of the friendly relations between Russia and Palestine, which are deep and historic. Long live Russian-Palestinian friendship!
Geography
State of Palestine
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Abbas Mahmoud
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 11, 2017, 17:45
Text version