Events
Meeting with Head of Chechnya Ramzan Kadyrov
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Head of the Republic of Chechnya Ramzan Kadyrov to discuss the socioeconomic situation in the region.
April 19, 2017
22:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 3
With Head of the Republic of Chechnya Ramzan Kadyrov.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Kadyrov, we are here to discuss the situation in the Republic of Chechnya. What are the problems and issues that you see?
Head of the Chechen Republic Ramzan Kadyrov
: Mr President, thank you for taking the time for this meeting. There have been positive developments in the republic since I last reported to you.
Agricultural output increased by 13.6 percent, extra-budgetary investment was up by 19 percent, and revenue climbed 26 percent. Over the past year, unemployment dropped by almost three percentage points to 9.2 percent.
The implementation of the May 2012 executive orders is underway. Salaries are being paid out. Pre-school education for three to seven year olds is now available to 100 percent of children in this age group.
The first stage of the programme to relocate people from dilapidated housing has been completed ahead of schedule. We believe that these are positive results, especially considering the overall situation around Russia and, specifically, in the Republic of Chechnya.
Let me also report that the provocative articles about the Republic of Chechnya and its people, the events that reportedly take place, detentions…
Vladimir Putin: What are you referring to?
Ramzan Kadyrov: As embarrassing as it is for me to say, there are would-be well-wishers who publish articles saying that in our republic people are being arbitrarily detained and killed. They even named one such person, Khasu Tepsurkaev, who is, how should I put it, our chief ideologist, a Sufi. They said that he was killed, but he is actually at home.
So they started by offending him head-on, then moved on to accuse the authorities of killing him, and all this time he was at home, safe and sound. We get groundless reports of this kind about our republic two or three times per year. This is the first incident of this kind in 2017.
The security situation in the republic is quite positive. There is no street crime, and no major threats related to terrorism. It can be said that the republic is making steady progress.
Vladimir Putin: However, there was an attack against the National Guard, which means that some issues still remain unresolved. Of course, they can be resolved, and I can see that happening, which is a good thing. There is no doubt that these efforts should be underpinned by economic and social development.
It is very important that you are implementing the 2012 Presidential executive orders. As far as I know, the average educational standards in the republic have reached the mean level in the republican economy.
Ramzan Kadyrov: Yes, we are implementing all of the May executive orders in full and see absolutely no problems in this sphere. But there are unresolved issues in other areas, and unless we receive [federal] assistance, there will be difficulties and problems in these areas already next year.
Vladimir Putin: It is very good that you have reduced unemployment to 9 percent. How high was it two or three years ago?
Ramzan Kadyrov: When you appointed me head of the republic, unemployment was estimated at 76 percent. The last time I updated you, it was 12.2 percent, and some time before that, 19 percent. We are working to reduce it. We are creating new jobs, and we have investment agreements with all our main partners in Russia. I have recently been to the Persian Gulf, where I visited several countries and coordinated considerable assistance from them. I visited Bahrain, Abu Dhabi and Dubai. I saw their interest in cooperation with Russia, including the Chechen Republic. They have promised to increase their investments.
Vladimir Putin: Have you coordinated your relations with Rosneft?
Ramzan Kadyrov: Today I met with [Rosneft CEO and Management Board Chair] Igor Sechin. We have reached an agreement, although there was some misunderstanding. I think that the Rosneft management did not understand what we wanted. We have reached an agreement today, and we will continue to develop our relations with Rosneft. It is an issue of major importance to us, and we will continue to invest in the development of our oil sector and the republican economy as a whole.
Vladimir Putin: Excellent. I will meet with Mr Sechin in a few hours, and we will discuss this issue.
Ramzan Kadyrov: Thank you for your support.
<…>
Geography
Chechen Republic
Topics
Regions
Persons
Kadyrov Ramzan
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 19, 2017, 22:00
Text versionGovernor of Belgorod Region Yevgeny Savchenko: Mr President, the situation in the region is positive and our economy is growing steadily. We ended the year with a 4-percent increase in the industrial sector.Events
Meeting with Chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress Zhang Dejiang
Vladimir Putin met with Chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress of the People’s Republic of China Zhang Dejiang.
April 19, 2017
17:50
The Kremlin, Moscow
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Chairman, friends,
Once again, let me wish you a warm welcome to Moscow. We have already met twice before in Moscow, and once in China. I remember this well. Welcome.
I note that the ties between our parliaments do much to reinforce the strategic partnership between our countries. Furthermore, the Chinese parliament is a patron and support of the Russian-Chinese Friendship Society, which celebrates its 60th anniversary this year.
We have a very busy programme of inter-parliamentary contacts, as well as contacts at the administrative and highest levels. I will soon visit Beijing at the invitation of President Xi Jinping. I ask you to pass on to him my best wishes.
Chairman of the Standing Committee of the Chinese National People's Congress Zhang Dejiang (retranslated): Thank you. I am very pleased to meet with you again, Mr President. Let me take this opportunity to pass on President Xi Jinping’s sincere greetings and best wishes.
I particularly want to thank you for the decision last year to award me the Order of Friendship, which was presented to me by Speaker of the Federation Council Valentina Matviyenko. This inspires me to make even greater contribution to developing our bilateral friendship and cooperation.
Under President Xi Jinping’s strategic leadership, our bilateral relations and comprehensive strategic partnership have reached a historical high point. I think that the friendship and cooperation between our countries have much room for development and great potential.
China looks forward to and welcomes your visit in May this year to attend the One Belt, One Road international cooperation forum. You will be the highest guest of honour there. You will meet with President Xi Jinping on the forum’s sidelines, and this has great significance for bolstering the friendship and cooperation between our countries and promoting bilateral cooperation in all areas, particularly in today’s situation.
Thank you.
<…>
Geography
People's Republic of China
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 19, 2017, 17:50
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Head of Khakassia Viktor Zimin
Viktor Zimin reported to the President on the region’s socioeconomic situation.
April 19, 2017
22:40
The Kremlin, Moscow
4 of 4
With Head of Khakassia Viktor Zimin.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Go ahead, Mr Zimin.
Head of the Republic of Khakassia Viktor Zimin
: Mr President, allow me to report on the region’s social development in 2016 and prospects for 2017 and beyond.
The republic has maintained the development dynamic despite the difficulties. The industrial production index reached 111.4% over 2016, which is the seventh result in the country. Our main industries are mineral production, power generation and gas production. The region’s GDP has been growing all these years.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Zimin, how are you dealing with the housing issue following the tragic events in the region?
Vladimir Zimin: Mr President, we will definitely touch on this issue. Safety and security are highly important to us. You are personally aware of our problems.
Vladimir Putin: Have you resolved these problems?
Viktor Zimin: Yes, all resolved as of today. As concerns wildfire, we have not quit anything. There are no major problems but only some minor issues in residential maintenance and utilities. But we made sure there are no low quality prefabricated buildings. All new housing is solid and long-term, as you instructed.
Vladimir Putin: I saw it myself.
Viktor Zimin: We provide all the necessary support, especially to senior citizens and people living in rural areas. We did not abandon anyone. Some very minor issues remain. We are returning there soon with assistance. Support groups have been set up.
Vladimir Putin: Sorry for interrupting you, but let’s get back to your economic indicators.
Viktor Zimin: Certainly, Mr President. Regarding safety, you remember that we had problems at the Sayano-Shushenskaya hydroelectric power plant, as well as floods, wildfires and an earthquake. We keep these issues in the focus of our attention. Here are the relevant figures in this diagram. You can see that personal safety is the topmost concern for the people polled in the streets and in public places in the Siberian Federal District.
Another issue of major importance is public satisfaction with the executive authorities’ efforts to improve safety. These figures show that the region is among the leaders in this respect.
We also hold top place in the Siberian Federal District for public satisfaction with the work of law enforcement agencies. Another major issue is public satisfaction with their protection from crime. This parameter is crucial for the investment climate.
Vladimir Putin: Tell me about the people’s incomes and salaries.
Viktor Zimin: The inflation rate in the region is very low, one percent lower than the average for Russia. And real incomes are higher than the country’s average. At the same time, our prices for basic products, in particular meat and fish are the lowest in the Siberian Federal District. We are proud that we are feeding ourselves. The average salary in the region is 32,310 rubles.
Since Khakassia is an industrial republic – we have aluminium, energy and coal companies – I would like to report our achievement in terms of comprehensive development plans: we have 37 billion rubles in private investments. I will not speak about attracting federal funds today. The only request I have in this respect is that you issue an instruction to the Government on coordinating our activities under large energy and railway infrastructure projects. Otherwise, we will see a collapse on the Trans-Siberian Railway in a year and a half.
Vladimir Putin: All right, let us do this.
Viktor Zimin: This diagram shows our actual revenues. At the same time, our unemployment rate has been the lowest for the past two years. Our unemployment rate is decreasing.
Vladimir Putin: What do you mean? That your unemployment rate is the lowest for the country’s eastern regions?
Viktor Zimin: No, I was referring to the Siberian Federal District. Khakassia is also the country’s youngest region in terms of the average population age. We have found a way to keep young people in the republic. Nearly 53 percent of our workforce are young people. We plan to create over 7,000 new jobs in two years within the framework of this project. In two years, we will discuss our achievements at the Krasnoyarsk forum.
Here are some social indicators you have asked about. We have doubled housing construction for orphans in 2016, and increased allocations for supporting families with many children. We also increased funding for children’s recreation and health improvement.
We are also diligent in promoting the Khakass language, which is the language of the titular ethnic group of our region. There is steady progress is this area as well, and I believe this to be an important indicator.
The share of people who regularly practice sports doubled compared to 2009. Major projects were implemented as part of efforts to create and build new sports facilities. In fact, 177 new sports facilities were opened. Almost 35 percent of the population exercises regularly.
According to data from law enforcement agencies, our region has the lowest crime rate, and we are a top-ten region in the country in terms of stability.
Vladimir Putin: What is the financial situation?
Viktor Zimin: Mr President, let me start by reporting to you about another project before moving on to financial matters. The facilities you have approved for our region were built with your support. I am talking about a perinatal centre with 150 beds, and a new surgery building (the old one was damaged in the earthquake). It now has five floors, and is equipped with state-of-the-art surgical equipment.
We now have the largest culture and history centre to the east of the Urals, and a ski complex where the Russian national team holds training sessions.
Vladimir Putin: The museum is very good.
Viktor Zimin: It is a cultural centre. We built it as per your instruction. Jose Carreras came to Khakassia to lay the first stone.
Over the last eighteen months, we registered a 33 percent increase in tourism. Our region has unique ancient rock paintings. All who come to Khakassia, both from abroad and Russians, are surprised to find such attractions. More and more tourists are coming here.
Vladimir Putin: Very good.
<…>
Geography
Republic of Khakassia
Topics
Regions
Persons
Zimin Viktor
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 19, 2017, 22:40
Text version