Events
Meeting with Sverdlovsk Region Governor Yevgeny Kuyvashev
Vladimir Putin held a working meeting with Sverdlovsk Region Governor Yevgeny Kuyvashev to discuss road construction and the socioeconomic situation in the region.
January 24, 2017
14:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 2
Sverdlovsk Region Governor Yevgeny Kuyvashev.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon,
Before we go over the entire range of issues, I would like to ask you to report on the overall indicators. Let us start with road construction.
Sverdlovsk Region Governor Yevgeny Kuyvashev
: Mr President,
Road construction has become a priority for the government. The regional road fund has accumulated 11 billion rubles. These resources were assigned by the road fund as per the regional programmes. Of course, the bulk of these regional allocations goes towards municipal roads.
You have recently instructed us to redesign and improve the [Nizhny Tagil – Serebryanka] road, which until 2013 had not undergone any renovations for 30 years. Starting last year, we began allocating funds for this road, and let me assure you that the instructions you have issued following the news conference will be fully implemented in a timely manner. By June 1, we will make sure that this road is operational. However, we do need some more time to pave this 50-kilometre road. This road will be usable by June 1, just as you have instructed us.
As for the key priorities in road construction, in 2013 we created a link between two regions that used to be isolated from one another. The so-called Northern Road now connects Sverdlovsk Region and Khanty-Mansi Autonomous Area, saving vehicles moving from the European part of the country to the northern part of Tyumen Region almost 800 kilometres. This resulted in higher cargo turnover in the northern areas.
We are currently building the southern section of the Yekaterinburg Ring Road. In 2016, we launched the first section, and are now working on the second one that will be completed in 2018. Of course, we are eager to launch construction of the third section, which will complete the Yekaterinburg Ring Road. This is an essential route.
In many cases, regional roads take on the role of federal routes. We are aware of that, and therefore invest in diverting road traffic from major cities.
In keeping with your decisions on the implementation of priority projects, we will focus our attention on urban projects, including development and road construction in municipalities. Over 6 billion rubles have been allocated to our municipalities for road improvement in keeping with construction rules and standards.
Road construction is a major issue that implies the flow of investment to all cities, including single-industry cities. We are implementing one such project in Krasnoturyinsk, which has the status of a priority development area. We know that investors will not take their money where there are no good roads. Therefore, the bulk of the development budget will be spent on roads.
Vladimir Putin: What is the overall figure for the region’s economic development in 2016?
Yevgeny Kuyvashev: Mr President, I have to say that growth has been reported in the leading sectors in 2016 and there is potential for further growth.
I want to share some figures with you. The 2016 industrial production index (IPI) – we are still to finalise the figures but they will not change dramatically – has gone up by nearly 11.5 percent.
As for gross regional product, we will maintain it at around the 2015 level, but the IPI accounts for 11 percent of GRP. These are impressive figures.
Vladimir Putin: Which sectors are responsible for this growth?
Yevgeny Kuyvashev: The steel, mechanical engineering and defence sectors. We are making great strides in the development of our pharmaceutical and IT sectors.
Yekaterinburg and Sverdlovsk Region comprise an education centre, which includes the Ural Federal University, but we are not focusing our efforts only on higher education. We are working to implement the comprehensive Urals Engineering School programme, which you approved in 2014. Allocations under this programme amounted to some 1 billion rubles in 2016, with 300 million rubles allocated from the federal budget and nearly 600 billion from the regional budget. Our organisations and companies are investing in this programme and are involved in its implementation.
<…>
Geography
Sverdlovsk Region
Topics
Regions
Persons
Kuyvashev Yevgeny
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 24, 2017, 14:30
Text versionEvents
Working meeting with Agriculture Minister Alexander Tkachev
Agriculture Minister Alexander Tkachev updated the President on the launch of a new system of subsidised loans for agricultural producers and the situation in agriculture.
January 24, 2017
13:40
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 3
With Agriculture Minister Alexander Tkachev.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon.
Mr Tkachev, in the recent period we have discussed our farmers’ performance often and with pleasure. There is reason to congratulate them on their performance: although the year-end results are not available yet, we know that growth in the industry exceeded 4 percent in January through November.
Agriculture Minister Alexander Tkachev
: Yes, the growth rate was over 4 percent. Thank you for taking note of this, just as you did throughout the year. We appreciate this, considering the unprecedented scale of government assistance. We waited for this for a long time, and now there are incentives in nearly all segments. The results include a 4 percent growth and the largest harvest in Soviet and Russian history – 119 million tonnes. It is a big achievement.
Other achievements include farmers’ revenues, which result in new projects, higher standards of living, new technologies, production growth, and the like. Once again, thank you for this.
Vladimir Putin: We also wanted to talk about lending.
Alexander Tkachev: That is right. As per your instruction, we have launched an unprecedented system of subsidised loans this year. The interest rate for investment and short-term loans must not exceed 5 percent. It can be lower, like 1 or 2 percent, but 5 percent is the maximum. This will definitely boost construction projects in agricultural industry and the processing sector, like new dairy and pig farms. This will radically transform the situation in national agriculture.
Vladimir Putin: What is the amount?
Alexander Tkachev: Around 23 billion rubles. I would like to report that Rosselkhozbank has already started issuing loans as it was the first to prepare. Of course, we are counting on other banks to take an active part.
We have never seen such cheap and accessible loans with such long terms. We are eliminating all red tape. This will give a serious boost to construction, investment and new projects.
Vladimir Putin: What is the selection process?
Alexander Tkachev: Selection is the banks’ responsibility. The Agriculture Ministry prioritises the industries that require support. Projects with secured funding and projects with repayable funds that are interesting, competitive and technology-intensive will be supported on a top-priority basis.
Vladimir Putin: It is always necessary to assess the economic feasibility but we need to minimise bureaucracy.
Alexander Tkachev: Trust me, Mr President, I come from a rural area myself and I know what is involved, so we are minimising indeed. The key point is that we are saving regional funds. There is no need to subsidise the loans from the regional budget. Previously, the regions provided quite sizeable amounts to subsidise loans issued by banks. Now there are only federal subsidies, which means the regions can use the budget funds for other purposes, including farming.
Vladimir Putin: Good.
<…>
Topics
Agriculture
Persons
Tkachev Alexander
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 24, 2017, 13:40
Text version