Events
Meeting on relief measures following fires in Rostov-on-Don and Volgograd Region
Last night, Vladimir Putin arrived in Anapa after his working visit to Hungary to hold a meeting with the Emergencies Minister and the heads of the Volgograd and Rostov regions, where destructive fires took place recently.
August 29, 2017
07:30
Anapa
1 of 6
Meeting on relief measures following fires in Rostov-on-Don and Volgograd Region.
Emergencies Minister Vladimir Puchkov
, Rostov Region Governor Vasily Golubev
and Volgograd Region Governor Andrei Bocharov
updated the President on relief measures that have been taken following the fires.
Vladimir Putin issued instructions to provide the necessary assistance to the fire victims.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues, or more precisely, good evening.
I want to hear your reports on the situation in Rostov-on-Don and the Volgograd Region.
See also
Instructions in connection with wildfires in Rostov-on-Don and Volgograd Region
August 26, 2017
Unfortunately, the scale of the disasters is huge. Judging by the documents available to me and by the Emergencies Ministry reports, the fires have affected a large number of populated areas with some 600,000 of population. This is serious.
I regret to say that there have been deaths and other casualties in both cases. The Emergencies Minister has told me that they are considering the possibility of arson in both cases.
I want to hear what you have to say and how the relief efforts are proceeding.
And second, I want the Emergencies Minister and the heads of these regions to tell me what they are doing to help people in Rostov-on-Don. The Government issued an instruction on August 28 to allocate funds for helping the fire victims. This involves one-time payments for the full or partial loss of property and also financial assistance to the families of those who have died in these fires.
An interdepartmental group is still assessing the damage in the Volgograd Region. I want to know how far this work has proceeded, how long it will take, at least tentatively, and when a decision on relief assistance can be taken.
Let us begin with Emergencies Minister Vladimir Puchkov. Go ahead, please.
Emergencies Minister Vladimir Puchkov: Mr President, we received reports of an emergency situation in the Ust-Donetsky District of the Rostov Region on August 17. The situation was subsequently complicated by a big fire in Rostov-on-Don.
We formed a large relief group quickly, which included the aircraft of the Emergencies Ministry, the Defence Ministry and the National Guard, as well as land forces. We have organised the operation of the emergency commission for the Rostov Region as well as of the heads of local governments. Losses in this dramatic situation were minimal, thanks to the energetic measures and prompt evacuation of the people.
Assessment teams have largely completed their review of the scale of the tragedy. The Government adopted an instruction today and has allocated funds for Rostov-on-Don. Tomorrow we plan to complete the provision of financial assistance to the fire victims and also compensation for the loss of basic necessities and to those who have been injured in the fire.
Regarding the Volgograd Region, where the weather conditions were difficult and the scale of fire very large, we promptly dispatched heavy Il-76 aircraft with air spray tanks and Be-200ES aircraft, as well as helicopters to the region. This was done thanks to the energetic work of the emergencies commission for the Volgograd Region and cooperation with the federal group. These facilities have been used to evacuate people from those populated areas where their life and health were endangered. Also, we made the decision to evacuate five children’s summer camps. The children were safely returned to their parents.
We are also working with the people. At this point, 21 assessment teams are completing their work. The Government has prepared a decision on the allocation of funds for financial assistance to the victims and for compensation for the loss of basic necessities. We plan to complete these federal payments by the end of the week. Respective allocations from the regional budgets of the Rostov and Volgograd regions have been coordinated as well.
We have promptly organised temporary accommodation centres, and a special commission has analysed the situation. The standards of relief assistance at these centres are very high in Rostov-on-Don. Similar centres were also established in the Volgograd Region, but it turned out that there was no need for them.
I accompanied the governors to the disaster areas, where we talked to the people who have been affected by the fires. Overall, the situation was properly monitored, although there were minor hitches.
Our current joint priority is to provide targeted practical assistance to every victim and, of course, to settle all other issues, including the provision of housing.
This concludes my report.
<…>
Geography
Volgograd Region
Rostov Region
Topics
Regions
Persons
Bocharov Andrei
Golubev Vasily
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 29, 2017, 07:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Acting Head of Mordovia Vladimir Volkov
Acting Head of the Republic of Mordovia briefed the President on the socioeconomic situation in the region.
August 29, 2017
16:40
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 2
Acting Head of the Republic of Mordovia Vladimir Volkov.
Mr Volkov described a number of major agricultural and industrial projects carried out in the region.
The requests from Mordovian residents that the President received during Direct Line were discussed separately.
* * *
<…>
Acting Head of Mordovia Vladimir Volkov: Mr President, I would like to thank you. Last time you signed letters for me and now we are resolving all the issues related to the second stage of the fibre-optic plant at an accelerated pace. I think we will launch construction very soon and will overcome our dependence on fibre-optic imports once and for all in a year or two.
I also reported to you that our pharmaceutical plant – Biokhimik – began working on its own antibiotics. We established an institute on their development and now we are organising production. We have received our first Russian antibiotic substance. I would like to show it to you. This is the first Russian antibiotic substance, a new generation of antibiotics.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good, please pass on my congratulations to everyone who worked on this.
Vladimir Volkov: I will. In February, we will complete the works on production and will have four Russian antibiotics on December 31. In February, we will launch their production and will manufacture both the substance and antibiotics.
Such antibiotics exist already. The current work is aimed at import replacement but now we are developing a new antibiotic that does noes exist anywhere in the world. I believe I will report to you at one point that we have them. The plant’s capacity for antibiotics will be seven billion.
I would like to report to you that we continue developing other clusters. We had difficulties with carriage building. As you know, this was a difficult market. Last year we entered the markets of Cuba and Iran. This year we will make 4,500 carriages. About 5,000 people are working in this sector and this is very important for us. This is a solution of the problem – we will get a big advantage in the social sphere in the Republic of Mordovia.
A few words about new areas. We have a technology park jointly with the university and one plant. We have developed silicon carbide (this is a new semi-conductor of the post-silicone generation) and a chain for semi-conductors. Now our task is to make them from silicon carbide. They will be used at high temperatures – in the defence industry and the like.
<…>
Geography
Republic of Mordovia
Persons
Volkov Vladimir
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 29, 2017, 16:40
Text version