Acting Governor of the Yaroslavl Region Dmitry Mironov also took part in the meeting.Events
National open lesson Russia Focused on the Future
As Russia celebrates the start of the school year and the Day of Knowledge, Vladimir Putin held the national open lesson Russia Focused on the Future. The event took place during a working trip to the Yaroslavl Region.
September 1, 2017
14:30
Yaroslavl
3 of 4
At the national open lesson Russia Focused on the Future.
More than 1 million schoolchildren around the country were expected to watch the open lesson online. All participants in the lesson watched videos about the large-scale innovative projects underway in Russia, in particular, the Northern Sea Route transport system’s development, new generation universal nuclear icebreakers, a super-heavy class space launch centre, additive technology centres and telemedicine projects.
* * *
Opening remarks at the national open lesson Russia Focused on the Future
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Hello, friends,
Today’s event is called an Open Lesson. This lesson implies following a particular method and pursuing particular objectives. Today’s event cannot be called a lesson in the traditional sense, and I will therefore not attempt to stick to a particular logic in my words.
This event is taking place on the Day of Knowledge, the start of the new school year. I therefore want to congratulate on this wonderful occasion, the Day of Knowledge, everyone here today and all the students, schoolchildren and teachers watching us via various media channels.
Let us not forget your parents either, especially the parents of children who are just starting school this year and taking their first steps on the road to knowledge. I congratulate them too.
We opened 79 new schools in time for the new school year this year, two of which, I think, are here in the Yaroslavl Region. I thank Acting Governor Dmitry Mironov for keeping his promise to the people and seeing the project’s completion by the end of the year. A total 170 schools will open by the end of the year, and this is the authorities’ contribution – and not their sole contribution – to developing education.
But I want to begin with something else. We watched the video just now and saw what our country has achieved over these last years.
I flatter myself with the thought that I could have shared some interesting news and information on our recent history, the principles underpinning our economic and social development today, and international relations with those present here or watching on screen and at your computers. These issues are all the subject of special meetings and work.
But today is not the time and place for this. As I said, today is a holiday. Nonetheless, taking the video we just watched on our country’s achievements as a departure point, I want to say that it demonstrated our latest advances in different areas.
I was speaking with Governor Mironov on the way here before, and he said, “Look, there’s the Assumption Cathedral, built in honour of Yaroslavl’s 1000th anniversary”. Yaroslavl alone is more than 1,000 years old, and our country has been in existence for far longer than this. Why am I saying this?
If you look around, you realise that not all countries and peoples have withstood this test of time, have lived, developed, overcome difficulties and grown stronger for more than 1,000 years.
Over this 1,000 years, our ancestors, the generations that went before us have made tremendous efforts to make our country the strong and powerful state that it is today. They crossed it all the way to the Pacific Ocean and attained great achievements in science, technology and education.
All future generations, and this is a cliché you have heard many times, always surpass the previous ones, and achieve more. This is true. This is only natural, because new generations build on the foundation created by their predecessors.
Knowledge has become wider and deeper; technology has become more sophisticated and exciting, creating opportunities to take another step forward. However, your goal is not just to do something new. That goes without saying. It will, indeed, be something new based on what was created earlier. Your goal is to take a new step forward.
But life is complicated, as they say. It is always complicated when it comes to competition. Competition is always strong and even fierce, but look at how fast the world is developing today. We say, ”Our country is big, powerful, and great.“
This is true, this is how things are, indeed. But look at how the world is developing. There are countries which are incomparably larger than our country in terms of population. There are countries where technology and modern administrative tools are much more effective than ours.
Hence, the question: if we have existed for over 1,000 years now, and are actively developing and growing stronger, that means that we have something that is helping us do so. This something is our internal ”nuclear reactor,“ which propels us. This passionarity, which Gumilev spoke about in his own time, keeps pushing our country forward.
You, who are now entering active life, need to bear this in mind, be aware of it and not just do better than previous generations, but do better on a new level, and not only in comparison with what was done in our country, but in comparison with our competitors all over the world. I am not talking about enemies of every stripe. Now is not the time to talk about sad things. I am referring to competitors, and the competition is always strong.
We have another overused phrase about how we did no worse than someone else. We should always do better precisely because of the circumstances that I just mentioned. There are countries with larger populations and with more advanced technology and administrative tools. For us to be able to maintain our sovereignty, and to make the lives of our people and future generations, your children and grandchildren, better than today, it is imperative to make qualitatively new advances.
That is why the step you are taking today – choosing your profession and your path in life – is so important for you. You saw them on the screen. I will not go over them again. They are very exciting, modern, and promising.
They include space exploration, innovative energy sources, transport, biology, and cognitive science. They are about the synergy of various areas of knowledge and technology that produce the maximum effect, nature-like technologies, and so on. Medicine and education, too, by the way. You have to choose your own path.
You will repeatedly – practically all your life – be faced with a problem of choice. A person always makes a choice if he feels he wants to live and do, to derive satisfaction and pleasure from life and offer up the results of his labour to the altar of the Fatherland and share them with other people. In fact, this is generally the highest satisfaction you can derive from your work.
I hope very much that you will be able to make this choice without delay. The earlier you make it the better, the more time you will have to make improvements, polish up something, consult somebody and make adjustments. As a rule, life today requires narrow specialisation and to achieve this it is necessary to think this over and get to the bottom of the problem that you would like to devote your lives to solving.
I would like to sincerely wish you success. I would like to wish success to your teachers. I am very pleased that such a unique event, without exaggeration, as the choice of an occupation by senior-level students is being held in Yaroslavl for the fifth time. Naturally, our major companies should be involved in this by all means.
I was very pleased to note that many people whom I have known for a long time and appreciate are today here in Yaroslavl. They are taking part in this joint work; the first contracts are being signed, in this case with students who also took part in this event in Yaroslavl.
I would like to wish success to all of you. I am hoping that in the near future we will see what you produce and that you will be content with how you live and what you do and be proud of your achievements.
To see where we need to go and how we should develop, the Ministry of Education organises an essay project every year. I suggest writing essays on the theme “Russia Focused on the Future!” to see what you think our country will be like on the threshold of the 2040s and 2050s.
All the best to you!
See also
All materials about trip to Yaroslavl Region
September 1, 2017
Geography
Yaroslavl Region
Topics
Professional training
School
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 1, 2017, 14:30
Text versionEvents
BRICS: Towards New Horizons of Strategic Partnership
Vladimir Putin’s article BRICS: Towards New Horizons of Strategic Partnership was published ahead of the BRICS Summit, which will be held in Xiamen, China, on September 4 and 5.
September 1, 2017
01:00
The 9th BRICS Summit will be held in Xiamen, China, on September 4 and 5. I consider it important in this regard to present Russia’s approaches to cooperation within the framework of this large and respected association and to share my views on the future of our further cooperation.
I would like to begin by expressing our appreciation of China’s significant contribution as this year’s chair of the organisation, which has allowed the BRICS countries as a group to move forward in all the key areas of our partnership, including politics, the economy and culture. Moreover, the group of five has greatly strengthened its global standing.
It is important that our group’s activities are based on the principles of equality, respect for one another’s opinions and consensus. Within BRICS, nothing is ever forced on anyone. When the approaches of its members do not coincide, we work patiently and carefully to coordinate them. This open and trust-based atmosphere is conducive to the successful implementation of our tasks.
Russia highly values the multifaceted cooperation that has developed within BRICS. Our countries’ constructive cooperation on the international arena is aimed at creating a fair multipolar world and equal development conditions for all.
Russia stands for closer coordination of the BRICS countries’ foreign policies, primarily at the UN and G20, as well as other international organisations. It is clear that only the combined efforts of all countries can help bring about global stability and find solutions to many acute conflicts, including those in the Middle East. I would like to say that it was largely thanks to the efforts of Russia and other concerned countries that conditions have been created to improve the situation in Syria. We have delivered a powerful blow to the terrorists and laid the groundwork for launching the movement towards a political settlement and the return of the Syrian people to peace.
However, the fight against terrorists in Syria and other countries and regions must continue. Russia calls for going over from debates to the practical creation of a broad counterterrorism front based on international law and led by the UN. Naturally, we highly appreciate the support and assistance of our BRICS partners in this respect.
I have to say a few words about the situation on the Korean Peninsula, where tensions have grown recently and the situation is balancing on the brink of a large-scale conflict. Russia believes that the policy of putting pressure on Pyongyang to stop its nuclear missile programme is misguided and futile. The region’s problems should only be settled through a direct dialogue of all the parties concerned without any preconditions. Provocations, pressure and militarist and insulting rhetoric are a dead-end road.
Russia and China have created a roadmap for a settlement on the Korean Peninsula that is designed to promote the gradual easing of tensions and the creation of a mechanism for lasting peace and security.
Russia also calls for promoting the interaction of the BRICS countries in the area of global information security. We propose joining our efforts to create a legal basis for cooperation and subsequently to draft and adopt universal rules of responsible behaviour of states in this sphere. A major step towards this goal would be the signing of an intergovernmental BRICS agreement on international information security.
I would like to point out that on Russia’s initiative a BRICS Strategy for Economic Partnership was adopted at the Ufa Summit in 2015 and is being successfully implemented. We hope to be able to discuss new large-scale cooperation tasks in trade and investment and industrial cooperation at the Xiamen Summit.
Russia is interested in promoting economic cooperation within the BRICS format. Considerable practical achievements have been recently reported in this area, primarily the launch of the New Development Bank (NDB). It has approved seven investment projects in the BRICS countries worth around $1.5 billion. This year, the NDB is to approve a second package of investment projects worth $2.5-$3 billion in total. I am convinced that their implementation will not only be a boost to our economies but will also promote integration between our countries.
Russia shares the BRICS countries’ concerns over the unfairness of the global financial and economic architecture, which does not give due regard to the growing weight of the emerging economies. We are ready to work together with our partners to promote international financial regulation reforms and to overcome the excessive domination of the limited number of reserve currencies. We will also work towards a more balanced distribution of quotas and voting shares within the IMF and the World Bank.
I am confident that the BRICS countries will continue to act in a consolidated manner against protectionism and new barriers in global trade. We value the BRICS countries’ consensus on this issue, which allows us to more consistently advocate the foundations of an open, equal and mutually beneficial multilateral trade system and to strengthen the role of the WTO as the key regulator in international trade.
Russia’s initiative on the development of cooperation among the BRICS countries’ antimonopoly agencies is aimed at creating effective mechanisms to encourage healthy competition. The goal is to create a package of cooperation measures to work against the restrictive business practices of large multinational corporations and trans-border violations of competition rules.
I would like to draw your attention to Russia’s initiative on the establishment of a BRICS Energy Research Platform. We believe that this would enable us to coordinate our information, analysis and research activities in the interests of the five BRICS countries and would ultimately facilitate the implementation of joint energy investment projects.
Another priority is to build up our cooperation in the area of small and medium-sized enterprises (SME). We believe that we should integrate the national SMEs’ online resources for placing crosslinks and other commercial information and for exchanging data on reliable partners.
Russia is advocating the Women and the Economy public-private dialogue. This initiative provides for holding regular debates by members of the BRICS countries’ business and expert communities, women’s associations and government agencies. The first such meeting was held in Novosibirsk on July 4, 2017, on the sidelines of the First International Women’s Congress of the SCO and BRICS Member States. Another related idea is to create a BRICS Women’s Business Club as a network of professional interaction between women in business through a specialised online information resource.
Our other priorities include cooperation in science, technology, innovations and cutting edge medicine. Our countries have a big potential in this respect that comprises a solid and mutually complementary research base, unique technical achievements, skilled personnel and huge markets for science-intensive products. We propose discussing at the upcoming summit a package of measures to reduce the threat of infectious diseases and to create new medicines to prevent and fight epidemics.
I believe our cooperation in the humanitarian sphere has excellent prospects. While working to implement the BRICS Intergovernmental Agreement on Cooperation in the Field of Culture, we hope that our partners will take part in the New Wave and New Wave Junior international contests of young pop singers. We have also advanced the initiative to create a joint television network of the BRICS countries.
Russia stands for strengthening the BRICS countries’ partnership in politics, the economy, culture and other areas. We are ready to continue working jointly with our colleagues to promote democracy and to strengthen the healthy elements of international relations based firmly on international law. I am convinced that the Xiamen Summit will help invigorate our countries’ efforts towards finding solutions to the challenges of the 21st century and will propel cooperation within BRICS to a higher level.
I wholeheartedly wish health and success to your readers and to all people in the BRICS countries.
Topics
BRICS
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 1, 2017, 01:00
Text version