Events
Presenting the Order of St Andrew the Apostle to President of China Xi Jinping
Vladimir Putin presented the Order of St Andrew the Apostle to President of China Xi Jinping. The ceremony was held in the St Andrew Hall of the Grand Kremlin Palace.
July 4, 2017
13:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 7
Presenting the Order of St Andrew the Apostle to President of China Xi Jinping.
The Order of St Andrew the Apostle is awarded to prominent statesmen and public figures and representatives of science, culture, the arts and various industries for their exceptional services in promoting the prosperity, greatness and glory of Russia. The order can also be awarded to foreign heads of state for outstanding services to Russia.
The President of China has come to Russia on an official visit at the invitation of Vladimir Putin.
Speeches at the ceremony presenting the order
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Xi Jinping, ladies and gentlemen,
It is a great honour to present the highest order of the Russian Federation – the Order of St Andrew the Apostle – to our dear friend, President of the People’s Republic of China Xi Jinping.
This is evidence of our recognition of your special services to the development of comprehensive partnership and strategic cooperation between our states and also to the strengthening of friendship between our nations.
Mr Xi Jinping, my dear friend. You have always been a consistent advocate of close cooperation between Russia and China based on equality, trust, openness and respect for one another’s interests. Evidence of this attitude is the fact that Russia was the first foreign country you visited as the leader of China in 2013. Such friendly gestures are worth a great deal. We know this very well and appreciate it.
Since then, Russian-Chinese partnership has become even stronger and continues to develop intensively. It is notable that major bilateral projects in trade, the economy, defence, military technology, culture and other areas are underway with your personal assistance. Interaction between our countries has become visibly more active on the international stage.
Mr President, I wholeheartedly wish all the best, success, health and well-being to you and peace, stability and prosperity to the friendly Chinese people.
President of the People’s Republic of China Xi Jinping (retranslated): Mr Putin, dear friends,
I would like to express my gratitude to President Vladimir Putin for his warm words.
The President has bestowed the Order of St Andrew the Apostle on me. This is a great honour. I see this not only as a personal honour but also as evidence of our Russian partners’ attention to the development of Chinese-Russian relations and also as proof of the feeling of sincere friendship the Russian people have for the people of China. I would like to use this occasion to express my gratitude to President Putin personally and to the friendly Russian people.
This is probably the best period in the history of Chinese-Russian comprehensive partnership and strategic cooperation. Our countries are working in the spirit of equality and trust, mutual support, prosperity and centuries-long friendship to strengthen mutual political trust and to promote the alignment of the Belt and Road initiative and the EAEU. By closely coordinating their actions on the international stage, the two sides are promoting their individual development and mutual prosperity. This provides a vital impetus and adds positive energy to the maintenance of peace and stability on the planet.
Mr Putin and I fully agree that Chinese-Russian relations must remain free of external influence despite any changes on the international stage.
We are resolved to expand mutual support and all-round ties and to promote our cooperation in the name of success to the benefit of our nations and the rest of the world. We feel confident about the development of Chinese-Russian relations.
I will revere this order as evidence of Chinese-Russian friendship. I will work firmly and consistently to strengthen and boost our comprehensive partnership and strategic cooperation.
Thank you. Thank you very much.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Xi Jinping, friends,
It is inferred in such cases as this that this is evidence of our attention for and appreciation of Russian-Chinese relations and respect for the people of China. This is true. The awarding of this order is evidence of our attitude to China and the Chinese people.
I have known Mr Xi Jinping for many years. Of course, he is the leader of a great power and nation, but he has always been a modest person who preferred to say little about himself. However, I would like to highlight that it is this man who is in charge of the Chinese foreign policy. We have been working together, which is why I have first-hand information about his great personal contribution to the development of bilateral relations and the decisions he takes on key issues of Russian-Chinese relations. I want you to know that we highly appreciate this.
This order has been awarded to you in recognition of your personal contribution to the development of our relations. We are grateful to you for this.
Please, accept my congratulations again and also best wishes to you, your family and the Chinese people.
See also
Executive Order bestowing the Order of St Andrew the Apostle on President of China Xi Jinping
July 4, 2017
Russian-Chinese talks
July 4, 2017
Geography
People's Republic of China
Topics
Foreign policy
State decorations
Persons
Xi Jinping
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 4, 2017, 13:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Gazprom CEO Alexei Miller
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Chairman of Gazprom Management Board Alexei Miller. The Gazprom CEO briefed the President on the situation with provision of gas supply to the Russian regions and the company’s current operations.
July 4, 2017
16:40
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 3
Meeting with Chairman of Gazprom Management Board Alexei Miller.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Miller, let’s discuss the company’s performance so far this year.
The second issue is connected to Direct Line: There are a lot of problems related to provision of gas supply. These are traditional problems that people raise in the course of Direct Line, and we do not just discuss these things. I know that you have proposed specific solutions together with the regions: Gazprom cannot deal with this on its own, without the regions. Nevertheless, I would like to revisit the matter.
Chairman of Gazprom Management Board Alexei Miller: Mr President, in the first six months of 2017 Gazprom increased production by 36.2 billion cubic metres, year on year, or by 18.4 percent. This is related to growing gas consumption on the domestic market and it is noteworthy. Household gas consumption was up 4.6 percent; consumption in the power engineering sector, 9.5 percent; the agro-chemistry, 20.6 percent; metallurgy, 28.2 percent; total average growth, 11.2 billion or 9.7 percent. This clearly points to economic growth in these sectors.
Growing gas consumption in the household sector shows that issues related to provision of gas supply are, without a doubt, very important and significant and Gazprom continues implementing the programme to provide gas supply that we launched in keeping with your instruction in mid-2005.
This year, we are implementing the programme in 68 regions; 25.7 billion rubles have been disbursed. A total of 3,700 km of gas pipelines are under construction as part of this programme. This year, 1,700 km will be put into operation in 31 regions; 160 gas boilers will be built and 75,800 flats and households will be provided with gas services; pipeline gas will be provided to over 200 localities.
There are problems with some regions. We have 19 regions that regularly fail to fulfil the commitments they assumed under the scheduled synchronisation plans that we sign with them every year.
Vladimir Putin: They do not get it to the end consumer?
Alexei Miller: Right, after all, Gazprom is responsible for providing gas to the edge of a settlement. As for the distribution system in the settlement or within the building, or preparations for users to be connected, this is certainly the responsibility of the regions.
Based on the results of the past six months, Gazprom will have to consider how to redistribute funds in those regions that did not fulfil their commitments in the first half of the year and allocate additional funds to those regions that complied with their obligations.
On average, by the beginning of 2017 provision of gas supply reached 67.2 percent nationwide, 70.9 percent in cities and urban settlements and 57.1 percent in rural areas.
The amount of investment we allocate is bringing less and less gain every year because gas has to be supplied to more remote areas. However, I would like to point out that in 2017 we allocated considerable funds to regions like the Primorye Territory, considering the national policy on accelerated development of the Far East. Today the Primorye Territory is the biggest recipient of investment under the gas infrastructure development programme.
I would also like to note that we have established a good working dialogue with those regions that are led by new governors, acting governors. I would like to mention the Yaroslavl Region. We had a working meeting with the governor in Yaroslavl and mapped out very serious plans on provision of gas supply in the region. 
Naturally, Eastern Siberia is now playing a tangible role in our programme. I would also like to mention the Novosibirsk Region. We are allocating substantial funds to them. And I would also like to mention the Northwest – Karelia.
Probably, I should also mention a number of regions that regularly fail to comply with their commitments for various reasons. This applies to Daghestan and, regrettably, the Volgograd Region. These are the regions that chronically lag behind the obligations they assumed.
Gazprom is funding the programme in a consistent manner. In the first half of the year we earmarked exactly half of the funds that were provided for the programme. We plan to start service at all facilities by the beginning of the 2017–2018 autumn-winter season.
<…>
Topics
Energy
Regions
Persons
Miller Alexei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 4, 2017, 16:40
Text version