Events
Meeting with Primorye Territory Governor Vladimir Miklushevsky
The socioeconomic situation in the region was discussed.
September 6, 2017
13:15
Vladivostok
With Governor of Primorye Territory Vladimir Miklushevsky.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Miklushevsky, during the forum we are discussing the whole macroregion of the Russian Far East. Yet, what is taking place in each region of the Russian Far East – including, of course, the Primorye Territory – is no less important. Let us talk about the situation in Primorye.
<…>
Geography
Primorye Territory
Topics
Regions
Persons
Miklushevsky Vladimir
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 6, 2017, 13:15
Text versionEvents
Russian-South Korean talks
Vladimir Putin held talks with President of the Republic of Korea Moon Jae-in in Vladivostok.
September 6, 2017
09:30
Vladivostok
3 of 8
With President of the Republic of Korea Moon Jae-in.
The two leaders discussed prospects for promoting bilateral relations, in particular trade and economic cooperation, as well as current regional issues.
A package of documents has been signed during the South Korean President’s visit to Russia and his attendance of the Eastern Economic Forum.
Additional
Press statements following talks with President of the Republic of Korea Moon Jae-in
September 6, 2017
An intergovernmental agreement on the establishment of a direct encrypted communications link between Russia and the Republic of Korea has been signed.
The parties also signed a memorandum on the participation of the Republic of Korea as a partner country in the 9th International Industrial Trade Fair INNOPROM 2018 and memorandums of understanding and cooperation between Russian organisations and the Korea Trade-Investment Promotion Agency (KOTRA). The concerned agencies of the two countries have signed a memorandum of understanding on cooperation in innovations and a protocol of intent on cooperation in professional medical education. The parties also signed documents on the implementation of the Russian-Korean initiative for financial cooperation in the development of the Far East and on the creation of a fish processing and logistics complex in the Russian Far East.
Several other documents on practical aspects of cooperation between various Russian and Korean organisations have also been signed.
Vladimir Putin and Moon Jae-in made statements for the press following their talks.
* * *
Beginning of talks with President of South Korea Moon Jae-in
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, colleagues, welcome to Vladivostok.
I would like to thank you for accepting our invitation and attending the Eastern Economic Forum in Russia.
We had a telephone conversation yesterday. I welcome this opportunity to meet with you in person and to discuss issues of concern to us, in particular the recent situation with the North Korean nuclear and missile programme. I am also glad to be able to discuss bilateral relations, primarily economic ties, with you.
I would like to begin by saying that a minor decline of 16.6 percent last year has given way to a nearly 50 percent increase in bilateral trade in the first half of this year. But we can do better, of course.
I hope to be able to discuss all these issues today. Welcome.
President of the Republic of Korea Moon Jae-in
 (retranslated): Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking you for the invitation to attend the third Eastern Economic Forum, to which you, Mr President, attach much significance.
We have talked a great deal with you recently, exchanging opinions by telephone and meeting several times in a short period of time. I think that this has made us very close.
Mr President, we are of a similar age and have many things in common. There are many similarities in life. And this makes me feel that we are very close.
I would like to point out that here are many common elements and points of contact between your policy for the development of the [Russian] Far East and my policy, the New Northern Policy. I would say that you and I share a dream. I believe that South Korea is the best partner for Russia in the development of the Far East. If we promote our cooperation, we will bring prosperity not only to the Far East but to the region as a whole.
I want to use my term as president to move Korean-Russian ties to a fundamentally new level, and I pin great hopes in this respect to our meeting today. I hope we will have fruitful talks.
I would like to remind you that the situation on the Korean Peninsula and in Northeast Asia has been seriously complicated by the ongoing North Korean provocations. Unless North Korea stops its provocations, the situation can become unpredictable.
In this context, I would like to exchange opinions with you on ways to end North Korean provocations and to find solutions to the related problems.
Once again, thank you for creating this opportunity to exchange opinions.
<…>
See also
Telephone conversation with President of Republic of Korea Moon Jae-in
September 4, 2017
Geography
Primorye Territory
Republic of Korea
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Moon Jae-in
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 6, 2017, 09:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Vice Premier of the Chinese State Council Wang Yang
Vladimir Putin had a meeting with Vice Premier of the People’s Republic of China State Council Wang Yang in Vladivostok.
September 6, 2017
13:40
Vladivostok
3 of 7
Meeting with Vice Premier of the Chinese State Council Wang Yang.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Comrade Wang Yang, friends and colleagues,
It gives me great pleasure to welcome you to Vladivostok. You know that I have held extensive talks with the President of China, Comrade Xi Jinping, who is a big friend of Russia. I would like to again congratulate our Chinese friends on the success of this BRICS summit.
I would like to say that you personally are doing a great deal to promote Russian-Chinese ties. In this context, I will sign an executive order to award you the Order of Friendship. You will receive the order during your meeting with Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev.
I know that you have a packed agenda. You have been to one city today, and tomorrow you will travel to another city, Khabarovsk. You have come here from a trip to Volgograd, and in Khabarovsk you will chair a meeting of the Intergovernmental Commission on the development of relations between the Russian Far East and Northeast China.
I would like to say that nearly 200 Chinese companies were presented at the Eastern Economic Forum last year. Contracts worth nearly 2 trillion rubles, or more precisely 1.9 trillion rubles, were signed then. Total Chinese investments made in the Russian Far East in the past two years exceed $3 billion. This is evidence of our efforts to implement the agreements we reached with the President of China.
I am confident that we will be able to do a great deal at this year’s forum as well. We know that many of our Chinese friends, business people, have come to the forum. We hope that the volume of contracts we sign this year will be even larger than last year.
Your work has produced a solid practical result.
Vice Premier of the People’s Republic of China State Council Wang Yang (retranslated): Mr President,
First of all, I would like to thank you for your high opinion of the BRICS summit in Xiamen.
I also want to thank you for awarding me the Order of Friendship. It is a great honour for me, and I am ready to make even greater, maximum efforts to promote Chinese-Russian relations.
I also want to say that this is the second time you are receiving the Chinese delegation and me personally in the beautiful city of Vladivostok. I think that this is not just a protocol issue; it speaks to your great attention, the strengthening of the traditional friendship between our countries, as well as the efforts to intensify bilateral contacts.
Vladimir Putin: I remember that you attended the first forum in 2015. We met there.
Wang Yang: Yes. This is my third visit to Vladivostok.
Over the past three years, the implementation of the Far East development strategy has changed Vladivostok. I think that the changes in Vladivostok are a microcosm of all the changes in Russia. I want to note that in recent years, under your leadership, Russia has dealt with the sluggish growth of the world economy, and, despite the sanctions of the West, has maintained stability and solidarity in society. The Russian economy began to gradually, steadily recover. Key economic indicators improved. As a good neighbour, a reliable partner and a good friend, the Chinese side is sincerely glad for your success.
The Ambassador told me that during the BRICS summit, Chinese President Xi Jinping offered a new assessment of bilateral relations. He said that Chinese-Russian relations are not just relations, but comprehensive strategic partnership and cooperation, as well as friendship. For me, too, this is very positive, good news.
I think that as your friend, I can resolve other issues for you, leaving more time for you to relax. (Laughter.)
You know well the programme of my stay in Russia. Indeed, I held a meeting with Mr Rogozin yesterday, and tomorrow I am ready to take part in the work of the China-Russia business dialogue together with Mr Trutnev. The day after tomorrow, all of us will go to Khabarovsk to hold the first meeting of the intergovernmental commission. Such a high intensity and frequency of contacts is indicative of more active interaction between our countries. The main objective of my visit to Russia is to implement the agreements reached at the level of the heads of state.
I would like to tell you that Mr Rogozin, Mr Trutnev and I have established not only close working contacts; we are old, good friends.
Now let me say a few more words about the progress we made after our meeting in 2015. At that time, an initiative to strengthen cooperation in maritime affairs was put forward. I would like to let you know that last year, the Chinese Maritime Safety Administration and the Far Eastern Branch of the Russian Academy of Sciences undertook two joint expeditions to the Bering Sea, that is, in the Arctic area.
On September 20 of this year, the aforementioned organisations will hold a joint seminar on maritime research in Vladivostok. During the upcoming seminar, the First Institute of the Chinese Maritime Safety Administration will sign an agreement with the Far Eastern Branch of the Russian Academy of Sciences on establishing the Centre for the Study of Maritime and Climatic Conditions. These are the results of work in the area of maritime research.
I can assure you that it was not for nothing that you awarded me the Order of Friendship. (Laughter.) I did my bit to promote cooperation.
Thank you very much for the time accorded to me.
Vladimir Putin: President Xi Jinping’s assessments of the level and nature of our relations are absolutely objective and correspond to realities. But it is you and your Russian and Chinese colleagues who are creating the real substance behind all this in the course of your work. I would like to thank you for this again and wish you success.
<…>
Geography
Primorye Territory
People's Republic of China
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 6, 2017, 13:40
Text versionEvents
Press statements following talks with President of the Republic of Korea Moon Jae-in
Vladimir Putin and Moon Jae-in made statements for the press following their talks.
September 6, 2017
09:40
Vladivostok
2 of 8
Signing Russian-South Korean documents.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen,
We have just completed our meeting with President of the Republic of Korea Moon Jae-in. We had a meaningful and constructive conversation, and discussed in detail the state and future of bilateral relations, as well as urgent regional and international issues.
The Republic of Korea is one of Russia’s key partners in the Asia-Pacific Region. We have always maintained close and mutually beneficial economic ties between our countries. It is telling that in the first six months of 2017 bilateral trade increased by almost 50 percent, reaching $10 billion.
More than 600 South Korean companies operate in Russia, and investment from South Korea in the Russian economy exceeds $2 billion.
The most successful projects include the Hyundai Motor car plant in St Petersburg with an annual capacity of up to 200,000 cars, the construction of a confectionery plant by Lotte Group in the Kaluga Region, and a business centre and hotel in Moscow, and also large-scale home appliance manufacturing by Samsung and LG in Russia.
Korean businesses are highly interested in stepping up cooperation with Russia, something that was confirmed at the Eastern Economic Forum by the presence of a high-profile delegation of almost a hundred business leaders representing 50 companies.
We hope that Korean businesses will be equally interested in taking part in INNOPROM 2018 International Industrial Trade Fair in Yekaterinburg, where South Korea will be a partner country.
Today Mr President and I have agreed to stimulate the operation of the joint investment and finance platforms with the aggregate capital of $1 billion and to create a portfolio of promising projects, primarily for the Far East, where we can make use of the opportunities offered by the priority development areas and the Free Port of Vladivostok.
During our talks, the Korean partners confirmed their interest in creating a free trade zone with the Eurasian Economic Union. It has been decided to continue expert consultations on this issue.
We also expressed satisfaction with the successful development of our energy cooperation. South Korean companies are involved in the Sakhalin-1 and Sakhalin-2 projects. We are discussing the possibility of increasing the delivery of liquefied natural gas. Fifteen tankers will be built at South Korean shipyards to transport the products of the Yamal LNG plant.
I would like to say that Russia is still willing to implement trilateral projects with the participation of North Korea. We could deliver Russian pipeline gas to Korea and integrate the power lines and railway systems of Russia, the Republic of Korea and North Korea. The implementation of these initiatives will be not only economically beneficial, but will also help build up trust and stability on the Korean Peninsula.
We see the advantages of the potential involvement of South Korean companies in the construction of infrastructure facilities in Russia, including the modernisation of Far Eastern ports and shipyards and the joint development of the Northern Sea Route.
We also consider it important to develop cooperation in agriculture. We will continue working to lift obstacles that hinder trade in this area. We have scored the first positive results: Russian food deliveries to South Korea grew 17 percent to $870 million in the first seven months of this year.
Mr Moon Jae-in and I agreed on the importance of stepping up regional ties. The first meeting of the Russian-Korean Forum for Interregional Cooperation is expected to take place in the beginning of 2018.
Cultural ties are also gaining momentum. In May and June, Russia hosted the Festival of Korean Culture, which was a great success, and Korea will host the Festival of Russian Culture next year.
The 8th Youth Dialogue was held as part of the Russia – Republic of Korea Dialogue forum in Seoul and Pyeongchang. We hope that South Korean youth will proactively contribute to the 19th World Festival of Youth and Students that will take place in Sochi in October 2017.
As everyone knows, next year the Republic of Korea will host the 23rd Winter Olympic Games. I would like to thank Mr Moon Jae-in for his invitation to attend the opening ceremony.
South Korea has become a popular destination for Russian tourists. Last year, the number of Russian tourists travelling to South Korea increased by 19 percent, while the flow of Korean tourists to Russia increased by 20 percent. There is no doubt that this was largely attributable to the visa free arrangement between the two countries.
Of course, during the talks we paid special attention to the situation on the Korean Peninsula, in the follow-up to the September 4 telephone conversation on the sharp deterioration of the situation after yet another nuclear test carried out by the DPRK.
I confirmed Russia’s principled position to Mr Moon Jae-in. Russia does not recognise North Korea’s nuclear status. Pyongyang’s missile and nuclear programme is a flagrant violation of the UN Security Council resolution, it undermines the non-proliferation regime and poses a threat to security in Northeast Asia.
This is the reason why Russia supported the statement made by the President of the UN Security Council on August 29 to condemn the latest ballistic missile launches. At the emergency meeting of the UN Security Council on September 4, we also condemned North Korea’s nuclear test explosion.
At the same time, it is obvious that the Korean problems cannot be settled with sanctions and pressure alone. We must not yield to emotions or try to drive North Korea into a corner. Now is the time for all of us to summon the presence of mind and to avoid taking steps that could escalate tensions.
It will be difficult to resolve the situation without political and diplomatic methods. More precisely, it will be impossible to resolve it without this. We put forth our practical proposals on this matter in the Russian-Chinese roadmap. We urge all parties concerned to seriously consider our initiative, which offers a practical way, as we see it, to ease tensions and to move gradually towards a settlement on the peninsula.
In conclusion, I would like to say that our talks with Mr President were open and productive. We have agreed to maintain regular contacts.
I have formed an impression that our Korean colleagues are interested in promoting bilateral relations. I would like to assure them that we are interested in this as well.
Thank you.
President of the Republic of Korea Moon Jae-in (retranslated): Allow me to begin by expressing gratitude to President Putin for inviting me to attend the Eastern Economic Forum as a guest of honour.
I visited Russia four months after assuming the office of President of Korea. I made this visit before any other visits I made in the capacity of President of Korea. This shows the significance I attach to partnership with Russia.
The Far East is an area where Russia’s eastern policy and Korea’s New Northern Policy converge. Vladivostok is the gate to the East. It has deep historical and cultural ties with Korea.
I am very impressed by the dynamic development of Vladivostok. The Republic of Korea is the best partner in the development of the Far East. I am confident that an active involvement of the Korean Government and business community in the development of the Far East will help turn it into a solid platform for promoting peace and prosperity in the region.
Today Mr President and I reaffirmed our strong will and our vision for the further development of bilateral relations. We also discussed a wide range of issues related to the strengthening of our practical cooperation, primarily the expansion of the foundation for bilateral relations, including in the Far East.
The Korean Government has recently created the Northern Economic Cooperation Committee under the President. This has completed the creation of a management system that will make Korea the leader in the development of the Far East. The Committee is tasked with strengthening economic cooperation with Northeast Asian and Eurasian countries. In the future, cooperation between the Committee and Russia’s Far Eastern Federal District and the Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East will play a key role in the development of the Far East.
Next year, we will create a Korean-Russian Regional Cooperation Forum. It should bolster contacts between regional governments in Korea and the Russian Far East. Cooperation channels between regional economic communities and small and medium-sized businesses will greatly expand contacts between people and promote practical cooperation.
Mr President and I also agreed to expand financial support and consulting services to promote investment cooperation in Russia’s Far East in various areas. Specifically, we agreed to create a new investment facility for a total of $2 billion for supporting projects in the Far East.
A decision was taken to establish a centre for Korean investors in order to support Korean businesses that want to work in Russia’s Far East, and address issues that Korean businesses face. We also agreed to hold regular Korean Investor Days in both countries.
Since the free trade agreement between Korea and the EAEU has the potential of bolstering cooperation not only between Korea and Russia, but also between Korea and other EAEU members, we agreed to set up a working group to explore the possibility of signing an agreement of this kind. I think that the nexus between the rich natural and energy resources in Russia’s Far East, on the one hand, and Korean technology, on the other, could transform Russia’s Far East into a new territory of growth and prosperity for both countries.
Many Korean companies already operate in priority development areas and the Free Port of Vladivostok. The project to build a fish processing complex and other projects promise great added value. I hope that as more projects of this kind are launched, we can develop a business-to-business cooperation model and create a new bilateral cooperation framework.
The world's first icebreaking liquefied natural gas tanker was built by a Korean shipbuilding company and transferred to Russia, opening the era of the Northern Sea Route, which until then seemed to lie in the distant future. This example shows that this kind of effective bilateral cooperation can be replicated in a number of traditional areas, including transport infrastructure, seaport development, agriculture, etc.
Despite the second warning from the international community, North Korea held the sixth nuclear test last week, which has been firmly censured. The North Korean nuclear and missile ambitions are the biggest threat to the development of the huge potential of the Korean Peninsula and the Russian Far East. This is why we have come to the conclusion that this problem must be settled as soon as possible.
Mr President and I have agreed that nuclear missile tests are the wrong choice and that our current task is to ease tensions on the Korean Peninsula. In this context, I highly appreciate the commitment of Mr President and the Russian Government to the principle of nuclear non-proliferation and their efforts to implement the UN Security Council resolution and to settle the North Korean problem through diplomatic means.
At the same time, Mr President has expressed his understanding of and support for the Korean Government’s efforts towards a lasting peace on the Korean Peninsula and improved relations between the two Korean states. I appreciate this. Such communication between heads of state is conducive to strengthening strategic ties aimed at settling the North Korean problem.
Mr President and I have also agreed to build up the basis for the implementation of trilateral projects with participation of the two Korean states and Russia, which will connect the Korean Peninsula and the Russian Far East. Despite lengthy talks, these projects have not progressed for a number of reasons, including the North Korean problem. We have decided to give priority to the projects that can be implemented in the near future, primarily in the Far East. The development of the Far East will promote the prosperity of our two countries and will also help change North Korea and create the basis for the implementation of the trilateral agreements. We will be working hard on this.
In conclusion, I would like to congratulate Mr President on the success of the third Eastern Economic Forum. Mr President and I will open a new page of cooperation not only between the Korean Peninsula and the Russian Far East, but also between Northeast Asia and Eurasia in general.
I would like to again express my gratitude to the Russian Government and people for this warm welcome.
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: I want to congratulate our Korean friends on the Korean national team winning the right to participate in the 2018 FIFA World Cup in Russia. We look forward to welcoming your team.
See also
Russian-South Korean talks
September 6, 2017
Geography
Primorye Territory
Republic of Korea
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Moon Jae-in
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 6, 2017, 09:40
Text versionEvents
Meeting with representatives of foreign business community
Vladimir Putin met with foreign business community representatives on the sidelines of the Eastern Economic Forum.
September 6, 2017
14:10
Vladivostok
3 of 5
At the meeting with representatives of foreign business community.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends, colleagues, I am happy to greet you here.
First of all, I want to thank you all for meeting here in Vladivostok, Russia, for showing interest in working in the Russian market in general and in the Russian Far East in particular.
Today here, there are representatives of many countries from the Asian region and our colleagues from European countries. Some of you have already started working in Russia and the Russian Far East, while others are in the final stages of the decision-making process.
I know that you have projects in a wide variety of fields, including transport infrastructure, mining, the processing industry, healthcare and a number of other industries that are interesting in terms of business for participation in these projects in the Far East of the Russian Federation.
Such meetings are always of great value for me and for my colleagues from the Executive Office and the Russian Government. They make it possible not only to build trust, which is extremely important, bearing in mind that business to a great deal relies on trust between all participants in this process. But it is also important to hear your opinions, your assessments of business conditions in Russia, in the Russian Far East. I mean if there are any problems that require special attention from the authorities of regions or cities or the Russian Government in general, what needs to be done to improve the business climate in the country, what administrative procedures are still hindering and are to be streamlined.
So, feedback from those who work and want to work in Russia is important to us.
I once again cordially welcome you all, and at the beginning of our meeting I would like to toast your health and success.
<…>
Geography
Primorye Territory
Topics
Investment
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 6, 2017, 14:10
Text versionEvents
State Council Presidium meeting on the comprehensive development of the Russian Far East
Vladimir Putin held a State Council Presidium meeting in Vladivostok on the comprehensive socioeconomic development of the Russian Far East.
September 6, 2017
12:15
Vladivostok
4 of 7
State Council Presidium meeting on the comprehensive development of the Russian Far East. Photo: TASS
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
The State Council Presidium is holding today’s meeting within the framework of the Eastern Economic Forum. We will discuss the comprehensive development of the Russian Far East and creating conditions for attaining quality improvements that will be obvious to everyone in all Far Eastern regions by the middle of the next decade. We have adopted a decision on a large-scale progressive modernisation and development of the Far East.
It is clear that we could not make up for the decades of unresolved problems within a matter of the past few years. Frankly speaking, when I look at what is being done now I sometimes feel that we are not doing enough, because we want to see the results of more effective work sooner, we want all of us to work more effectively. But I understand that everything we are doing will take a long time to complete, that these projects cannot be implemented as simply and quickly as we would like to.
Of course, there are also positive changes, and quite a lot has been accomplished already. We have created special development institutions and the legal framework for the operation of priority development areas and the Free Port of Vladivostok. We have launched the One Hectare programme in the Far East and large infrastructure and industrial projects, which have produced the first results.
For example, industrial growth rates are higher in this macro-region than the country’s average. The past three years were far from simple for the Russian economy, yet the average growth rate [here] is 8.6 percent. This is much higher than elsewhere in the country.
We have already learned how to attract investments to the Far East, and this work will certainly continue. Now the main task is to raise the people’s standard of living. It should not only reach the nationwide average, but even exceed it in the future. It is vitally important to achieve positive changes that people living in the Far Eastern regions will really feel.
In the past 25 years, almost 2 million people have left the macroregion. Today, the migration situation is slightly better, but the population continues to decline yearly, not at the same pace as before, but it is still declining by some 0.3 percent. Our main task is to increase the attractiveness of the Far East. This means decent housing, quality healthcare, transport accessibility, modern schools, kindergartens and day nurseries. In short, it is necessary to create conditions so that more hardworking, talented and educated people will come here.
The solution of both economic and social tasks can be successful only with the comprehensive development of all nine Far Eastern regions. The Government is developing jointly with the regions draft projects through 2025 for each of these regions. This is a very important stage, when everything needs to be carefully thought through and calculated.
Meanwhile, problems are now arising both at the level of the federal budget and at the level of individual agencies. We know that due to various objective reasons we have not been able to fulfil everything that we were going to do to finance the Far Eastern projects – I mean the federal budget. Although the work is going quite well there on the whole.
I would like to draw the attention of the Government, the economic bloc, the Economic Development Ministry and the Finance Ministry, to the fact that the Far East continues to remain our priority. Let's remember that. I would ask you to promptly make the necessary adjustments and to ensure funding for integrated regional development programmes in the future.
Let me also remind you about the decision to include designated Far Eastern chapters within the key state programmes. I saw a report on the implementation of this decision. It provided a ranking of state programmes in terms of their contribution to the development of the Far East. I have to say that in a number of areas the situation is modest, to put it mildly, if not outright dismaying.
What is this all about? Who drafted these programmes? They were developed by ministries and agencies in charge of specific sectors. Instead of creating special sections on the Far East within the programmes, they either failed to mention it or lack substance. Listen, here is what I want to say to my colleagues in the Government: I will look very closely into this issue, mark my word, and I want everyone to understand that appropriate measures will be taken against those who fail to deliver. We will have to appoint people to those ministries and agencies who understand our country’s development priorities. Please keep this in mind and make sure you address this situation.
Moving on, we have here with us heads of companies that invest in the development of Russia’s Far East. I would like to hear from you, colleagues, whether the current federal and regional support mechanisms are effective and to what extent.
I think that we need to set a specific objective: in the next three years, all Far Eastern regions should be in the top half of the national ranking of regions in terms of their business climate. What this means is that the Far East should outperform other regions in terms of promoting positive change. Other regions will also seek to improve their standing. Of course, we must keep this in mind.
I would like to highlight a sensitive issue for many entrepreneurs in the Far East and across Russia. I am referring to excessive oversight and control. We discuss all the time the issue of inspections being held without any reason or justification.
In August, in Blagoveshchensk I instructed the Government, the Prosecutor General’s Office and law enforcement agencies to look into this situation one more time in order to put things straight in terms of oversight. I expect a separate report on these efforts.
The One Hectare programme has proved worthwhile for supporting local businesses and promoting territorial development. Those who have received land under this programme have not only launched their own businesses but have united into new populated areas in the Far East for the first times in decades. The federal and regional governments must provide them with financial assistance and help them create communal infrastructure. I also suggest that those who are successfully working and have privatised their plots of land be offered larger plots of land to develop.
We should also give our compatriots who settle in the Far East an opportunity to join this programme. In general, we must analyse the progress this programme is making. As you know, people asked me about this during the Direct Line programme and complained about problems and red tape. We must analyse all these questions and come to proper conclusions. Those who come to live here, including those who come from foreign countries, come with the intention to work here and to build strong families with many children. We must certainly support these people.
Colleagues, during our meeting in Kaliningrad, where we discussed transport problems in northwest Russia, we agreed to do the same for the Far East. As I have already said, the macro-region’s logistics infrastructure is a key area in the development of Russia’s transport system and international transport corridors.
Aviation is crucially important in the Far East. We launched a programme of subsidised flights here in 2010. Over the past eight years, the number of subsidised flights has nearly tripled. But this year problems with buying subsidised tickets were reported. Actually, I believe that this happened not only this year. If we look carefully, we will most likely see the same problem last year.
I want the Transport Ministry to report on what they plan to do about this problem. We must create conditions in which people living in any part of Russia would feel that they all live in one country. I am not going to formulate solutions right now. I am asking everyone to analyse the situation and submit their proposals.
There is also an obvious need for creating more internal routes, which is a separate and very important task. We must think about what we need to do to towards this end.
Another question concerns passenger services between the Far Eastern islands and the mainland. This directly concerns the Kamchatka Territory, where aviation is the only means of passenger service available, although there are vast opportunities for using sea routes.
Also, I want you to tell me about the implementation of the key infrastructure projects, including the Trans-Siberian and Baikal-Amur mainlines and the development of large sea ports and airports. Proper organisation of the checkpoints on the Russian border is of crucial significance. Let us talk about this issue; let us talk about what we are doing in this area.
Colleagues,
We have made big but so far only the first steps towards the priority development of the Far East. There is hard and responsible work ahead, but we will definitely accomplish it if we act together and implement all our plans without fail.
The working group of the State Council has presented a detailed report with many new proposals and has prepared a number of measures related to the comprehensive development of the Far East. Let us discuss it.
Mr Shport, you have the floor.
Governor of the Khabarovsk Territory Vyacheslav Shport
: Mr President, colleagues.
First of all, I would like to thank you, Mr President, for your trust and the opportunity to prepare the working group’s report on the comprehensive development of the Far East.
In 2013, you described the development of the Far East as a national project of the 21st century. As per your instructions, we have quickly started creating a model of priority economic development of a macroregion that is completely new to Russia. This model is based on the creation of an investment climate and investment systems in the Far East that will be competitive in the whole of Asia Pacific. The new development mechanisms, which we created for a macroregion, are truly working.
The first resolutions on priority socioeconomic development areas were adopted about two years ago. In terms of technology, this is not a long time, but 18 such zones have already been created in the Far East and 158 companies with 500 billion rubles of reported investment have received resident status. Overall, there are plans to implement 340 projects worth 1.4 trillion rubles. The Vladivostok Free Port’s regime applies to five regions; 284 projects with a total investment of over 320 billion rubles have received Free Port resident status.
Infrastructure support is being provided for large investment projects. Federal support, estimated at 34 billion rubles, has been approved for 14 projects in five regions of the Far Eastern Federal District. Mr President, the decisions to level energy rates for companies in the Far East became effective in July, as per your instructions.
Arrival of investors is the best indicator of our system-wide work. According to statistics, the real investment rate index in the first half of this year was almost 120 percent and is one of the highest rates in the country. At the working group’s meetings, we carried out a detailed analysis of the situation in existing and future development areas in the Far East. Working group members and the organisations involved submitted over 300 proposals. We have analysed all of them, and the majority of these proposals have been incorporated in the consolidated report.
I would like to say a few words about the working group’s main conclusions and proposals. As you said, much has been done to attract investment to the Far East, but investors have already pointed out new challenges: how to attract skilled workers, and how to keep them in the Far East. The current residents in the priority socioeconomic development areas and at the Free Port have created 60,000 new jobs. All the proposed investment projects, of which there are over 800, will need more than 100,000 people. This is a large workforce, which we cannot provide even if we forget about the demand for skilled workers in the Far East.
This problem is also reflected in the results of the national ranking of the investment appeal of our regions. All Far Eastern regions received an E in the category Quality and Availability of Labour, which is the worst mark. The Republic of Sakha (Yakutia) has a D, which is also a bad mark.
In this regard, the working group believes that in order to meet economic development needs, it is necessary to implement a set of measures to stimulate labour migration to the Far East. We propose to update the current federal programme, Labour Mobility, for this purpose. The programme is still active, but it has been adjusted (there are new proposals) and today it requires simple modernisation. We propose to focus this programme only on the Far Eastern regions. Today this includes 16 regions in total.
It also makes sense, using the experience of this programme and the programme to resettle compatriots living abroad, to work out measures to support various categories of immigrants. We have worked on such proposals. With your approval, Mr President, together with the Ministry of Labour we will develop concrete proposals on the Labour Mobility programme.
Of course, it is impossible to solve the issue of attracting labour without providing people with certain living conditions. The question arises: how and in what conditions will people live there? So, modern kindergartens, housing, schools, hospitals and sports centres are needed. It is not enough just to stimulate private investment. As you already said, an integrated approach is needed.
Thanks to the investment support system, priority development centres are rapidly taking shape in the Far East today. The working group proposes to apply an integrated development approach to them. The first experience with such an approach is underway in the Khabarovsk Territory. In accordance with your instruction, in April 2016, the Russian Government approved a long-term plan for the comprehensive development of Komsomolsk-on-Amur. I can say that the experience of Komsomolsk-on-Amur will be implemented in Svobodny in the Amur Region soon. In August, the Government approved the integrated plan for Svobodny.
(The speaker went on to talk about the implementation of the integrated development plan for Komsomolsk-on-Amur and the problems that had come to light, and also made suggestions on how to solve these problems.)
The working group proposes to change the mechanism for supporting the integrated development of the Far East. What new approaches are recommended, if you will support them (and we hope you will)? First, in conditions of limited state resources, it is necessary to maintain compact centres of economic growth. Today, there are such centres in almost every region. Together with the Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East, all the Far Eastern regions have designated such development centres.
I can list the main centres: the Eastern Petrochemical Complex in the Primorye Territory, the gas processing centre in the Amur Region, the Amuro-Khinganskaya priority development area in the Jewish Autonomous Area, the coal and metallurgical complex in South Yakutia, the Komsomolsk-Amursk-Solnechny agglomeration, the Yuzhny priority development area in the Sakhalin Region, the Avachinskaya agglomeration in the Kamchatka Territory, the gold mining centre in the Magadan Region, and Beringovsky priority development area in Chukotka. This approach – through development centres – is distinguished by its cost effectiveness.
Here is what I can say about the Khabarovsk Territory. If we act according to sectoral provision standards and open up, figuratively speaking, a broad development front, then the cost of infrastructure will amount to a trillion rubles. But this amount is unbearable, unrealistic. On the other hand, the approach with development centre, which we chose, requires 50 billion, and it solves major problems and they are being resolved today, as we can see. We propose approving this approach in all regions.
Second, the working group recommends reforming the current rules for granting subsidies to the Far Eastern regions: to move from a multi-channel system of subsidising regional activities according to sectors to a single grant for integrated development. This will help avoid numerous regulatory procedures for approval.
Third, it is proposed to select one main manager of the granted subsidy for integrated development. For Russia, this manager is the Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East. This will allow us to quickly resolve these issues.
(Vyacheslav Shport proceeded to list specific proposals of the working group, in particular, on financing as part of the subsidies for the comprehensive development and under the One Hectare programme.)
According to members of the working group, the subsidy for comprehensive development should not be a substitution for the work with special sections of the Russian Far East in the state programmes of the Russian Federation. You have mentioned this as well. This concerns major transport and energy projects, as well as specific ones that are essential for the Russian Far East, such as Seismic Reinforcement of Residential Buildings, a project which is important for most regions. This programme is operational in every region and has shown very good results.
There are other programmes as well, such as Light Aviation Development. This is a separate programme, and it should not be discontinued after a single subsidy is introduced. The programmes should continue functioning as they are specific and must be included into these special sections.
These are our proposals and main areas of focus, which you can find in the report.
I would like to thank all members of the working group and colleagues – governors of the Far Eastern regions, investors and public organisations for the energetic work and engaging discussion, and for the proposals that have been submitted to the working group.
Mr President, I ask you to support the proposals for the comprehensive development of the Russian Far East voiced here today.
That concludes my report. Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much, Mr Shport.
Mr Trutnev, go ahead.
Deputy Prime Minister and Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoy to the Far Eastern Federal District Yury Trutnev
: Mr President, colleagues,
During the forum, we reported that in the past three years, 837 investment projects have been launched in the Far East with support from the Government.
The total amount of investments stands at 3.2 trillion rubles. We can now say that we have learnt to attract investment to the Far East. We are perfectly aware that the world never stops changing, and development models that were created have to be improved. To draw investors there, we have to take some responsibility, primarily responsibility for supporting every project.
An essential part of our responsibility is meeting the government’s commitments to build infrastructure for new projects for priority development areas. Currently, work is in progress on 130 such facilities. We are overseeing the construction process online and making sure that every ruble from the budget is spent as designated.
There are some problems though. The existing rules on granting subsidies are highly overregulated and do not allow for flexible and efficient management of finances, depending on the schedule of building enterprises.
Mr President,
Yesterday, as you were touring the exhibition of priority development areas, you supported the proposal to create multi-functional service centres for investors as well as a change in the rules of subsidising infrastructure development. We will promptly draft relevant proposals.
And yet, we believe that the first stage in the development of the Russian Far East has been a success. Now we are facing even more complicated and larger-scale tasks. First, we should bring living standards in the Russian Far East to a level not lower – and, if possible, higher – than the average living standards in Russia.
Second, we should build the required housing, infrastructure, schools, hospitals and kindergartens for all major investment projects. This task is being addressed, Mr President, as part of your instruction to develop the Zvezda shipbuilding complex: Housing for 7,000 employees is being built; the overall amount of funding is 14.5 billion rubles as provided by the Fund for the Development of the Russian Far East, the Housing Mortgage Finance Agency of the Primorye Territory, and the state programme for the development of the Russian Far East.
The same comprehensive development task was assigned to the city of Komsomolsk-on-Amur. In that city, we should create 27 municipal infrastructure facilities worth a total of 62.9 billion rubles. But the funding situation is considerably worse, as you noted. In the meantime, we must build highly important facilities, such as a hospital for children, an oncology centre, and a theatre. We must also rebuild an engineering school and a sports complex. The city has none of these.
We are facing the same problems as we implement the gas refinery project in the town of Svobodny in the Amur Region. This will be a major facility, one of the most advanced in the world, with 4,000 employees. We must provide them with housing, infrastructure and all the necessary services.
In effect, we are talking about the need for the Government of the Russian Federation to transition to a project-based way of working, where the state accompanies an investor-implemented project by creating [decent] living conditions for people.
Now a few words about solving these problems. In accordance with the President’s instruction, the task of increasing the average Russian level of healthcare, education, culture, sport, housing and transport accessibility in the Far East should be carried out through the prioritisation of state programmes by relevant ministries.
As you already said, this work is organised very differently. The Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Transport, Rosatom, and the Ministry of Labour envisaged a system of measures to ensure the improvement of living standards for people in the Far East within their competence. At the same time, funding for a number of other programmes looks somewhat different: 1.1 percent of the total funding of the state programme in agriculture, 0.4 percent in healthcare, 0.3 percent in culture and tourism (tourism is the industry that really should be developed in the Far East), and only 0.1 percent in the protection of the territory and population from emergencies. And this is despite the fact that billions are spent every year from the Reserve Fund of the Russian Government to provide relief following natural disasters in the Far East.
It should be noted that the current principle followed when distributing subsidies is a complex mathematical formula that is aimed at levelling things out, but definitely does not provide a way of hitting the targets set for national priorities.
Here is what we propose. I think that the percentage of financing of state programmes in the Far East cannot be less than the percentage of the total Russian population living in the Far East; today it is 4.2 percent. While you set the goal of accelerated development, we believe that a multiplying coefficient of at least 1.3 may be applied. I propose adopting these requirements in the law on the budget.
Our next goal is to carry out the project-based, targeted, and integrated development of the territories. We must build new urban areas, towns, schools, and hospitals in areas with major investment projects. To achieve this goal, the Far Eastern regions and the Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East developed nine comprehensive plans for developing the Far Eastern regions through 2025. The purpose of the plans is to create competitive living conditions for people in 42 development centres. Mr Shport has already mentioned this.
Creating the necessary social and utility infrastructure for the balanced development of the territory will require 231 billion rubles in 2018–2025, averaging 29 billion rubles a year. I believe that this project can be co-financed with the Russian regions.
Pursuant to your decision, the Russian regions, beginning from 2018, will keep the federal portion of the profit tax. These funds were received from the development of the territories and should provide opportunities for further development. Mr President, please instruct the Government to provide sources of financing for the federal portion.
Colleagues, Mr President,
We are confident that the integrated development of the territory aimed at creating proper living conditions for employees of new enterprises and all residents of the Russian Far East will make the development process irreversible.
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you. We will discuss your proposals. Mr Sokolov, go ahead.
Minister of Transport Maxim Sokolov
: Mr President, colleagues,
As was already mentioned today, the Far Eastern Federal District is strategically important for developing international trade, carrying out industrial and infrastructure projects, and realising the transit and tourism potential of our country.
The district is home to about 90,000 kilometres of motorways and 8,000 kilometres of railways, more than 23,000 kilometres of inland waterways, with 28 sea and 16 river ports, 82 air fields, and 46 border crossing points.
The district is also home to international transport corridors which form a single Eurasian space. The transport infrastructure of the region is Russia’s gateway to the Asian transport market, which is the fastest growing market, and this drives the entire economy.
The principal objectives of the state and federal targeted programme to develop the transport system are cutting the share of transport services, cutting production costs, and increasing the transit and export potential of our country, expanding transport service exports.
I would like to point out that while exports of goods and services declined overall last year, the export of transport services did grow, though modestly, to reach around $15 billion. This amounts to almost a half of the country’s natural gas export revenues and is one third more than revenues from coal and ferrous metals export.
The basis for the viability and socioeconomic development of the Far Eastern Federal District and its connectedness with the country’s central part is, of course, railway transport. In this area, work is proceeding well on the task you set, Mr President, of modernising and expanding the capacities of our largest railways – BAM and the Trans-Siberian Railway. The BAM and Trans-Siberian Railway modernisation project envisions an increase in cargo delivery from deposits, primarily from the Eastern Operating Domain, towards Far Eastern sea ports and border crossing points to 125 million tonnes by 2020. This exceeds 2012 benchmark by 66 million tonnes.
Growth last year was about 30 million tonnes. We expect a further increase of 17 million tonnes this year. So, next year we will meet the BAM and Trans-Siberian Railway project goals basically ahead of schedule, one year early.
Quite recently at a meeting in the Amur Territory on the implementation of large investment projects in the Far East you tasked us with aligning the BAM and Trans-Siberian Railway development plans with the development plans of cargo shippers and receivers on the territory of the district. I would like to report that freight traffic is continually growing in the eastern direction. According to the largest freight owner company, an increase of coal and ore traffic within the Eastern Operating Domain may reach 140 million tonnes by 2020.
The Eastern Operating Domain has begun operating as a single technological complex this year. A centralised traffic control centre was set up in Irkutsk to manage traffic from Kuzbass to Far Eastern ports and border crossing points, a considerable portion of the locomotive fleet has been replaced, traffic intervals have been cut, train speed and weight has gone up, new routes are being made for innovative carriages with increased carrying capacity. The completion of the BAM and Trans-Siberian Railway project on schedule is a key strategic task for us.
A few words about international railway projects. Russia and China are building the Nizhneleninskoye-Tongjiang railway bridge under an intergovernmental agreement. The bridge will be part of the transportation system that will connect the Trans-Siberian Railway with the Chinese state railway line via the existing Birobidzhan-Leninsk line. It will be the first railway bridge across the Amur River and the first bridge of this class in the region. This will remove the seasonal factor from cargo deliveries by this route.
This project has been estimated at some 10.5 billion rubles. It is being financed by the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) through investment in the Russia-China Investment Fund, a joint venture between RDIF and the China Investment Corporation, as well as the attraction of borrowed funds. The Russian part of the bridge should be completed in the first half of 2018. The Chinese part has already been completed.
The development of the Russian Far East would be impossible without modern port infrastructure. As of early 2017, the capacity of seaports in the Far Eastern Federal District was more than 200 million tonnes, and there are plans to increase it by 8 million tonnes by the end of the year. Last year, they handled 186 million tonnes of cargo. Estimates show that this year they will tranship 200 million tonnes. The seaports’ operation statistics show that the demand for increasing their transhipment capacity will continue to grow, especially the coal transhipment capacity, because coal accounts for about half, actually 45 percent of the total.
Coal transhipment figures increased by over 8 percent in the first half of this year. Since the Asian-Pacific countries’ demand for Russian coal is expected to grow, some investors have launched projects to build large-capacity coal terminals at the ports of Vanino, Vostochny and Nakhodka. There are also plans to build coal terminals in Vladivostok and Shakhtersk. By the way, a new coal terminal with a capacity of 18 million tonnes will open in the port of Vostochny, near Vladivostok, next year.
It is also important to maintain regular cargo/passenger marine traffic in the Federal District’s remote and hard to reach regions. The federal targeted programme for the development of the Russian Far East stipulated two key projects in this area: a project to upgrade the Vanino and Kholmsk seaport infrastructure for launching a ferry service between mainland Russia and Sakhalin Island and a project to build a ferry passenger pier on the left bank of Anadyr Estuary in the town of Ugolnye Kopi.
Two vehicle/rail ferries, now under construction, are to link Sakhalin Island with mainland Russia along the Vanino-Kholmsk line. Per your instruction and the Government directive, we have signed the ferry construction contract with the Amur Shipbuilding Plant, and these ferries have already been laid down. The State Transport Leasing Company and the Foundation for the Development of the Far East will sign an agreement on joint financing of this project tomorrow during the Forum.
We are also asking you to support a project to build a cargo/passenger vessel to link the Commander Islands and Severo-Kurilsk with mainland Russia and a project to build a vehicle/passenger ferry to maintain scheduled service between the Kamchatka Peninsula, ports in Sakhalin Island, the Magadan Region, the Primorye Territory and the Kuril Islands.
The first project worth 920 million rubles is included in the Federal Targeted Programme Transport System Development. The Government first needs to authorise the project; we hope we will receive this, and then we will launch this project before the year is out.
No documentation has so far been compiled on the second project. A preliminary design was completed, and we need to find a source of funding for this project, possibly, with due consideration for the federal district’s regions that will be covered by these scheduled services.
With due consideration for the Far Eastern Federal District’s extremely remote territories, the local population’s quality of life largely depends on air transport development, primarily domestic air traffic volumes. State support measures for the air transport sector ensured a sustained increase in domestic air traffic volumes. Last year, domestic flights carried 56 million passengers or almost 7.5 percent more on 2015. About 35 million people have flown over the seven months of 2017, and this is 12 percent more than the same period last year.
The number of air passengers is growing within the Federal District as well. The combined traffic volume on international and domestic routes has reached 6.5 million passengers, and we expect it to be 7 million by the end of 2017.
This year, the Government has allocated almost 7 billion rubles to the Far Eastern Federal District alone to implement subsidy programmes and support regional airports that make part of state-run enterprises. The District is implementing three state air subsidy programmes. Flights are performed on 68 routes, with about 430,000 passengers taking the flights under the support programmes during the first seven months of this year. The total amount of budget allocations for these programmes was over 4 billion rubles. This is more than half of the funds, even 55 percent of the funds, set aside for all air subsidy programmes on the national scale, which means that over half of the sum was spent in the Far Eastern Federal District.
Of course, considerable additional budget allocations – over 2.5 billion rubles – are needed to grant all applications. But the key point and a systemic measure here, as we see it, could be to slash to zero the VAT rate on routes bypassing the Moscow air hub. And this will drive the development of regional aviation.
It is also important to note the performance of our national carrier, Aeroflot, which since 2015 has been conveying passengers from Moscow to Vladivostok, Khabarovsk, Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk, Petropavlovsk-Kamchatsky and Magadan based on single, so-called, flat rates indexed only to the actual inflation.
Since the start of the federal targeted programme for transport system development, we have overhauled the airfield infrastructure at the airports of Nikolayevsk-on-Amur, Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk, Petropavlovsk-Kamchatsky, and, in part, Magadan and Yakutsk. The airfield in Khabarovsk is being rebuilt. Project documentation and specifications have been drafted for the airports of Blagoveshchensk, Zhigansk and Pevek. It is planned to allocate over 16 billion rubles for these projects until 2021. It is also planned to complete the reconstruction projects worth about 18 billion rubles at the airports of Magadan, Yakutsk, Khabarovsk and Blagoveshchensk.
Yelizovo Airport in Petropavlovsk-Kamchatsky is among the more important projects being implemented under a public-private partnership plan. Last year, the airport’s infrastructure was upgraded under a 12-billion ruble programme. Today, the airport can receive all types of aircraft, up to a Boeing 777. The media reported today that Renova Group, who will invest about 8 billion rubles overall, is planning to build a new airport terminal here by 2021. This facility will include a passenger terminal, a hotel, a shopping mall and an office centre. This will allow the airport to handle up to one million passengers.
A project for the comprehensive development of Novy Airport is another public-private partnership project. This airport is located in the city of Khabarovsk and can handle up to three million passengers. Foreign investment accounts for about 50 percent or 49 percent, to be more exact. A consortium of major Japanese companies has become interested in it. We have never built such air transport projects in the Far East before, and we hope that this practice will continue in those airports that still lack modern terminals.
The important federal highway routes, including Amur, Vilyui, Lena, Ussuri and Kolyma, pass through the federal district. In the past two years, we have built and upgraded over 225 kilometres of these routes. In late 2016, about 55 percent of the district’s federal roads met government standards. This is less than the national average, so we are planning to increase the share to 77 percent before the year is out. And it is to reach 83 percent by late 2018, which will, on the whole, be in line with the national rate.
This year, there are plans to open new sections of the Kolyma and Lena roads and to complete a route for accessing the border with China in the Amur Region. We have some wonderful examples of new regional roads. This includes Sakhalin Island. Overall, the situation with the federal district’s regional roads is even better than the national average. The country’s regions should have at least 42 percent of these roads, with the federal district’s regional roads making up about 45 percent.
But, of course, we realise that regional and municipal roads should be brought up to the standards. This year, we have already allocated over 12 billion rubles from the federal budget. Additional proposals for 2 billion rubles have been drafted; the Primorye and Khabarovsk territories will receive in the environs of 1.25 billion rubles to participate in the Safe and Quality Roads project.
To conclude on the road theme, I would like to say that the public-private partnership is developing in the Russian Far East in this area as well. The 30-kilometre-long Motor Roads in Circumvention of Khabarovsk project is being implemented based on these principles. It will certainly influence transport infrastructure development and territorial connectivity. The total volume of funding is over 42 billion rubles. The federal budget will also support this project to the tune of 19 billion rubles.
In conclusion, I would like to say a few words about checkpoints. The District has 46 checkpoints: 11 on routes within the international transport corridors and 18 in the territory of the Free Port of Vladivostok. Starting this year, they participate in the online visa project that facilitates the entry of foreign visitors.
As estimated by the Transport Ministry, the condition of the checkpoints is satisfactory in only four cases. Many, regrettably, are in a poor condition. Most of these checkpoints are regional in nature and cater to border cooperation and tourism. We believe that regional agencies and authorities can also foot part of the bill to modernise these border checkpoints, because 41 out of 46 functioning checkpoints are located on private property. There are instances of private owners investing in the checkpoints and we welcome this on the national scale.
Mr President, please support the aforementioned proposals. If possible, they might be reflected on the list of instructions summarising the results of today’s meeting. I would like to assure you that the Transport Ministry is doing and will continue to do everything for the Russian transport system, including in the Far East, to be one of the main drivers of the economy.
Thank you. This concludes my report.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
<…>
Geography
Primorye Territory
Topics
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, State Council
Publication date: September 6, 2017, 12:15
Text version