Events
Beginning of meeting with President of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam Tran Dai Quang
June 29, 2017
14:45
With President of Vietnam Tran Dai Quang.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, friends, let me wish you a warm welcome to Moscow.
I know that you have a very busy programme. You just met with the Russian Prime Minister, and you will meet with the speakers of both houses of parliament, and then you will travel to St Petersburg.
I am sure that your visit will be a good boost for further developing the strong friendly and strategic ties between our countries.
In 2019, we will mark the 25th anniversary of the conclusion of our founding agreement on friendship, and we could organise reciprocal years of Russia in Vietnam and Vietnam in Russia to mark this date.
On economic matters, we had a drop in bilateral trade last year, by 1.5 percent, but trade was up by 16.5 percent in the first four months of this year, and this is a very good trend.
We have very good plans and big projects. We are very pleased to see you and have the chance to discuss all of this.
President of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam Tran Dai Quang
(retranslated): Mr President, Russian friends,
It is a great pleasure to visit the Russian Federation. This is my first visit as President of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. I thank the Russian government and people for this warm welcome.
I am pleased to see that our traditionally friendly ties have been developing well over these last years, especially since the comprehensive strategic partnership began.
I agree with you that we could hold reciprocal years of Russia in Vietnam and Vietnam in Russia in order to mark the 25th anniversary of our friendship agreement.
I have visited Russia before, though this is my first visit in this capacity, and so I have had the chance to see Russia’s many recent achievements. I want to congratulate you on this success because we see that Russia is developing despite the difficulties, challenges and sanctions.
You have succeeded in preserving political stability and developing your economy. We are happy for you and congratulate you once more on this success. Vietnam’s people welcome your achievements and see them as our success too.
I want to pass on warm greetings from our General Secretary Nguyen Phu Trong and Vietnam’s other senior leaders.
We thank you for accepting the invitation to take part in the APEC summit at the end of this year and make an official visit to Vietnam at the same time.
We look forward to seeing you on our soil.
<…>
See also
Russian-Vietnamese talks
June 29, 2017
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 29, 2017, 14:45
Text versionEvents
Press statements following Russian-Vietnamese talks
June 29, 2017
16:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
Press statements following Russian-Vietnamese talks.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ladies and gentlemen,
We have just ended our talks with President of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam Tran Dai Quang.
This is not the first time our guest today has visited Russia, but it is his first visit as head of state. Today, along with government officials and heads of major companies, we had a detailed discussion on current issues on the bilateral agenda.
We concentrated particularly on trade and economic relations. We saw a slight decrease in bilateral trade in 2016, but trade increased by 16.5 percent over the first four months of this year.
We put this increase down to the fact that the Free Trade Agreement between Vietnam and the Eurasian Economic Union came into force in October 2016. Vietnamese companies are the first to gain privileged access to the Russian and other EAEU markets.
Reciprocal investment is growing. Russian investment in Vietnam’s economy comes to $2 billion, and Vietnamese investment in the Russian economy comes to $2.5 billion.
The Intergovernmental Commission and High-Level Working Group for Priority Investment Projects are working actively. Agreement has been reached on more than 20 big joint investment programmes worth a total of around $10 billion.
We note too that the Russian-Vietnamese Investment Fund plans to invest up to $500 million in promising non-commodities projects, above all in \ pharmaceuticals and agriculture.
The oil and gas sector remains a priority cooperation area. The joint venture Vietsovpetro accounts for around a third of oil production in Vietnam. The number of actors taking part in this cooperation continues to grow.
Russian companies Rosneft and Gazprom have started working on developing Vietnam’s continental shelf. In Russia, our companies are working with their Vietnamese colleagues to develop fields in the Nenets Autonomous Area, on the Yamal Peninsula, and in the Orenburg Region.
We have agreed to continue deepening our cooperation in oil refining, petrochemicals, and production and sale of gas engine fuel on the Vietnamese market. We will also supply liquefied natural gas to the Vietnamese market.
There are broad possibilities for cooperation in the electricity sector. A Russian company, Siloviye Mashiny, is already building the Long Phu 1 thermal power plant in Vietnam. Our companies are ready to take part in modernising facilities built during the Soviet period and to build new facilities.
We will continue our work on building the Nuclear Science and Technology Centre in Vietnam. We discussed cooperation in transport machine building, including projects to assemble Russian GAZ, KAMAZ and UAZ vehicles in Vietnam.
Mosmetrostroy and Russian Railways are ready to take part in building metro systems in Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City, and in modernising Vietnam’s railway network.
We invited our partners to take part in the Eastern Economic Forum in Vladivostok in September, and agreed on more active work together in Russia’s Far East.
Our bilateral cooperation is very strong in the humanitarian sphere too. The Days of Vietnamese Culture were successfully held in Russia a year ago, and the Days of Russian Culture will take place in Vietnam in October this year.
In 2019, we will celebrate the 25th anniversary of the founding agreement on friendship, and we will mark this event by holding reciprocal Year of Russia in Vietnam and Year of Vietnam in Russia events.
Vietnam is one of the leaders in terms of the number of students studying in Russia. More than 3,000 Vietnamese students study in Russian universities.
Vietnamese holiday resorts are becoming ever more popular destinations for Russian tourists and the number of our tourists visiting Vietnam has increased 22 percent and reached around 400,000 people.
Issues on the international and regional agendas were a major focus at the talks. We have very close or common positions on most of these issues. We reiterated our willingness to work together productively within the framework of the main integration bodies.
Russia highly values Vietnam’s activity as the country holding the presidency in APEC this year. We will work actively to facilitate successful organisation of the APEC summit in Vietnam in November.
Overall, the exchange of views took place in a friendly and very constructive atmosphere. I am sure that the agreements reached will further strengthen our time-tested partnership and friendship.
President Tran Dai Quang is flying to St Petersburg tomorrow and I wish him and all of our Vietnamese friends an interesting and memorable trip.
President of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam Tran Dai Quang
(retranslated): Mr President of Russia Vladimir Putin, ladies and gentlemen,
Let me express my thanks to President Putin and the Russian government and people for such a warm and hospitable welcome.
It is a pleasure to visit the Russian Federation for the first time as President of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. Russia has long held a special place in my heart and in the heart of many Vietnamese. We have seen for ourselves the great transformations in the capital, Moscow, and throughout Russia. I want to congratulate you on these great successes.
Friends,
Vietnam follows a consistent policy of placing great importance on stepping up the comprehensive strategic partnership between our countries so as to work together effectively, in solid and substantive fashion in all areas for the benefit of our peoples.
President Putin and I just had very effective, fruitful and substantive talks. We gave our assessment of the state of cooperation and reached agreement in various areas on activating ties in the nearest future.
Our relations are based on a high level of trust. Our regular high-level contacts and good cooperation mechanisms show that we make a great and active contribution to developing our countries and building a stable world.
I am sure that effective implementation of the free trade zone agreement between Vietnam and the EAEU will mark a breakthrough in trade, economic and investment cooperation between Vietnam and Russia in particular and between Vietnam and the other EAEU countries in general. This will enable us to bring out trade turnover up to $10 billion by 2020.
We made a review of progress in key investment and other projects. We also examined opportunities for new projects and agreed on bolstering our ties in various areas.
These projects include assembly and production of cars, energy, oil and gas, and construction of infrastructure facilities. We expressed our readiness to support the oil and gas sector joint ventures to ensure their smooth work in both countries.
We gave a high assessment of military-technical cooperation. We also agreed to expand cooperation in fields such as science and technology, education, human resources training, culture, sport and tourism. Vietnam and Russia will continue to build the Nuclear Science and Technology Centre in Vietnam.
We reaffirmed our continued cooperation within the ASEAN-Russia forum in order to build a strong and solid ASEAN community and raise the level of our ties with Russia.
We have also agreed on working together in APEC this year, with Vietnam holding the APEC presidency. We will prepare actively for President Putin’s official visit to Vietnam and his participation in the APEC summit.
We discussed the need for greater efforts to preserve peace and stability and ensure safe shipping and air traffic. In the name of cooperation and development, we agree too on the need to resolve disputes in the Asia-Pacific region through peaceful means.
Vietnam highly values Russia’s role and hopes that Russia will continue to play an important part in and make an active contribution to preserving peace, stability and security in the Asia-Pacific region.
Let me take this opportunity to express my thanks to the Russian authorities for giving the Vietnamese diaspora here good conditions and ensuring that they can live and work in Russia in stable and lawful fashion.
We hope for your continued support so that our people can work in accordance with Russian law, enjoy stability, and be able to integrate into Russian society. In this way, they can become a bridge between our peoples.
Thank you.
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: June 29, 2017, 16:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with German Vice Chancellor and Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel
Vladimir Putin met at the Kremlin with German Vice Chancellor and Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel to discuss various aspects of Russian-German relations.
June 29, 2017
17:50
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 3
With German Vice Chancellor and Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel.
The President also gave a positive assessment of the conference of Russian and German partner cities taking part in Krasnodar, in which Mr Gabriel took part.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Minister, colleagues,
It is a great pleasure to see you here in Moscow.
I know that you were in Krasnodar yesterday and did a lot of work on cooperation between Russian and German cities and regions. I must say that at the state level, our relations are developing too, despite the difficulties we know. Our bilateral trade is on the rise and showed a significant value for the first time this year, posting an increase for the first quarter.
There are other positive trends too. We are pleased to see this and we must now consolidate these results. I hope that your visit will contribute to this.
Germany is getting ready to host the G20 summit, this big event. We share the priorities that Germany has chosen and will do all within our means to implement the agreements that I am sure will come out of this work together.
German Vice Chancellor and Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel (retranslated): Mr President, colleagues,
It is a pleasure to be here and a pleasure to have this chance to see you again.
Yesterday, we had a very impressive event in Krasnodar. It was impressive indeed to see the representatives of the municipalities and regions taking part.
We received the stormiest applause when we said that no matter what the political differences, we must bring people together and not divide them. Following this event, we had a chance to discuss all of the political issues.
The G20 summit will indeed be a big event and we hope that it will offer the possibility for a meeting between yourself and the US President on the sidelines.
We hope to be able to reach joint agreements on climate change issues. We place great hope on the strength of a dialogue between the 20 countries taking part. In short, we have a lot of work ahead.
<…>
Geography
Germany
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 29, 2017, 17:50
Text version