Events
Meeting with Prime Minister of Israel Benjamin Netanyahu
Vladimir Putin met in Sochi with Prime Minister of Israel Benjamin Netanyahu, who is in Russia on a short working visit.
August 23, 2017
12:30
Sochi
3 of 8
Meeting with Prime Minister of Israel Benjamin Netanyahu.
Mr Putin and Mr Netanyahu exchanged views on developing bilateral relations and on the situation in the Middle East.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister, colleagues,
I wish you all a warm welcome to Russia.
I am pleased to see that we have developed effective cooperation mechanisms, including at the top level. We hold regular and urgent meetings when the circumstances call for our direct involvement, and discuss bilateral relations and the situation in the region.
Let me start today by saying that we are happy with the state of our bilateral relations, which have developed in part through your direct efforts, Mr Prime Minister.
We are very pleased to see you. Welcome.
Prime Minister of Israel Benjamin Netanyahu (retranslated): Mr President,
Thank you for this meeting. It is important for Israel and for Russia.
I want to take the opportunity too to thank you for the pension agreement between our countries, which is a help for citizens of both countries, and for your personal decision to help World War II veterans, Soviet army veterans, living in Israel.
Vladimir Putin: This is a sacred matter.
Benjamin Netanyahu: We, and I personally, will never forget the historic role that Russia and the Soviet army played in defeating Nazism. We say this everywhere, at all venues. We recently declared this in the Israeli Knesset.
Mr President, you know well that it is for this reason that I took the initiative in my time of erecting a monument in the town of Netanya to the liberator soldiers of the Soviet army, and you took part in that monument’s unveiling.
In this context, Israel cannot have objections to Russia’s participation in the important project at former concentration camp Sobibor. The Soviet officer of Jewish origin who led the famous uprising at Sobibor is naturally celebrated as a national hero in Russia and in Israel.
Mr President, we have been meeting over these last years, not only to discuss our bilateral relations but also to examine the situation in the Middle East, where developments have been happening at a rapid pace of late.
Iran is making tremendous efforts to bolster its presence in Syria. This is a threat for Israel, for the Middle East, and, I believe, for the entire world. Iran has also made serious advances in extending its control and influence in Iraq and Yemen. In many respects, it is Iran that exercises real control in Lebanon today.
Mr President, we are fighting and defeating ISIS through common efforts, and this is very important. But what is worrying is that where we defeat ISIS and it disappears, Iran steps in. We must not forget for an instant that Iran continues to threaten Israel’s destruction every single day. It arms terrorist organisations and encourages and initiates terrorism.
<…>
See also
Visit to Israel
June 25, 2012
Geography
Israel
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Netanyahu Benjamin
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 23, 2017, 12:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Vatican Secretary of State Pietro Parolin
Vladimir Putin received Secretary of State of the Vatican Cardinal Pietro Parolin at his Sochi residence.
August 23, 2017
16:20
3 of 12
Meeting with Vatican Secretary of State Cardinal Pietro Parolin.
On the agenda were key matters in relations between Russia and the Vatican in political and cultural and humanitarian areas.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Your Eminence, guests, let me wish you a warm welcome to Sochi.
I recall what a warm reception I received at the Vatican and recall my conversation with the Pope. We value the trusting and constructive dialogue that has developed between the Holy See and Russia. We are working consistently to implement the agreements reached during my contacts with His Holiness Pope Francis. I am very pleased to see that the dialogue continues between our churches. I know that you have had talks with Patriarch Kirill. We welcome this dialogue that has begun directly between the Holy See and the Russian Orthodox Church.
There is no doubt that the common humanitarian values that the Holy See and the Russian Orthodox Church defend form the foundation for relations between the two churches and between Russia as a state and the Vatican.
Welcome!
Vatican Secretary of State Cardinal Pietro Parolin (retranslated): Mr President,
Thank you for these words of welcome and for your country’s invitation to come to Russia and meet with you at the end of this three-day visit.
My words of thanks and greetings are spoken on behalf of the members of our delegation and of the Apostolic Nuncio present here today, and are addressed not only to you, but to all members of the Russian delegation. I pass on the warmest greetings from His Holiness Pope Francis, who recalls his meetings with you very well.
This visit and meeting are taking place at an important time with regard to our bilateral interstate relations, and also with regard to the relations between the Holy See and the Russian Orthodox Church.
With regard to the bilateral ties between the Holy See and the Russian Federation, we are very happy with these relations’ development, with the initiatives and contacts pursued and the various meetings that take place. Yesterday, we signed an agreement on visa-free travel for our respective diplomats.
As for the relations between the Catholic Church and the Russian Orthodox Church, of course, there was the meeting between the Pope and the Patriarch last year in Havana, and then there was the arrival in Russia of the relics of St Nicholas, an event which ended just recently.
Vladimir Putin: All of Russia’s Christians express special thanks to you and to Pope Francis for this. And all art lovers express great thanks to you for organising the exhibition of works from the Vatican museums at the Tretyakov Gallery. As you know, we are now preparing a reciprocal event – the exhibition The Spiritual Heritage of Russian Art from Icon Painting to Avant-Garde. With your help, this exhibition will take place in 2018.
Pietro Parolin: Of course, as you mentioned, our diplomacy comprises various levels and covers the political spectrum and also various cultural initiatives that we pursue. I see a new dynamic that has emerged over the recent months and years in relations between the two churches. I hope that all participants in this process will continue working in this direction in order to expand our cooperation and bring us even closer together.
Once again, thank you for the opportunity to make this visit and to meet with you.
<…>
Geography
Vatican City
Topics
Foreign policy
Religion
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 23, 2017, 16:20
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of Armenia Serzh Sargsyan
Vladimir Putin met with President of Armenia Serzh Sargsyan in Sochi.
August 23, 2017
18:15
Sochi
1 of 5
With President of Armenia Serzh Sargsyan.
On the agenda were current bilateral relations and prospects for developing cooperation within integration associations.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Sargsyan, it is a great pleasure to see you.
We are marking some important milestones in our cooperation this year. Twenty-five years ago, we established diplomatic relations, and in a few days’ time, on August 29, we will mark the 20th anniversary of our key agreement on friendship and strategic cooperation.
Over this time, Armenia and Russia have done much to give a very solid basis to their relations as two sovereign states. We continue our intensive political dialogue and our bilateral cooperation in the economy, security, and military affairs. We work actively together within international organisations and in our integration bodies.
I am very pleased to see you and have this chance to discuss the full range of issues.
President of Armenia Serzh Sargsyan: Thank you, Mr President, thank you very much.
It is a great pleasure to see you again and I thank you for the invitation.
Indeed, in a few days’ time, we will celebrate the 20th anniversary of the signing of our agreement on friendship, cooperation and mutual assistance. These last years have been an intensive period for the development of our interstate relations.
Our bilateral strategic ties and alliance are distinguished by ongoing intensive dialogue at the highest level, wide-ranging foreign-policy coordination, constructive cooperation in international and regional forums, and fruitful work together in the security, military and military-technical spheres.
Our trade and economic relations continue their intensive development. Our bilateral trade increased by 15 percent last year, and by close to 24 percent over the first six months of this year. We have constant contact between our governments and parliaments and are consistently developing our interregional cooperation and our work together in the humanitarian area.
Regular visits that take place at the top and high levels are an undoubted help here. This year, the speaker of the Russian Federation Duma and the secretary of the Security Council visited Armenia, and I made an official visit to Moscow, and our parliament’s speaker and our prime minister also visited Moscow. This autumn, we will receive Russia’s Prime Minister, Foreign Minister, and Minister [of Trade and Industry Denis] Manturov as members of a large delegation of entrepreneurs and government officials to take part in the second international forum on Eurasian cooperation. Our three most important bilateral commissions – on military-technical, trade and economic, and parliamentary cooperation – held meetings just a few days ago.
Russia will host the Days of Armenia this autumn. What is important is that the events to be hosted within the Days of Armenia programme are not limited to the Russian capital, but will take place in 13 different Russian cities.
Mr President, I want to thank you once again for Russia’s assistance in putting out forest fires.
Once more, thank you for the invitation and for the warm reception.
<…>
Geography
Armenia
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Sargsyan Serzh
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 23, 2017, 18:15
Text version