Events
Meeting with Norilsk Nickel CEO Vladimir Potanin
Vladimir Potanin briefed the President on the company's current activities.
December 4, 2017
20:30
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 3
With Norilsk Nickel CEO Vladimir Potanin.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Potanin, have you dragged the cable to Norilsk?
Norilsk Nickel President and Chairman of the Management Board Vladimir Potanin: Yes we have, Mr President, practically on our own steam. Over 900 kilometres, almost 1,000 kilometres in the permafrost and tundra, and the broadband internet has at last arrived in Norilsk. I have to say that I underrated its importance for the city residents. We, Muscovites, and residents of other cities with the population of over one million take the internet for granted.
Of course, it was very important to do this, not only to introduce various management technologies, which are important for our company, but also to create adequate living conditions in the city. It would be impossible without this.
The programme for improving living conditions in Norilsk, which you initiated six years ago and which envisaged relocation and other issues, has brought results. Since then, some 6,500 families have relocated to the continent, which is the result of joint efforts – funds from the federal and regional budgets plus the company's funds.
There used to be queues for kindergartens. With the construction of three new kindergartens, this issue was solved. Now there is internet, and it has become even better.
I think another reason this year is important for us is that in the Year of the Environment we would like to make progress in addressing environmental issues. We have not been idle while developing the environmental programme. We have drastically improved the condition of the Kola Peninsula, with a radical reduction in the emissions of harmful substances into the atmosphere on the Russia-Norway border and a 35 percent drop in emissions in Norilsk. And now we have started the second stage of the programme.
I reported to you a year ago about the difficulties involved in getting this programme underway. There was no proper technology or understanding of how to go about it. Unfortunately, the environment received little attention in the past. Nevertheless, we have put to productive use the time that you gave us and put together a meaningful programme. We approved the plan with the support of the Government. By 2023, we will have reduced the amount of sulphur dioxide emissions by 75 percent, almost fully resolving the issue.
We managed to cut our dependence on unreliable, or shall I say, unverified technologies that are vulnerable to the risk of sanctions, and to switch to affordable technology, including Russian-made. Plus, we have substantially streamlined this project, and even though it still costs a huge amount of money – about 150 billion rubles in Norilsk alone – we will invest in overcoming this challenge. We are confident that this will pay off in spades, because city residents will be breathing clean air.
Also, this project got traction all over the world. Environmental institutions are saying good things about it. Of course, we are doing this primarily for our employees and the people who live in the vicinity of our enterprises. Nevertheless, I believe that such a response is adding to the prestige of our country on the international arena. It's nice to be able to make at least a small contribution to this.
Vladimir Putin: Prestige is a good thing, but, most importantly, the people should live better, and the environment should get cleaner.
Vladimir Potanin: This is our primary focus.
Vladimir Putin: You have another good project going in the East, correct?
Vladimir Potanin: Yes, I was about to brag about it. I hope it is worth bragging about. A month ago, the Bystrinsky ore mining and processing enterprise went operational in the Trans-Baikal Territory. It will extract and process over one million tonnes of ore. This is the largest project in the industry since Soviet times. It is important not only for our company as an element of its long-term sustainable development, but, I am sure, it will have a very positive impact on the socioeconomic situation in the region.
Importantly, we carried out this project in the form of public-private partnership, since the infrastructure – overhead lines and railway – was built jointly by the state and our company. You issued instructions on several occasions and followed this process. Finally, this process allowed us to start commissioning operations. I hope we will reach full capacity in 2019. It is going to be a very good project.
Vladimir Putin: I congratulate you, as well as all those who worked on the project.
Vladimir Potanin: Thank you. Your message arrived just in time, and the people were very pleased. With your permission, I would like to ask you to award state decorations to the best employees who worked on two projects – the construction of the Bystrinsky GOK project and the broadband infrastructure.
Vladimir Putin: Let us do so.
Vladimir Potanin: Thank you, Mr President.
<…>
Topics
Environment
Industry
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 4, 2017, 20:30
Text version2 of 3
Meeting with the heads of delegations of the local Orthodox churches.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Your Holiness and Beatitude, very reverend bishops,
First of all, I would like to cordially greet you and express my gratitude for gathering here together to mark such an important event both for Russia and the Russian Orthodox Church, the 100th anniversary of restoring the Patriarchate in Russia.
This, of course, emphasises the unity of the Orthodox world, which is very important in itself and because you represent churches that play a considerable role in the life of your countries and in the life of society. You call for mercy and do work in education, which is very important.
The modern world is becoming more open and interdependent. But we are also witnessing examples of the great problems of our times. We see examples of the crisis of morality, with the devaluation of traditions, moral values and everything that is the basis of human civilisation.
Sadly, in the second decade of the 21st century we again face things that seemed to be long condemned and gone, that is, religious persecution, and this concerns Christians as well. We already addressed this at similar meetings several years ago. This issue is especially topical in the Middle East, and this region is the cradle of Christianity where the Orthodox faith is rooted.
The Syria situation certainly requires the most attention. We know about this. It is very difficult. During the years of the war, terrorists killed or drove out from their homes tens of thousands of people. Many Christian churches and monasteries were looted and destroyed.
However, the situation is gradually changing. The Syrian armed forces, supported by the Russian military, have liberated almost the entire country from terrorists, including places historically populated by Christians.
For years, the Russian government and the Russian Orthodox Church, as well as other religious organisations, have been providing humanitarian aid to the victims in Syria. It is important to establish a peaceful life there as soon as possible, so that people can return to their homes and begin rebuilding their churches.
I believe that a working group established by the Russian Orthodox Church and the Roman Catholic Church can play a very important role in the return of the Christian population of Syria. One of its jobs is to compile a catalogue of destroyed Syrian churches for their subsequent restoration.
We will also help representatives of other religions, including Islam, who, as we know, have also suffered at the hands of militants, terrorists and extremists. We will also help Judaists. Some Jewish organisations have already asked us to help restore the Judaist temples. We are in contact with representatives of the Jewish community of Syria, namely with some of its Jewish organisations, and in the United States, including those in New York. We will work together on this problem.
I expect that your visit to Russia will serve to further develop dialogue between Orthodox churches, deepen the ties between our countries and between our peoples, which is extremely important in the modern world.Events
Meeting with Patriarch John of Antioch and All the East
After the meeting with the heads of delegations of the local Orthodox churches, Vladimir Putin met with Patriarch John of Antioch and All the East.
December 4, 2017
23:30
3 of 3
Meeting with Patriarch John of Antioch and All the East.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Your Beatitude,
It is a great pleasure for me to have a separate meeting with you.
We have just had quite a detailed discussion with the representatives of other Orthodox churches. Nevertheless, I would like to take this opportunity to discuss the situation with the Orthodox Christians in Syria.
I am very glad to see you.
Patriarch John of Antioch and All the East (retranslated): Mr President, thank you very much for the promise you made. I am referring to your promise to meet with me both in the expanded format with the other patriarchs, as well as now, despite this late hour. I am very grateful for your willingness to have this meeting.
I would like to thank once again you personally and Russia for what you have been doing in the Middle East, and specifically in Syria.
<…>
See also
Meeting with heads of delegations of local Orthodox churches
December 4, 2017
Topics
Foreign policy
Religion
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 4, 2017, 23:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Accounts Chamber Chairperson Tatyana Golikova
The Accounts Chamber’s performance in 2017 was discussed.
December 4, 2017
19:30
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 3
With Accounts Chamber Chairperson Tatyana Golikova.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, Ms Golikova. Let us discuss the results. Please, go ahead.
Accounts Chamber Chairperson Tatyana Golikova
: We are slowly moving toward the end of the year and, of course, are tallying results.
Eleven months have passed and, of course, both in quantitative terms and in figures, the result of our activities indicates that, unfortunately, the number of violations is growing at this stage. While last year there were 3,855 violations totalling 965 billion rubles, this year there have been 3,980 totalling 1.556 trillion rubles for the past 11 months. But perhaps we should not be afraid of this figure, because many things have changed structurally.
First, we began to put our work at the federal level under preliminary control. And such preliminary control allows us subsequently to avoid serious financial irregularities, serious financial consequences. Of this amount, approximately two-thirds are violations that could have led to financial irregularities, and one-third is financial irregularities.
An indirect sign of how financial irregularities are structured is our current work to initiate administrative cases; we have such powers, when we find violations during inspections. In 2017, the court adopted decisions on 243 administrative cases and imposed fines. If we compare 11 months of this year with last year, then it is about 7.5 percent higher. The structure is approximately the following: violations of budget legislation in the form of state assignments for federal institutions, these are violations of the procedures for granting subsidies, inter-budgetary transfers in Russian regions, and so on.
In this sense, I would like to say that we are functioning more or less well at the federal level and working closely with the ministries and departments. However, at lower levels – the second, the third, and the fourth – the administrative work still leaves much to be desired. Unfortunately, today the multi-tiered nature of public administration gives rise to a large number of financial shortcomings and irregularities.
For me, this came as a surprise. We carried out some studies (I have already mentioned some of its findings). Now, I can say that the number of publicly funded institutions in the executive bodies that report to the Government, not the President, that is, the classical executive power, grew by 24.5 percent over the past five years during the period from 2012 to January 1, 2017. We have 3,066 of them now. However, the worst part is that the number of branches of government agencies has doubled over the same time to a total of 4,829. They are multiplying, whereas regulations governing their spread are nowhere to be seen. This gives rise to very serious problems related to managing the use of financial resources.
However, since you identified the regional budget balances as a priority, we partially focused our 2017 audits on how effectively the regions are using their funds and the funds that are made available to them in the form of subsidies or inter-budgetary transfers.
I must say that, unfortunately, we have identified major shortcomings in a number of projects on the part of regional authorities. I even brought some photographs with me. This is a tourist and recreational area inspection we did on your instruction, to check on the way financial resources are being spent.
For example, in the Lipetsk Region, Yelets tourist and recreational area spent 18.2 million rubles of budgetary funds, approximately half of it from the federal budget. An overpass that they built there leads nowhere. A shopping centre was supposed to be built there. There is no shopping centre. Accordingly, the money was not stolen, but was used ineffectively.
Vladimir Putin: There is an overpass, but there is nowhere to go.
Tatyana Golikova: A similar problem has been reported in the Tunka Valley in Buryatia. A water collection and supply system has been built there. It cost 172 million rubles, including 162 million rubles allocated from the federal budget. And when everything was finished, the system remained unused for two years because of the absence of permits.
The same is true of Yakutia, where money was invested in gas supply networks and other projects, which have not been launched yet. Regrettably, there are many such examples.
When you issued instructions to monitor the use of funds for emergency relief measures, we also looked at the organisation of regional efforts to prevent emergencies. Here are the results of the latest inspection we conducted in Khabarovsk Territory. Between 2014 and 2016, design specifications and estimates were prepared for 10 hydro projects there to prevent emergencies. It cost 262.5 million rubles, but these projects have not been included in any of the regional programmes and hence have remained on paper, that is, they have not been implemented. Therefore, we will most probably have to deal with the consequences of floods in these areas. The same goes for fires.
I began our conversation today by saying that our efforts are focused on prevention. In terms of money, many allocations can be avoided if we focus on prevention and preventive measures. In this context, we should shift our focus towards restructuring our spending priorities, especially in the socially relevant areas that are hit by fires, floods or any other related disasters.
This is why we are working with the Government in these areas. Of course, since our functions are more closely related to the Finance Ministry, we have been working, although not as rapidly as we would like, to improve the legal regulation of the areas where we need to bridge gaps. I strongly hope that we will be able to reduce the amount of funds spent in violation of legislation with every passing year.
Vladimir Putin: Good. Let us talk about this in more detail.
<…>
Topics
Budget
Regions
Persons
Golikova Tatyana
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 4, 2017, 19:30
Text versionEvents
Working meeting with Acting Head of Daghestan Vladimir Vasilyev
Acting Head of the Republic of Daghestan Vladimir Vasilyev briefed the President on the socioeconomic situation in the region.
December 4, 2017
19:00
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 4
Acting Head of the Republic of Daghestan Vladimir Vasiliev.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Vasilyev, you have already been working in the republic for two months. What are your impressions?
Acting Head of the Republic of Daghestan Vladimir Vasilyev: The time passed quickly. We were busy.
Vladimir Putin: How has the initial period been? How is the republic doing?
Vladimir Vasilyev: We have a process in place. There are some difficulties but there are also promising potential and interesting opportunities.
Vladimir Putin: Well, Daghestan offers many opportunities.
Vladimir Vasilyev: I am currently meeting with heads of districts and they recall the difficult time, the time when you flew there. They convey their best wishes to you.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you. Please give them my best wishes, too.
Vladimir Vasilyev: In these nine months the picture has been good in our economy in a number of areas. Our industrial production, agriculture and construction are doing well. Average salaries and real incomes have grown.
Vladimir Putin: By how much?
Vladimir Vasilyev: Real incomes increased by 3.3 percent, and average salaries went up by 5.1 percent in nine months.
Vladimir Putin: This is more than the national average.
Vladimir Vasilyev: For a number of indicators – yes.
Vladimir Putin: The average for Russia is 3 percent.
Vladimir Vasilyev: I would like to thank the federal government for the help. When we speak about 29 percent growth in industrial production, many people in Daghestan are doubtful and not without cause, because this figure was mostly produced by two major companies that received a defence order which caused capacity to increase by 1.7–1.8 times. Regrettably, there has been a decline in some industries. We must resolve these problems.
Unemployment has fallen by 6.9 percent – almost 7 percent. We are carrying out executive orders.
Vladimir Putin: What is the unemployment rate?
Vladimir Vasilyev: I am unable to quote the exact figure for fear of misguiding you. I will have to clarify. But it fell by about 7 percent.
Now a few words about the executive order and salaries. In our region the average salaries of the teaching staff in general education schools, masters of vocational training, physicians and paramedical personnel meet the requirements of your executive order. We are lagging behind in five positions: social workers, preschool teachers, workers of culture, and higher vocational education and training instructors.
As for healthcare, the death rate from tuberculosis has decreased by 11.5 percent, while infant and road traffic accident mortality rates have gone down by 4.4 percent. But we must still do more in this respect. The death rate from cardiovascular diseases has been reduced only by one percent. Just on Friday Ms Golodets [Deputy Prime Minister] held a meeting to which all relevant ministries and departments were invited and we discussed only Daghestan, for which I am most grateful. We have reached some agreements on a number of issues.
And now I will turn to the subject that we are seriously worried about: the tumour death rate has increased. We lost 151 people, which is an increase of 8.3 percent. We did not find money in our regional fund to purchase the necessary equipment, including fluorographic units. Ours were made in 2006 and have become obsolete. We also have problems with medicines for cancer patients – for the time being we do not have enough money. But we have agreed with the Healthcare Ministry that it will send its team to us and we will think about how to resolve this problem on the spot.
Incidentally, this way of working in line with your instruction – visits by our sectoral ministries – is highly efficient. Recently, Education Minister Olga Vasilyeva came to see us and we worked with her. Transport Minister Maxim Sokolov also visited us before Ms Vasilyeva, and we had a practical discussion. Such visits are pulling us up to the federal level. So I would like to ask you to continue supporting us in this respect.
You are keeping tabs on preschool education. We are currently meeting 85 percent of the demand as compared to 53 percent in 2013. During this time, we have built 108 new kindergartens for 14,000 children. The problem remains, however. It must be resolved, including with our own means as a republic. We are well aware of it, because we still have over 20,000 children on the waiting list.
Vladimir Putin: To kindergartens?
Vladimir Vasilyev: Yes.
With regard to investment, which is the key to resolving many problems, we rank first in the North Caucasus Federal District in terms of fixed assets. However, we are close to the bottom of the list in terms of investment appeal. We need to keep working on it.
In March, the Government decided to create a priority development area Kaspiysk. Our parliament has passed in the first reading a draft law on creating favourable conditions, and I hope this will help draw investment to our region.
Vladimir Putin: What do you plan to produce in this area?
Vladimir Vasilyev: Kaspiysk includes several areas of focus which we hope to get underway in the near future, including the latest technologies.
The agricultural complex in our region is doing well. Of course, we need to think about the manufacturing industry, not just the defence industry, since, frankly, there’s not much we can do about the defence order.
The vastness of the shadow economy represents both a problem and an opportunity for major growth. Today’s tax rate is set at 5.2 percent, which is one of the lowest in 2016, as compared to 10 percent in the North Caucasus Federal District, and 20 percent nationwide. There are things to address, so we are moving calmly and consistently towards this end.
I would like to say that, as I said earlier, our growth structure was affected by the defence order. It could undergo major changes if we managed to improve tax collection.
By the way, I want to thank you. At some point, I asked for help at the request of our citizens who wanted to bring things up to code in our republic in all aspects. I want to thank the Prosecutor General for approving a new candidate to the prosecutor’s office who is currently being approved at the Supreme Court. Both businesses and citizens are waiting for these decisions. Everybody wants a law like in Russia.
Vladimir Putin: Like everywhere in Russia.
Vladimir Vasilyev: Yes.
Vladimir Putin: Well, much remains to be done in Russia to make sure everything functions properly.
Vladimir Vasilyev: We, in Daghestan, have things to strive for.
Vladimir Putin: I understand.
Vladimir Vasilyev: I see what people want and I understand them. They support us. I hope we will be able to move in this direction. Thank you for your help.
In accordance with the rankings of the Russian regions in terms of excessive oversight activities, we came in 85th in Russia in 2016. We must put an end to this. The agricultural businesses are overloaded with inspections and complain about it. We are working on it and will continue to do so in a more efficient manner.
<…>
Geography
Republic of Daghestan
Topics
Regions
Persons
Vasilyev Vladimir
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 4, 2017, 19:00
Text version