Events
Union State of Russia and Belarus Supreme State Council meeting
Vladimir Putin and Alexander Lukashenko chaired the meeting of the Supreme State Council of the Union State of Russia and Belarus.
June 30, 2017
16:45
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 9
Union State of Russia and Belarus Supreme State Council meeting.
The meeting’s agenda included summing up the results of trade and economic cooperation between the two countries in 2016, as well as cooperation prospects in machine building and the agro-industrial complex, and the operation of Union State bodies. A number of decisions were adopted at the meeting. In particular, adopted were resolutions On Preserving the Potential of the Machine-Building Complex of the Union State, On Cooperation in the Agro-Industrial Complex of the Union State, and on progress in implementing previously approved programmes and resolutions.
* * *
Speeches at the meeting of the Supreme State Council of the Union State of Russia and Belarus
See also
Fourth Forum of Russian and Belarusian Regions
June 30, 2017
President of the Republic of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko
: Mr Putin, members of the Supreme State Council,
Today we are holding the most relevant and large-scale events in our bilateral relations: the meeting of the Supreme State Council and the Forum of Regions. The large number of representatives of major enterprises and organisations from Belarus and Russia present here today is evidence of the close ties between our two brotherly peoples and a demonstration of our shared focus on further strengthening the political and economic partnership.
Before we move on to the main discussion, I would like to note that previously in St Petersburg we agreed in principle on the approaches to bilateral cooperation in the oil and gas sector until 2025. I expect continued constructive cooperation between our industry ministries regarding the formation of a common market of gas, oil and petroleum products within the Eurasian Economic Union.
One of the central items on our agenda is industrial cooperation and agriculture. We agreed, when considering the agenda in a restricted format, that there are nine issues, seven of which are almost completed and do not need to be discussed today. And we agreed to briefly take up two important issues at the meeting of the Supreme State Council, which our experts, our ministers and members of governments would like to discuss. These are industrial and agricultural issues.
Friends,
As I have said, today’s agenda includes nine issues. We propose passing resolutions on seven of them without discussion, as they are not of serious conceptual significance, and discussing the remaining two issues and passing decisions on them.
Any comments or suggestions on the agenda itself? Maybe some changes or additions? That takes care of the agenda.
Now for the second question. We are resolving seven issues based on the proposal of the Council of Ministers, as they are on the agenda, without discussion. And we are discussing two issues, the first and the second, and passing decisions on them. No objections? Just to save time.
As for the standing orders of our work. We will not set any time limits. However, please try to keep your reports to seven or eight minutes, because these matters were also considered in the Union Council of Ministers. Do you agree? Will seven or eight minutes be enough? That is enough. If anyone wants to speak on some matter, you will have one to two minutes.
<…>
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Just before this meeting, we met in a restricted format. As you know, we discussed topical matters on the bilateral agenda, including those raised at the Fourth Forum of Russian and Belarusian Regions.
Over the two decades since the establishment of the Union State, we have succeed in forging close trade and economic ties, strengthening cooperation in research, technology, education, culture and other areas.
Russia remains a major trade partner for Belarus, and accounts for more than half, or 51.2 percent to be more precise, of Belarus’ foreign trade. At the same time, Belarus is Russia’s largest trade partner within the CIS, and the fourth largest globally, behind China, Germany and The Netherlands.
In January-April of this year, for the first time in several years, we managed to considerably increase our trade– by 26.6 percent. Belarus is the CIS leader in Russian capital investment as well. In 2016, it amounted to $4 billion, including $2.5 billion in direct investment.
Obviously, we have reserves for returning our trade to a stable growth trajectory and restoring the rates of the Union State’s economic development. To achieve this we must continue implementing large infrastructure projects, improving the business climate, removing the remaining trade and investment barriers between our economies and conducting a coordinated economic policy. At our restricted format meeting, we paid special attention to these bottlenecks, and we have not yet resolved all issues. However, if we do this, and we will be moving in this direction, our producers will of course be able to compete with world leaders on equal terms.
Today we also discussed strengthening cooperation in machine building and agriculture, and we will continue paying priority attention to them.
We believe that in machine building we must increase our own capacities as well as the manufacture of high-demand science-intensive products, provide every support to promising projects and initiatives, and promote jointly produced goods in foreign markets.
In agriculture, we must be more active in introducing advanced technology and continue building modern livestock complexes. We discussed some of these issues today, and Mr Lukashenko mentioned a number of problems. We must pay greater attention to breeding and genetic centres and build up the export potential of our countries’ agricultural complex.
Colleagues,
Two years ago, a programme document was approved – Priority Areas for Further Development of the Union State in the Medium Term (2014–2017). Its goals have generally been achieved. We managed to consolidate the positive trend in our bilateral integration processes; much has been done in the sphere of migration, harmonisation of legislation in the antimonopoly, monetary and taxation areas, and the development of cultural contacts. In 2018–2022, we will continue to pay special attention to ensuring equal terms for doing business in Russia and Belarus, as well as ensuring that our companies and enterprises have access to each other's markets.
Another issue that we considered was the implementation of the Union State’s 2011–2015 Social Development Concept. This line of work is important, because joint programmes in the social sphere help citizens of Russia and Belarus feel the tangible results of union integration.
Also notable is the fact that working citizens of our countries received temporary disability and maternity benefits over the reporting period. The procedures for calculating and paying pensions have been simplified. And residents of Belarus are now able to use their national driving licenses for the purposes of employment and conducting business in the Russian Federation.
Our countries have been effectively implementing the 2016–2017 Programme of Joint Actions in the Sphere of Foreign Policy, as true allies should.
With regard to the Union State Border Committee, we supported the proposal of our Belarusian friends and had Anatoly Lappo, the head of the State Border Committee of Belarus, appointed to this important position. I believe there is no need to remind anyone how important this service is for the effective formation of the single migration and visa space of the Union State, and the implementation of the corresponding Action Plan approved by the Union Council of Ministers in St Petersburg on April 16.
In closing, I would like to emphasise once again that mutually beneficial and equitable integration with Belarus within the Union State is one of Russia’s strategic priorities. This is also enshrined in Russia’s Foreign Policy Concept approved in November 2016.
Thank you.
Alexander Lukashenko: Thank you, Mr President.
Friends, members of the Supreme State Council, meeting participants,
Today we have approved important documents for advancing the Union's integration. We hope that the decisions we have adopted and the agreements we have reached will intensify the continued development of the entire range of bilateral relations. The main result of our work is that we have affirmed our readiness to continue constructive dialogue and address the most pressing issues in all areas of our cooperation.
Our states intend to fully realise the Union's potential to ensure sustainable development and higher living standards for our peoples.
Allow me, on behalf of the Supreme State Council, to thank all the participants for their active work to prepare today's session, for the constructive atmosphere of the restricted format meetings and the meeting of the Supreme State Council, and, in particular, as I already mentioned at the Forum, the speakers of the upper houses of our parliaments, Valentina Matviyenko
and Mikhail Myasnikovich, for the wonderful organisation of the Forum of Russian and Belarusian Regions.
I would like to use the occasion to fulfil the request of Belarusian MPs – they asked me to do it publicly, and I have already told the President of Russia about this– and thank Parliamentary Assembly Chairman Vyacheslav Volodin
for the serious approach to matters pertaining to the construction of the Union State.
The agenda has been exhausted. Those who wished to speak have spoken. Allow me, on behalf of the members of the Supreme State Council, to thank you and to proceed to the signing of the documents.
Thank you all.
Geography
Belarus
Persons
Lukashenko Alexander
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 30, 2017, 16:45
Text versionEvents
Fourth Forum of Russian and Belarusian Regions
Vladimir Putin and President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko attended the fourth Forum of Russian and Belarusian Regions. Its main theme this year is interregional cooperation in high technology, innovation and information society.
June 30, 2017
14:15
Moscow
2 of 9
Speaker of the Federal Assembly Federation Council Valentina Matviyenko, Vladimir Putin and President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko, Speaker of the Council of the Republic of the National Assembly of Belarus Mikhail Myasnikovich at the fourth Forum of Russian and Belarusian Regions.
Attending the plenary session were Speaker of the Federal Assembly
Federation Council Valentina Matviyenko
, Speaker of the Council of the Republic of the National Assembly of Belarus Mikhail Myasnikovich, St Petersburg Governor Georgy Poltavchenko
, and Chairman of the Vitebsk Regional Executive Committee Nikolai Sherstnyov.
The forum, which is being held on June 29–30, has been sponsored by the Federation Council of the Federal Assembly of Russia and the Council of the Republic of the National Assembly of Belarus. The forum is held to promote direct ties between Russia and Belarus, including ties between their legislative and executive authorities and business communities, and to draft recommendations for improving the legal framework for boosting the two countries’ economic development. The first Forum was held in Minsk in 2014, the second – in Sochi in 2015 and the third Forum – in Minsk in 2016.
Later today, Vladimir Putin and Alexander Lukashenko
will chair a meeting of the Supreme State Council of the Union State of Russia and Belarus.
* * *
Speeches at the fourth Forum of Russian and Belarusian Regions
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Lukashenko, Ms Matviyenko, friends, colleagues,
I am happy to welcome you to the fourth Forum of Russian and Belarusian Regions. Our countries are strategic partners in the true sense of this word, and they are very close allies. Working on the solid foundation of friendship and good neighbourliness, we are promoting our ties in all spheres, including the crucial sphere of interregional relations. Our example has a positive influence on our work with our colleagues within the CIS, the Eurasian Economic Union and the CSTO.
The overwhelming majority of Russian regions are working closely with their friends in Belarus, particularly on the basis of bilateral cooperation agreements, and are implementing projects both on the region-to-region level, and as part of cooperation between chambers of commerce and industry, research centres and individual enterprises, which the governors just told us about in their reports. I believe that working together we have managed to build an effective structure of cooperation, which creates a reliable basis for increasing business activity and the flow of capital into our respective economies.
In 2016, Russian investment in Belarus reached $4 billion, with direct investment, accounting for the bulk of this amount at $3.5 billion. Russian businesses are investing in Belarusian transport and the manufacturing industry. In turn, Belarus has invested over $600 million in Russian agriculture, retail trade, and the pharmaceutical industry.
Notably, Moscow, Pskov, Smolensk, Sverdlovsk and Tyumen regions, Bashkortostan, Tatarstan, as well as Moscow and St Petersburg have established particularly strong cooperation ties with their Belarusian partners.
The interaction between Belarus and the Russian Far East is gaining momentum. The joint creation of a modern agricultural town in Sakhalin Region is a case in point. We expect the number of such mutually beneficial projects to grow, specifically with the use of the opportunities that open up for businesses in new Russian regions.
Colleagues, this forum focuses on expanding cooperation between the regions of Russia and Belarus in the spheres of high technology, innovations and information society. We have just discussed this here.
Today, a new economic pattern is taking shape right before our eyes. It is based on active introduction of digital technologies, innovative materials, robotisation, and green energy. The long-term competitiveness of our countries and their positions in the global division of labour will depend on how we meet these technological challenges. I will go as far as to say that our future depends on our ability to achieve this goal.
Therefore, it is imperative to step up our efforts to create joint high-tech industrial clusters and engineering centres, to build flexible cooperative chains to manufacture research-intensive products that meet the highest international standards.
In a word, we should combine our production, research and personnel potential in order to achieve powerful practical results. We certainly have everything we need to make this happen.
Only recently, the Union State Council of Ministers adopted a resolution on the key areas of activity for building a single research and technology space within the Union State.
Joint scientific technical programmes like Novopol and Kompomat have served as effective tools for coordinating efforts by researchers and engineers in our two countries. They provided a technology platform for creating cutting-edge polymer and composite materials.
Innovation in the medical sector is another important area of joint activity. A programme to develop advanced restorative treatment methods and technology using stem cells has been completed, and the programme to treat children with congenital spine deformities will follow.
A developed transport infrastructure should be an integral part of the future economy. We intend to keep improving high-speed passenger traffic across the Union State and developing pan-European transport corridors through the territory of our countries.
The construction of the Belarusian Nuclear Power Plant in Ostrovets has great prospects. I am confident that this city will evolve into a major research centre and will win international recognition in the near future, just like Obninsk in Russia, where the first nuclear power plant in the world was built.
I have said it on numerous occasions, and I would like to repeat that our countries have immense resources in terms of human capital, as well as intellectual and educational potential. The leading companies and universities of Russia and Belarus have the capability to develop state-of-the-art technology and software products that could compete on the global market.
Let me emphasise that Russia is ready to engage in close cooperation with our Belarusian partners to ensure steady and lasting economic growth. We stand ready to coordinate our industrial and technology-related policies, develop infrastructure, and help create a favourable business environment.
The Forum of Russian and Belarusian Regions also contributes to these efforts. We hope that the meaningful debates at this forum, the agreements signed within its framework and the joint programmes that will be approved here will make a substantial contribution to strengthening the Union State and stepping up integration across the vast Eurasian space in general.
Thank you for your attention.
President of the Republic of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko
: Mr Putin, Ms Matviyenko, Mr Myasnikovich,
Friends and colleagues,
Ladies and gentlemen,
This year we celebrate the 20th anniversary of the Union of Belarus and Russia. This date symbolises our choice of a primary development trajectory – the shared aspiration to integrate and cooperate extensively in the social, economic and cultural spheres, among others. Much has been done in the past two decades. At any rate, no other state has done as much in the field of integration. There was much talk but not that much action. So, we have done a good job in this respect.
Production cooperation and the on-going Union Programme show that we have achieved success by merging our material and intellectual capabilities. As a result, the economies of both Belarus and Russia are deriving considerable benefits. Inter-regional cooperation is playing a large role in this respect.
In the period under review, forums of Belarusian and Russian regions have become an open venue for confidential discussions of pressing issues. I would like to thank the heads of the two upper chambers of our parliaments, and not for the sake of flattery. This is not only their child. They are the drivers of this positive movement toward greater integration. I appreciate their cooperation in this vein. They are anxious to see the continuous development of our events in the forum framework. They are seeking out and suggesting new forms of cooperation. This is a good contribution to the construction of the Union State.
These annual events allow representatives of local governments and higher levels of government to maintain continuous contacts. I was told today’s forum is attended by representatives of about 80 Russian regions and all regions of Belarus. Of course, it is important that we are showcasing our achievements at the forum and even holding thematic sessions. It is not easy to single out one area of our cooperation. Ms Matviyenko and Mr Myasnikovich suggested (Mr Putin mentioned this) a very complicated area that affects the future of not only our states but also our people.
The question is whether we will be able to survive in the long term. If we lag behind in the area that we are now discussing, we are doomed to stay there and nothing will save us, neither our potential nor hydrocarbons. You see the direction in which the world is developing and the pace of it. This is why we have chosen such a narrow but very promising area, and we have much to discuss. Over 700 specialists and top managers are present at this forum. This is worth a lot.
At present, we have 70 agreements at the level of the Belarusian Government and administrations of Russian regions. Each of them is accompanied by a specific action programme for three to four years ahead. At previous forums, we discussed issues of agriculture, industry and social policy. Today, as I have already said, we are discussing a new technological mode. Cooperation in high technologies and information society is particularly topical. In Belarus, we are paying very serious attention to this issue.
One of the main priorities of the Belarusian economy is the development of industry – a sector that accounts for a quarter of our GDP. Importantly, high-tech and science-intensive industries make up over one third of the GDP structure. It is enough to note that at the pan-Belarusian people’s assembly three years ago we set an ambitious goal for the innovative development of Belarus. And we were right on target, as we can see now. However, when we studied world experience, we could not help shedding a tear – we were lagging behind. We are lagging behind. Advanced countries are ahead of us in terms of development, innovative forms of development and so on. We are lagging behind and we must catch up to shape our destiny, as the President of Russia has just said here.
The state programme for innovative development until 2020 was endorsed in January. It includes 75 projects in developing new production lines. Its goal is to ensure greater quality and competitiveness of the national economy with resources concentrated in high-tech sectors. I think Russia’s prestigious schools and centres of science will always find attractive areas for development and cooperation with Belarusian colleagues, as the governors mentioned today.
I am convinced that it will be easier for our two countries, which have unique capabilities and experience of cooperation, to confidently step into the future together in order to compete in the world market at a fitting level.
Information is the key resource at the present stage of economic development. To paraphrase a maxim, ‘he, who possesses information, possesses the world’ – this describes the current reality in global politics, the global economy, and all other spheres of human life.
Cooperation between our countries in the sphere of information technology is becoming one of the pillars of our strategic partnership. The following areas can be singled out. Firstly, developing human potential. Secondly, improving the efficiency of public administration in the economy and social sphere. Thirdly, organising a digital economy. Fourthly, ensuring the security of the citizens and the state.
Notably, our contacts in the sphere of information technology could develop more dynamically on the platforms that have already proved their efficiency, such as the well-known high-tech park in Minsk. More than 1 billion people in 193 countries use mobile applications developed by companies that are residents at this park. Over 90 percent of the software produced in the park is exported to Russia, the CIS, and Western Europe. The United States has a special interest in it.
We have set ourselves the ambitious goal of turning Belarus into an IT country. We will shortly adopt the legal framework for such a development path in Belarus. Importantly, Mr Putin, these legal documents were drafted by Belarusians and Russians, and submitted for consideration to the highest Belarusian authorities. I am confident that this will be our joint project and will make a meaningful contribution to the development of the most modern area of our society and economy.
Special legal regulations have been created to provide comfortable business conditions for the China-Belarus industrial park called Great Stone, which is part of the Great Silk Road project recently discussed in Beijing. The Russian President and I shared our opinions and made serious proposals during this meeting. I would like to take this opportunity to invite Russians engaged in modern technology research across various fields to work in this park. This park offers unprecedented working conditions. Importantly, the products to be made by park residents must be cutting-edge in quality and conform to tomorrow’s specifications, because if we create today's products, we will not be able to sell them tomorrow. After this Silk Road meeting, we saw many new residents arrive at the park. We reached agreement with President Xi Jinping
that it will be not only Chinese companies. Everyone is welcome. We have many companies from Western Europe. I believe we will have this park completely built in 18 months at most. We had a slow start, but have picked up the pace since then. I would very much like Russian companies, even better, joint Belarusian-Russian companies, to work there. We have things to create there.
Extensive cooperation in producing high-tech science-intensive products is will pave the way to overcoming global challenges in the future. The main requirement to this produce is its speedy introduction into mass production in Belarus and Russia. This is particularly important because of growing competition in the world market. The elaboration and implementation of coordinated economic policies by Russia and Belarus will go a long way to encouraging such production, facilitating the growth of its export potential and promoting effective import substitution. As the President said on numerous occasions, it was a blessing in disguise. All those sanctions and the like prompted you and us to take action. After all, our cooperation is powerful and we constitute a uniform economic complex. It did not collapse after the Soviet Union’s disintegration. We simply added to what existed – something in Russia and something in Belarus, and something together – and this complex is functioning.
As for import substitution, we had to approach this three times, as far as I remember. We faced this issue much earlier than you did. We have been under sanctions for a very long time. And this blessing in disguise again provided a powerful impetus for import substitution in Russia, and we found ourselves in tune with the times. We adapted to this pace and today it is easier for us to work with Russia on import substitution. We must promote this trend by establishing Belarusian-Russian joint ventures.
Having sufficient research personnel remains a key factor. We have not only preserved this capacity, we enhance it every year. Almost 26,000 people and over 500 organisations are involved in R&D in Belarus today. In 2016, the number of postgraduates exceeded 5,000; more than 500 people were involved in doctoral studies; 50 people received their doctoral degrees and 500 received their PhDs.
I have to single out cooperation in the education of young scientists. I am proposing to the scientific community of our countries that it step up work in this area. Young researchers should have all the opportunities for close contacts with their colleagues. It is necessary to enhance cooperation between scientific schools in the most promising areas. Cooperation between Belarusian State University and Moscow State University is a good example. By tradition, Belarusian and Russian academies of sciences are the main drivers of joint research. Seven joint Belarusian-Russian centres and laboratories have been established and are successfully working in the National Academy of Sciences of Belarus. Another three are still in the process of formation – with the Kurchatov Institute in Moscow, the Institute of Gene Biology at the Russian Academy of Sciences and Kuzbass State Technical University.
The Joint Centre of Science and Innovations of the Academy of Sciences of Belarus and the Siberian Branch of the Russian Academy of Sciences is an example of successful cooperation. They have been cooperating successfully for a long time. It includes the research centre of oil and wood chemical technology, the joint laboratory of innovative bioengineering technology and the Russian-Belarusian laboratory of systemic biology. They are working successfully.
I am convinced that the programmes that we are financing from the budget of the Union State should fully meet high scientific criteria. We have already carried out over 40 union research programmes in various industries. This allowed our two countries to merge their intellectual, technical, industrial and financial capabilities and enhance national security.
Needless to say, in our cooperation with Russian regions we are laying emphasis on supplementing our opportunities in joint implementation of federal and regional projects. You know, I meet every governor who visits Belarus, even two or three times. This is standard practice for me in my work and, generally, my life.
I am pleased that the Russian President reminded us of our joint project on Sakhalin Island. It is an interesting project. I have had a friendly relationship with Oleg Kozhemyako
[Governor of Sakhalin Region] for a long time now. He used to work in Amur Region, we actively cooperated and supported each other with research, and our ministers accomplished a lot there. Then, he left for Sakhalin. Later, he came to see me and said, “Mr Lukashenko, we have things to do on Sakhalin.” My idea of Sakhalin was a place with rocky mountains, volcanoes, and such. Unfortunately, I have not been there. He says, ‘No, the land is good there, and so on. But we need science, specialists, and the like.’ Our Minister of Agriculture has been almost part timing there as Minister of Agriculture for three years now.
The Russian President learned that we have, in fact, created not just an agricultural town, but a top-of-the-line agricultural enterprise and an agricultural industry that could be replicated all over Sakhalin. Mr Kozhemyako and I agreed that it was a matter of our honour to make sure that Sakhalin never bought another item of agricultural produce, but cultivated and grew its own. We brought our specialists, equipment, and seeds there. Not so long ago, we sent high-yield livestock there as well in order to develop our production there. This is happening on Sakhalin. What can we say about neighbouring regions?
Similarly, Russians are working in Belarus today. We, at the top, may not know everything, but you are as busy – in the positive sense of the word – as ants, if you consider it all. I am very grateful to you for this. You are doing a great job, and we need to keep up this pace as we create our common space and show everyone that sanctions and pressure are not a problem to us, and we will overcome everything.
Comrades,
Thanks to the brotherly relations between our peoples, we have enormous opportunities and resources for further building up mutually beneficial cooperation between Belarus and Russia across all spheres. As I mentioned earlier, the regions play an extremely important role in this. To emphasise, regardless of geographical distance, all Russian regions are close to us, Belarusians. We hope that Belarusians will be treated everywhere in Russia exactly as the Vitebsk Governor said. So far, we have had no problems in this regard, we do not frighten each other, and we go to each other’s countries as brothers, as kin.
This is happening between people, not just our in speeches from high lecterns, whether we talk about social guarantees, citizens' rights, and supplies of Belarusian equipment, agricultural produce, scientific developments, or services. This approach will allow us to not only reach the modern level of technological development, but, most importantly, to preserve our unity and confidence in the future.
Thank you.
Geography
Belarus
Topics
Foreign policy
Regions
Persons
Lukashenko Alexander
Matviyenko Valentina
Poltavchenko Georgy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 30, 2017, 14:15
Text version