Events
Meeting with General Director of Agency for Strategic Initiatives Svetlana Chupsheva
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with General Director of the Agency for Strategic Initiatives [ASI] Svetlana Chupsheva. The discussion focussed on the Agency’s work on key activity areas, in particular, developing the investment climate and business activity in Russia and support for social and business projects.
March 15, 2017
18:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 3
With General Director of Agency for Strategic Initiatives Svetlana Chupsheva.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ms Chupsheva, have you already begun working at the ASI in your new capacity?
General Director of the Agency for Strategic Initiatives Svetlana Chupsheva
: Mr President, we are working; everything is fine, the team is getting on with its tasks. We are nearly six years old, and I recalled how in May 2011, in Volgograd, when you were establishing our organisation, you set four key areas for us: improving the investment climate in Russia, promoting business projects, developing human capital and supporting social projects.
We are moving in this direction, and most importantly, we prioritise interaction with people, developing their leadership qualities, supporting and accompanying their projects and developing their potential.
Recently, we tried to take stock of our community. There are about 600 000 people: our expert groups, public representatives, entrepreneurs, a leaders’ club, those who work with us on different projects in all parts of Russia.
When we began to collaborate with entrepreneurs, we saw the main problems related to doing business and their impact. In keeping with your directives, together with the Russian Government, we implemented the National Entrepreneurial Initiative within five years, and today Russia is among the top 40 countries with a favourable investment climate.
Business takes a positive view of all these changes, and every year, together with business associations, we publish national investment appeal ratings of the regions that show how this work is proceeding in each region of our country. We have significantly optimised all procedures. I believe all administrative barriers have been removed and today, both Russian entrepreneurs and foreign businesses are quite comfortable working here.
BRICS
countries have taken an interest in our practices. We cooperate with the CIS
countries in this respect. In fact, next week, we plan to visit Armenia at our colleagues’ invitation. Recently, a centre for strategic initiatives was also established there. They invited us to share our experience and speak about our projects.
It is very important that over the past six years, we have managed to build and establish the core of the vocational education system. Thank you for supporting Russia’s joining the international WorldSkills movement– the championship of working professions. I am glad to say that today our team, our young professionals, are among the best, according to foreign and Russian experts.
It is very important that over the past six years, we have created an ecosystem for the support and individual development of children and young people, WorldSkills has appeared in the regions, along with JuniorSkills for children, and you supported the Quantorium project.
Today, such children’s technology parks, which let children experiment, work in teams and learn about new projects and new information, are operating in over 30 Russian regions.
The Sirius Centre. We also cooperate with our colleagues here. In fact, we can see that children in the regions come to this system of vocational education from schools to acquire new knowledge and skills.
In summer, they go to the Sirius Centre, where they take part in Olympiads of the National technology Initiative. Therefore, I believe, we can be proud of our children. They make up our future human resources pool.
As for the future, we are currently the intellectual headquarters of the National Technological Initiative. And we have already seen results. Last year, you toured our exhibition at the Forum for Strategic Initiatives at VDNKh. Our first projects will be the basis for developing a digital economy system.
We already have the first digital management projects to be piloted in the Novgorod and Tula Regions. This will truly optimise regional governance, save regional budget funds and improve the quality of social services and the quality of life of the population.
At the previous Supervisory Board, you said that we should pay more attention to social projects, Mr President. We cooperate with the Russian Government, implementing the roadmap on the private sector’s access to the social sphere.
This allows us to attract new human resources to the regions, to update infrastructure and implement the best public-private partnership practices, especially in healthcare and education.
Vladimir Putin: I was told that you have some ideas with regard to organising work in this sector.
Svetlana Chupsheva: Yes, we had a look. We studied international experience, international and Russian practices. There is a distinct trend regarding the development of social entrepreneurship.
Today, businesses and individuals are ready to invest in social projects to support children, abandoned or neglected children, and people with disabilities, getting large families involved in economic activity, creating jobs and again getting them involved in entrepreneurial activity.
We analysed the shortcomings. The existing infrastructure and financial measures and instruments to support small businesses are not quite suitable. W also looked at how they work in South Korea, Europe and the United States.
A separate category has been singled out, the social entrepreneur. It is very important here to give initiators entrepreneurial competences, get them involved in this activity, support projects and provide financing to them. In effect, this means venture financing of social startups.
Here is a good example, Mr President. With your support, we have also established the Internet Initiatives Development Fund (Kirill Varlamov), which is one of Europe’s best accelerators to support Internet startups. With our colleagues, we also analysed and looked at how it is organised, and our associates took a training course there.
At present, we are working with them on a pilot accelerator at the ASI. In a month, we received about 1,000 applications from social entrepreneurs. There are projects in education, healthcare, culture and sport. All of them are very interesting.
We have 50 teams undergoing training now. We were also helped by big companies with social responsibility – Metalloinvest, Rusal, SUEK – that are willing to participate in pitching projects. We hope that half the projects will definitely be financed.
Therefore, we would like to ask you, Mr President, to consider the possibility of establishing a fund to support such social projects in Russia. It seems to me that this would have a significant effect.
We have analysed international practice: each dollar invested in developing social entrepreneurship in Shanghai yields seven. In other words, by getting people involved in business, in entrepreneurial activity, and by training them, we can really boost the economy in the regions and increase the number of small businesses.
Vladimir Putin: Let us look into this together with the companies. I believe eventually they will also be interested because [they] need to work among their employees, their employees’ families. This may be very interesting.
<…>
Topics
Investment
Support for business
Persons
Chupsheva Svetlana
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 15, 2017, 18:00
Text versionEvents
Press statements following Russian-Armenian talks
March 15, 2017
16:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Sargsyan, ladies and gentlemen,
As is tradition, my talks with the President of Armenia were constructive and business-like. We discussed key aspects of our bilateral cooperation and exchanged views on the international and regional agendas.
We held talks with the heads of ministries and agencies, and with business community members, during which we discussed in detail the current state and development prospects of our multifaceted bilateral cooperation.
I would like to note that President Sargsyan’s visit to Moscow is taking place at an important time in Armenia’s political life. The country is completing constitutional reform that will establish a parliamentary republic, and is soon to hold a parliamentary election. I know that the Armenian authorities and you personally, Mr Sargsyan, are making great efforts to ensure that the election campaign, voting, and the vote counting process will be free and democratic. I wish you every success in this. Russia genuinely desires a stable, independent and dynamically developing Armenia.
Our countries’ relations are those of genuine allies. Soon, on April 3, we will mark an important date – the 25th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations. Russia and Armenia sincerely seek to strengthen their mutually advantageous cooperation and all-round strategic partnership.
We have an intensive political dialogue. Our governments have active contacts and work together, as do our foreign ministries and security councils. Our government ministries have also established close working ties, and our parliamentary exchanges are expanding.
Our countries’ relations are those of genuine allies. Russia and Armenia sincerely seek to strengthen their mutually advantageous cooperation and all-round strategic partnership.
Russia is Armenia’s leading economic partner. Our bilateral trade increased by 6 percent last year. We think this is a real success, given the unstable global economic situation. We are now examining the possibility for carrying out mutual settlements in national currency in order to continue expanding and diversifying our trade.
Russian investment in Armenia’s economy comes to more than $3 billion. Around 2000 companies with Russian capital are operating in Armenia today. Our energy sector cooperation is developing fast. Russia is the biggest supplier of natural gas to Armenia, providing 100 percent of Armenia’s gas. Gazprom helped to rebuild the fifth power unit at the Razdan thermal electric power station and brought its capacity up to 480 megawatt. Rosatom is modernising Armenia’s nuclear power station.
Our cooperation in the mining sector is developing with success. Russian company Polimetall is developing gold fields in Armenia, and RUSAL has invested $120 million in a joint aluminium production venture.
Russia is helping to develop Armenia’s transport infrastructure. Russian Railways is carrying out a large-scale programme to modernise the rail network, with investment of $500 million.
Press statements following Russian-Armenian talks. President of Armenia Serzh Sargsyan.
Armenia’s regions have established solid partnership ties with more than 70 Russian regions. The fifth Russian-Armenian Interregional Forum took place in Yerevan last October. We hope that bilateral ties will get a boost from the interregional cooperation programme that was signed on January 24 and runs from 2016 through 2021.
Contacts between people and cultural, scientific and education ties are particularly important for our countries. Around 5,500 Armenian citizens are studying at Russian universities, more than 1,500 of them at the Russian government’s expense. Last year, as part of our cultural and humanitarian cooperation, the two countries successfully held reciprocal days of culture.
We noted our common or similar positions in our exchange of views on current international and regional issues. Our countries seek to coordinate their action in the UN. We cooperate with success in advancing the integration process within the Eurasian Economic Union and the CIS, and are developing our constructive cooperation within the CSTO. We are grateful to our Armenian friends for their cooperation in this very important area. In October 2016, and in February this year, Russian air force planes delivered humanitarian aid from Armenia to Syria.
Russia is Armenia’s leading economic partner. We are now examining the possibility for carrying out mutual settlements in national currency in order to continue expanding and diversifying our trade.
We discussed the situation with Nagorno-Karabakh. Russia continues to do all it can to facilitate mutually acceptable solutions to the conflict both within the Minsk Group in the OSCE, and in direct contacts with Yerevan and Baku.
In conclusion, I would like to thank our colleagues and Mr Sargsyan personally for today’s substantive and fruitful dialogue. I am sure that the agreements reached will help us to continue deepening the strategic partnership between our two countries.
Thank you for your attention.
President of Armenia Serzh Sargsyan
: Mr Putin, ladies and gentlemen,
Mr Putin has given a detailed account of our meeting and its results. I would like to say a few words on the following matters. The talks were indeed constructive and very substantive. As always, they took place in an atmosphere of complete mutual understanding that characterizes our partnership’s spirit of alliance.
Each of our meetings is a good chance to analyse and discuss the implementation of our agreements and joint projects and to outline new cooperation plans between our countries.
This year is an anniversary year for our relations; we are marking the 25th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between our countries. Today, we made a detailed review of the road our countries have travelled over the last 25 years.
Bilateral cooperation between Armenia and Russia has become more dynamic and gained more depth of substance over these last years. Mr Putin and I noted that continued joint efforts to deepen our strategic cooperation are in the interests of our fraternal peoples.
Press statements following Russian-Armenian talks. With President of Armenia Serzh Sargsyan.
Following discussions on the full range of bilateral matters, we affirmed our readiness to continue efforts to deepen cooperation in security, foreign policy, military-technical matters, trade and the economy, and the humanitarian sphere, in accordance with our Agreement on Friendship, Cooperation and Mutual Assistance, and on the Declaration on Alliance Cooperation between Armenia and Russia, which looks to the future.
In this context, I would like to note the importance of the signing of the intergovernmental agreement on the combined armed forces’ group our countries have established, and the coming into effect of the agreement on the unified regional air defence system in the Caucasus collective security region. These documents will undoubtedly help to strengthen security in the South Caucasus.
We discussed the full range of our trade and economic relations, with particular focus on such areas as trade, investment, energy and transport. Russia is Armenia’s biggest trade partner. In 2016, trade between our countries increased by 15 percent by our estimates. Furthermore, in January this year, we registered a very significant increase compared to the figures for the same period last year.
See also
Meeting with President of Armenia Serzh Sargsyan
March 15, 2017
This is evidence of the serious potential that we could make use of, including through the Eurasian Economic Union, in the interests of our businesspeople and citizens. Armenia, as an active member of the Eurasian Economic Union seeks to deepen cooperation within this organisation and facilitate the full functioning of its structures and mechanisms without artificial barriers. We also want to increase the organisation’s international authority. Total Russian investment in Armenian economy’s real sector now comes to more than $4.5 billion. Russian business is present in all sectors of the Armenian economy, with more than 1,400 companies, more than 2000 if we take individual entrepreneurs into account. Nuclear energy, science and advanced technology are all sectors that enrich the spectrum of our traditional bilateral relations.
We are ready to give due attention to developing several projects in the transport and logistics services sector. Taking into account Armenia’s geographical location and membership in the EAEU, we see great potential in developing transit via Armenia to Iran and the Persian Gulf.
Press statements following Russian-Armenian talks.
Interregional cooperation is one of the most important areas of our interaction. We are firmly set on encouraging and supporting our countries’ regions in their desire to develop direct trade, economic and humanitarian ties.
We examined our foreign policy coordination within the UN, OSCE, EAEU, CSTO and other international organisations, and looked at several aspects of the Eurasian Economic Union’s work, including prospects for developing mutually advantageous ties with other countries and international organisations. We noted the need for consistent work to make the CSTO more effective and to ensure observation of the norms and principles of the organisation’s basic documents and the obligations we have taken on. We also discussed key international regional issues such as fighting terrorism, the situation in the Middle East, and the Syrian crisis. Let me take this opportunity to thank Russia for its help in transporting Armenian humanitarian aid to the Syrian people.
We discussed in detail security in the region, particularly the Nagorno-Karabakh settlement process and creating the conditions necessary for the negotiating process to move forward. We highly value the contribution of Russia and the other OSCE Minsk Group co-chairs to resolving the problem through exclusively peaceful means. We once again underscored the importance of respecting the tripartite permanent ceasefire agreements of 1994–1995 and the need to implement the agreements reached in Vienna and St Petersburg. We share the view that the threat of force or its use are completely unacceptable and would deal a blow to the peace process.
Ladies and gentlemen, we will make every effort to continue developing our alliance and partnership in the interests of our countries’ progress and our peoples’ friendship. I am certain that the agreements reached today will help to strengthen our countries’ cooperation in all areas in a spirit of friendship and mutual support.
In conclusion, I would like to thank Mr Putin once more. Thank you, and thank you to our Russian friends for the hospitality and for the productive and constructive talks. I particularly thank you for returning to Armenia the work by the great artist Vrubel, Demon and Angel with Tamara’s Soul, which was stolen from Armenia in 1995. Thanks to the Russian authorities’ efforts, this painting was found and Mr Putin spoke today of Russia’s intention to return this painting to Armenia.
Thank you very much, Mr President.
Geography
Armenia
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Sargsyan Serzh
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 15, 2017, 16:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of Armenia Serzh Sargsyan
Vladimir Putin met with President of Armenia Serzh Sargsyan, who is in Russia on an official visit. The two presidents discussed key bilateral cooperation matters and prospects for the development of integration cooperation in the Eurasian region.
March 15, 2017
16:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 10
With President of Armenia Serzh Sargsyan.
Following their talks Mr Putin and Mr Sargsyan adopted a Joint Declaration and made statements for the press.
* * *
Beginning of meeting with President of Armenia Serzh Sargsyan
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Sargsyan, friends, I would like to welcome in Moscow.
Soon, on April 3, we will be celebrating the 25th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations. Over the years, relations between Russia and Armenia have turned into a genuine alliance. We work together actively in all areas in international organisations, both in those established on the post-Soviet space, and in universal international organisations.
Many events have taken place over this time, but our relations have always been built on the deep roots that go back centuries, and that continue to form a solid foundation for the development of our ties today.
We know that this meeting today takes place as Armenia prepares for big events in its domestic political life, with a parliamentary election on April 2, and the constitutional reform. This is certainly not an easy process, but I am sure that, under your leadership, Armenia will get through this stage in its development.
We sincerely wish you success.
President of Armenia Serzh Sargsyan
: Thank you, Mr Putin.
Thank you for the invitation to make this official visit to Russia.
Our cooperation is constantly enriched with new areas, new issues coming up, and our regular summits enable us to review the situation and outline our main cooperation plans for the upcoming future.
Yes, this is indeed an anniversary year for our relations. We are marking the 25th anniversary of diplomatic relations. These years have become a time of close cooperation and we have indeed built a true alliance.
The nature of our relations sets the agenda. I am sure that today’s meeting will be substantive and will take place in an atmosphere of complete trust.
Thank you for the invitation and for the warm welcome.
<…>
See also
Press statements following Russian-Armenian talks
March 15, 2017
Geography
Armenia
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Sargsyan Serzh
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 15, 2017, 16:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Andrei Fursenko and Alexander Khlunov
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Presidential Aide Andrei Fursenko and director of the Russian Science Foundation Alexander Khlunov. Implementation of the mega-grants programme for young scientists to carry out research was the subject of discussion.
March 15, 2017
17:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 6
Working meeting with Presidential Aide Andrei Fursenko (left) and director of the Russian Science Fund Alexander Khlunov.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: We have a sufficient number of what are known as mega-grant programmes, and some time ago we met with scientists who are working within the framework of these programmes, and quite successfully, too. We agreed to continue this programme and search for sources of financing. Funds have been raised – importantly, for more than one year. We agreed that this programme would continue for several years. How is this work organised and where do we stand?
Russian Science Foundation General Director Alexander Khlunov: The programme has been developed and we are pleased to say that the tender has been announced. However, before going into detail, I would like to offer a general picture of what is going on in Russian science.
We have quite impressive indicators in terms of results, and Russian science has been growing from year to year. The number of publications by Russian researchers in highly respected journals has grown.
It is encouraging that young people going into science is a stable and important trend that has been maintained for years now. Science has become a sphere where it is not only exciting but also prestigious to work. The structure of Russian science is changing. Young people have moved into spheres related to scientific priorities, addressing social and economic needs, although, of course, physics remains the forte of Russian science: high-energy physics, mathematics and other areas. Nevertheless, a significant number of young researchers have moved into new priority fields.
Another important trend is the arrival of leaders in Russian science. These are not only individual scientists but also organisations working on successful projects. Against this backdrop, a programme was developed in keeping with your directives, which is aimed, above all, at bringing more young people into Russian scientific organisations and promoting research in Russia.
This programme spans a seven-year period, which allows us to follow the career paths of talented young people and promote a new image of fundamental research in Russia with new enterprising scientists.
The first event is designed for those who have earned their PhD, are under 33 years old, have the credentials to work in science but in reality have not yet established themselves, which normally happens a bit later.
In order to change the situation, we provide the young PhD a two-year grant of 1.5 to 2 million rubles so that they can conduct their research under new conditions.
The mobility issue is also addressed, which has been a long-standing problem for Russian science: we continue working where we went to university and got our PhDs. We raise the grant to two million roubles for those who agree to do their research project in a different research or educational organisation, or in another region, so that there is an exchange of competences, an exchange of knowledge, which would allow us to develop science at a faster pace.
The second measure involves leaders, organisers, which is to say young people with doctorates and post-doctorates. They are already eligible to receive a 3–5 year grant depending on their achievements, the grant totalling five million roubles.
This young person puts together a small research team of three to five members who must be young, in order to carry out an independent research project within that timeframe, and acts as the project’s leader. This affords a fairly significant interval to young people, up to seven years, which they need to establish themselves and make progress in science.
Another measure, which you also discussed with mega-grant holders, is the development of projects at leading laboratories. We have announced a competition offering up to 30 million a year to leading laboratories. The idea also envisages the possibility of businesses and founders partaking in the development of the laboratory.
And we think it crucial for research results to have economic or social applications in Russia. This will have to involve the growth of research co-financing and, essentially, a subsequent innovative component from other stakeholders to address practical applications of research results.
This measure is designed to last from four to seven years. We begin with low requirements for co-financing, but our Foundation is ready to invest thirty million roubles while we ask for two million in co-financing. However, the co-financing share will increase as the project progresses so that the innovative component can take shape.
The latest measure under the programme is infrastructure development, which we have also spoken to leading scientists about. The problem here is that the building of new facilities has been funded from the budget for a long time, and the problem now is not the money, it is the efficient use of the facilities.
We offer a large grant for up to seven years as well. A consortium puts together an array of research projects, up to ten projects, with up to six million roubles for each, so that those projects selected on a competitive basis are implemented at a given facility. This creates a synergetic effect that puts intelligence into action, rather than money: the best research projects on upgraded research infrastructure.
Regarding the scale of the programme, for the first contest, we will hold it annually for seven years, which will encompass 600 young PhD holders, according to current plans. This is a very significant number for our country, and it is a fairly good number even by global standards.
Vladimir Putin: Annually?
Alexander Khlunov: Yes, annually.
The second contest involves young research leaders. We expect to obtain 200 projects, the contest will also be held annually, and the Russian Federation will have 200 research projects, 200 new research teams.
The last two contests are not so substantial in terms of number of participants but they are substantial in their results: we are going to have 30 laboratories. This should solidify the current positive trends in Russian science and further their progress.
I would like to stress that the amount for the seven-year programme is 58.5 billion rubles. The funding is ensured by asset contribution by the Russian Federation to the fund. This year and next year also, we will have funding sources outside the budget. Essentially, the issue of funding has also been solved.
There is a legal framework in place for the contests. The decisions in all the contests will be made by leading scientists, an expert council with no government officials, and this will serve as a guarantee that the consideration of applications will be quite objective, while the monitoring and reporting will be sorted out within a year.
Vladimir Putin: Does the deadline for applications expire early next month?
Alexander Khlunov: Applications for the first contest.
Vladimir Putin: The 17th of April.
Alexander Khlunov: Right, but we shall provide the money to the grant winners as early as June. There are some novelties: we as a fund are allowed to depart from the budget system. We will fund [the projects] for the calendar year starting on the date of the agreement, without reference to 1 January or 31 December, and there may be intervals related to the budgeting process. All this will be done.
Another new aspect that the scientists wanted to sway us toward is that the application would be made a two-step process due to the large numbers of applicants. This means that we first announce the idea, the expert council selects a certain final set of applications and those finalists submit applications, which allows for a more detailed consideration of research plans in the traditional manner, so that they can be examined by those 3,5 thousand Foundation experts.
Vladimir Putin: Are the scientists I met involved in the process?
Alexander Khlunov: We had two meetings. First, we suggested they should submit their proposals, then we summarised those proposals in a kind of draft document. Afterwards we had a special meeting with more leading scientists invited. Everyone was able to discuss the draft document.
We now have, at least by email, the total approval by the team, regarding mega grant winners, of the programme’s structure and the contests that have been announced.
Vladimir Putin: But it was exactly they who spoke about the need to engage young researchers for them to have prospects. Are you managing to combine these two issues?
Alexander Khlunov: Mr President, I have already said that six hundred people…
Vladimir Putin: Yes, that is clear, but they are not on their own, they are with those scientists who have already proven themselves to be brilliant, world-class researchers, that is what they told me.
Alexander Khlunov: We have secured this opportunity for them too, since the contest for new labs envisions not only research supervision by leading scientists, including those mega grant winners, but also an opportunity within that contest: the supported laboratories during the first year will have to announce an open world contest for so-called post docs, people with PhDs, so as to engage the best staff for the project implementation. This means we have fully realised this idea following their proposal, and in my view, they have a chance to continue the work, and not they alone.
Vladimir Putin: Theapplicants.
Alexander Khlunov: Yes, we do not offer guarantees to anybody, this is a contest in any case. The winner will be determined by the expert council.
Vladimir Putin: In any case, they will work themselves too and will engage our young researchers.
Alexander Khlunov: Definitely. But this is an open fund, there are no restrictions regarding place of registration, or nationality; we already have a number of foreigners employed, in fact, we are also ready to invite Germans as contractors. Recently, as we were signing an agreement in Tokyo, I had to give a talk there, and it turned out there were scientists among the audience who are working on projects on the territory of the Russian Federation.
Vladimir Putin: Those I met with work at different research centres: in America, in Europe, wherever.
Alexander Khlunov: It is really important that they should contribute their knowledge and expertise to the implementation of particular projects.
<…>
See also
Meeting with scientists who received mega-grants
September 19, 2016
Topics
Professional training
Science and innovation
Persons
Fursenko Andrei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 15, 2017, 17:30
Text version