Events
Meeting with Valentina Tereshkova
Vladimir Putin extended his birthday greetings to Valentina Tereshkova, pilot cosmonaut, the first woman in space, Hero of the Soviet Union, and State Duma deputy.
March 6, 2017
13:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
3 of 5
Meeting with Valentina Tereshkova.
The President issued an executive order awarding the Order For Services to the Fatherland I Degree to Ms Tereshkova, deputy chairperson of the State Duma Committee for Federal Organisation and Local Government, for her outstanding contribution to strengthening Russia’s statehood, developing parliamentarianism, and active legislative work.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ms Tereshkova, please accept my warm and sincere congratulations on your birthday.
Valentina Tereshkova: Thank you very much. I am very touched. Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much for your services to the Fatherland.
Ever since your legendary space flight, you have always been a role model for us and a symbol of service to the Fatherland in different roles and different positions, and you continue this active service now in the State Duma.
I know how much you love our big common homeland, Russia, and your little homeland – your home town of Yaroslavl. You think about it all the time, speak about it whenever we meet. This is at the source of your strength– your sincere love for your country.
Thank you very much.
Valentina Tereshkova: Thank you.
Work has already started to strengthen the riverbanks in the town of Rybinsk.
Vladimir Putin: That is good to hear.
I have two gifts here.
(A sculpture, Seagull Landing on Water, by Iulian Rukavishnikov, and a painting, Seagulls over the Volga, by Vitaly Zaitsev).
This is homage to your call sign – Seagull. And the beautiful painting, Seagulls over the Volga, represents your home area.
Valentina Tereshkova: Thank you very much, Mr President. I am moved by this sign of your attention and by your kind words.
Thank you very much for your attention to Yaroslavl Region and for appointing someone who is already meeting with people there, visiting the towns, and meeting not just with factory workers, but with the local residents in general. This is a good start, and we are doing our best to help.
Vladimir Putin: He [Acting Governor of Yaroslavl Region Dmitry Mironov] will need your support. I know that he is making a genuine effort and working hard. A lot still remains to be done to win the people’s trust and support.
Valentina Tereshkova: We will do our best.
Vladimir Putin: I know that you continue your active work in the Duma, and I would like to thank you for this as well. When we have people like you in parliament, it raises people’s trust in our top legislative body.
Valentina Tereshkova: Thank you very much.
<…>
Topics
State decorations
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 6, 2017, 13:30
Text version