Events
Meeting with President of China Xi Jinping
Vladimir Putin met in Astana with President of the People’s Republic of China Xi Jinping.
June 8, 2017
16:00
Astana
The two presidents discussed current bilateral cooperation matters.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, friends,
Let me offer my warmest greetings. We met not so long ago, and we are in the midst of preparing an important event in our bilateral relations – your visit to Russia.
We are in constant contact. I recently had the pleasure of receiving in Moscow your foreign minister, who was working on preparations for your visit together with his Russian colleagues. I am sure that this will be a big and significant event in our bilateral relations.
Of course, it is our tradition to take every opportunity to discuss our bilateral ties and the international agenda. I am very pleased to have this opportunity today.
President of the People’s Republic of China Xi Jinping
(retranslated): Mr President, it is likewise a great pleasure for me.
We will meet again in 20 days.
Let me take this opportunity to congratulate you and the Russian people on the upcoming Russia Day, June 12. I congratulate you and the great Russian people sincerely and express my wish to see Russia achieve new successes in its national development under your determined leadership.
You said that every meeting offers us new opportunities for exchanging views. I am looking forward to making my state visit to Russia at your invitation soon. This year, we have many meetings at various forums. This all shows that Chinese-Russian relations are at a high level today and are strategic and enduring.
You recently took part in the Belt and Road international forum and made important statements there. You expressed Russia’s positive commitment to support and participate in this project, working together with us and through the EAEU. You know that it was here, four years ago, that I proposed the Economic Belt Silk Road project.
Despite the complicated international situation, our relations continue their positive development. This development and our close cooperation and mutual support have great significance on the global level. We will continue advancing this cooperation in all different areas and ensure that our ties continue their growth uninterrupted.
I am very happy to have this chance to meet with you.
<…>
See also
Visit to Kazakhstan. SCO summit
June 8 − 9, 2017
See also
Belt and Road international forum
May 14, 2017
Visit to China
May 14 − 15, 2017
Geography
Kazakhstan
People's Republic of China
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Xi Jinping
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 8, 2017, 16:00
Text version