Events
Meeting with OMV CEO Rainer Seele
Vladimir Putin met with Rainer Seele, chairman of the Executive Board and CEO of the OMV oil and gas concern. Gazprom CEO Alexei Miller also attended the meeting.
April 28, 2017
13:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 5
With Chairman of the Executive Board and CEO of the OMV oil and gas concern Rainer Seele.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Seele, I am very happy that this time we are meeting in Moscow.
The company that you head, OMV, has been our long-time and very reliable partner. The first contracts with your company were signed 50 years ago, and our current contract is valid until 2028.
Austria is an important consumer of Russian gas, and it also acts as a major gas-transit country. In all, 30 billion cubic metres of gas are transported via Austria, mostly in cooperation with your company. Austria has turned into a major European and global hub: I think every energy company in the world must be aware of Baumgarten.
In this connection, I would like to note that we are satisfied with our cooperation, and we are ready to expand our ties for the benefit of our countries, Europe and Russia in the hope that we will further this cooperation.
OMV CEO Rainer Seele (retranslated): Mr President, thank you very much for these kind words.
Indeed, we are set to celebrate our golden wedding anniversary next year, and I would like to say that the marriage between OMV and Gazprom is thriving. I would be very happy if you were able to attend the celebrations marking our golden wedding anniversary in Vienna and to greet us together with the Federal President. As you know, the people of Austria have recently elected a new Federal President. He sends his regards to you and is looking forward to meeting with you.
Fifty years after we signed our marriage contract, it is surprising that our companies, OMV and Gazprom, are still so much in love with one another that we want to buy even more gas from Gazprom. This is why Alexei Miller and I are planning to discuss the extension of the current contracts and additional gas purchases.
I can only confirm that over the past 50 years the deliveries of Russian gas have always been guaranteed and Russia has always been an honest partner. Now we are determined to step up this cooperation. And it was a great honour for us to come to this wonderful country as investors.
We are always very happy to visit you. I know the Siberian region very well. People living there have left a very profound impression on me. Siberia is very cold for nine months each year but the people of Siberia have truly warm hearts. I always enjoy coming here. The same can be said of all the people of your country, and this is precisely why I’m happy to implement our investment projects here.
We have teamed up with Gazprom to launch joint gas production in Siberia. For this purpose, we intend to jointly build the required infrastructure. Mr Miller and I share the belief that the Nord Stream 2 project is well worth the effort. By the way, we have already scored a major success here because we have managed to secure funding for this project.
<…>
Topics
Energy
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 28, 2017, 13:30
Text versionEvents
Presenting Hero of Labour medals
In a ceremony held in the Kremlin, Vladimir Putin presented the Hero of Labour of the Russian Federation gold medals to five Russian citizens for their outstanding achievements in state and public work.
April 28, 2017
13:45
The Kremlin, Moscow
5 of 7
Presentation of the Hero of Labour of the Russian Federation gold medals. The title Hero of Labour is awarded to Varvara Ustinova, head of Khangalas Forestry (Republic of Sakha (Yakutia)).
The top honours were awarded to fitter at Sevmash Alexei Ivanov, head physician at a Krasnodar regional hospital Vladimir Porkhanov, forest ranger from Yakutia Varvara Ustinova, artistic director of the Moscow Sovremennik Theatre Galina Volchek, and former Head of Tatarstan Mintimer Shaimiyev.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends,
I am pleased to welcome here in the Kremlin the participants and guests of the Hero of Labour of the Russian Federation gold medals presentation ceremony, and I would like to sincerely congratulate those who have been rightfully awarded this honorary title.
Talented and devoted sons and daughters, generous, extraordinary people who know what it means to work for the public good, for the success and prosperity of their Motherland were never in short supply in Russia. You have all these qualities, and have achieved outstanding results in your respective fields, opening up new professional horizons and earning praise of entire society.
Mintimer Shaimiyev’s name is inseparable from the development and consolidation of Russia’s statehood. He made a major personal contribution to ensuring that Russia perseveres at a sharp turning point in history, preserves its sovereignty and unity of its multi-ethnic population to become a powerful nation open to the outside world.
Mr Shaimiyev has also made an invaluable contribution to developing Tatarstan, one of the most successful and vibrant regions in Russia, as well as preserving Russia’s cultural heritage, and reviving spiritual historical centres like Sviyazhsk and Bolgar.
Talented and devoted sons and daughters, generous, extraordinary people who know what it means to work for the public good, for the success and prosperity of their Motherland were never in short supply in Russia.
The name of another recipient may be less known, but shipbuilding assembling fitter at the Northern Machine-Building Enterprise (Sevmash) Alexei Ivanov exemplifies the importance of responsibility, skill, creative boldness, and how the labour of a single person enhances the defence potential of a huge nation. He is an experienced and proactive worker who improved many complex elements of state-of-the-art equipment for making Russia’s submarine fleet without leaving his workplace on the assembly floor. The cost impact of his innovations is in the millions of rubles.
Varvara Ustinova has made an important contribution to the country’s economy. Certainly, her most significant contribution is to the preservation of Russian wildlife. Ms Ustinova’s job is not a conventional woman’s job. She is a forest ranger. Thanks to hard work every day and attention to detail, almost three thousand hectares are thriving.
The forest area in Yakutia, which is supervised by this award winner, is exemplary. The management of this forest is a smart combination of maintenance and cultivation, care for the wellbeing of the trees, and fire protection measures; cooperation with the public, officials, law enforcement agencies and the media. It is symbolic that in the Year of the Environment, the Hero of Labour award is presented to a true forest manager.
Another large, complex and very important facility is managed by Vladimir Porkhanov, head physician of the Regional Hospital and Research Centre No. 1. He has saved thousands of lives. The scope of his practice is huge and includes the most advanced, brilliantly performed surgeries and research in a wide range of areas, mentorship and, of course, management of the largest medical facility in the region, improvement of the technical resources, establishment of specialised early treatment clinics and air-lift services in the Krasnodar Territory. Mr Porkhanov is one of those people with a talent for anything. And most importantly, he dedicates all of his numerous talents to people.
Hard work dedicated to people, their cultural and aesthetic development and a cultural awareness are the work of the one and only Galina Volchek. She is a brilliant director and a versatile dramatic actress. She has been in the film and theatre industry for over 60 years. The value of her experience is not only in the diverse universe of memorable characters and outstanding productions but also in the true love of several generations of the audience, both in Russia and abroad. Just think of the overwhelming success of the Sovremennik on tour in the United States in the late 1970s and the anticipation of audiences abroad waiting for your theatre today.
Each of you is a universe of remarkable destinies, special inborn talents and, of course, hard work.
I cannot forget Ms Volchek’s outstanding gift for teaching, her loyalty to tradition and the creative truth of her colleagues and predecessors. The recent premiere of Neformat (Alternative Angle) with mostly the youngest members of the theatre company has become a phenomenon in Moscow’s cultural life. The production has proved once again that the iconic theatre on Chistoprudny Boulevard remains true to its name, with its modern and unique style that organically takes on the best of today’s trends.
Friends, I could speak much longer about each of you, your achievements in your careers and lives. Each of you is a universe of remarkable destinies, special inborn talents and, of course, hard work that deserves the biggest respect from our society and gratitude from our huge country. The Hero of Labour gold medals belong to you by right. My heartfelt congratulations to you on these sonorous titles. Thank you very much.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: Friends,
First of all, I would like to address the award recipients.
We can see that today's laureates are very different people: they have varied professions, life experiences, and they have walked very different paths in their lives. Yet, there is something they have in common: every one of them is talented in their field of competence; they all have shown great diligence, dedication and love for their motherland. All this together leads to success.
Thank you.
Topics
State decorations
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 28, 2017, 13:45
Text version