Events
Visit to Sretensky Monastery
Vladimir Putin visited the Sretensky Monastery in Moscow.
May 25, 2017
13:15
Moscow
3 of 11
At a ceremony consecrating the Church of the Resurrection of Christ and the New Martyrs and Confessors of the Russian Church at the Sretensky Monastery in Moscow.
The President took part in a ceremony consecrating the new Church of the Resurrection of Christ and the New Martyrs and Confessors of the Russian Church, with Patriarch of Moscow and All Russia Kirill
conducting the ceremony.
Following the consecration ceremony, Mr Putin presented to the church a 19th-century icon of John the Baptist. The icon was placed on the altar in the President’s presence.
Accompanied by Patriarch Kirill and Bishop of Yegoryevsk Tikhon, abbot of the monastery, Mr Putin visited the new church and the seminary building.
The Church of the Resurrection of Christ and the New Martyrs and Confessors of the Russian Church was built at the Sretensky Monastery to mark the 100th anniversary of the revolutionary events of 1917.
The President also had a brief meeting with representatives of the Russian Orthodox Church Abroad, which became an integral, self-governing part of the Russian Orthodox Church 10 years ago.
* * *
Speech at a ceremony consecrating the Church of the Resurrection of Christ and the New Martyrs and Confessors of the Russian Church
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Your Holiness, Your Eminence, friends,
This ceremony consecrating the new church at the Sretensky Monastery is an important and significant event not only for Orthodox believers, but for our society as a whole. This is because this church is dedicated to the Resurrection of Christ, and to the new martyrs, in other words, to the memory of those who suffered during the years of anti-religious persecution and who died during this time of repression. At the same time, it embodies the spirit of reconciliation.
It is deeply symbolic that this new church is opening on the year, which marks the 100th anniversary of the February and October revolutions that were the departure point for many of the serious trials our country had gone through during the twentieth century.
We need to remember both the uplifting and the tragic pages in our history and learn to accept our past in full, objectively, passing nothing over in silence. Only then will it be possible to fully understand and digest the lessons our past offers.
We know how fragile civic peace is. We know this now and must never forget it. We must never forget how difficult it is to heal the scars of division.
This is why it is our common duty to do everything we can to preserve our nation’s unity, maintain social and political concord through ongoing dialogue, and draw on the values of our traditional religions – Christian Orthodoxy, Islam, Judaism and Buddhism – to prevent hostility and division from taking hold.
Awareness of common goals, chief among which is the wellbeing of each of our citizens and of our homeland in general, is the key that can help us to overcome our differences. The restoration of the unity of the Russian Orthodox Church, the 10th anniversary of which we are celebrating, serves as the most vivid evidence of this.
The road to restoring the unity of the Church and reuniting the Russian Orthodox Church Moscow Patriarchate and the Russian Orthodox Church Abroad was not an easy one. It could not have been otherwise, for the long years of separation, which had their roots in the drama of a fratricidal civil war, created many differences and great mutual distrust. However, both churches, desiring to strengthen Christian Orthodoxy and strengthen our common homeland, travelled this road with success.
Here, in Russia, the Russian Orthodox Church went through trials and suffered great losses, but it always stood side by side with the people. And the Russian Orthodox Church Abroad always helped our compatriots who were far from their Motherland to not only preserve their faith, but also to build close ties with Russia, their homeland, its traditions, language and culture.
The restoration of unity has strengthened these ties. This was an event of great moral significance, a symbol and an example of how our history and the past can and should unite rather than divide us.
Our country and statehood are impossible to imagine without the Russian Orthodox Church’s spiritual and historical experience, which has been passed down through the pastoral word from one generation to the next. I am sure that this new church at the Sretensky Monastery will become a bright centre of gravity for religious and educational activity and will help to embed deeper in our society the ideas of goodness, mutual respect, and reconciliation.
Congratulations!
Topics
Religion
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 25, 2017, 13:15
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi
Vladimir Putin met with Foreign Minister of the People’s Republic of China Wang Yi.
May 25, 2017
15:50
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 4
With Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Minister, friends and colleagues, it is a great pleasure to welcome you in Moscow.
Let me start our conversation today by asking you to pass on my best wishes to President of China Xi Jinping
, our great friend, and thank him for the warm reception we were given 10 days ago in Beijing at the international summit you hosted.
I would like to congratulate you once again on your success: the summit was organised at the highest level and was a timely event that produced good results.
The strategic comprehensive partnership between Russia and China continues to develop. Mr Minister, we see your visit as an important stage in preparing a key event on our programme of bilateral relations this year – the Chinese President’s official visit to Russia.
In this respect, I know that you have a busy day planned for tomorrow with the Russian Foreign Minister [Sergey Lavrov
] and with your Russian colleagues.
Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi (retranslated): Mr President, I am very grateful to you for finding the time to meet with us.
Let me begin by passing on President Xi Jinping’s best wishes and warm greetings.
I would like to thank you very much for accepting President Xi Jinping’s invitation and coming to the recent Belt and Road international forum in Beijing. The event was a success, and I would like to note your great contribution to this success.
The joint development of the Belt and Road project fits entirely with our two countries’ common and long-term interests. Russia is our most important strategic partner in working on the Belt and Road.
Under the guidance of our two countries’ leaders, our cooperation in joining our projects and efforts will continue to move forward with success. At the same time, negotiations on concluding a trade and economic partnership between China and the EAEU are also moving forward and we already have results. Step by step, we are putting together the list of cooperation projects between China and the EAEU’s Economic Council.
We also welcome and support Mr President’s personal initiative on creating a Eurasian partnership. The Chinese Commerce Ministry and the Russian Economic Development Ministry are currently examining possibilities for developing a Eurasian trade partnership. The relevant agreement could be signed during the Chinese President’s upcoming visit.
Just after I arrived here, I learned that you have just approved the Economic Security Strategy until 2030. I believe this long-term programme meets Russia’s interests. I think that we could look at areas of cooperation with regard to this national development strategy, and indeed, we should search constantly for new areas of cooperation.
<…>
Geography
People's Republic of China
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 25, 2017, 15:50
Text version