Events
Meeting with President of Kyrgyzstan Almazbek Atambayev
Vladimir Putin met at his Bocharov Ruchei residence with President of Kyrgyzstan Almazbek Atambayev, who is in Russia on a working visit. The discussion covered various aspects of bilateral cooperation.
September 14, 2017
14:45
Sochi
1 of 4
With President of Kyrgyzstan Almazbek Atambayev.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Atambayev, friends, it is a great pleasure to welcome you once more in Russia, in Sochi this time.
We meet on a regular basis, which is good, as we always have plenty to talk about. Our relations and cooperation continue to grow therefore there are always current matters that require timely discussion.
I was speaking with my colleagues just before this meeting about the way our contacts are developing and I am pleased to say that we are happy with the situation overall. Our bilateral trade is growing and we are making progress in practically all areas.
We also note, as you have mentioned as well, that following Kyrgyzstan’s accession to the Eurasian Economic Union
, economic ties have intensified with the other EAEU members. These are positive trends and we are very pleased to see this.
Of course, there are some issues to which we should probably pay greater attention. I am very happy that you found the possibility to come here today to discuss these various matters. Welcome!
President of the Republic of Kyrgyzstan Almazbek Atambayev
: Thank you.
Of course, every opportunity to discuss our bilateral relations is important. I am pleased because different issues come up each time we meet, but I can say quite frankly that I am always met with understanding on your side.
I remember that last time we met in Moscow, we discussed what some might think are minor matters such as driver’s licences for migrants and other issues. Solutions are found in each case and I would like, of course, to settle as many issues of this kind as I can before my term in office comes to an end.
I am pleased that we still have several meetings ahead before the year ends. I hope that we will do all possible not only to build on the level of relations our two countries have reached, but to raise this level even higher.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
<…>
Geography
Kyrgyzstan
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Atambayev Almazbek
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 14, 2017, 14:45
Text version