Events
Meeting of the Commission for Military Technical Cooperation with Foreign States
Vladimir Putin held a meeting of the Commission for Military Technical Cooperation with Foreign States.
March 22, 2017
17:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 2
Meeting of the Commission for Military Technical Cooperation with Foreign States.
The Commission’s results for 2016 and the main areas of military technical cooperation for 2017–2019 were the items on the agenda.
Before the meeting, Mr Putin congratulated Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov on his birthday and presented him with a collection of poetry by Russian poet and diplomat Fyodor Tyutchev (1803–1873).
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues,
This is the Commission for Military Technical Cooperation’s first meeting this year. I propose that we review the 2016 results and discuss the upcoming tasks in this area.
There have been some changes to the Commission’s membership. We will discuss this too, later. I hope that our colleagues will work effectively. I count on this, and I wish you success.
Regarding the 2016 results, Russia confidently held the second place in the world in 2016 in terms of military exports, which came to more than $15 billion. I remind you that we had a result of $14.5 billion in 2015. The Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI) estimates that Russia accounts for 23 percent of global arms exports. The United States is substantially ahead, with 33 percent, and after us come China, with 6.2 percent, France, with 6 percent, and Germany, with 5.6 percent.
Thanks to their well-coordinated work, Russia’s defence industry companies not only performed with success on the competitive global market, but surpassed their target objectives. This is the case, above all, for companies such as MiG, NPO Mashinostroyeniya, Almaz-Antey, and Russian Helicopters. Their results are good, even excellent. MiG surpassed its target objectives by 118 percent, Rosoboronexport by 101 percent, NPO Mashinostroyeniya by 155 percent, Almaz-Antey (air defence systems) by 185 percent, and Russian Helicopters by 327 percent.
There is stable demand for Russian military exports and we export to 52 countries around the world. Last year, we signed new contracts for a total of $9.5 billion. Our defence industry’s export portfolio thus remains at the $50-billion level.
We plan to increase Russia’s presence on the global arms and military equipment market, enter new markets, expand our product range, and improve our arms’ quality characteristics. Last year, we signed 18 international contracts in the military technical cooperation area.
Russia’s arms are showing just how reliable and effective they are in the fight against terrorism in the Syrian Arab Republic and throughout the Middle East.
The use of aviation and air defence systems in real combat conditions is giving our flight, engineering and technical crews invaluable experience. The same is true for those enhancing our air defence systems and developing military goods. I want to thank them for their active work and for responding rapidly to feedback coming in when the military goods are in use. Our military goods are being put to use with success not just in combat conditions, in battle, but in humanitarian aims too.
For example, our newest mine clearing systems have been used to clear mines in Aleppo and Palmyra, and our equipment has been used to neutralise terrorists’ chemical weapons. Our mobile field hospitals, field kitchens have proven their effectiveness, as have our engineering systems, which help to restore civilian life and restore electricity and water supply to towns.
Let me note that we must continue to constantly analyse the experience we gain through practical use of our defence technology and improve our military training methods. This approach will help to develop ties within the military technical cooperation system and improve the quality of our defence industry’s goods.
Let’s start work.
<…>
Topics
Armed Forces
National security
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Commissions and Councils, Commission for Military Technology Cooperation with Foreign States
Publication date: March 22, 2017, 17:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President and CEO of BASF Kurt Bock
Vladimir Putin met with President and CEO of BASF Kurt Bock.
March 22, 2017
16:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
6 of 7
Meeting with President and CEO of BASF Kurt Bock.
BASF Chief Financial Officer Hans-Ulrich Engel was also present at the meeting.
Taking part on the Russia side were Presidential Aide Yury Ushakov, Minister of Industry and Trade Denis Manturov and Gazprom CEO Alexei Miller.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, colleagues, let me wish you a warm welcome to Moscow.
We have longstanding good relations with BASF, which has been working in Russia for a long time now in various sectors, chemicals and household chemicals, for example. The company is investing good money in localising production in Russia.
Energy is the other big sector in which BASF is working here. You have ties with different Russian companies, including LUKOIL and Gazprom. You are a visible and significant shareholder in the Nord Stream pipeline, and as far as I understand the situation, you support continuation of this project, the Nord Stream 2 project, which is a purely economic venture.
In this respect, let me repeat that this project is not aimed against any of our partners. What’s more, we are ready to continue relations with all partners, including Ukraine, as transit countries, but we take the position that there will be reliable and economically advantageous market conditions for this cooperation.
With Europe’s gas consumption on the increase, and the drop in production in European countries, Nord Stream 2 is very much a natural project.
We are pleased to see that our reliable partners in Europe in general, and in Germany, continue to work actively in Russia. Unfortunately, recent economic events have had a negative impact on our reciprocal trade. The Committee on Eastern European Economic Relations estimates that Germany has lost at least 150,000 jobs as a result of these unfavourable events.
But we do not lose hope that we will be able to restore full-format cooperation. Of course, we will continue to work hard on this with our economic partners, and with our partners at the political level. On May 2, as you know, we are expecting Federal Chancellor Ms Merkel’s visit.
President and CEO of BASF Kurt Bock (retranslated): Mr President, thank you very much for giving me and my colleague on the board, Hans-Ulrich Engel, the chance to be here today and say a few words.
BASF has been working actively on the Russian market for more than 140 years now, including with our friends and partners from Gazprom.
We are active in two sectors here, chemicals and energy. These last two years have not been easy for us, but we have noted a growth trend starting this year. The basic conditions for continued growth are better now than they were a while ago. We will make the effort needed to make use of these opportunities. We recently discussed these matters with the Industry Minister. We will continue, of course, to our efforts to localise production here.
Our cooperation in the energy sector, specifically in the gas sector, is developing very, very well. This sector is of great importance for us. Of course, the main project in this area at the moment is Nord Stream 2. We completed the Nord Stream 1 project with success together. I think we will have the same success with Nord Stream 2, given that we now have successful experience of working together.
<…>
Geography
Germany
Topics
Foreign policy
Investment
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 22, 2017, 16:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Central Bank Governor Elvira Nabiullina
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Governor of the Central Bank Elvira Nabiullina to discuss the 2016 results.
March 22, 2017
15:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 2
Meeting with Central Bank Governor Elvira Nabiullina.
The President also informed Ms Nabiullina that he would propose to the State Duma that they renew her mandate as Governor of the Central Bank.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ms Nabiullina, let’s discuss the results for 2016 and the start of 2017. How do you assess the situation?
Governor of the Central Bank Elvira Nabiullina
: Overall, the situation is normalising and developing. Looking at the financial sector, we see that adaptation to the new conditions is complete now. If you recall, four years ago, we planned some changes to address problems that had built up with regulation and oversight in the financial sector. Of course, external events such as the big drop in oil prices and the restrictions on our financial institutions’ access to external markets had a big impact on our work. We were obliged to take additional measures in order to help the financial sector adapt to the new situation, and, most importantly, help the economy to adapt.
As we see it, the assessments show that 2014–2015 were difficult years for the banking system. They lost profits (profits fell up to five-fold) and their bad assets increased. But the results for 2016 show that the banking sector has either returned to the pre-2014 levels in most areas, or even surpassed them. Profits and capital have recovered. We think the banking system is ready now to increase lending, on a healthy and good-quality basis, what’s more, in order to avoid risks for banks’ depositors and creditors.
Over this time, we continued our policy of cleaning up the banking system, despite the difficult circumstances, because problems really had built up and some banks’ assets existed only on paper. When the economy is growing, this is not hard to hide, but when the economy runs into difficulties, it all becomes evident very rapidly. Over these last four years, we have been forced to revoke the licences of more than 300 banks and 317 lending organisations.
In 70 percent of cases, one of the reasons, sometimes the main reason, was that these banks were taking part in the shadow economy and were involved in dubious operations. We see progress now, because when we began this work actively in 2013, we estimated illegal capital outflow at 1.7 trillion, but we estimate that it came to around 183 billion in 2016. This is still a lot, but it is nonetheless a nine-fold drop. The same is true for turning funds into cash. We estimated this at 1.2 trillion when we began, and now it is slightly more than 500 billion. There is still work to do here, though.
The problem is that not only banks are involved in this. We were forced to go through the banking system, which is the infrastructure, to resolve problems with the dubious operations that were taking place in payment terminals. We succeeded in resolving this problem, including with the use of postal service infrastructure and going through the travel agencies.
The problem today is the use of enforcement orders. They are being used to take money out, and we see that operations of this kind are on the rise. This shows that there is no room for complacency, because illegal revenue, attempts to take capital out of the country, attempts to turn it into cash, all put pressure on the system and are on the lookout for any possible loopholes. We will continue to work actively in this area.
Vladimir Putin: You asked me to help you with relations with the law enforcement agencies. How is this work organised?
Elvira Nabiullina: This cooperation has improved and become more effective, and far more cases are opened now following our requests. We are now working in two areas with the law enforcement system. Aside from our routine work and briefings, there is the issue of falsified accounts and reports. It seems we need legal amendments, and we are currently working on this with the law enforcement agencies. We are also working with them on the problem of the so-called ‘runaway bankers’ – when people leave the country. We are holding inter-agency discussions on this issue. There are several proposals on how to resolve this problem, but we see that it can be resolved.
There is another problem for which we also put forward an initiative. It concerns bank secrecy. The Central Bank has always taken a hard line on the transfer of information related to bank secrecy to whoever, because this is an important element of trust in the banking system. However, sometimes we get a vicious circle, when we inform law enforcement agencies about certain violations and they do not have sufficient grounds for opening a criminal case because they lack the relevant information. They may only receive it once criminal proceedings are initiated. So we propose transferring documents covered by bank secrecy when there are signs of such violations, and only in such cases, to ensure that criminal proceedings are initiated as soon as possible and to hold the owners and managers of such banks to account in a more effective manner.
Vladimir Putin: The return of term deposits should be guaranteed.
Elvira Nabiullina: Yes, it should be guaranteed unconditionally, because what often happens is that days before [a bank’s] license is revoked, [its] assets are stripped, and here it is important for us to protect depositors’ and investors’ rights.
However, it needs to be said that overall, the deposit insurance system is quite effective. It may be recalled that in 2015 we actually doubled insurance coverage – from 700,000 to 1.4 million [rubles]. The system helps streamline the banking sector.
There is another area to which I would like to draw your attention. Negative factors have revealed the vulnerability of our financial system. Not all the essential infrastructure elements have been put in place in our country. I mean, for example, the plastic cards system and the payment card processing system in general. At that time we transferred all operations on international cards to domestic processing quickly enough, in less than a year. Last year, 2016, our efforts were focused on creating complete infrastructure for using our own Mir cards. At present, over 90 percent of ATMs and payment terminals are ready to process Mir cards and we consider 2017 important, crucial for the use of Mir cards on a large scale.
The vulnerability of our reinsurance system was also revealed. We did not have sufficient reinsurance capacity and last year legislation was passed – thank you for supporting this draft law – and in the second half of the year we established a risk reinsurance company, reinsuring risks especially for our enterprises subject to sanctions, and it is gaining momentum.
There were similar threats related to our suspension from the SWIFT system. We also upgraded our payments system, and should something happen in the country all operations in the SWIFT format will proceed as usual. We have created a SWIFT analogue and the basic elements of financial market infrastructure that were lacking were put in place.
Here, it was probably very important that in 2013 the Central Bank became a mega regulator and so we were able to take a comprehensive view of the financial market as a whole. A lot of work still lies ahead on closing regulatory gaps and tightening oversight not only over the banking sector but also over insurance companies and non-state pension funds.
From our perspective, this is a very important area because overall, they are not very well developed. Their total assets account for about 10 percent of GDP. Whereas the banking system’s assets already slightly exceed GDP – here, there is huge potential for long money and generally, for ensuring that the financial sphere makes a bigger contribution to economic growth, to investment and economic growth. There are still plenty of problems here, including in mandatory third-party liability insurance, which is a highly sensitive sector. We have yet to address all its problems. New legislation is pending and we hope that the situation will improve.
Such are the results of our work in the past four years.
Vladimir Putin: Good.
Your term of office is coming to an end.
Elvira Nabiullina: It expires in late June 2017. Under the law, the President names a new candidate three months before the term is due to expire.
Vladimir Putin: Ms Nabiullina, you headed up the Central Bank at a difficult time for both the global and the Russian economy. During this time the bank has emerged as an even more important regulator – as you have just said, a mega regulator. It regulates virtually the entire financial market, the entire financial sphere. The Central Bank is crucial for the health of the Russian economy as a whole. Whatever the Central Bank does at this difficult time, whatever steps it takes, this always elicits a response from expert circles and from the public, and whatever the Central Bank does is always a subject of debate.
Having said that, it is perfectly obvious that under your leadership, the Central Bank has done a great deal to stabilise the economic situation in general and to ensure the stable development of the banking sector, as well as the entire financial system. I very much hope that under your leadership, our leading financial institution, our main financial regulator will continue to work just as confidently, making necessary and timely decisions. I therefore intend to submit your candidacy to the State Duma for a new term as Central Bank Chair.
Elvira Nabiullina: Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you for your continuing trust. I am confident that in working to meet the goals set by the law, the Central Bank will make a positive contribution to the development of the Russian economy.
<…>
See also
Vladimir Putin nominated Elvira Nabiullina for the post of Central Bank Governor
March 22, 2017
Topics
Banks
Persons
Nabiullina Elvira
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 22, 2017, 15:30
Text version