Events
Gala evening marking Miners’ Day
Vladimir Putin congratulated coal mining industry workers on Miners’ Day at a gala evening held at the State Kremlin Palace. Russia’s miners celebrate their professional holiday on the last Sunday of August.
August 24, 2017
17:45
Moscow
1 of 4
At the gala evening marking Miners’ Day.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends,
I congratulate you on this occasion. Your professional holiday coincides with two significant dates this year: 295 years since coal mining began in Russia, and the 70th anniversary of this professional holiday, Miners’ Day, which we have celebrated all these years, showing our particular respect for this difficult work.
Russia’s vast and diverse mineral wealth has historically made it a leader in the global mining industry. Coal is one of the great gifts our land offers, with reserves sufficient for more than 500 years.
Miners’ Day was instituted as a holiday to honour the selfless labour and tremendous achievements of those working in the coal industry, which today is not just one of our national economy’s basic sectors, but is also an active and stable investor in the economy.
Last year, more than 73 billion rubles was invested in the coal industry’s development, and this year, the figure will go up to 90 billion. Investors’ money is going into modernising enterprises, spreading the use of modern, environmentally friendly technology, ensuring conditions for miners’ safe and confident work, resolving social problems in the sector, and bringing in solid orders in areas such as engineering, construction and transport.
The coal industry’s participation in carrying out major infrastructure projects helped to reinvigorate the Trans-Siberian and BAM railways and have given a boost to the development of the eastern regions in general, and the construction of big new port facilities at Ust-Luga and Vanino and the projects underway in Murmansk constitute a genuine breakthrough on the global coal market.
The coal industry’s success has a direct impact on our ability to ensure our energy security and strengthen our sovereignty. These achievements are all the result of the hard and responsible, even heroic, work put in by thousands of miners, engineers, technicians, and management staff at the coal companies, and also the result of the support from the Government and from the authorities in the main coal-mining regions. I take this occasion to note in particular the services of [Governor of the Kemerovo Region] Aman Tuleyev and his great personal contribution to the coal industry’s development.
Friends, all of the forecasts suggest that coal will remain one of our planet’s three basic energy sources for many, many decades to come. Russia, with its colossal reserves of high-quality coal and a strong coal industry, will be a leader in this sector, above all because we have people like yourselves, honest, reliable and decent people working at our companies.
Russia’s miners are a particular caste, a special breed of people, courageous and decent, true to their profession’s glorious traditions, and devoted to their country and people.
I want to thank you all for your labour, your desire to set new records and achieve new heights. I wish you good health, prosperity, and good luck in your work.
Happy holiday!
Topics
Industry
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 24, 2017, 17:45
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Acting Governor of Ryazan Region Nikolai Lyubimov
August 24, 2017
15:20
Ryazan
1 of 4
With Acting Governor of Ryazan Region Nikolai Lyubimov.
Vladimir Putin discussed with the Acting Governor the complaints that came in from the region’s residents during the Direct Line with the President and the current situation in the region, in particular, the state of roads, transport accessibility, provision of gas supply in rural areas, relocating people from dilapidated housing, and the situation in the region’s healthcare sector.
Geography
Ryazan Region
Topics
Regions
Persons
Lyubimov Nikolai
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 24, 2017, 15:20
Text versionEvents
Meeting on developing light industry
While on a working trip to Ryazan, Vladimir Putin held a meeting on measures to develop Russia’s light industry sector, with particular focus on growth prospects and efforts to fight production of counterfeit goods.
August 24, 2017
14:10
Ryazan
4 of 6
At Ryazan Tannery. Vladimir Putin got an overview of the company’s main activities.
The main speakers at the meeting were Minister of Trade and Industry Denis Manturov, President of the Russian Union of Entrepreneurs of Textile and Light Industry Andrei Razbrodin, and General Director of the Russian Union of Leather Workers and Shoemakers Alexander Andrunakievich.
Before the meeting, the President visited the Ryazan Tannery, where he looked over the leather-working and tanning shop, dyeing shop and the facilities producing leather for automotive and aircraft manufacturing industry needs. Mr Putin spoke with the factory’s workers and had a look at some of the goods produced by light industry enterprises.
Ryazan Tannery is part of Russkaya Kozha [Russian Leather] Group of Companies, Russia’s biggest genuine leather producer, which accounts for 35 percent of all leather production in the country.
The factory currently produces practically all types of genuine leather for shoes, furniture, clothing and haberdashery. The business delivers its goods to companies in Russia, Italy, Portugal, Spain, France and a number of Asian countries.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
We met to discuss and address the problems and issues facing light industry sector in March 2013 in Vologda, and some colleagues have recalled that meeting today. We are returning to this matter today, and, together with the heads of leading companies in the sector and business association representatives, we will analyse the sector’s problems and outline concrete steps to develop it.
Much has changed since 2013. The sector and the economy in general have transformed. They have faced the objective difficulties that we know, and at the same time, Russian manufacturers have also gained new opportunities arising, above all, from the import replacement drive.
I note that Russia’s light industry is gradually entering a growth phase now. Last year, the textile, sewing, and leather and shoemaking segments were up by around five percent, and all three segments posted growth of approximately 6 percent for the first half of this year.
We are seeing the emergence and development of modern, competitive businesses that find their place on the domestic market and have good export potential too.
We are meeting at one such enterprise today. I looked at the reference materials before, and we heard from Mr Surin [Igor Surin, Chairman of the Board of Directors of Russkaya Kozha Group of Companies] that this is the biggest leather producer in Europe. This is wonderful to hear and I congratulate Mr Surin and his entire team of staff and workers on this. He told me with pride just before about the technology they use here, their efforts to achieve the highest quality standards, and the impact this has on sales.
It is important to support business activity growth in light industry and encourage the emergence of successful new enterprises. Of course, we also need to resolve the systemic issues that are holding back the sector’s effective development.
Many of these problems are of a chronic nature, unfortunately, particularly the fight against counterfeit goods and smuggling, which not only undermine competition on the domestic market but are a clear threat to our citizens’ health.
Let me give you a few figures. In 2013, when this issue was first raised and relevant instructions were issued, smuggled goods illegally brought into Russian customs territory accounted for 39 percent of retail sales, or around 1.1 trillion rubles. Today, the figure has come down, but we are still looking at 33 percent, or 860 billion rubles in sales.
Let me say that this is not a very convincing dynamic for these last three years, colleagues. I want to hear from you how each of you in your area views this problem, what steps you propose, what is getting in the way of regulating this problem, and what additional protective and regulatory measures we need to block this flow of illegal imports.
I stress here that counterfeit and smuggled goods devalue and hollow out the state support measures we provide for those working legally.
I was very happy to hear today that the measures the Government has been taking to support the sector are having an effect. This is reflected in what we see at concrete enterprises. But they would work far more effectively if it were not for the negative factors I mentioned just before, counterfeit goods and illegal import of foreign-made goods to our country.
I think that cleansing the market of dubious goods is an essential resource for developing light industry. Let’s reflect together on what additional steps we can take in this direction.
Another issue I want to examine concerns raw material supplies for our enterprises. As far as I know, the domestic market is experiencing a deficit in natural fibres and materials and their quality often falls below the standards demanded by the processing industries. This matter has also been mentioned today.
Flexible solutions are needed here to stimulate local production of these materials and at the same time cover manufacturers’ current demand.
In this context, I propose discussing the launch of a sub-programme within the state programme on agriculture. Mr Dvorkovich [Deputy Prime Minister Arkady Dvorkovich], I ask you to give this your attention. We have our first concrete example here today. Livestock suffer if they are not vaccinated in time, and this leads to a lower quality of raw materials later. I also think it is important to address the issue of removing excessive barriers for importing quality raw materials in cases where there is an objective need. Let’s discuss this matter too today.
We also need to develop light industry’s human resource potential, return these profession’s prestige, and attract young specialists into the sector. The main educational institutions working in this area are concentrated in Moscow today, but the actual production facilities are located mostly in the regions.
This situation requires thorough analysis. Future personnel should study in the locations where they will be able to gain practical experience and apply what they are taught in real life. Among other things, I propose examining the possibility of opening relevant faculties at the main companies in the sector.
Another very sensitive issue for young people and for all working in the sector is the wage level. The wage level at this company we are visiting today is higher than the region’s average, but this is not the case throughout the sector as a whole, unfortunately. From 2013 to 2016, the earnings each person employed in the sector was generating increased by 60 percent, but wages increased by approximately a third, and came to 18,600 rubles a month on average in the sector as at the end of last year. This is considerably lower than the average for the economy as a whole.
I propose that we reflect on what we can do to improve this situation and which measures are needed to attract young people into light industry sector.
<…>
Geography
Ryazan Region
Topics
Industry
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 24, 2017, 14:10
Text version