Events
Meeting with Emergency Situations Minister Vladimir Puchkov
Last night, Vladimir Putin had a meeting with Minister of Civil Defence, Emergencies and Disasters Relief Vladimir Puchkov.
July 7, 2017
08:00
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
3 of 3
Minister of Civil Defence, Emergencies and Disaster Relief Vladimir Puchkov.
Vladimir Puchkov
reported on the actions taken by the Emergencies Ministry in the regions affected by wild fires and floods, and measures to protect residential areas and restore social infrastructure.
On the same day, the President listened to reports by several regional heads whose territories suffered the most from floods and wild fires, over the telephone.
Head of the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia) Yegor Borisov
, Governor of the Irkutsk Region Sergei Levchenko
, Governor of the Ulyanovsk Region Sergei Morozov
and Head of Tatarstan Rustam Minnikhanov reported to the President on the current situation in their regions.
Vladimir Putin instructed the regional heads to make every effort to repair the damage caused by natural disasters as soon as possible.
* * *
Beginning of meeting with Emergencies Minister Vladimir Puchkov
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Puchkov, I already spoke to the heads of the regions that have been affected by the floods and wild fires the most. I would like to hear your report on the current situation in these areas, your assessment and review of the ministry’s operations, including cooperation with local authorities. What help is being provided to people? How are the relief measures organised?
Minister of Civil Defence, Emergencies and Natural Disasters Relief Vladimir Puchkov: Mr President,
The work of the management and task forces of the Unified State System for Emergency Prevention and Relief has been organised with due regard to the forecast of how the situation with floods and risks of other natural disasters might develop.
Specifically, as concerns protection of residential areas and social infrastructure from wild fires, we are using heavy aircraft of the federal government, and federal and regional land-based groups. The fire prevention regime has been introduced in 41 regions.
The Republic of Sakha (Yakutia), as well as the Irkutsk Region, the Republic of Buryatia, the Trans-Baikal Territory and a number of other regions are facing the most challenging situations.
In the past 24 hours, efforts undertaken by air and control centres have helped protect 21 inhabited localities with a total population of over 70,000 people. The most dangerous situations are in Batamay, Republic of Sakha (Yakutia), and in Sukhaya village [Republic of Buryatia].
Vladimir Putin: It seems that the threat is subsiding there.
Vladimir Puchkov: The situation is currently under control, but we are still deploying our response teams. A space monitoring system is operating, and whenever risks arise we mobilise both air and ground units. More than 130 fire sources are under control.
As for population protection and ensuring an adequate living environment in adverse weather conditions, over the last three days in ten regions residential building roofs have been damaged, courtyards and roads flooded, and power lines and social infrastructure damaged as a result of cyclones, heavy rain and strong winds of up to 22 metres per second,
Emergency and relief units were immediately deployed to these areas, and they are currently working on restoring power supply. At this time, we are monitoring the situation in 76 inhabited localities with a total population of over 40,000 people.
Vladimir Putin: What is the situation in the Ulyanovsk Region?
Vladimir Puchkov: Emergency response units are working in the Ulyanovsk Region, and the situation is getting back to normal.
We are paying special attention to providing targeted, specific assistance and supporting the people. Rooftops were damaged in 388 private dwellings. Emergency response teams are already working on these cases. Power engineering teams are also hard at work, and all the necessary supplies are available. All agencies are coordinating their efforts.
Our goal is to restore the infrastructure in the affected regions within the shortest possible timeframe and, taking into account the changing weather conditions, we have a system aimed at preventing emergencies by dispatching response teams to the relevant territories.
Mr President, we keep the situation with providing assistance to those affected by the disaster under control and we are fulfilling the tasks you set us regarding assistance for the wild fire victims in Siberia.
Currently, 1,094 people have received the needed financial help and compensation for the loss of their property. Some 188 people are in temporary shelters. They are being provided with meals, medical help and other services.
The ministry is also overseeing measures for the restoration of damaged and destroyed housing and infrastructure in the affected residential areas.
As concerns the Stavropol Territory, Governor Vladimir Vladimirov personally heads the emergencies commission. A large rescue unit is finishing rescue and recovery operations there.
The Government has distributed financial aid and compensation for lost property from reserve funds to as many as 17,600 people. Money has been also allocated from the Stavropol Territory’s budget.
Currently, we are overseeing efforts to provide the victims with shelter, and measures to restore social infrastructure.
Vladimir Putin: Good. Keep me updated.
I have a question. Do you require any additional help from other ministries, agencies or the Government overall?
Vladimir Puchkov: Mr President, according to your instructions, we are cooperating under the Unified State System for Emergency Prevention and Relief. All federal bodies are acting together as well as the emergencies commissions in the regions. The local authorities are very much involved as well as all vertically integrated companies, including energy providers, communications and road services.
Vladimir Putin: Is the epidemiological situation normal?
Vladimir Puchkov: It is stable but we are watching all potentially hazardous sites.
Vladimir Putin: Ok.
<…>
Topics
Regions
Persons
Puchkov Vladimir
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 7, 2017, 08:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of South Korea Moon Jae-in
Vladimir Putin met with President of the Republic of Korea Moon Jae-in on the sidelines of the G20 summit in Hamburg. The two presidents discussed various issues of bilateral cooperation.
July 7, 2017
17:00
Hamburg
1 of 4
With President of South Korea Moon Jae-in.
On the Russian side the meeting was attended by Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov
, Presidential Aide Yury Ushakov
, Minister of Economic Development Maxim Oreshkin
and Rosneft CEO Igor Sechin
.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, colleagues,
I am very pleased to meet you and continue our dialogue that we have already started by phone.
Naturally, we paid attention to the statement you made immediately after you were elected President, notably, on readiness to conduct dialogue with all interested countries, including Russia and other northern neighbours.
The Republic of Korea ranks fourth in trade with Russia in the Asia-Pacific region. We had a small decline but we are witnessing decent growth in the first quarter – 36 percent.
North Korea’s nuclear programme is certainly a very urgent issue. The main point here is not to lose self-control. It is necessary to act pragmatically and carefully.
I am glad to have this opportunity to discuss all these issues with you.
President of South Korea Moon Jae-in
 (retranslated): Thank you very much for your kind words. I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for your call following my election as President. And thank you for receiving my Special Envoy Song Young-gil.
I would also like to take this opportunity to thank you for your invitation to Vladivostok next September to take part in the third Eastern Economic Forum.
I would also like to invite you to visit us in Korea. Please come to our country as soon as possible. For us this is a very good opportunity to discuss all issues between our countries.
I am very interested in cooperation on developing the Far Eastern Region of the Russian Federation and the Northern Sea Route.
And, as you observed, the North Korean provocation, this missile provocation is a threat not only to the Korean Peninsula but also to the entire region of Northeast Asia.
<…>
See also
The G20 Summit in Hamburg
July 7 − 8, 2017
Geography
Republic of Korea
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Moon Jae-in
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 7, 2017, 17:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Prime Minister of Japan Shinzo Abe
A meeting between Vladimir Putin and Prime Minister of Japan Shinzo Abe took place on the sidelines of the G20 summit in Hamburg.
July 7, 2017
20:20
Hamburg
3 of 4
With Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Shinzo, first of all I would like to apologise that we kept you waiting – I had a very long conversation with the President of the United States. Many issues have piled up: Ukraine, Syria, other problems, some bilateral issues, and once again the fight against terrorism and security measures. So, speaking also on his behalf – you have our apologies.
I am very happy to see you. We will have another meeting in Vladivostok in the near future. I am very glad we have such an intensive dialogue. This will certainly promote the development of our bilateral relations and, I am hoping, will allows us to resolve our protracted problems.
In line with our agreement, quite recently a business delegation from Japan visited the Kuril Islands. We will follow the path set by our agreements.
I am glad to have this opportunity to meet again on the sidelines of the G20 summit.
Prime Minister of Japan Shinzo Abe
(retranslated): Indeed, although I was looking forward to today’s meeting, I have said more than once that a meeting of the leaders of Russia and the United States is essential for settling global issues related to Ukraine, Syria, and North Korea, to name a few.
I welcome the top-level meeting between Russia and America and I am glad you had a fruitful dialogue at the meeting.
Our bilateral relations have been steadily developing in different areas since our meeting in the city of Nagato last December. I would like to use today’s meeting to give them additional impetus.
It is necessary to deepen trust between our two countries in order to sign a peace treaty. In this context, we are prepared to develop cooperation, that is, productive joint activities on the islands, greater freedom for former residents of the islands to visit graves of relatives. We want to promote trust between our two countries.
I believe the recent visit of our business delegation for joint economic activities on the islands was an important event.
<…>
See also
The G20 Summit in Hamburg
July 7 − 8, 2017
Geography
Japan
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Abe Shinzo
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 7, 2017, 20:20
Text version