Events
Working meeting with Head of Ingushetia Yunus-Bek Yevkurov
The Head of Ingushetia updated the President on the socioeconomic situation in the region.
November 8, 2017
13:15
The Kremlin, Moscow
Working meeting with Head of Ingushetia Yunus-Bek Yevkurov.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, Mr Yevkurov.
Let us begin with the relocation of people from Chechnya, as well as about the programme to relocate families from landslide-prone areas. And after that we will talk about other subjects.
Head of Ingushetia Yunus-Bek Yevkurov
: Mr President, we are completing these two programmes with your support. These problems created serious tension in society. We had the problem with internally displaced persons for over 20 years, and the problem of the landslide-prone areas emerged in the 1960s.
We will complete both programmes this year. By the end of this month, we will relocate nearly 800 families or over 8,000 people. By late December, we will relocate between 7,500 and 8,000 people from landslide-prone areas. It is a good programme, and we have implemented it successfully.
This year we expect our industrial production index to reach 109 percent. The reasons for this are a radiator plant and a textile factory we have opened, as well as a polymer pipe plant. Upon your instructions, Rostec will assume responsibility for the energy-saving lamp plant, which will start working at the end of this month as well.
Agricultural production index is estimated to reach 107 or 108 percent. The reason for this is our orchards, one of the best in the country. By the end of 2019, the area planted with orchards will reach 1,100 hectares, and we will also have 60,000 refrigerating facilities.
Greenhouse farms built on an area of 10 hectares will produce the first harvest of some 9,000 tonnes next April. In 2019, the greenhouse area will be increased by 20 hectares, that is, to 30 hectares, and this is only in one region.
Vladimir Putin: Very good.
Yunus-Bek Yevkurov: During a meeting of the Intergovernmental Commission held in Saudi Arabia, we have reached an agreement with Saudi investors on the export of our agricultural products. We started working with them last year, and we will boost our cooperation in 2017 and 2018.
Vladimir Putin: What do you sell?
Yunus-Bek Yevkurov: We can market up to 20,000 tonnes of apples, and we have delivered 48 tonnes of honey, although our annual capacity is up to 300 tonnes of honey. We can also deliver large volumes of water, as well as greenhouse vegetables. I think we can deliver between 10,000 and 15,000 tonnes of vegetables a year. Plus we will also sell radiators and energy-saving lamps. They [investors] have shown interest in this, because they are also working in this area. We are looking for a market for our products.
Vladimir Putin: Very good.
<…>
Geography
Republic of Ingushetia
Topics
Regions
Persons
Yevkurov Yunus-Bek
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 8, 2017, 13:15
Text versionEvents
Article by Vladimir Putin ”The 25th APEC Economic Leaders' Meeting in Danang: Together Towards Prosperity and Harmonious Development“
November 8, 2017
21:00
The 25th anniversary APEC Economic Leaders' Meeting will take place in Danang very soon, on November 10 and 11.
We greatly value the APEC forum for the ample opportunities it affords all participants to engage in discussions and coordinate positions on a variety of economic, social, environmental, and cultural issues. Our countries strive to cooperate based on the principles of consensus and voluntary participation, mutual respect and willingness to compromise, regardless of the political situation. This is what APEC’s unique spirit of partnership is all about.
As a major Eurasian power with vast Far Eastern territories that boast significant potential, Russia has a stake in the successful future of the Asia-Pacific region, and in promoting sustainable and comprehensive growth throughout its entire territory. We believe that effective economic integration based on the principles of openness, mutual benefit and the universal rules of the World Trade Organisation is the primary means of achieving this goal.
We support the idea of forming an Asia-Pacific free trade area. We believe this is in our practical interest and represents an opportunity to strengthen our positions in the rapidly growing APR markets. I want to note that over the past five years, the share of APEC economies in Russia's foreign trade has increased from 23 to 31 percent, and from 17 to 24 percent in exports. And we have no intention of stopping there.
Of course, the large-scale project to create the APEC free trade area should be carried out with due account of the experience gained from implementing key integration formats in the Asia-Pacific region and Eurasia, including the Eurasian Economic Union, in which Russia cooperates with Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan. Our union has been developing dynamically, and we are eager to build relations with all countries and associations that are interested in doing so. Vietnam, the host of this year’s Forum, was the first state to sign a free trade agreement with the EAEU. As a result, our trade grew significantly and became more diversified. Talks on a trade and economic cooperation agreement with China concluded a short while ago. Talks with Singapore have begun, and we are working on the possibility of signing a free trade agreement with ASEAN.
On a related note, I would like to mention our idea to create the Greater Eurasian Partnership. We suggested forming it on the basis of the Eurasian Economic Union and China’s Belt and Road initiative. To reiterate, this is a flexible modern project open to other participants.
Comprehensive development of infrastructure, including transport, telecommunications and energy, will serve as the basis for effective integration. Today Russia is actively modernising its sea and air ports in the Russian Far East, developing transcontinental rail routes, and building new gas and oil pipelines. We are committed to implementing bilateral and multilateral infrastructure projects which will link our economies and markets. Among other projects, I am referring to the Energy Super Ring that unites Russia, China, Japan, and the Republic of Korea, and the Sakhalin-Hokkaido transport link.
We pay special attention to integrating Russia’s Siberian and Far Eastern territories into the network of APR economic ties. These efforts include a whole range of measures to enhance the investment appeal of our regions, and to integrate Russian enterprises into international production chains.
For Russia, the development of our Far East is a national priority for the 21st century. We are talking about creating territories of advanced economic growth in that region, pursuing large-scale development of natural resources, and supporting advanced high-tech industries, as well as investing in human capital, education and healthcare, and forming competitive research centres.
We hope that our foreign partners, primarily from APEC economies, will play an active role in implementing these programmes and projects. All the more so, as foreign participants of the annual Eastern Economic Forum held in Vladivostok already had a chance to gain confidence in the prospects and feasibility of our plans.
We have an equally serious approach to involving small and medium-sized businesses in APEC economic integration processes, and supporting female entrepreneurship and start-up companies run by young entrepreneurs. Of course, we attach special importance to strengthening our cultural ties and expanding our contacts in the sphere of science and education. Looking ahead, we will focus on forming a common APR education space, one of whose centres could be the Far Eastern Federal University.
We believe that establishing effective cooperation to support innovation is the most important task we face in this dynamic era. As such, Russia has put forward a number of specific initiatives. These include unifying digital economy and trade rules, harmonising national technical standards, coordinating strategies for forming high-tech markets, and creating a uniform conceptual framework for the digital space. We have also shared with our partners our experience in providing e-services to the public. In addition, we suggest starting consultations within APEC on international information security and protection of computer software.
Preventing and providing relief following natural disasters and man-made accidents, epidemics and pandemics is another challenge that requires a joint response by all APR partners. Of course, we need to tackle food security issues together and think about how to meet the region's rapidly growing demand for high-quality and healthy food. Russia is one of the world’s leaders in exports of grain, vegetable oils, fish, and a number of other foods. We expect to become the leading supplier of ecologically clean food to our neighbours in the Asia-Pacific region. To do so, we are taking measures to increase agricultural output and improve productivity.
We intend to engage in substantive discussions of all these topics during the upcoming summit in Danang. I am confident that, acting together, we will find acceptable solutions to the challenge of supporting the steady, balanced, and harmonious growth of our shared region, and securing its prosperity. Russia is ready for such a collaborative effort.
Topics
APEC
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 8, 2017, 21:00
Text version