Events
Working meeting with Astrakhan Region Governor Alexander Zhilkin
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Astrakhan Region Governor Alexander Zhilkin to discuss the socioeconomic situation in the region.
August 22, 2017
13:30
Sochi
With Astrakhan Region Governor Alexander Zhilkin.
Alexander Zhilkin
updated the President on the socioeconomic situation in Astrakhan Region.
A separate issue on the meeting agenda concerned requests from the region’s residents submitted during the recent Direct Line with Vladimir Putin.
The President instructed the Governor to step up the work to connect buildings in the region to the gas supply network and to settle the issue with the allocation of land plots to families with many children.
Vladimir Putin also highlighted the importance of finding solutions to transportation and waste removal issues.
The Governor also informed the President about plans for the development of medical tourism in the region. According to Mr Zhilkin, last year, the city’s medical institutions provided services to 85,000 patients from across the country and 25,000 foreign tourists from the Caspian states.
The head of the region also reported on the positive dynamics of Astrakhan Region’s economy, in particular GRP [gross regional product] and industrial production levels.
This year, according to Mr Zhilkin, industrial production in the region increased by 29 percent, namely, salt and gypsum production, building materials, and rubber products industries. The machine-tool plant has shown good growth, operating as a joint venture with Chinese partners. According to the Governor, five residents of the region’s free industrial and economic zone are building manufacturing facilities for innovative products such as third-generation syringes and drop pipes for melioration across Russia.
Mr Zhilkin also said that the region’s tax revenue is growing, expected to exceed 100 billion rubles this year.
Geography
Astrakhan Region
Topics
Regions
Persons
Zhilkin Alexander
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 22, 2017, 13:30
Text versionEvents
Greetings to organizers, participants and guests of International Military-Technical Forum ARMY-2017
August 22, 2017
13:10
Moscow
Greetings to organizers, participants and guests of International Military-Technical Forum ARMY-2017.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Dear friends,
It is a pleasure to welcome the organizers, participants and guests of the International Military-Technical Forum ARMY-2017.
As usual, the program is quite rich in events. One of the major attractions, of course, will be the demonstration of the most advanced weapons and military equipment.
All those interested will have a chance to become acquainted with Russia's achievements in the defense industry and science and to see the growing capabilities of our Armed Forces.
Significantly, the Forum also provides a platform for an active international dialogue. It gives an opportunity for military agencies and enterprises, scientists and experts to establish new contacts. Here, the most pressing problems and challenges, as well as ways to deal with common threats become subject of substantive professional discussions, which helps strengthen mutual trust.
It is only together, by joining our efforts and respecting the national interests of all states, that we can ensure effective and sustainable development for the benefit of millions of people.
I am sure that ARMY-2017 will be remembered not only as one of the largest military technical exhibitions of the year, but also as an example of fruitful international cooperation.
I wish the organizers every success with the upcoming activities, and an enjoyable experience and all the best to the participants and guests of the Forum.
Topics
Armed Forces
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 22, 2017, 13:10
Text version