Events
Meeting with leadership of the National Guard
Vladimir Putin met with the heads of the Federal National Guard Service.
March 27, 2017
18:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
Meeting with leadership of the National Guard.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Comrade officers,
I want to congratulate you on your professional holiday [National Guards’ Day] and express the hope that the decisions we have taken at the presidential and legislative levels about establishing this new federal security organisation will prove useful.
Your areas of work are of great importance: maintaining and protecting public law and order, and control over the circulation of weapons. This is very important anywhere in the world today, and important here in Russia too.
The latest terrorist attack in the Republic of Chechnya, where they attacked a national guard unit, causing victims – I ask you to pay attention to supporting the families of your colleagues who were killed – shows that control over the circulation of weapons is a critically important, even one of the most important, areas of work.
The fight against terrorism and against any terrorist manifestations, no matter where they take place, is extremely important, and all of the security and law enforcement agencies give this their utmost attention.
The National Guard’s establishment is going according to plan, and I want to thank you for this. The work is proceeding smoothly and the relevant executive order and federal law are being implemented with the hoped-for pace and quality.
We must monitor this work constantly. I count very much on your professionalism and your ability to work for results in the interests of our people.
<…>
Topics
National security
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 27, 2017, 18:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Prime Minister of Serbia Aleksandar Vucic
Vladimir Putin met with Prime Minister of Serbia Aleksandar Vucic.
March 27, 2017
15:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 4
Meeting with Prime Minister of Serbia Aleksandar Vucic.
Bilateral relations were the main subject on the agenda, in particular, developing trade and investment cooperation.
The two leaders also exchanged views on current international and regional issues.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, Mr Prime Minister. It is a great pleasure to see you in Moscow.
Let me say that our common efforts have succeeded in changing the situation in the trade and economic sector for the better, not by much as yet, but nonetheless.
We saw a slight increase of around 2 percent in bilateral trade last year. Your Government’s efforts meant that this increase was mostly thanks to growing exports from Serbia to Russia. Some sectors were leaders in this, agriculture, for example, with an increase of around 40 percent.
We have good joint projects that are developing actively, especially in the energy sector. I am sure we will discuss all of this today.
Of course, we know that Serbia will soon hold presidential elections. We are sure that in today’s Serbia, in today’s conditions, this election will be of the highest standard, and we wish good luck to the current authorities.
No matter how the political situation develops, we are sure that our bilateral relations will continue to develop just as positively, in the spirit of friendship that has characterised our ties over these last years.
Of course, we very much want to discuss with you the situation in the region today, because various outside signs suggest that a degree of escalation is taking place. We would like to discuss all of this with you today.
Welcome.
Prime Minister of Serbia Aleksandar Vucic
: Mr President, thank you for the warm reception and for your hospitality.
I want to say that we need to thank you personally and the Russian Federation for supporting the Republic of Serbia’s territorial integrity and sovereignty. As you said, I hope and am sure that we will have plenty of opportunities to increase our bilateral trade and economic ties.
We will discuss the situation in the region. I think that this is important for both countries. It is very important that, as you know, we remain committed to our national independence, freedom and military neutrality. We will discuss together all of this and examine the steps we need to take for the future.
Once again, thank you very much for your friendship. I am absolutely certain that we will take our relations to a very high level. Thank you once again for this very warm reception.
<…>
Geography
Serbia
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Vucic Aleksandar
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 27, 2017, 15:30
Text versionEvents
Gala evening marking National Guards’ Day
Vladimir Putin attended a gala evening marking National Guards’ Day, which was celebrated for the first time this year.
March 27, 2017
19:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
5 of 6
At a Gala evening marking National Guards’ Day.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, comrade officers,
I congratulate you on your professional holiday. Today, on this special occasion, you are receiving the banner of the National Guard troops.
This military relic embodies the honour and valour of many generations of defenders of our fatherland, symbolises their glorious traditions, and underscores the unbroken historical links.
This new federal service was established only recently, in April last year, and it has already become an important component in ensuring our national and public security.
The National Guard’s personnel act decisively and with result, demonstrating courage and heroism. Of course, we will always remember our comrades who sacrificed their lives to protect our country and our people’s lives and peace.
The National Guard was formed by special operations units from the Interior Ministry, riot police and special rapid response forces. It counts among its ranks units from extra-departmental security forces that have demonstrated their abilities.
You have solid human resources potential and great professional experience, and the needed operations and technical possibilities. Your direct responsibility is to put this enormous potential to best use in protecting Russia’s national interests and our people’s rights and freedoms.
Effective action against extremism, terrorism and organised crime is one of your priority tasks. You must not only consolidate the success already obtained in these areas, but must keep moving forward, revealing the plans of terrorists and extremists, cutting off their contacts with groups abroad, and respond professionally to any attempts to destabilise public order in our country, no matter what the pretext.
You must ensure reliable protection of state sites, particularly strategic facilities, keep strict control over the circulation of weapons, and coordinate the activity of all types of security organisations. Of course, it is important to develop cooperation with civil society and ensure you have our people’s support.
I am sure that you understand well the scale and importance of these tasks and will do everything possible to resolve them rapidly and competently, and stay loyal to your duty and your oath.
I wish the National Guard’s heads and personnel success, and I wish your families and loved ones good health, happiness and all the very best.
Thank you.
See also
Meeting with leadership of the National Guard
March 27, 2017
Topics
National security
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 27, 2017, 19:00
Text version