Events
Talks with Federal Chancellor of Austria Sebastian Kurz
Vladimir Putin had a meeting with Federal Chancellor of the Republic of Austria Sebastian Kurz who is in Russia on a working visit.
February 28, 2018
16:45
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 7
With Federal Chancellor of Austria Sebastian Kurz.
The two leaders discussed the current state of bilateral relations and their development prospects.
Vladimir Putin and Sebastian Kurz
gave a joint news conference following their talks.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Federal Chancellor, friends,
First, let me thank you for accepting our invitation.
To commence our conversation I would like to emphasise the special relations we have been building for many years. They influence the most important area, the economy.
Last year we saw a growth in mutual trade of over 40 percent. Russian investments to Austria’s economy reached $23 billion, while Austrian investments into Russia’s economy accounted for $5 billion. We have an intergovernmental commission and other instruments that are working well.
Mr Chancellor, we are delighted to see you. We have a wide range of matters of mutual interest to discuss.
 Federal Chancellor of Austria Sebastian Kurz (retranslated):Mr President Putin,
I heartily thank you for the opportunity to meet with you here in Moscow. As Foreign Minister, I have had the honour in recent years to enjoy good cooperation with Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov
. Ii is a pleasure to be here in Moscow as Federal Chancellor.
We have a long-standing tradition of good bilateral relations. As you have said, since last year we have witnessed a positive development of economic ties, including tourism. I will be happy to discuss with you bilateral relations, their improvement, relations between the European Union and Russia, and international issues.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
<…>
See also
Joint news conference with Federal Chancellor of Austria Sebastian Kurz
February 28, 2018
Geography
Austria
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Kurz Sebastian
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 28, 2018, 16:45
Text versionEvents
Presentation of state decorations to winners of 23rd Olympic Games in PyeongChang
Vladimir Putin met in the Kremlin with the medallists of the 23rd Olympic Winter Games in PyeongChang and presented them with state decorations.
February 28, 2018
18:10
The Kremlin, Moscow
With Alina Zagitova, Olympic figure skating champion.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends.
First of all, I would like to congratulate and thank all our Olympic athletes. You have honourably withstood both sports and extra-sports pressure, emotional tests, and showed your best qualities, both as athletes and as individuals, and your fighting spirit. We know how difficult it was for each of you, how complicated this marathon was.
Of course, special words of gratitude go to those who, in the most difficult battles for medals, managed to make it to the winners’ podium. Above all, I am referring to our magnificent female figure skaters; here they are. I congratulate you both, Alina and Yevgeniya. Without exaggeration, you not only made your fans happy, but also stunned the world with your fine technique and inspiring performance and skill. You not only won, but you reached a level that was unattainable for your competitors.
Our victory in hockey came as a big gift to millions of Russian fans. True, our national ice hockey team made us, to put it mildly, a little concerned for a while, but then managed to regain composure and wrest the long-awaited Olympic gold.
Presentation of state decorations to winners of 23rd Olympic Winter Games in PyeongChang.
The success of our skiers is also special. The medals were won by very young athletes, which is direct evidence of the fact that the legendary school of Russian skiing has regained its status in the world. We managed to create a significant margin of safety and a system of talent selection, about which we have spoken so much.
In general, with all the complexities and problems, the Games gave us pleasant surprises and new heroes in other sports, such as the short track, speed skating, skeleton, and freestyle, where Russia took a medal in the ski cross for the first time.
To reiterate, the entire team deserves praise, including the athletes and those who trained you for these important competitions. We will celebrate mentors and coaches separately. All of them will receive state decorations. They invested their knowledge, work, and experience in their trainees, supported them not only at the Olympic arenas, but also on the way to these achievements.
Let me emphasise that this situation prompted sports officials to reach many serious conclusions in international sports, and most importantly, the sports management system in the country. Naturally, we will give our athletes the broadest legal support while cooperating with international sports organisations and the IOC to promote the Olympic movement, and to help sports and the Olympic movement enhance their independence. We must make sure the principles of equality and justice are strictly observed and the anti-doping system has universal rules and finally becomes understandable and transparent.
With Head Coach of the Russian Olympic ice hockey team Oleg Znarok.
We have already done a lot here in Russia. An independent commission headed by Vitaly Smirnov is proceeding in a responsible and productive way, strictly abiding by the concept that the struggle against doping or the doping evil must be uncompromising. I am convinced that all members of the Olympic family are interested in making this the overriding principle.
I would like to thank all those that are helping Russian sport in this difficult period, primarily the Russian Olympians Foundation that launched the House of Sport and established cooperation with our Korean friends. As you have seen, we have many Korean friends, and we are sincerely grateful for their help. Later, the Foundation will present awards to the winners of Russia’s National Winter Olympic Sport Competitions.
I would like to especially thank our sports officials for their support of our athletes and our country during the competitions and in dialogue with the IOC.
I will say that an honest and respectful attitude to sport, to the team, and to our rivals have always been typical of Russian athletes. Millions of fans around the world know and feel this. I am sure that you will continue to do a great job representing the new generation of Russian athletes and in setting an example for the active lifestyle for millions of our people, mostly young people.
I sincerely wish you further success and all the best. Thank you very much for these results.
Olympic figure skating silver medallist Yevgenia Medvedeva: Good afternoon.
On behalf of my fellow athletes on the Olympic team, I would like to thank you for the opportunity to participate in the Olympics, because this is the competition that we had been getting ready for all our lives. We gave our performance everything we had. We won these medals for our Motherland.
With Yevgenia Medvedeva, Olympic silver medalist in figure skating.
Thank you for the support that we feel each day. Russia is in our hearts.
Thank you.
Olympic ice hockey champion Pavel Datsuk: You will not believe it, but I like speaking.
The Olympics are now over, and these Games were historic for our great country. We defended the honour of our country thanks to our Russian character, and the fact that our big great Russia believed in us and supported us.
Thank you for your assistance and for showing to the world that our Russian character is not broken and will never be broken.
With Pavel Datsyuk, Olympic ice hockey champion.
Olympic ice hockey champion Ilya Kovalchuk: Good afternoon, everyone.
It feels super here today. The first time we came to you, we felt nervous. I want to thank you very much for being the person to give us your blessing to go along this path to Pyeongchang. I think we have accomplished a lot.
One of our principal goals was to get back our flag and national anthem, and a few hours ago we were told the Russian Olympic Committee had been reinstated and that our future Olympic athletes, both in summer and winter sports, would be able to participate under the Russian flag, and to stand on the podium hearing the sound of the Russian national anthem.
Thank you very much all.
With Olympic ice hockey champion, Ilya Kovalchuk.
Vladimir Putin: Incidentally, today is Ivan Telegin’s birthday. Let us wish him all the best. I would like to present you with a very good book by legendary Soviet ice hockey coach Anatoly Tarasov. You can further improve your skills.
Olympic ice hockey champion Ivan Telegin: Thank you very much.
Olympic cross-country skiing bronze medallist Yulia Belorukova: Good afternoon, everyone.
On behalf of our cross-country skiing team, I want to thank you, Mr President, for this opportunity.
Cross-country skiing had suffered an especially hard blow, but in spite of this and thanks to your help, we made it. Even though our team was very young, we proved to the world that Russia is dope-free and can compete for medals in any situation.
Olympic skeleton silver medallist Nikita Tregubov: Mr President, first of all let me thank for you believing in us, supporting us and giving us the good guidance that you did before the Olympics. We successfully proved, I hope, that nothing can break us even though we had been stripped of so many things. We did not even have coaches with us. Few people internationally believed we could win.
Yet we proved that we are strong and that nothing can break us. To crown everything, here comes this great news that we have been given back our flag and national anthem.
Thank you.
With Olympic skeleton silver medallist Nikita Tregubov.
Olympic short-track bronze medallist Semyon Yelistratov: Good afternoon to all. Everyone is looking beautiful and all dressed up.
There was a huge argument before the Olympics on whether to go, but you, Mr President, were the first to say that we were going. Thank you for supporting us and for believing in us.
We also have a lot of backers that we would have failed without. These are our parents, our great wives, husbands, our families, friends and fans. And, most importantly, there are the people who were instrumental in our achievements and who made sure that today we are here with you. These are our coaches, our mentors.
We made it, we succeeded, we did not back down. I think we represented our country honourably. Thank you all, and let us meet here again in four years.
Thank you.
With Olympic short-track bronze medallist Semyon Yelistratov.
Vladimir Putin: Dear friends, I would like to congratulate you all once again.
Pavel spoke about the Russian character, while other athletes said that we had been stripped of so much. Yes, they can take all they want, any symbols, but the character is inalienable. You have proved it with your performance, your attitude to your work and your country. Yours were spectacular and beautiful performances, and we felt proud watching you.
Yes, it has been announced that our national Olympic committee has been reinstated. But I think we need to turn over a new leaf. We must learn from this lesson, but I hope that international bodies will understand, too, that sports should be kept away from topics that have nothing to do with it.
I have said this repeatedly, but that is not what I want to focus on at this moment. Now I want to talk about people like you who can summon up your strength despite difficulties and imposed limitations. That is what we talked about before you went to the Olympics. As you will recall, I told you that you needed to forget all that and focus on your performance together with your results. This is exactly what you did.
With the medallists of the 2018 Olympics in PyeongChang.
You have said that our anthem will be reinstated. You know, we all heard our ice hockey players sing it.
Thank you for taking this attitude towards your country, and to the work you have dedicated your entire lives to. Millions of people celebrate your victories as enthusiastically as you do. I congratulate you on this.
I wish you all the best. Good luck!
Topics
Sport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Commissions and Councils, Council for the Development of Physical Culture and Sport
Publication date: February 28, 2018, 18:10
Text versionEvents
Joint news conference with Federal Chancellor of Austria Sebastian Kurz
Vladimir Putin and Sebastian Kurz gave a joint news conference following their talks.
February 28, 2018
17:00
5 of 5
Joint news conference with Federal Chancellor of Austria Sebastian Kurz.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Federal Chancellor, ladies and gentlemen,
Talks with the Federal Chancellor of Austria, Mr Sebastian Kurz, were constructive and fruitful. We exchanged opinions on the entire range of bilateral cooperation issues, as well as some topical matters on the international and regional agendas. We outlined our plans in politics, trade, the economy and humanitarian issues.
We acknowledged the fact that relations between Russia and Austria have historically been based on principles of equality and respect for one another’s interests, and are truly of a mutually beneficial nature.
Last year, trade between our countries increased by more than 40 percent. Russia’s investment in the Austrian economy is growing and has reached almost $23 billion while Austria’s investment in the Russian economy is approaching $5 billion.
The Intergovernmental Commission has been successful. This May, its co-chairs will meet on the sidelines of the next St Petersburg International Economic Forum. We expect that representatives of the Austrian business community will be involved in the forum programme as extensively as in previous years.
Austria is a major buyer of Russian natural gas and provides for its transit to other European countries. This June we are marking 50 years since the first delivery of gas from the Soviet Union to the Austrian market. Throughout the years, our country has made a significant contribution to the energy security of the entire European continent. The upcoming anniversary clearly illustrates Russia’s reputation as a reliable energy supplier. Let me note that our Austrian partners have become involved in some new large infrastructure and energy projects.
We discussed joint initiatives in transport and logistics infrastructure during the talks, primarily the railway from Košice to Vienna with wide gauge tracks compatible with the Russian standard. This project has been discussed for a while, but it now appears to be gradually moving forward.
The project received broad support at a recent international conference held in Vienna with the participation of leading European railway companies. Work is underway to draft a feasibility study and develop specific financing mechanisms. We believe that the Košice-Vienna section will in the long run make it possible to effectively link the European and Asian markets. For us, this is important, as it will promote Russia’s transit potential.
The development of interregional exchanges were discussed separately with Mr Chancellor. Over the past year, Austria has hosted presentations by Pskov, Tver and Yaroslavl regions and the Days of Moscow in Vienna. We signed documents on expanding cooperation between the governments of Krasnoyarsk Territory and the Federal Land of Carinthia, Karachay-Cherkessia and Tyrol, Chelyabinsk Region and Styria.
We noted active bilateral cooperation in the cultural sphere as well. Last year saw the successful Cross Year of Tourism. In January, a Cross Year of Music and Cultural Routes was launched. In 2019, we plan to hold the Year of Youth Exchange.
We supported the initiative to establish a Russian-Austrian Public Forum to expand contacts in civil society, science, education, and art. We took into account the positive experience of similar cooperation with Germany and the early phase of this kind of cooperation with France.
Of course, we touched on a number of important international and regional matters.
In the second half of the year, Austria will chair the Council of the European Union. In this regard, we talked about the prospects for Russia-EU relations, and the importance of maintaining full-fledged ties in politics and the economy.
We discussed the situation in Ukraine. When he was Foreign Minister of Austria, Mr Kurz paid much attention to the Ukraine conflict. In particular, he actively engaged in this issue during the Austrian chairmanship of the OSCE in 2017. In our common opinion, the Minsk agreements remain the only basis for resolving this crisis.
In the context of the state of affairs in the Middle East, primarily Syria, we stressed the primary importance of uniting the international community’s efforts in fighting terrorism based on the coordinating role of the UN and the standards of international law.
In closing, I would like to thank our Austrian partners, and personally Mr Chancellor, for these substantive and productive talks. I am confident that the results will contribute to the further deepening of mutually beneficial cooperation between our countries.
Thank you.
Federal Chancellor of the Republic of Austria Sebastian Kurz
(retranslated): Mr President, ladies and gentlemen,
I am sincerely grateful to you for these constructive talks and above all, I would like to thank you for the traditionally good bilateral relations between Austria and Russia. We have a long history and long-standing traditions of bilateral exchange between Austria and Russia, primarily a very powerful economic exchange between our countries.
We are pleased to say that after several difficult years our economic relations are again making steady headway. The number of Russian tourists in Austria has grown by 25 percent. Our economic relations, our trade has increased by about 15 percent.
We also talked about relations between Russia and the European Union. We are playing an active role in this respect. In the beginning of July, Austria takes over the Presidency of the Council for half a year. We are trying to facilitate the consolidation of the EU while adhering to the European position.
We also talked about opportunities for easing tensions between Russia and the EU. I took the opportunity to formulate our expectations as regards both the rule of law and international law.
In discussing bilateral relations at the Russia-EU level, we spoke about hotbeds of crises including those in Eastern Ukraine and Syria. Naturally, Russia’s influence there is great and therefore it bears much responsibility.
As for Syria, we believe that we should do everything we can to stop this unbearable situation. The suffering of the people is simply incredible. I am glad there was an opportunity to adopt a UN Security Council resolution to contribute to alleviating their suffering. This region needs peace and of course a better life in this country.
We also discussed Ukraine. As Mr President said, last year I had the honour of chairing the OSCE and visited eastern Ukraine. Our goal is to ensure a ceasefire in eastern Ukraine. We are happy that the Special Monitoring Mission is carrying out very important work along the contact line. Of course, this is still a long way from a political settlement. We expect the implementation of the Minsk agreements. Before they are carried out, it is necessary to take positive steps to de-escalate tensions in the region. If participation by UN peacemakers is required, Austria is certainly ready to contribute to lasting peace in eastern Ukraine.
Thank you for this pleasant day in Moscow, the agreeable conversation with the economic and energy ministers. I also had an opportunity to meet the head of the EU delegation and representatives of civil society. So I thank you for this positive conversation and hope we will continue it soon.
Thank you very much.
Question: We were just talking about Ukraine, and Austria really supports the UN mission, the peacekeepers, and also wants to help with this. Why has Russia still not consented to peacekeepers working on the border with Russia as well? This is Kiev’s proposal.
Vladimir Putin: You know that we essentially initiated the organisation of the UN mission in the southeast of Ukraine. This is an idea that was first proposed by Mr Poroshenko, the President of Ukraine. All I had to do was to publicly support it and submit a resolution. But when we did this, it turned out that this was not enough.
As you know, and as you have just said, it is proposed to extend this mission to the entire territory, although initially it was about ensuring the safety of OSCE observers on the line of contact. We proceed from what is sufficient for the UN mission to fulfill this role.
Initially, in general, Ukraine raised the issue of arming the OSCE staff with the goal of ensuring security. We agreed. The OSCE refused, arguing that they had neither the experience, nor the people who could do it. And, thirdly, there is the fear that as soon as OSCE personnel take up arms, they will become targets for both sides in the conflict.
Therefore, another idea was put forward to ensure their safety – to set up a UN mission next to them. We agreed. After that, the Chancellor of Germany posed the following question in a telephone conversation, “After all, OSCE staff is sometimes on the border between Russia and Ukraine, in this section.” I said, “Yes.” She said, “But why shouldn’t they be on the border with Russia and Ukraine?” I replied, “Yes, you are probably right, let them go there, too, when they accompany the OSCE to provide security.” We also agreed to that. But this was not enough. Now they are saying, “No, they need to be everywhere.” In fact, it is about putting all this territory under international control. Is Russia for or against? We are not opposed, that much I can say, but it is necessary to negotiate with the unrecognised republics. Go and reach an agreement with them. No, no one wants to.
Tell me, please, is there a single example in international practice of this kind of conflict being settled without the involvement of one of the parties to the conflict? Nothing of the sort has ever happened in practice. But, unfortunately, no one wants direct dialogue; the Kiev authorities do not want direct dialogue, as envisaged in the Minsk agreements, with representatives of these unrecognised territories. They must first take political steps toward a settlement, start implementing the Minsk agreements, and then think about further steps.
Today, it is necessary to ensure the security of the OSCE staff. We agree with this. Let us take at least this step. But for some reason they do not want to do this either, they refuse to do this. It is strange. But we will work on this together with all the interested parties.
Question: My question is addressed to both leaders and it concerns trade and economic cooperation between Russia and Austria. How do you see the prospects for cooperation given, shall we say, the complexities in relations between Brussels and Moscow; what prospects do you see for projects like Nord Stream 2 and the wide gauge railway from Košice to Vienna. Thank you.
Sebastian Kurz. Thank you very much for your question.
First, I would like to emphasise that I have a positive view of our economic relations over the past few years; they have been progressing in the right direction. I am confident that both nations have further potential here; we talked about this over lunch.
And indeed, these are two items that we spoke about today, that are of long-term strategic interest not only for Russia but also for European nations like Austria. First, the extension of the of the wide gauge railway to Austria. Last week both countries’ transport ministers met, and we generally favour this project. It will actually require tremendous investment but it is strategically correct, it makes sense. We said today that we need to develop this project further.
The second project that concerns not only Austria but also Germany and other countries is Nord Stream 2. The Austrian Federal Government also supports this. However, there are a great number of technical challenges to be worked out. And it is necessary to sort out a number of issues and the impact of this project on other countries. Austria is very positive about the project. And it is positive not only for us but also for Germany and many other states.
Vladimir Putin: Regarding the project Mr Chancellor concluded with, Nord Stream 2, you are aware of our position. We advocate the implementation of the project, which, undoubtedly, is absolutely depoliticised. It is an entirely economic, and moreover, a purely commercial project because the participants can calculate their revenue, their economic gain, from building this, and they arrive at the conclusion that the project is feasible.
By the way, this is not an alternative to the Ukraine route. If Ukraine presents economically justified parameters for using its gas pipeline system, we have nothing against continued cooperation with Ukraine. But in any case, projects like Nord Stream, Nord Stream 2, and Turkish Stream will only diversify the distribution alternatives, which means they improve the quality of deliveries and increase stability.
We know that gas extraction in Europe is in decline. Liquefied natural gas is not competitive in the European market, at any rate, this is obvious today, and it will remain so for the coming decade. So if our partners support this project, let me repeat, we will also move forward.
Concerning other areas (that Mr Chancellor mentioned and that I talked about, including railway cooperation, trade, industrial cooperation, and we just reviewed that recently Austrian investors had built several plants in Russia, our investment in the Austrian economy of $23 billion also says a lot, they are real investments), we will develop all these areas of cooperation including the implementation of Austria’s proposals on the Public Dialogue Forum. I think this is a good idea. It will build up a favourable foundation for developing Russian-Austrian relations.
Question (retranslated): East and West – both sides would be happy to have no more sanctions and counter-sanctions. Yet currently the situation is blocked, it is at an impasse. But there is the notion of a policy of small steps, and the goodwill that can guide those steps in countering the sanctions. What do you think of such of ideas and do you think Austria can contribute to this?
Vladimir Putin: It is common knowledge that we did not impose the sanctions. It was not we who imposed the sanctions. Sanctions were imposed on us. In my view, this causes clear damage to the interests of EU countries, and it also hurts Russia. It is not ultimately clear who is suffering more but the damage is evident for all. Most importantly, the goals set by the authors of this kind of policy are not attained. In general, this is in effect a senseless and damaging activity.
But we have what we have, and it cannot be changed. Of course, we need to try to remove the causes that underlie the current situation; we need to try to resolve the crises that lead to the situation, both the Ukrainian crisis and other crises, but Ukraine first, of course. How quickly this can be done is the question, I mean the degradation of the socioeconomic and political situation in Ukraine today. This does not help in resolving the crisis; on the contrary, it aggravates it and does not allow the current leaders to actively implement the Minsk agreements. This is the problem. And how long will it last?
You can blame Russia as much as you like and look to define our guilt in any way you like, but it is clear to an unbiased observer that we do not carry the burden of implementing the Minsk agreements. We authored those agreements, and we are happy to abide by them. What if the other party does not want to do this? The question is in those small steps. It should probably be done wherever possible, but it should be done by both parties.
Our trade with Europe has been cut almost in half. What does ‘trade with Europe cut in half mean? It means European goods have not been delivered to our market, it means jobs in Europe are suffering. It has specific socioeconomic consequences. But let me reiterate, we are ready for that, we are not going to blame anyone for anything. What we need is a two-way street so that our interests are taken into account, while we are ready to take into consideration our European partners’ interests.
You see, we do have good long-standing relations with the European countries, and Austria is an example. They are deep in nature, and they date back centuries. And of course, it is a mistake to make centuries-long relations contingent on the current political situation, and this creates bad prospects. We, for our part, are ready to do everything dependent on us to rectify the situation.
Question: Syria has been mentioned, and so I have a question for both leaders. What is your assessment of the situation in Eastern Ghouta after the UN Security Council Resolution was adopted?
And a question for the Russian President. Mr President, what is your attitude to the criticism of Moscow coming from the capitals of many countries? And in general, what are the prospects for a Syrian settlement, considering the latest aggravation?
Vladimir Putin: As for prospects for a settlement, Mr Chancellor and I discussed this. We talked about this in private, in a narrow circle, and in a wide circle. This took over an hour and we could have spent much more time discussing it. So I cannot quite give you a comprehensive answer in this respect.
The situation is difficult and settlement prospects depend on the opposing parties, on their internal willingness to achieve a settlement and preserve the territorial integrity of their country. Everything depends on this.
Certainly, the influence of the countries in the region and the leading global players is very important. There are many component interests here. We will definitely work to establish a political dialogue and launch a constitutional process to prepare a new fundamental law for the country and, on this basis, achieve full normalisation. We will work to turn the de-escalation zones into zones of cooperation between Damascus and the opposing forces deployed there.
As for Eastern Ghouta, unfortunately, there are still many extremist forces there, representatives of a wide range of terrorist organisations on the respective UN list. I will not mention them now. As you know, the latest UN Security Council Resolution states that the fight against these organisations will never stop.
What does this mean for us? Continued shelling, on some days up to 50–80 missile and mortar strikes. As is known, at least we are well aware of it in Russia, bombs even hit the grounds of the Russian Embassy and trade mission. Do you think we will put up with this forever? Certainly not.
As a result of my latest telephone conversation with the German Chancellor and the President of France, you know that I issued orders to the Defence Ministry, and we made arrangements with our Syrian partners, and we proposed organising humanitarian routes to evacuate children and wounded people from the hotspots. In the past, we have done this on request of the President of Turkey, Mr Erdogan and by agreement with him. We managed to evacuate a large group of those who wanted to leave the area, but another group that was prepared could not leave because the terrorists did not allow it.
If we all together make efforts to normalise the situation both in the whole country and in Eastern Ghouta, we will have success. If we try to pull all this down for the sake of some immediate tactical and political advantages, nothing good will come of it. But I hope for cooperation and for the resolution of this situation, including in Eastern Ghouta.
Sebastian Kurz: We are enduring not only a conflict and a civil war in Syria, but also a war in which super powers are represented and in which regions have major influence. At the same time, the civilian population has been living in an intolerable situation for several years.
I am glad – I already said this earlier, but wanted to emphasise this again – that there is a resolution of the UN Security Council, and we want to make it more influential. It is good that we have it, and it would be good to translate it into action. We are talking about a goal that, perhaps, is not yet in our grasp, but there are intermediate steps that need to be taken. And we need to find the right time, to create these corridors to at least somehow reduce the suffering of the people in this acute situation.
Therefore, we hope that the negotiations will resume; negotiations were held in Austria and Switzerland. And here, I am appealing to Russia, because it has influence and responsibility here. Russia is a superpower, and it can affect the regime and the situation in Syria. Therefore, our great hope is that everyone will return to the negotiating table and stop the war in Syria as soon as possible.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
See also
Talks with Federal Chancellor of Austria Sebastian Kurz
February 28, 2018
Geography
Austria
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Kurz Sebastian
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 28, 2018, 17:00
Text versionEvents
Expanded meeting of Interior Ministry Board
Vladimir Putin took part in the annual expanded meeting of the Interior Ministry Board.
February 28, 2018
13:50
Moscow
3 of 5
Expanded meeting of Interior Ministry Board.
The discussion focused on the performance of the Interior Ministry bodies in 2017 and the key priorities for 2018.
The main report was made by Interior Minister Vladimir Kolokoltsev.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
Today, as we do every year, we will analyse in detail the results of the Interior Ministry’s work over the past period, discuss tasks for the future and measures that will further enhance the protection of citizens' rights, fight crime, and ensure order in the streets and on the roads.
I would like to note that in 2017, the Interior Ministry reinforced a number of positive trends. Thus, the number of solved crimes increased, including murders, armed assaults and apartment burglaries. There was a decline in street crime, although an insignificant one. Public order during major international events, such as the 2017 FIFA Confederations Cup and the World Festival of Youth and Students in Sochi, was ensured at a high level.
However, the situation is not as good in other areas. You know that the overall number of solved crimes dropped to almost 43 percent. In recent years, this indicator has been unstable, growing and then decreasing again. Unfortunately, the situation has not seriously changed for the better so far. Hence, the key principle of the inevitability of punishment is not fully implemented. This, of course, is a concern for our society and our citizens, and the Interior Ministry bodies must not become reconciled with the situation.
Let me stress one more time the need to substantially improve the quality of investigation and interrogation. You know better than anybody else does how important talent and professionalism are in this activity. Those who honestly and courageously do their duty deserve your all-around support. You must operate in such a way that those guilty of crimes are unable to get away with it.
Ensuring public safety is one such important objective. Any disturbance on the streets, transport, at sports venues or entertainment events requires a prompt response. It is also necessary to expand the use of modern technology, to reach out to voluntary public order squads and other public structures to help the police duty details.
The security of public institutions, especially educational institutions, should also remain a priority. Let me highlight this point. We need to do everything so that our children benefit from a living and learning environment that is calm and safe, and reduce the possible infractions to a minimum.
In 2017, the juvenile crime rate went down by 16 percent. Nevertheless, reducing this indicator should remain a priority for you. You need to promptly respond to all signals coming from teachers, parents and school students, and to be proactive in preventing juvenile crime. This effort should not be limited to those from the so-called high-risk groups. It is not uncommon for children from well-off families to find themselves in dire straits. It is essential that urgent issues are identified and dealt with in a timely manner so that they do not result in disaster or tragedy.
Priorities for the Interior Ministry also include countering extremism. Last year, the crime rate increased by 5 percent in this category. A number of groups are arrogant and defiant in their actions. They use social media to incite ethnic and religious intolerance, they organise public campaigns without proper authorisation, and seek to recruit young people. We need to be resolute in disrupting their activity and holding their organisers accountable.
Any illegal action designed to sow division in society and destabilise it is a serious threat, and it is your direct responsibility to neutralise it without delay.
The 2018 FIFA World Cup, which will be held in 11 Russian cities, will begin in less than six months. We must host this tournament at the highest level and, first and foremost, ensure maximum security for both the athletes and football fans.
You will be playing a crucial role in addressing this issue. You already have great positive experience in this area. I have no doubt that in any situation that may arise during the tournament you will act consistently, in strict compliance with the law. How the tournament will be held and our country’s image will depend directly on how efficiently and competently you do your job.
Comrades, combating economic crimes is one of the Interior Ministry’s most important areas of work. Step by step, we must clear the banking system, the fuel-and-energy complex, the manufacturing and construction industries of crime and “grey”, shadow schemes.
Of course, we must pay special attention to creating a favourable business environment, protecting the legitimate interests of businesses, thoroughly investigating cases of pressuring entrepreneurs and their groundless prosecution, including by law enforcement agencies, which is absolutely unacceptable. Tomorrow I will expand on this in the Address to the Federal Assembly. These are a special kind of crime, because they undermine people’s faith in the law, justice and freedom of economic activity.
We must keep up the momentum in combating corruption, be more active in exposing those who profit at the government’s expense or use their positions or authority to enrich themselves, and respond immediately to people’s complaints about various kinds of extortion.
This year Russia will start implementing the new Road Safety Strategy, which will place increased demands on the relevant bodies of the Interior Ministry. Last year saw a drop in the number of registered road accidents, but the number of victims is still high. Overall, the number of road accidents in 2017 went down by 3.9 percent, while the number of casualties decreased by 7.9 percent, and the number of those injured – by 3.9 percent. These numbers are good enough as a trend, but the absolute numbers are still much too high. Together with your colleagues at the Healthcare Ministry, the Emergencies Ministry and other agencies, you will have to carefully analyse this situation and formulate specific proposals on how to proceed in order to keep up this positive momentum.
For the fourth year in a row, the number of road accidents caused by bus drivers has been increasing. I would ask you to more strictly assess their skills. Only professionals should be allowed to drive public transport vehicles.
It is necessary to equip the most complex federal motorways with more modern technical equipment and to deal more thoroughly with problem areas in large cities, especially by eliminating traffic jams. The main thing is that people must see real results of your efforts. Of course, this work should be carried out together with local authorities, but your role is also great.
Drug trafficking remains a serious threat to the state and society. We have just talked about this with the Minister. The number of such crimes continues to grow, though insignificantly.
It is necessary to improve the coordination of anti-drug activities by authorities at all levels and by public organisations, to strengthen cooperation with partners from the countries where the main drug flows originate, as well as through international associations such as the CSTO and the SCO.
It is vital to achieve order in migration. In recent years, the procedure for registering migrants, issuing permits and other documents to them has become much simpler. We must continue to create conditions for the effective regulation of migration flows, for a civilised resolution of all issues arising in this area, and, of course, in no case should we forget about the legitimate interests of our own citizens.
Finally, as for the experts’ proposal, the implementation of which could improve the quality of law enforcement agencies’ work in general. As you know, it has been our practice to assess the work of investigators by the number of cases submitted to court, including cases that must be terminated on non-rehabilitative grounds. These make up about a quarter of all cases, and in fact, at the investigation stage it is clear that they have no prospect for sentencing, have no judicial perspective.
Experts propose introducing changes to departmental regulations of the Interior Ministry, according to which investigators and inquiry officers will not need to send such cases to court to improve reporting. We need to discuss and consider this proposal.
In conclusion, colleagues, I would like to thank you, to thank the leadership of the Interior Ministry, the staff of the central office and regional branches for your work. We know how difficult, diverse and complex it is. I expect that you will continue to perform your tasks in the same responsible manner. I wish you success.
Thank you very much for your attention.
Minister of the Interior Vladimir Kolokoltsev
: Comrade Supreme Commander-in-Chief,
Generals, officers, colleagues,
The package of measures to counter challenges and threats to internal security carried out in 2017 allowed the Interior Ministry to keep the operational situation in the country under control.
Today we are not only summing up the results of this work but also assessing the ministry’s readiness to ensure law and order during the forthcoming elections of the President of the Russian Federation, the FIFA World Cup and other major events.
The upgrading of the legislative foundations of law enforcement activities largely helped us reach practical results.
A total of 158 federal laws, 32 presidential executive orders and directives, and 140 government acts were adopted with the participation of the Interior Ministry. The sectoral legal base was modernised. Heads of territorial authorities were given broader powers for resolving organisational and personnel issues. They no longer need to get approval of the ministry’s central office on the composition and strength of units, which made it possible to react more promptly to changes in the crime situation and enhance the efficiency of managerial decisions.
The staff of the Migration Service was increased by 2,500 employees through internal redistribution, and was reduced by 30 percent during its transfer to the Interior Ministry. This improved the quality of services to the population.
We also found the possibility to increase the strength of units in charge of countering drug trafficking by 2,000 employees,
We consolidated territorial bodies at the district level because they bear the main burden of protecting public order and countering crime. In five years, their number grew by almost 15 percent. In 2012, only half of all personal was concentrated at the grass roots level whereas last year its share exceeded 75 percent.
We paid primary attention to the formation and development of our personnel potential. The departmental system of professional training largely meets the needs of internal affairs bodies in specialists in different areas and of various qualification.
We are promoting international cooperation in this area. Last year, the Interior Ministry’s educational establishments trained 700 police officers from 64 countries, and over 1,300 are receiving a university education in Russia.
I would like to mention the positive results of our efforts to create an atmosphere of intolerance towards illegal actions in the service. Over the past five years, the number of reports of bribery attempts submitted by police officers has increased fivefold. Internal control has become more effective. As of now, over 70 percent of those who commit crimes or are guilty of professional misconduct are exposed by their colleagues, primarily internal affairs officers. As a result, the number of those who are guilty of grave professional misconduct has decreased threefold since 2012. The number of prosecuted police personnel has gone down by 10 percent over the past few years. Regrettably, we have not yet reached a turning point in the area of compliance with the law, despite all our efforts.
At the same time, I can say confidently that the overwhelming majority of our colleagues are good professionals and honest people who are ready to risk their lives to help others. Last year alone, 507 police officers received state decorations and nearly 11,000 received service awards for courage and exemplary performance.
Our other priorities include social protection and quality medical assistance.
Following the coming into force in 2011 of the Federal Law on social guarantees, over 10,500 police officers received a lump-sum payment for the purchase or construction of housing. However, this has not settled the housing problem, which has a major influence on the prestige of police service and is a major concern for the officers and their families.
We are taking measures to improve the information infrastructure of police stations based on innovative modern approaches. We use electronic information and analytical systems in our daily work. The systems have over 600,000 users, including from other bodies of state authority.
We have installed 233,000 video monitoring cameras across Russia, as well as 1,200 stations for emergency communication with the police. This helped us to expose over nine million crimes in 2017, or 40 percent more than the year before. We have solved nearly 29,000 crimes.
The provision of public services by police divisions is another important task. The Interior Ministry is doing its best to provide high-quality services to individuals, to make them feel satisfied. The chiefs of territorial divisions are mostly expected to reduce public-service provision deadlines and to create comfortable conditions at reception offices.
In 2017, a total of 2.5 million police service members maintained law and order during major public, political and sports events, primarily during the FIFA Confederations Cup, the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum and the World Festival of Youth and Students.
We took on responsible tasks during the elections to multi-level legislative and executive bodies and on the unified voting day. About 100,000 candidates running for public offices were screened using the Interior Ministry’s databases. Almost 90,000 service members maintained law and order at the polling stations. Our measures helped prevent major violations of public order.
The most important thing is the implementation of the state traffic safety policy. Relevant federal and regional programmes helped improve the situation on local roads. In the past five years, the number of road accident fatalities decreased by 32 percent, with that of injured persons falling by almost 17 percent.
We worked hard to protect the most vulnerable individuals, mostly children and pedestrians, from road accidents.
Amended legislation stipulates tougher penalties for drivers. We have teamed up with Rostransnadzor [Federal Service for Transport Supervision] to implement additional measures for boosting bus traffic safety. We monitor transport companies and the technical state of their vehicles more closely.
We consider it highly important to expose people repeatedly violating traffic regulations, aggressive drivers and those driving under the influence. Concerned citizens step in to help traffic police officers to monitor the road situation.
We are expanding the use of automatic traffic management systems for monitoring compliance with traffic regulations. Last year, nearly 80 percent of all traffic fines were issued using this technology.
The Interior Ministry unconditionally prioritises crime prevention measures. The degree of this project’s organisation, scale and efficiency have soared appreciably after the relevant Federal Law was passed in 2016.
Today, local authorities implement 4,500 regional and municipal programmes worth a total of 65.5 billion roubles. All the Russian regions and police divisions focus on crime prevention measures regarding children and teenagers from so-called high risk groups. In all, police watched over 290,000 children who had committed various offences, and a third of these young people have already mended their ways. Our measures have made it possible to improve the entire situation. Since back in 2012, the juvenile delinquency rates have decreased by almost one-third. However, the matter of protecting the rights and legal interests of teenagers remains highly important.
We are particularly alarmed by the high level of crime against minors. Unfortunately, they do not always feel safe even when they are at home. Last year alone, police officers monitored 218,000 parents who were not adequately bringing up and supporting their children. At the same time, even insignificant psychological or physical violence might induce teenagers to attempt suicide or to act brutally or aggressively. Mr. President, we intend to step up our efforts in addressing this key task, especially while implementing your Executive Order on declaring the years 2018–2027 a Decade of Childhood in the Russian Federation.
As practice shows, individual efforts guarantee the maximum efficiency of preventive measures. Neighbourhood police officers have the most important role to play in this respect. After reducing the volumes of paperwork and getting rid of any unnecessary functions, their work is becoming more specific and more result-oriented. Neighbourhood police officers are largely responsible for the reduction by 18 percent in the number of grave and very grave cases of domestic violence, including murders and deliberate assault causing GBH.
Police also keep an eye on ex-convicts. In 2017, over 100,000 ex-convicts were subject to administrative supervision. This measure made it possible to achieve certain positive results. Over the last five years, the number of crimes committed by ex-convicts has decreased by almost 19 percent.
Addition efforts have been made against illegal migration. Last year, the police exposed over 775,000 offences in this field, including over 126,000 during Operation Nelegal (Illegal). Nearly 69,000 foreign citizens have been evicted or deported. Over 190,000 have been prohibited from entering Russia. Overall, 1,200 proceedings have been initiated against the organisers of illegal migration and nearly 32,000 on fake migrant registration charges.
These measures have resulted in a dramatic reduction in the number of illegal migrants. As of now, the number of migrants who enter Russia legally is growing. More migrants receive permanent or temporary residence permits. Another major achievement is that the crime rate among migrants has decreased by 7 percent.
Our main responsibilities include investigation and criminal procedure. I would like to say that our police consider over 30 million reports and other information about crime every day. In addition, the number of public appeals pertaining to various aspects of police work is increasing. There were 3.8 million such appeals last year alone. Processing this amount of information in conditions of personnel cuts is increasing the workload on our officers. I would like to remind you that the number of our personnel has decreased by 438,000 over the past few years.
In all, the police solved over 900,000 criminal offences last year. The Interior Ministry monitored the investigations of high profile cases. Personnel from the ministry’s central office were dispatched to the regions to help the local police investigate these crimes.
We are taking measures to combat ethnic crime as per the May 2012 Presidential Executive Orders. Last year, we cut short the operation of 66 such organised crime groups and initiated criminal proceedings against more than 500 active members of these groups.
Mr President, seeking to implement your instructions, we have redoubled efforts to identify those guilty of offences against the individual, primarily violent crimes.
Overall, the murder clearance rate has increased considerably over the past five years and has reached nearly 92 percent. We solve 93.5 percent of cases of grievous bodily harm and nearly 98 percent of rape cases.
The share of solved robbery cases increased from 49 to 66 percent, and that of solved violent robbery cases rose from 67 to 79 percent. This was largely attributable to the introduction of new methods and tools for detecting traces on the scene, as well as improvements in methods for analysing physical evidence.
The network of DNA laboratories continued to expand. Only last year, these laboratories opened in five regions, reaching a total of 66.
The quality of preliminary investigative activity has improved, and the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens are now better respected during investigations. In 2017, the number of abandoned criminal cases dropped by 44 percent, while the number of people who faced unjustified detention was down by 21 percent. There were also fewer decisions to suspend investigations due to failure to identify or find the alleged perpetrator.
Even though there were some improvements, the rights of victims remain a matter of grave concern. The crime-solving rate for offences against property involving computer and telecommunications technology is still very low. In today’s world, offences of this kind cause the greatest amount of harm to people. Additional efforts are required to ensure better property protection.
Last year, police officers did a lot to find missing or wanted people. As many as 61,000 people hiding from investigative and court authorities were detained, and more than 40,000 missing people were found. Rescue and search operations, including finding children, were carried out in cooperation with the Emergencies Ministry and representatives of the volunteer movement. In this regard, I would like to say that the Interior Ministry looks forward to further engaging with volunteer organisations and is committed to assisting them in every possible way. In addition to this, almost 2,700 alleged perpetrators placed on the wanted list by foreign law enforcement agencies were detained as part of our international cooperation efforts.
A set of measures was undertaken to counter drug trafficking, and curtail drug supply and demand as part of the State Anti-Narcotics Policy Strategy.
We conducted a number of dedicated operational and preventive initiatives, including on an international level, to eliminate the production of banned substances as well as their imports.
All in all, 66 organised crime groups specialising in selling drugs were shut down. Almost 210,000 drug-related crime cases were detected, and 95 percent of them were detected by Interior Ministry workers. More than 24,000 tonnes of regulated and banned substances were confiscated.
The police are contributing to strengthening the country’s economic security. They account for 85 percent of all crimes identified by law enforcement agencies in this category.
Increasing the level of security in the Russian economy has become significantly more relevant in the context of a hostile foreign policy environment. In this context, combating the misappropriation of public funds, first and foremost, of those allocated for social sphere projects, large investment projects, import replacement and the development of small and medium-sized businesses, has become a matter of primary importance.
At the same time, we have strengthened the monitoring of funding and financing, in order to combat the illegal cash-out and transfer of funds abroad as well. We recorded over 30,000 such crimes, which resulted in total losses of over 76 billion rubles. We took measures aimed at repairing losses amounting to 35 billion rubles.
The situation with housing and utilities services remains complicated. Excessive tariffs, misappropriation of public funds and abuse of authority by management companies and homeowners associations still take place.
Together with the relevant ministries, we carried out anti-corruption activities. As a result, we recorded almost 30,000 crimes, three quarters of which were recorded by the police. The total amount of losses was estimated at 37.5 billion rubles. We took measures to repair these losses in the amount of 26.5 billion rubles. The Interior Ministry identified 13,000 individuals involved in crimes of corruption, with every twelfth individual employed in the executive or legislative branches.
In the context of the anti-corruption system formed at the governmental level, we focused on recording crimes that presented the greatest public danger. The number of recorded acts of organised crime increased: compared to 2012, the number of recorded crimes increased by 44 percent; while the number of recorded crimes committed on a large or especially large scale increased by two and a half times.
At the same time, several economy sectors still have a high level of crime. For example, the situation is difficult in the fuel and energy complex of the North Caucasus Federal District, with large energy resource embezzlement and corruption.
In addition to this, we need to promote work to prevent companies’ premeditated bankruptcy, first of all those of strategic importance for Russia’s security and those with state participation.
We must adjust ways and methods of fighting business crimes to lower administrative pressure on businesses. Of course, we must react to law infringements, but I mean that we must only conduct our duties within a legal framework. No one should doubt the legitimacy of our actions. Not only economic departments but also all those with oversight functions must comply with this demand.
Another key task is to counter extremism effectively, first of all, its organized forms. According to the Ministry’s material, last year four organisations were banned as extremist groups in accordance with established procedure. Active members of the most dangerous nationalist groups were arrested in several Russian regions.
A lot of attention was focused on preventing the spread of destructive ideology on the internet. Leaders of radical organisations are using it more often now to enlist new members, coordinate actions and organise extremist rallies. Today we monitor over 2,000 websites including popular social networks. We do not only look for prohibited content and ban it from access, but we also try to prevent it, especially from getting into the hands of young people.
We are also implementing a number of measures to prevent nationalistic and religious conflicts. There have been no high-profile crimes that could have provoked an escalation of tension in society.
Thanks to the increased efforts of the law enforcement agencies, we have managed to lower the level of extremism at the initial stage of radicalization. The number of violent actions in this area has gone down more than 2.5 times over the last three years.
The Interior Ministry has been contributing on a system-wide basis to counter-terrorism initiatives. Working together with security agencies and a unit of the National Guard, we liquidated 14 international terrorist cells and three armed gangs. We also monitored migration flows to prevent combatants from entering Russian territory. At the same time, we sought to identify persons seeking to leave for the Middle East to fight in armed conflicts.
The temporary operations group formed by Interior Ministry units and detachments made a substantial contribution to neutralising terrorist threats and promoting overall stabilisation in the North Caucasus. In 2017, the Interior Ministry, together with the Federal Security Service and the National Guard, conducted a total of 14 counter-terrorist operations and more than 16,000 operative actions.
Mr President, when you set out the state policy priorities during your 2012 election campaign, you made a special emphasis on the need to improve the safety of the population. Today, I can say with confidence that the initiatives that were taken by the Interior Ministry helped drastically reduce crime levels in Russia. Over the last five years, the overall crime rate declined, with a drop of almost 25 percent for serious and very serious crimes. There were fewer murders with the crime rate in this category down by more than 25 percent, and the number of armed robbery cases dropped by more than 50 percent. Burglaries and theft, as well as a number of other types of serious offences are also on the decline.
What people think about law enforcement is of course the main and the most objective criterion when it comes to evaluating our performance. Independent research shows that trust towards police officers is steadily increasing.
Taking this opportunity, I would like to thank the Interior Ministry personnel for their responsible and scrupulous work. I would like to thank the heads of ministries and agencies, members of the State Duma and the Federation Council, and civil society representatives for their constructive and fruitful cooperation. We are committed to further stepping up our joint efforts in countering the current security challenges and threats, and doing everything within our authority to ensure law and order in the country.
This ends my report.
Vladimir Putin: Comrades, my opening remarks and the Minister’s report focused on what has been done and the areas where we saw positive change. Of course, we need to make sure that these trends carry on.
There are problems you all know about, and they were mentioned today as well. They require special attention.
Of course, we have a very important event in terms of domestic politics ahead of us, the presidential election. Every citizen has his or her own opinion on what to do during the election campaign and how to express his or her opinion. The law and law enforcement agencies must guarantee that all legal ways of expressing one’s opinion can be used.
At the same time, those organising any kind of events must act strictly within the confines of the law. This is something both law enforcement agencies and organisers of any campaigns or initiatives should keep in mind. For this reason, I call on you to make use of all the mechanisms available to you under the current laws to ensure public order and legality in our country.
Let me thank you once again for your efforts in 2017 and wish you future success.
Thank you very much.
Topics
Fight against crime
Persons
Kolokoltsev Vladimir
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 28, 2018, 13:50
Text version