Events
Russian-Indian talks
Talks between Vladimir Putin and Prime Minister of India Narendra Modi have been held in New Delhi.
October 5, 2018
12:15
New Delhi
1 of 13
With Prime Minister of India Narendra Modi before the beginning of Russian-Indian talks.
Following a conversation held in a restricted format, delegation members joined the talks to discuss key aspects of further developing the special privileged strategic partnership between Russia and India, as well as current international and regional matters.
Following the talks, the President of Russia and the Prime Minister of India adopted the Joint Statement Russia – India: Reliable Partnership in a Changing World. In addition, Vladimir Putin and Narendra Modi attended a ceremony held to exchange documents signed during the Russian President’s official visit to India.
The signed documents are related to the consultations held by the Russian and Indian foreign ministries, joint operations in the framework of a manned space programme, cooperation in nuclear energy, joint projects in mineral fertilisers, cooperation in transport training and interaction in the economy, railway transport and small businesses.
Vladimir Putin and Narendra Modi also made statements for the press.
* * *
Beginning of Russian-Indian talks in an expanded format
Prime Minister of India Narendra Modi (retranslated): Your Excellency, once again I welcome you and your high-level delegation that accompanies you to India.
India is proud of its historical friendship with Russia. Last year, we marked the 70th anniversary of diplomatic relations between our countries. That said, relations between our civilisations and cultures date back centuries.
The special privileged partnership between India and Russia is important not only for our two countries, but for the entire multipolar world. The relations between India and Russia span culture, security and prosperity. We cooperate in a number of spheres, and I am pleased to have the opportunity to host the 19th annual summit meeting between our countries.
We had very useful talks on security, as well as other strategic matters, so now we can discuss cooperation in the economy and other spheres. Once again, I would like to extend a warm welcome to you and your delegation.
Your Excellency, I am also pleased to note that following up on our meeting in Johannesburg we will hold today the first business summit with business leaders. I think that this is a very worthy undertaking.
I am also pleased to note that India’s cumulative investment in Russia reached $18 billion by 2017, while Russia invested more than 30 billion euros in India. Indian companies shared their experience and expertise with Russian companies, and vice versa, in energy, healthcare and other areas.
Russia started LNG supplies to India, and a deal has been signed for 23 years of deliveries. This agreement creates new opportunities for the future and will benefit both countries, helping meet the demand for energy in a new India.
I would also like to note that Moscow hosted a meeting of the Intergovernmental Commission on September 14, during which delegations reviewed our cooperation and adopted a protocol, laying the foundation for creating a strategic partnership forum. Our economic development ministries will sign a memorandum of understanding today, and the first meeting of this kind is to take place in Russia this year.
We believe in the importance of this platform, since it will bring together prominent business leaders, which could help expand bilateral trade. In addition, this will also be an opportunity to explore new avenues for cooperation.
We are already running a bit late, but let me tell you that the time we spent on these talks was not wasted. We had a very meaningful conversation, so now we can have lunch, during which we can discuss matters of mutual interest for our countries.
Thank you once again for the honour to receive you and your delegation here. Thank you very much for coming to India.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister, friends, colleagues,
It is a great pleasure to be here in India with our friends. India is our good friend, and we share a special relationship with this country. We call it a special privileged strategic partnership, marked by mutual respect, trust and a constructive dialogue.
A number of joint projects are underway in industrial cooperation, space, aviation, the nuclear and oil and gas industries, and military technical cooperation.
This visit was preceded by serious preparations by our ministries, agencies and businesses, and a solid package of bilateral documents was approved. This includes the energy, nuclear and space sectors, as well as investment and banking. We will also adopt a comprehensive joint statement.
Political dialogue has been gaining momentum. In fact, this is our third meeting over the past six months, and we will meet again with you, Mr Prime Minister, at the East-Asia Summit and the Group of Twenty before the end of 2018. I would like to once again invite you to attend the Eastern Economic Forum in Vladivostok, Russia, in September 2019 as its main guest.
Our two countries play a major role on the international arena in terms of sustaining global world order. We work in close coordination within the UN, the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation, BRICS and the G20. Russia and India also work together on building a new architecture of security and equal cooperation in the Asia-Pacific Region.
We attach great importance to inter-regional and humanitarian cooperation between our countries. We have already discussed all these topics, and this conversation will continue as part of our current agenda.
Thank you very much for your invitation.
<…>
Additional
Visit to India
October 4 − 5, 2018
Geography
India
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Modi Narendra
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 5, 2018, 12:15
Text versionEvents
Press statements following Russian-Indian talks
October 5, 2018
12:20
New Delhi
9 of 14
Statements for the press following Russian-Indian talks. With Prime Minister of India Narendra Modi.
Prime Minister of India Narendra Modi (retranslated): Your Excellency, President of the Russian Federation and my dear friend Mr Putin, delegates and representatives of our countries, good afternoon.
It is a great honour and privilege for me to welcome President Putin and his delegation to India as part of the 19th annual summit meeting. We welcome the President of a country with which we share unmatched and solid ties.
In addition, the President’s personal contribution to these relations can hardly be underestimated. Everyone who was at our meeting in Sochi, and its outcomes are all still fresh in my memory. This meeting was truly special, offering both of us an opportunity to hold frank and meaningful talks.
See also
Russian-Indian talks
October 5, 2018
Mr President, India attaches special importance to our relations with Russia. Our relations still matter a great deal in this rapidly changing world. This 19th summit meeting provided a new impetus and a new direction to our special privileged strategic partnership. In addition, our meeting gave new meaning and purpose to our cooperation on the global agenda. Your visit has helped us outline the strategic path for our cooperation.
The landmark decisions that were adopted today will breathe new life into our relations that will last for a long time to come. In addition, these decisions will strengthen the pillars on which our relations rest by promoting cooperation in trade, investment, the peaceful use of nuclear energy, as well as in solar energy, technology and economic cooperation. We are set to further strengthen, develop and diversify our relations on land, at sea and in space.
In fact, we have taken our relations beyond their traditional framework. Moreover, we have consolidated the foundation for our relations. Russia has always stood hand in hand with India in its effort to develop the energy sector. We have now set a new goal in space exploration: we have a programme to send an Indian cosmonaut to space. We hope that Russia will support us in this undertaking. We have already discussed a number of innovative ideas during the afternoon session. These ideas were developed by having talented children from India and Russia work together.
India and Russia have a track record of close cooperation in a number of areas. I am delighted to have this opportunity to take part in the Russian-Indian Business Summit that will bring together some 200 business leaders from both countries.
India and Russia also cooperate closely in all areas of mutual interest. President Putin and I talked about this at length today.
India and Russia believe in strengthening the multipolar world order and multilateralism in this rapidly changing world. This meets the interests of both our countries. Together, we can fight terrorism and seek a solution to the situation in Afghanistan and climate change, as well as promote cooperation within the regional frameworks, for example, the SCO, as well as multilateral organisations such as ASEAN and the G20.
As for international organisations, we must continue our mutually beneficial cooperation and further coordinate our initiatives.
We were truly impressed by the steps undertaken by President Putin to develop Russia’s Far East. India stands ready to work with Russia to develop this region. The decisions we adopted today will enable us to step up our cooperation, making a contribution to restoring peace and stability across the world with all its challenges.
Friends,
Goodwill and positive people-to-people contacts are the driving force behind Indian-Russian relations. Today, we discussed various measures that will pave the way to further expanding people-to-people exchanges, as well as raise awareness among our people about their friends abroad. This will lay the foundation for friendly relations between Russia and India in the future.
Friends, I can say with full confidence that the friendship that Russia and India share is truly unique. I strongly believe that through President Putin’s commitment to further advancing these relations we will add new momentum to our relations in the spirit of trust and friendship between our countries. Our relations will become only stronger moving forward, elevating our special privileged strategic partnership to new heights.
Thank you.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Dear friend, Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen,
We always come to India with great pleasure and even excitement because we know that here we will find an atmosphere of very sincere friendship and business cooperation.
Our nations have enjoyed long and close relations of friendship, mutual respect and sympathy. Yesterday, during my working dinner with the Prime Minister – by the way, I am very grateful for this sign of friendship – we were able to talk face-to-face without any rush about the critical problems in the world, discuss issues of principle in the development of Russian-Indian cooperation and lay out new horizons. And today, first in a restricted format and later with the participation of our delegations, we discussed key areas of cooperation, held substantive talks on the entire range of issues related to bilateral cooperation and examined topical matters on the global and regional agenda in detail.
Following the talks, we adopted a joint statement that reflects almost all aspects of Russian-Indian cooperation and drafts large-scale and long-term plans. An impressive package of interdepartmental and corporate documents that was signed just now was specially prepared for the visit and aims at further promoting bilateral times in various spheres.
Of course, during the talks, we had a detailed discussion of trade and investment cooperation, to the expansion of which Mr Prime Minister and I both devote great attention.
Some time ago, we set the goal of increasing trade to $30 billion by 2025, and the volume of mutual investment to $15 billion. In this context, we were satisfied to note that last year mutual trade grew by 21 percent to over 9 billion, and increased by another 20 percent during the first seven months of this year. If we continue at this rate, we will not only reach the goal we have set, but we will do so earlier and move further.
Business communities in Russia and India maintain close contacts and implement large joint investment projects. An Indian delegation took part in the St Petersburg International Economic Forum and the Eastern Economic Forum in Vladivostok. I am pleased to repeat my invitation for the Prime Minister to attend the economic forum in Vladivostok as the main guest next September.
New Delhi is hosting the Russian-Indian business forum, and Mr Modi and I will address its participants and support useful business initiatives to develop cooperation in key economic and financial sectors.
Promoting cooperation in energy was a topic the Prime Minister and I focused on. We praised the implementation of the interdepartmental cooperation programme in this area, which is strategic for our countries.
Russia is a reliable supplier of hydrocarbons to India. Rosneft and Gazprom have long-term contracts to provide Indian economy with fuel, which are being successfully implemented. India imports Russian liquefied natural gas from the Sakhalin 1 field, where our Indian partners own 20 percent. This June the first LNG delivery was made to the Indian market as part of the contract between Gazprom and India’s Gail.
In turn, we welcome Indian energy companies’ interest in expanding their operations in Russia. We are ready to examine the opportunity to cooperate in the framework of such programmes as Far Eastern LNG, Arctic LNG and other projects aimed at exploring the natural resources of Siberia, Yamal and the Russian continental shelf.
We had a detailed discussion on the Kudankulam Nuclear Power Plant, a flagship project in the peaceful use of the atom. The first two units are gradually reaching their full capacity, and the third and fourth units are under construction. They are soon to be followed by the fifth and the sixth.
According to our agreements, it is planned to build 12 nuclear power plant units in India over 20 years using advanced Russian technologies.
We discussed matters of deepening industrial and investment cooperation, specifically in machine-building, metals, agriculture, medicine, pharmaceuticals and bio-chemical technology. We believe there are good prospects for cooperation on major infrastructure projects. In particular, Russian Railways is ready to join the project to build modern railways in India.
The participants agreed that Russia would help Indian partners in space exploration. Roscosmos is planning to take part in elaborating the Indian national programme to launch a manned spaceship.
Naturally, we discussed in detail the prospects for military-technical cooperation (MTC). Russia and India have cooperated successfully in this area for many decades. Our countries have developed genuinely close and mutually beneficial relations that are part and parcel of the Russian-Indian strategic partnership.
MTC cooperation is not limited to Russian arms’ supplies. Our countries have organised the joint development and production of modern military products. Our defence ministries and general staffs maintain regular contacts and work to enhance the combat readiness of our armed forces. In August, Indian units were involved for the first time in the Peace Mission 2018 counter-terrorist exercises on Russian territory. Indian service members take an active part in the International Army Games, the tank biathlon and competitions of the alpine special troops.
By tradition, the talks focused on humanitarian cooperation. Russia and India have always been interested in each other’s culture and spiritual heritage. This is confirmed by the great success of the Indian Festival in Russia, which will last until March 22 and will span 22 cities. India will host a festival of Russian culture. I am sure these events will bring our nations even closer together.
Nearly 10,000 Indian students are studying in Russia. Every year Indian citizens receive about 100 scholarships. India is a popular destination for Russian tourists. About 220,000 Russians visited India in 2017 and we received 94,000 Indians in Russia.
Discussing international issues, we reaffirmed that Russia and India have identical or similar positions on key global problems. In this context, we agreed to enhance our cooperation at international venues, in particular, the UN, BRICS, the SCO and the G20.
We will be also closely working to enhance security and cooperation in Asia and countering together such modern challenges and threats as international terrorism, drug trafficking and cross-border crime. In this context, we discussed the economic recovery and stable political development of Afghanistan, and exchanged views on the situation in the Middle East. I told the Prime Minister about the developments in Syria. We also discussed the situation that was triggered by the US unilateral withdrawal from the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action on the Iranian nuclear programme.
In conclusion, I would like to thank the Prime Minister and all our Indian friends and colleagues for meaningful and constructive talks. I am convinced that their results will facilitate the further development of the Russian-Indian strategic partnership and consolidation of friendship between our nations.
As I have already said, Mr Prime Minster and I will meet with representatives of the business community and talented Indian children and their peers from the Russian educational centre Sirius, who are visiting India at the invitation of Mr Modi. I will also meet with the President of the Republic of India.
The Prime Minister suggested several other humanitarian initiatives: resuming the publication of Russian and Indian books and establishing new areas of humanitarian cooperation. I consider this very important. Naturally, we will support this because humanitarian cooperation and direct human contacts are bound to promote friendship between the peoples of India and the Russian Federation.
Thank you for your attention.
Additional
Visit to India
October 4 − 5, 2018
Geography
India
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Modi Narendra
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 5, 2018, 12:20
Text versionEvents
Russian-Indian Business Forum
During his official visit to India, Vladimir Putin, along with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, attended the closing ceremony of the Russian-Indian Business Forum.
October 5, 2018
14:00
New Delhi
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Modi, friends,
I am happy to welcome the leading entrepreneurs of Russia and India. More than 100 heads of major companies from our countries are present in this room. This emphasises the seriousness of the business community’s intention to build up Russian-Indian cooperation in trade and investment.
We listened with great interest to reports about the discussions that were held during the forum. Some practical issues of business interaction were discussed, and the last speaker was referring to specific things: a number of important commercial agreements were signed and new projects and initiatives were coordinated.
My dear friend, the Prime Minister, and I prioritise the development of trade and investment ties between Russia and India. This topic has traditionally been central to our talks and of course, this was also the case yesterday evening and earlier today.
I agree with the Prime Minister that lasting, elaborate economic cooperation and economic contacts are a reliable basis for intensifying the relations of special privileged strategic partnership between our two countries.
We noted with satisfaction the steady growth of bilateral trade. In 2017, it increased by 21 percent, or $9.3 billion, and was up by another 20 percent, this time $6 billion, in January-July. At this rate, it will get to $10 billion and above. The growth rates are not bad.
Meanwhile, the impressive technological, resource and human potential of our countries makes it possible to strive for even greater volumes of trade and investment. We have a target of increasing bilateral trade to $30 billion and mutual investment to $15 billion in each country by 2025.
6 of 10
Vladimir Putin took part in the Russian-Indian Business Forum.
I think we should strive for more. However, to get there we will need Russian and Indian businesses to join efforts. Without that, ladies and gentlemen, without improving industrial cooperation, or creating new technological and investment alliances primarily in advanced and high-tech industries, we will not be able to achieve that goal.
All these issues were reviewed in detail today during separate forum panels and roundtable discussions, where participants outlined new prospects for diversifying and expanding mutual trade and making effective investments in key sectors such as energy, digital economy and infrastructure. We have just discussed this here and now, and you went over this during your panel discussions.
I believe that all useful business initiatives will get support from Russian and Indian ministries and departments. The companies of the two countries will be actively involved in national industrial development programmes and major infrastructure projects.
We agreed that the governments of Russia and India will continue to work together to remove the remaining customs and administrative barriers to mutual flows of goods and capital. As far as I am aware, this topic was discussed today at the ministerial level, and work is underway in five areas. I hope it will be completed successfully with the help of an agreement on a free trade area between the Eurasian Economic Union and India that is currently being developed.
Energy has traditionally been the key sphere of economic cooperation between Russia and India. The Forum hosted a special roundtable discussion on this topic as well. Our country has been and will continue to be a reliable supplier of energy for the Indian economy. Joint projects in the area of liquefied natural gas deliveries are acquiring a strategic nature.
Gazprom and India’s Gail are promoting mutually beneficial cooperation in this sphere. The first shipment of liquefied natural gas was delivered to India in June. The Indian state-run company ONGC is involved in the project to produce and liquefy gas at the Sakhalin-1 field; it has also joined geological exploration on Russia’s Arctic shelf, and has spent years working in the Vankorsky oil and gas condensate field.
Rosneft has been successful in implementing its long-term contracts. Last year, the Russian company bought India’s Essar Oil refining corporation. This is the biggest foreign investment in the Indian economy, $12.6 billion.
As I have already said, the Prime Minister and I discussed this earlier today; we welcome our Indian partners to join the work in the Arctic as well. This is a very promising, long-term and very serious project that looks decades ahead, one with good investment and good return. As the climate continues to change – in some places, this is good, and elsewhere perhaps not so good – the Northern Sea Route offers growing opportunities. We are building a nuclear-powered fleet, eight nuclear-powered ships, which will be steadily put into operation. This work is in progress. This will ensure reliable LNG supplies to the Indian and world markets. So this could be, will certainly be very interesting joint work.
Russia is helping India to develop its nuclear power industry. It is well known that Rosatom is building the Kudankulam nuclear power plant. An opportunity is being considered to build yet another nuclear power plant based on Russian technologies.
We consider the development of transport infrastructure a promising area of Russian-Indian cooperation. Russian experts are working on a project to upgrade over 500 km of Indian railways. We are interested in stepping up systematic work on the building of the North-South corridor – this route will considerably reduce the time for the delivery of cargoes from India to Europe.
There are also other very interesting and promising high-tech areas where we can cooperate: aviation, space and a number of other spheres, such as medicine and pharmaceuticals.
Speaking to this representative audience, I would like to lay special emphasis on our interest in the expansion of Indian business in Russia. We are trying to create the most comfortable environment for attracting technology and investment. Investors are granted significant incentives; administrative regulations are simplified and modern infrastructure is being developed.
Russia has a powerful trade and industrial potential. Our economy has shown its ability to cope with the most complicated and acute challenges. We are setting forth new ambitious tasks to achieve a breakthrough in development and long-term growth and modernisation of industry, infrastructure, and the social sphere.
Russia’s macro-economic performance is demonstrating positive dynamics, which has certainly been one of our achievements over the past few years. We have ensured the stability of government finances, the country’s gold and currency reserves are increasing and we currently have a federal budget surplus.
Let me add that the situation in the labour market is also improving and this is creating favourable conditions for work. Unemployment stands at 4.7 percent and the growth of real salaries is 8.7 percent (the highest figure since 2012).
We hope Indian business circles will make full use of the opportunities that are opening up in the Russian market. In turn, we support Russian companies in their aspiration to work more actively in India. We know of the Prime Minister’s plans under the Make in India programme and will of course do everything to support their implementation. We spoke about this today as regards different industries, including military-technical cooperation. I am certain that such close cooperation between our business communities and the further deepening of bilateral trade and investment ties meets the vital interests of our countries.
I would like to wish you success and thank you for your attention. Thank you.
Additional
Visit to India
October 4 − 5, 2018
Geography
India
Topics
Economy and finance
Foreign policy
Persons
Modi Narendra
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 5, 2018, 14:00
Text version