Events
Press conference on Russian-Hungarian talks
Following the Russian-Hungarian talks, Vladimir Putin and Viktor Orban made statements for the press and answered media questions.
September 18, 2018
16:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen,
Today we had very substantive and constructive talks as part of the Prime Minister’s working visit. We discussed topical issues on the bilateral and international agendas and outlined long-term cooperation plans.
I would like to stress that Hungary is Russia’s important and reliable partner in Europe. We are interested in further expanding Russian-Hungarian relations in all areas.
This primarily concerns developing mutually beneficial trade and economic links. Last year, bilateral trade increased by 25 percent to exceed $5 billion.
Over January to July of this year, trade indicators continued to grow, also at a high rate of 30 percent. The total amount of mutual capital investment reached $1 billion.
We are conducting large investment projects, expanding cooperation in industrial production, the financial sector and high technology.
See also
Russian-Hungarian talks
September 18, 2018
I would like to note that Russian companies have upgraded trains for the Budapest Metro and, in cooperation with Hungarian companies, plan to supply railway cars to third markets. I am talking about quite significant contracts.
At the same time, a wide range of medical products are produced in Russia under a Hungarian brand, including innovative medicines.
Established with Hungarian capital, OTP Bank is a major financial and lending institution in Russia. It has more than 200 offices that serve almost four million customers.
Energy is an important area of bilateral cooperation. Russia provides Hungary with over 75 percent of its oil and 60 percent of its gas. Russian natural gas goes to Europe through Hungary. Underground storage tanks on Hungarian territory make it possible to reliably supply European customers without fail even during peak demand.
Opportunities for including our Hungarian partners in new routes of Russian gas transit to Europe are being considered. I do not rule out that after the Turkish Stream is built, one of the land branches of this gas main could pass through Hungary.
Hungarian corporations take part in the exploration of hydrocarbon resources on Russian territory. For instance, MOL – we talked about this with the Prime Minister – is developing an oil field in Orenburg Region, producing up to 500,000 tonnes of oil a year.
There are good opportunities for Russian-Hungarian cooperation in the nuclear power industry. Rosatom will soon start building two new units at the Paks nuclear power plant.
4 of 4
Press conference following the Russian-Hungarian talks. With Prime Minister of Hungary Viktor Orban.
Incidentally, this power plant generates 40 percent of Hungary’s electricity. This is a serious figure. Building additional capacity will double the electricity output and meet the requirements of the Hungarian economy for years to come.
We maintain strong ties between local regions. At our initiative with Mr Orban, an intergovernmental commission on regional cooperation is being established. It will hold its first meeting before the end of the year.
We continue developing our humanitarian relations. In September, we endorsed a bilateral programme of cooperation in culture for 2018–2020. We are working on an intergovernmental agreement on the reciprocal recognition of education, qualifications and scientific degrees. 
When discussing international issues we spoke about Russian-EU cooperation. Of course, we exchanged views on the situation in Ukraine.
We told Mr Orban about the latest developments in the Syrian settlement, emphasizing the importance of Syria’s socio-economic recovery.
In general, the talks were held in a businesslike and constructive atmosphere and were very useful. I would like to thank the Prime Minister and all of our Hungarian colleagues for our work today.
Thank you for your attention.
Prime Minister of Hungary Viktor Orban
(retranslated): Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President.
This is our first official meeting since the election in Russia, so I personally, and on behalf of Hungary, would like to convey our best wishes to the President of the Russian Federation. We wish him success in his work for the benefit of Russia and the Russian people.
In recent years, we have become reliable partners for each other. I would like to thank Mr President for making this point as well.
I can tell you that all of the agreements that we have concluded in recent years have been implemented.
Reliability is a very important currency in modern world politics, therefore we highly appreciate our relations with Russia. And although we belong to different military alliances, we are interested in maximising our joint success.
Hungary has multiple interests. We have learned lessons from history over the past 100 years. When there was tension between Western and Eastern Europe, things were always bad for the Hungarians. And when the West and the East cooperated, things were good for Hungary. So Hungary is interested in the best possible cooperation between these two parts of the world.
Mr President mentioned the main issues we discussed during today's talks, but I would like to add that there is one peculiar area of our cooperation as both our countries belong to a Christian culture.
We attach great importance to preserving and strengthening the Christian culture in the modern world, and to that end, we do what we can; we try to support Christians who are in danger.
On behalf of Hungary, I can say that Hungarians have always appreciated the cultural achievements of other nations. We are certainly proud of our own achievements, but Russia enjoys enormous prestige in our country in that regard.
That is why I am thankful to Mr President for bolstering our contacts in the area of cultural ties. The fact that an operetta was shown on the stage of the Bolshoi Theatre a few days ago and that audiences could see the work of Imre Kalman is an honour for Hungary, for which we are very grateful to you.
As for economic cooperation in agriculture, energy, and pharmacology – things are going well. We would like to extend it to other areas, to establish cooperation in cancer research – to conduct joint research and training. There are wonderful opportunities opening up for this.
As for energy issues, we have reached an agreement on gas supplies for 2020 as well. As Mr President said, it is no secret that Hungary wants the gas pipeline that is going to be built from the south towards Hungary to further cross the country. That would open excellent opportunities for Hungary. I asked Mr President to seriously consider this possibility. Investment into Paks is doing well – we made the necessary adjustments when we had to.
I consider financial cooperation very important. Mr President has already mentioned OTP bank. I would like to add that the Hungarian bank employs 5,000 people in Russia.
We will take one more step because I have asked Mr President to expand our financial cooperation.
Press conference following the Russian-Hungarian talks.
Being the third largest shareholder in the International Investment Bank, Hungary is ready to house the headquarters, to move it to Budapest. I ask Mr President to convey to the bank management that they should consider this.
I would like to inform the Hungarians that I suggested to Mr President that we launch a new flight between Budapest and Kazan.
Mutual recognition of diplomas of academic degrees is an important issue. This means that we are not only establishing cooperation for the moment, but investing in the younger generation and planning to maintain long-term, respectful and reliable cooperation between our countries, which will benefit Hungary and eventually Europe.
Thank you for your attention.
Question: Good afternoon. I would like to ask President Putin: what do you think about the immigration crisis in Europe? Do you think the number of immigrants will remain the same or continue to grow? Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: You know, it is not easy for me to comment on issues that do not affect us directly.
We have our own issues, our own problems concerning foreigners in the Russian Federation. To a certain extent, this issue is no easier for us than for Europe, but we have no borders with the immigrants’ countries of origin. But our problems have their own challenges even though, as a rule, these are people from former Soviet republics – meaning that often, they can speak Russian, understand the basics of our culture and more easily adapt to Russia. But this is still not a simple process and there are some issues, including in the labor market.
Regarding Europe, the situation is more complicated in this respect, I think. People with completely different cultural traditions are coming to the European countries. Adaptation is a very difficult process. These are problems that must be solved within the European Union, not in Russia.
Based on the current circumstances, the inflow of immigrants is not likely to decrease. First, there were immigrants from Syria, Iraq and other Middle East countries. Now there are also newcomers from ‘black’ Africa. This number is constantly growing, the situation changes only geographically and then the inflow increases again.
Overall, it is clear that immigration to Europe is potentially massive, and it is all about politics. If immigration is encouraged with high benefits and other support, why would the inflow stop? I do not quite understand that. But, again, our European colleagues need to decide themselves what is better for Europe and its development.
Press conference following the Russian-Hungarian talks. With Prime Minister of Hungary Viktor Orban.
Question: Mr Orban, a question for you. The Paks nuclear power plant – a major bilateral project – has been mentioned here, with 2020 as the completion date. Given the pressure from the EU, the sanctions, will this deadline be moved?
Mr President, I cannot help mentioning today's Il-20 tragedy. Will this complicate our relations with Israel? One cannot help recalling the recent incident with Turkey. What kind of response measures can be expected from Russia? Thank you.
Viktor Orban: There is a lot of talk about the Paks investment project, and this is understandable, although for us, Hungarians, it is mostly important insofar as even now, Paks produces 35–40 percent of the electricity.
Our long-term plans rely on nuclear energy, which should cover our country’s needs in the long run, along with solar energy. However, the recent interest in it is warranted by something else – by the fact that we are building it with Russia.
When we signed this agreement, Hungary had been a member of the European Union for many years. And we were talking about a project we were going to start from scratch, a project that an EU member – Hungary – intended to develop with Russia.
Nobody has done this before. Older projects like the first Paks units were built much earlier, and they are still operational. But starting a whole new project when we are NATO members and Russia is not, when we are EU members and Russia is not, is different. However, we have good technological cooperation because we developed the first units together, and we say that we can do this with Russia.
That was a bold decision, I should say, not only from the energy perspective, but also in terms of cooperation between East and West.
The project certainly raises a variety of technical issues – licenses, permits, regulations, and EU bureaucratic practices, that is, there are a variety of difficulties. There will be more. We will try to keep to the schedule, but this is secondary.
I believe that this project, which is a flagship of cooperation between East and West, must be carried out to the end. We will do it. This will be our common success and will not only benefit Hungarian-Russian relations, but will also modernise the energy infrastructure of the European Union. This is why there is so much interest, and this is why there are so many opponents and so many supporters.
Vladimir Putin: I would like to join the Prime Minister in this respect. This is really a natural choice because part of this power plant was built with Russian technology and it is operational. Specialists understand it, and for them it is natural to continue cooperating with us.
True, I would like to note that this is not the only example of cooperation with an EU country in nuclear energy. We are carrying out a similar project with Finland. Therefore, we continue to cooperate with the EU although competition there is high.
Now I would like to say a few words about the tragedy you mentioned. When people die, especially in such unfortunate circumstances, it is always a tragedy, a tragedy for all of us, for the nation and for the families of our people who lost their lives.
Press conference following the Russian-Hungarian talks.
First of all, I would like to express condolences to the families of the dead.
As for your comparison with the downing of our plane by a Turkish fighter, this was a different situation. The Turkish fighter deliberately shot down our aircraft.
In this case, it is more a chain of tragic circumstances because an Israeli fighter did not down our aircraft. It goes without saying that we must get to the bottom of this. Our attitude towards this tragedy is set forth in a statement by our Defence Ministry, and has been fully coordinated with me.
As for reciprocal action, this will be primarily aimed at ensuring additional security for our military and our facilities in the Syrian Arab Republic. These steps will be seen by everyone.
Geography
Hungary
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Orban Viktor
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 18, 2018, 16:00
Text versionEvents
Moscow Mayor’s inauguration
Vladimir Putin attended the inauguration of Sergei Sobyanin as the Mayor of Moscow. The inauguration ceremony took place at Moscow’s Zaryadye Concert Hall.
September 18, 2018
13:15
Moscow
7 of 9
Inauguration ceremony for Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin.
Mayor-elect Sergei Sobyanin
took the oath of office and was officially sworn in as the city’s mayor. Valentin Gorbunov, Chairman of the Moscow Election Committee, presented Sergei Sobyanin with the certificate and badge of the Moscow Mayor.
The inauguration ceremony was attended by Patriarch Kirill of Moscow and All Russia
, representatives of different faiths, veteran and public associations, cultural and art workers, Sergei Sobyanin’s election campaign team members, governors of several Russian regions, members of the Moscow City Government, members of parliament and representatives of the business community.
Sergei Sobyanin won 70.17 percent of the votes in the Moscow mayoral election on September 9, which was his second victory in a direct vote. His mayoral term is five years.
* * *
Speech at the inauguration ceremony for Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends, Mr Sobyanin,
Congratulations on your inauguration as the Mayor of Moscow. Moscow residents showed you their support, their trust and highly assessed your ability to work with great dedication, to fulfil promises and keep your word.
Five years ago, you presented a large-scale programme for Moscow’s development. The bar was set very high and you proved that you could solve even the most complicated tasks and bring about positive change.
The city’s appearance and atmosphere have been transformed. There are now new opportunities for Muscovites’ leisure, sports and convenient facilities for the most popular services.
The Moscow Metro is growing at an unprecedented rate. Many if not most Moscow schools provide quality education.
Moscow with its fast pace of life has become, without doubt, more hospitable and comfortable. All this is important for both the locals and visitors.
There have been many achievements but, as you have just said, there is even more to achieve.
Russia must make a breakthrough in the economy, technology and social sphere. The main goal of these transformations is to improve the quality of life for our citizens. These changes will take place in all regions. Of course, the capital’s contribution to resolving national tasks will always be very high.
Historically and objectively, Moscow is a special city. It has amassed an enormous potential in science, education and business, which allows it to successfully compete with the world’s leading cities.
Moscow must strengthen its positions in education and improve healthcare in accordance with international standards, so that it works in the interests of all Russians.
Another major task you have set is the resettlement programme, which will provide a million Muscovites with new housing and, at the same time, will help create the standards for improving living conditions for those who live in five-storey buildings in other regions.
Of course, this is a large, important and very sensitive project for many people. This is why you must always, and first and foremost proceed from the interests of the people.
You must ensure an effective implementation of large transport projects together with the Ministry of Transport, Russian Railways and the Moscow Region Government. I am referring to the Moscow Metro, the central diameters, the Central Ring Road and the rebuilding of the outbound routes.
I am speaking about a significant improvement in the infrastructure and logistics in the Moscow agglomeration, and also in the entire centre of Russia. Of course, the Russian Government must support these crucial projects.
In addition, I ask you to continue to focus on social support for Muscovites of various ages.
Mr Sobyanin,
We have been working together for many years. In all areas you have shown your best qualities: reliability, persistence and openness to everything new. I am sure that you will continue to work as effectively as before for the prosperity of Moscow and all of Russia and its people.
I wish success to you and your team.
Thank you very much.
Geography
Moscow
Topics
Civil service
Regions
Persons
Sobyanin Sergei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 18, 2018, 13:15
Text versionEvents
Russian-Hungarian talks
In the Kremlin, Vladimir Putin met with Prime Minister of Hungary Viktor Orban, who is in Russia on a working visit.
September 18, 2018
15:45
The Kremlin, Moscow
The agenda of the talks included key issues related to the further development of Russian-Hungarian cooperation and a number of topical regional and international matters, in particular, the developments in Ukraine and Syria.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Prime Minister, colleagues, friends,
It is a pleasure to welcome you to Moscow.
See also
Press conference on Russian-Hungarian talks
September 18, 2018
Of course, Hungary is one of our key partners in Europe. Relations are developing in almost all areas: the Intergovernmental Commission is working actively and regional and interregional relations are progressing.
Trade also shows positive dynamics, with a 25 percent growth last year and a further 30 percent in the first six months of this year.
We have about $1 billion of mutual investments and good, highly promising and ambitious projects that are being implemented.
I am very happy to see you. Of course, we have a lot to discuss.
Prime Minister of Hungary Viktor Orban
(retranslated): Mr President,
I would like to thank you for this opportunity to be here. I am glad that this year we are having another bilateral meeting.
Our meetings are of utmost importance for Hungarian politics because what we have is an important partnership. Hungary needs good partners. I am glad that over a period of several years we have had balanced and predictable relations.
I cannot say that there has always been a favourable climate for our cooperation, I mean the international climate. But all these unpleasant things exist for us to fight together. I think we are doing a good job.
Despite the fact that our trade has decreased due to EU sanctions, we have managed to reverse this trend in our favour.
I have arrived here today with the intention of thanking you for all the work that we have done together over the past few years because we must, naturally, change the situation when it comes to trade, as well as taking care of bilateral development in the energy sector, agriculture, culture and other spheres.
I would like to thank you on behalf of our country for being such a good partner.
<…>
Geography
Hungary
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Orban Viktor
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 18, 2018, 15:45
Text versionEvents
Meeting with First Vice Premier of the State Council of China Han Zheng
Vladimir Putin met with First Vice Premier of the State Council of China Han Zheng.
September 18, 2018
17:20
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 4
With First Vice Premier of the State Council of China Han Zheng.
Taking part in the meeting on the Russian side were First Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Anton Siluanov, Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Kozak, Chairman of the Russian part of the Russian-Chinese Commission on Energy Cooperation, Presidential Aide Yury Ushakov and Rosneft CEO Igor Sechin.
***
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Han Zheng, colleagues, friends,
Welcome to the Kremlin.
This meeting is taking place soon after my thorough conversation with our great friend, President of China Xi Jinping, in Vladivostok. We had an opportunity to discuss almost all aspects of bilateral relations between Russia and China.
I know that you also have a busy schedule in Russia. You have already met with the First Deputy Prime Minister of the Russian Government and the Finance Minister.
President Xi Jinping and I spoke about the prospects of developing our trade and economic ties at great length. We talked about successful projects in the energy and industrial sectors.
This experience allows us to cross new thresholds and set more ambitious and important goals. I hope we will continue to do so.
Welcome again. I am very happy that we maintain such an intensive dialogue at the working level and at all levels.
This visit will, undoubtedly, contribute to fulfilling the plans that we discussed with the Chinese President. This is how the landscape of our cooperation is built step by step, always in development, always in motion. I am certain new achievements and more success await us in the future.
We are glad to see you. I would be happy to hear your opinion and the opinions of your colleagues on whether we should adjust certain aspects of our cooperation after mutual consultations and on what matters we should focus.
First Vice Premier of the State Council of China Han Zheng (retranslated): President Putin, thank you for finding time to meet with us.
You are a dear friend of President Xi Jinping and the people of China. First of all, I would like to convey sincere greetings and best regards from President Xi Jinping.
This time I came to Russia to implement the agreements between you and President Xi Jinping in accordance with your successful meeting in Vladivostok.
After the Eastern Economic Forum, President Xi Jinping instructed me to implement the agreements you reached. In accordance with these instructions, all our ministries and agencies work in different areas related to cooperation with Russia. We will also promote our joint projects. This is why I came to Russia.
Yesterday my Russian colleagues – Mr Siluanov and Mr Kozak and I discussed energy and investment. Together we held the 15th meeting of the Intergovernmental Commission on Energy Cooperation and the fifth meeting of the Intergovernmental Commission on Investment Cooperation.
I also had a meeting with Mr Miller and Mr Sechin. We were given a warm welcome by our Russian friends.
I must carry out the instructions of our heads of state, and we had successful meetings of two intergovernmental commissions and signed the minutes of these meeting. When I return, I will report the results to President Xi Jinping personally.
In the future, we are ready to discuss how we can implement the agreements between you and President Xi Jinping. I would also like to hear your valuable opinion.
 <…>
Geography
People's Republic of China
Topics
Energy
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 18, 2018, 17:20
Text version