Events
Visit to Uralvagonzavod Corporation
Vladimir Putin visited Research and Production Corporation Uralvagonzavod, where he was shown around a rolling stock production line and talked with the plant’s personnel.
March 6, 2018
14:45
Nizhny Tagil
5 of 6
With workers of Research and Production Corporation Uralvagonzavod.
Research and Production Corporation Uralvagonzavod is Russia’s only producer of tanks and one of the largest producers of rolling stock. It comprises research institutes, design bureaus and production facilities.
One of the company’s top priorities is advanced training of its personnel. Last year alone, over 18,000 people attended advanced training courses in their trades.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon,
What beautiful equipment you are making here: trams, tank-cars, and train cars. Everything looks modern and beautiful. I wonder, could this cistern be used to both carry sunflower oil and LNG?
Remark: It is an all-purpose tank.
Vladimir Putin: Great.
Remark: In 2012, all of Uralvagonzavod supported you.
Vladimir Putin: I am aware of that.
Remark: Do you see how much we have changed over the past six years? We now have steady jobs and wages.
Alexander Golovin: We have always supported you and will continue to do so.
Remark: It is about the future of our children.
Alexander Golovin: Mr President, we can see that we have made the right choice.
Vladimir Putin: I did my best not to let you down.
Konstantin Zakharov: Mr President, may I use this opportunity to commend you on behalf of all mentors for the decision to establish the badge For Mentoring. We, at Uralvagonzavod, have rich traditions of working with staff, primarily youth.
We do a lot of career guidance. Recently, we have run into a challenge. Since federal universities are being merged, the network of branch campuses has shrunk dramatically as well, and last year 80 percent of our school graduates were forced to leave for regional centres in order to pursue their studies.
Firstly, it is expensive to pay for education there. Secondly, after four to five years spent in a regional centre, the young people are unlikely to come back. So, this is becoming an issue for us.
We would like to ask you to keep the branch system in place for industrial centres, because we believe that education will be more affordable for our young specialists in that case.
Vladimir Putin: You see, the problem is that in the period from 1991 to approximately 2010, the number of universities and branches in our country has doubled. A significant portion of them, I have to admit, have become diploma stamping factories rather than higher education institutions. This is particularly true of so-called paid education options, when they began to stamp diplomas in exchange for money.
What we need is professionals rather than diplomas. That is why this decision was taken. Branches were a real problem, the branch network was way too extensive.
The number of higher schools decreased by 30 percent (32, I think, to be exact), and the number of branches was cut by over 60 percent. We did it because we had to shut down the operations that turned out nothing but papers.
As far as I know, branches still remain in Tagil. I believe there are five operational university branches. This is my first point.
Second, when a decision is made to close a branch, this decision is made by the university itself. The regional authorities are also involved. Since the governor is here, I will talk with him and make sure things were done properly.
Perhaps, in places like Tagil, which needs properly trained staff, especially engineers, we should improve training quality rather than close branches.
Third, of course, you say that graduates are not returning. But if the conditions are good, they will come back, including to your enterprise. Wages should increase, housing issues should be resolved, and so on.
And, finally, it can be done purposefully in partnership with other major enterprises and reputable universities. If something has closed, it can be recreated and restored. We will look into it. Good. I understand, no one wants to let their child leave the nest.
Maria Romazanova: Mr President, I am an employee of the healthcare unit, Maria Romazanova. In your remarks, you rightly spoke about the bad environmental situation. Water quality is also an urgent problem. Regrettably, we have to buy water because the water in our flats is unfit for human consumption. The city cannot cope with this problem. Can you help us?
Vladimir Putin: I have just talked to the Governor. First, this year we will launch a water project with foreign partners. I asked, “When exactly do you want to start it?” and the reply was “We will start it this year”. I am not sure but I think the total funding is 23 billion. Therefore, work on this problem will start this year.
As for the environment, a good step forward had been made in this respect. Evrazholding put into service one of the latest models of furnaces worth $200 million. They built it in a little over a year. It will reduce emissions The same will be done at other facilities. We will remain focused on this by all means. This will have to be done because of the law that will enter in force for 300 enterprises on January 1, 2019. They will have to transition to the so-called most affordable technologies that will reduce all sorts of emissions. In 18 to 24 months all enterprises in the country will have to shift to this technology.
You know, I have already spoken about this. We faced many delays due to different economic difficulties. Entrepreneurs complained that it was difficult, as it was, and if they had to introduce new technology, they would have to cut jobs. We will not delay this anymore, everyone knows this. This process will be launched and it seems to me – no, I am certain – the desired outcome will be achieved.
Maria Romazanova: Thank you. We will stay hopeful.
Oleg Belousov: Mr President, let me ask you one more question, athlete to athlete.
Vladimir Putin: I can see you are an athlete.
Oleg Belousov: Thank you.
Mr President, after your visit last time and with your help…
Vladimir Putin: Have you built it?
Oleg Belousov: Yes, we have built a fitness complex. This is a big deal for our city and our children. Our region is very athletic. We have many sports facilities and a lot of the burden on them was redistributed. Our children do not have to wake up now at 7 am for hockey practice. People here are fond of hockey. Now they go to the fitness centre.
In the Dzerzhinsky District of Nizhny Tagil we have a very strong track and field school. Many coaches and guys who do track and field. But since we do not have a special facility, an indoor track and field arena, both our children and we, adult athletes have to train there only in summer, when it is warm. We have a request…
Vladimir Putin: You need an indoor track and field arena.
Oleg Belousov: A track and field arena for our children to do sports. They like sport and want to practice, although our parents are very busy. We are all young parents.
Vladimir Putin: Agreed.
Oleg Belousov: We hope so. Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: I will talk to the Governor, your bosses and the region.
Oleg Belousov: I think there are opportunities for this.
Vladimir Putin: We will do this.
Oleg Belousov: Thank you very much.
Nikolai Bogdanov: We would like to wish you success and an excellent showing in the election on behalf of thousands of our employees and say that Uralvagonzavod is always with you and for you, and we are ready to support you. Thank you very much for your support.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Geography
Sverdlovsk Region
Topics
Armed Forces
Industry
Regions
Transport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 6, 2018, 14:45
Text versionEvents
Meeting on developing secondary vocational education
Vladimir Putin chaired a meeting on developing the secondary vocational education system in Yekaterinburg.
March 6, 2018
17:45
Yekaterinburg
2 of 4
Meeting on developing secondary vocational education.
Earlier in the day, the President took part in the Russian Working Youth Forum underway at Uralvagonzavod premises in Nizhny Tagil.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
We are now in one of Russia’s major industrial centres – in Yekaterinburg in the Urals. The issue we are discussing today –the development of the secondary vocational education system – is especially relevant for this region, as well as for the entire national economy. I believe that this issue, alongside upgrading the national education system and adopting advanced approaches to training workers and engineers, is among the key and basic factors of Russia’s technological and economic breakthrough, for improving the people’s quality of life and real incomes.
As historical experience shows, climbing to new heights and achieving grand and ambitious goals have always been ensured by serious changes in vocational training. That is how it was at the time of the Peter the Great’s reforms – I only just recalled this here in Nizhny Tagil – and during the period of rapid industrial growth in Russia at the end of the 19th century, and later during the Soviet period, in the course of industrialisation and other large-scale development projects.
I would like to point out that the results achieved in recent years in the national economy, in both civilian and military industries, are also based on strong personnel potential. We have consistently engaged in consolidating it, and invested considerable resources in this. Thus, over the past 17 years, government investment in improving the secondary vocational education system has nearly doubled in real terms, or grew nine-fold in nominal terms.
Dual education that integrates training and practice has also taken a big step forward together with enterprises. Businesses are bringing colleges and vocational schools in their fold more often, and actively participating in skills competitions for working professions based on WorldSkills standards.
Our country joined this movement in 2012, and last year the young Russian professionals had the highest team score at the world championship and were successful in IT professions. The Russian team has 58 international level specialists; our economy, which means each and every one of us, needs hundreds of thousands people skilled in their trades.
With our expertise and methodology, it is important that our personnel training system be made to meet or exceed the highest international standards and take into account global technological changes.
New technology and professions are emerging. The very meaning of a blue-collar profession itself has changed and will continue changing: today it essentially means someone with engineering skills at the least, with qualifications in this area, who can handle complex technical equipment; someone with advanced knowledge and competences, even in such complex areas as digital economy.
The professional education system must be flexible, with various forms and terms of training. I do not mean only teaching students who have just finished school, but also the retraining of experienced specialists, because learning today has to be a constant, life-time process for everyone.
Colleagues, I would like to single out for attention the issues I consider the most important.
First, as we modernise the vocational education system, we must take into account the regional development strategy and investment projects to be implemented in the regions and in Russia as a whole.
We certainly need to forecast the personnel needs of public services, leading industries and enterprises. They must determine the requirements for vocational education institutions, for the content and results of their work. Such cooperation will strengthen the human resources of each Russian region, and create reliable employment guarantees for graduates.
Some regions are already applying effective management mechanisms for solving these problems. I would like to discuss this with you today and consider how best practices could be spread across the country.
Second. Vocational training should rely on the most advanced teaching and production facilities. I would suggest setting up unique centres for collective use, the way they do in scientific research, where the best equipment is concentrated at one site and provided to anyone interested in achieving strong results in their work.
Therefore, advanced-level vocational training centres should be established across the country as soon as possible. These centres will offer both student training and teacher retraining. Others will be able to attend professional development courses here, acquire additional skills or a different specialisation; schoolchildren will visit for career guidance.
Third. The most important issue is an unbiased, independent, and transparent assessment of competencies. The main thing here is that graduates of technical colleges and schools show their skills and proficiencies in practice. Some of the regions have experience in conducting a demonstration exam. Let us discuss this. I know that our colleagues here could tell us how this work is proceeding.
And, finally, there is one more point I would like to make. We must get rid of this stereotype: you leave school, you get an occupation, and that is it. This is absolutely not enough in the modern world, in the modern economy – we are perfectly aware of this. This is what we need to do. Technical colleges and vocational schools should not only provide modern vocational training, but also give students a strong versatile education, including in the sciences and liberal arts, computer programming and foreign languages. It should certainly include the so-called soft skills – the ability to work in a team, to use creative out-of-the-box thinking in problem-solving. Young people, and actually people of all ages, should be encouraged to engage in ongoing improvement, lifelong learning, moving forward in the professional sense of the word.
Let us get down to work.
<…>
See also
Russian Working Youth Forum
March 6, 2018
Geography
Sverdlovsk Region
Topics
Professional training
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 6, 2018, 17:45
Text versionEvents
Russian Working Youth Forum
Vladimir Putin took part in the sixth Russian Working Youth Forum.
March 6, 2018
16:15
Nizhny Tagil
7 of 13
The sixth Russian Working Youth Forum.
Vladimir Putin acquainted himself with the infrastructure preparation project that forms part of Yekaterinburg’s bid to host the Expo 2025 international exhibition, a presentation on which followed the President’s participation in the Russian Working Youth Forum held at Uralvagonzavod.
The Smart City legacy concept for Expo 2025 was displayed for the President on a multimedia screen. In particular, Vladimir Putin was shown the first designs for pavilions at the future exhibition and the circular monorail to be built above the water near the Expo venue, as well as other plans for improving the space. The head of state wished Yekaterinburg luck in its bid to host the exhibition.
The goal of the sixth Russian Working Youth Forum held in Nizhny Tagil on March 4–7 is to increase the popularity of blue-collar jobs. More than 300 young people are taking part in the conference, including representatives of industrial, transport and agrarian companies, and leaders of youth professional communities.
Earlier in the day, the head of state visited Research and Production Corporation Uralvagonzavod, where he was shown around a rolling stock production line and talked to the plant’s personnel.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends.
I am very happy to be here with you and to greet you at your forum. This forum is known to be a success; it provokes a lot of interest among the participants and those who would like to participate.
It is clear why: we have many times said that our economy, which is undergoing modernisation and securing new positions, is related to new technology and needs new specialists, first of all, engineering specialists.
I have already said this in public many times: this is about blue-collar professions, about engineering training at universities. I have also spoken about blue-collar professions: we need specialists with engineering training to implement the decisions we made on the applied Bachelor degree programme.
We need people who understand what modern production is and how it works. We need people who know what programming and robotics are. This is a complex area, but without it, without all this knowledge and skills, we will not be able to solve the serious issues our county is facing.
You may have noted that I spoke about it in my Address to the Federal Assembly, both in the civilian and military parts. In the civilian part, I spoke a lot about that, from different points of view, but mostly about training for blue-collar professions in different spheres.
Speaking about defence, I said directly – maybe some of you heard it – that all the advanced kinds of weapons we have developed are becoming operational. This is the result of the work our scientists, designers and engineers have done.
You may also have taken notice that I spoke about talented workers who enjoy what they do, who work steadily and effectively year after year, without advertising themselves, but in earnest, and who achieve outstanding results. If there were no such people, we would not have any results.
I would like to say once again something that I spoke about just recently, in Kaliningrad I think, at the meeting with regional journalists. When the work on one system was over, I asked the chief engineer to show me the list of people who should receive awards for their achievements. After some time, he did. But what a list it was! It surprised me. Three or four sheets of paper were covered in small print with names of enterprises. When I asked him “What is this you brought?” he said, “If we crossed out even one of them, we would not have had the product.”
This very demanding and complex joint work was a real discovery even for me, a man who has been working on it maybe not every day, but every week for many years. To tell the truth, I was a little shocked. Even I was impressed with how deeply and powerfully this work has been organised.
And one more point straight away: we could not have done it without the people. These were not just the enterprises: each name had tens of thousands of workers behind them. In many cases, the people did not even know what they would get in the end, after the final assembly, but every individual had their own place and a clear understanding of what they had to do well, and they did it.
This is how things must be in any sector, whether military or civilian. In addition, this must be done in a natural symbiosis like at the enterprise where we are meeting today, Uralvagonzavod. This is an iconic company, established in the 1930s as a defence enterprise, but later (it can be clearly seen today) the civilian part gradually became more important and now covers more than 40 percent of production.
I would like to say that this compatibility is very important for the civilian as well as for the military part. They feed each other, providing additional financing from state sources as well as access to global markets for their products, including civilian products. But nothing has ever happened or will happen, anywhere and anytime, without each person doing his or her work competently.
By the way, during all our periods of rapid development –I mean our country, Russia – these revolutionary transformations in the country and its economy always came, and maybe even began, with the training of workers.
This was the case under Peter the Great, when at his initiative, specialised schools were created for [marine] navigation, artillery, medicine, and other fields. As it happens, here in the Ural region, special mining schools were started at mining companies at the order of Peter the Great.
Later, in the late 19th century, the same thing happened in Russia again, when the country’s rapid development and industrialisation began on a new foundation, and the same thing occurred with training workers. It happened again in the 1920s-1930s.
Now we are going through this stage of development again. As I have already mentioned – and I will end my monologue on this point – we need people with fresh knowledge and new approaches – people who are ready for a challenge and who want in their heart and soul to meet that challenge, and sincerely strive to do so – in order to guarantee that the results we seek will be achieved.
Thank you very much.
That concludes my monologue. Thank you very much.
Yekaterina Dragunova: Thank you very much, Mr President.
Our boys and girls now have a unique opportunity to speak with you and to ask any questions, if possible.
Svetlana who is sitting here on this stage chairs the youth organisation at Uralvagonzavod. This rather large organisation unites 17,000 young people. All right, Svetlana, you run the show and ask your first question.
Svetlana Aldushina: Good afternoon, Mr President.
First of all, I would like to thank you on behalf of all forum participants for finding time to come here and to attend the 6th Russian Working Youth Forum.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Svetlana Aldushina: I am particularly happy about the fact that Uralvagonzavod and the city of Nizhny Tagil are hosting this forum. On behalf of city residents, I would like to thank you separately for recently signing an executive order on celebrating the 300th anniversary of Nizhny Tagil in 2022. We have already started preparing for this event.
And here is my question. Mr President, the following situation has taken shape in Russia: Universities are being expanded, while the number of their branches continues to decrease. As a result, Nizhny Tagil is losing an opportunity to train young specialists here in this city, without sending young people to other cities from where they don’t always come back. Might it be possible to consider retaining three to four universities in Nizhny Tagil or in the region’s second-largest or third-largest cities, so that young people would be able to earn degrees in various fields here?
Vladimir Putin: It appears that you take this issue quite seriously. Your colleagues asked me exactly the same question when I was speaking with them. I answered, but I am happy to repeat what I just said.
What is the problem? The problem is that since 1991, due the introduction of paid education services, the number of higher education institutions has dramatically grown in our country – if I am not mistaken, between 1991 and 2012, the number of universities and branches has almost doubled. And, unfortunately, the quality of training in these institutions left much to be desired. Many of them just turned into rubber stamps for diplomas. But such specialists, who buy their diplomas, are not in demand. This led to problems. A person graduates from a higher education institution or a branch of even a respected university, starts working and can do nothing, so he or she must be re-trained. There is no use for such specialists. The percentage of those not working in the field they were trained in was enormous. That is why we launched that soft reform, as it was called. And the number of higher education institutions has decreased by more than 30 percent, and the number of branches has fallen by more than 60 percent.
Of course, I perfectly understand that such cities as Nizhny Tagil require their own base. By the way, you spoke about several universities. Five branches of universities in Tagil are still working, they have not been closed. This is the first thing.
Second. When branches are closed, representatives of local authorities take part in this, or they are supposed to, and they should influence the final decision.
Third. The decision itself is made not by the state, but by the university, by the higher education institution itself. And therefore, there are two possibilities: either close or improve the branch network. But, of course, sometimes, probably, they have to close, and they often close. But in Nizhny Tagil, there is a need to train some professionals on-site. Of course, it is better not to close them then. But this issue needs to be worked out with the university itself and with the region. We will discuss this issue with the governor, and when I return to Moscow, I will also talk with the Minister of Education on this matter.
And, finally, the most important thing. You said that many people do not return. It is necessary to create conditions for people to return to their native regions: increase wages, solve housing problems and offer leisure opportunities. We were just discussing how you have built a good sports and recreation centre here, a stadium, but now they say that it would be nice to have a track and field arena. This is just a specific example, though. We will do this, we will build an arena here in Nizhny Tagil, but I do not mean only in Nizhny Tagil, but in general in such industrial centres where it is necessary to solve these tasks, and then people will return. We must all work on this.
Yekaterina Dragunova: Thank you very much.
Ok, let’s get to the questions from the audience. Please introduce yourself so that we know who you are.
Kristina Shchogol: Hello, my name is Kristina Shchogol. I represent the Avangard company in the city of Safonovo, Smolensk Region. I work in career guidance.
Vladimir Putin: In what?
Kristina Shchogol: Career guidance. The world today is changing so fast that young people have to adapt fast and be flexible, learn about as many new technologies and related areas as possible. How much do you think this also applies to industrial workers and manufacturers? Or perhaps our professionals should focus on one specific area of expertise? Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Of course, anyone would be pleased to know (and I think it is very important) that he or she is a real expert in something rather than someone who has just superficial knowledge. Unfortunately, today it is not enough anymore.
Those who can work across different areas of knowledge and skills have a strong competitive advantage. It is very important that a person understands what he is doing. Some machines and equipment are very complex but if a person knows about programming, understands robotics and artificial intelligence, if he is even aware of these things, his work gets easier. His work will surely be more effective, it is obvious. Therefore, considering that production and the economy are going digital, there is artificial intelligence, robots and so forth, it is really useful for workers to have this knowledge. This is the first.
Second. This creates a more flexible labour market and a person with this knowledge can, if necessary, when production techniques advance and new jobs emerge, easily find his place. So yes, one should be an expert with in-depth knowledge and excellent skills but work in related areas and jobs (another very important issue, we might yet discuss it) and ability to work in a team are extremely important. They are already in demand and will be way more in demand very soon. I have no doubt about this, not for a second.
Andrei Korsakov: Hello. My name is Andrei Korsakov, Irkutsk, Irkutsk Aviation Plant – Irkut Corporation. I am a mechatronics engineer, specialising in additive technologies.
Our workers closely follow the WorldSkills competition. Of course, we cheer for our representatives, for our professionals and are very proud when they take prizes at both the regional and national levels. And we would like the WorldSkills format to have more mass formats, mass standards for professional qualifications.
Vladimir Putin: This is exactly what is happening
First of all, I fully agree with you. We joined this movement only in 2012. In 2013, we took the 33rd place out of 47 teams and came in last in the medal standings, if I am not mistaken. And last year (or the year before), we came in first. And of course, it was very gratifying to realise that we were capable of such astounding progress.
And, second, it is extremely important that we really achieve results. This is the most important thing. And it is a great pleasure to look at our boys and girls standing on the podium and taking first place. I think it is a pleasure for everyone. It causes a feeling of pride, respect both for those who achieve such results, and for the country that produced them. But this does not mean that we should focus only on major international events of this kind. No, we now hold regional and even industry-wide and enterprise-wide competitions of this kind. I am not sure but I think here, in Nizhny Tagil, up to 400 events and competitions of this kind are held. If I am not mistaken, 400 events were held in Nizhny Tagil, or in the region last year. In any case, in the region. Hundreds. And we will continue to develop this further without a doubt.
Andrei Korsakov: Thank you.
Anna Chukavina: Good afternoon,
I am Anna Chukavina from Izhevsk, Udmurt Republic. I work as design engineer at Kupol electromechanical plant in Izhevsk.
Here is my question. Professions are traditionally divided into men’s and women’s jobs. Nowadays girls are increasingly choosing men’s jobs and are starting to work as engineers, welders and mechanics. Meanwhile, men feel comfortable with women’s jobs, becoming the best chefs or hairstylists. What do you think of that? Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: What do you think? (Laughter in the audience.)
Anna Chukavina: I am OK with that. I feel very comfortable about my job.
Vladimir Putin: So do I. (Applause.)
Look, firstly, there is a stereotype in public consciousness that there are men’s jobs and women’s jobs. It is just a stereotype. And there is hardly any substance behind it as there is behind any stereotype. You mentioned chefs. My grandfather was a cook whereas my father was a foreman at a factory. By the way, at the Yegorov Railcar Works in Leningrad and St Petersburg, the railcar works is practically there now. Both my grandfather and father were quite happy with their lives and were proud of their occupations. Of course, there are and should be certain restrictions. Meanwhile, it used to be in our country that women were, say railway workers, drove in spikes, brandished heavy hammers. And it was no problem. Whereas during the Great Patriotic War women worked in all men’s jobs, and they fought, actually, like men too.
However, modern production conditions are just expanding those opportunities, primarily for women. What was very difficult yesterday, physically hard, is becoming absolutely accessible today thanks to modern equipment and modern knowledge, and women show their worth there very effectively.
We have just spoken, and a colleague asked about WorldSkills and similar contests. Our girls won first place in IT and other technical disciplines while the boys were also among the winners in the jobs you just mentioned. So you know, I think the key is that you love what you do. If you love what you do, you will achieve the result, and this is what is ultimately most important.
Dmitry Krotov: Hello, Mr President!
My name is Dmitry Krotov. I represent the Chuvash Republic, the city of Novocheboksarsk, Khimprom. I work there as an engineer on the maintenance and installation of electrical equipment.
Our world is constantly changing, new technologies are being developed and introduced, and automation in the workplace is a reality. But do you think that one day I might come to work and see a smart, fast robot doing my job – do you doubt that this trend will lead to the loss of my job in the labour market?
Vladimir Putin: This threat does exist. Such a threat has always existed throughout history with new technology changes and new technological revolutions. Remember the technological revolution in Europe, what it degenerated into in the UK, for example, when new equipment was broken up by the workers, and so on.
But we live in the 21st century, and we understand what can happen. And to avoid certain negative trends, we have to consider how we will respond to this situation. Of course, things will change with new technology, robotics, using artificial intelligence, using the achievements that appear in medicine and genetics. Labour efficiency will drastically increase, I hope. By the way, in this regard, wages should also increase, new modern, well-paid jobs should emerge, high-tech and more attractive to people.
But there are several ways to approach this problem. First, timely retraining, that is what we are talking about here – an opportunity for soft retraining. First.
Second. Training should be constant in the modern world, in a developed economy. You probably see and understand this. That is, you need to do this all the time to avoid a situation where a robot can replace you.
First, you will know in advance if a machine can replace you, what machine, what it will do, how it will replace you, and where your place is among the machines. But in the end, everything is done by people. Even when you consider arguments about what will happen with artificial intelligence, whether it will be better than the human brain, whether it will replace us and create a threat to us – there are different points of view on this. They say that if a machine counts several times better and faster than a person, it will start to somehow betray a person. But there are pessimists, and there are optimists who say that in the end the creative nature of the human being will always have an advantage over artificial intelligence. But this is quite a distant prospect. Although everything is developing very quickly and knowing about these problems, we have every opportunity to avoid these obstacles and, conversely, use everything that modern science gives us for the benefit of our development.
Pavel Andreyev: Good afternoon! Pavel Andreyev from Nizhny Novgorod in the Nizhny Novgorod Region. Teploenergo company, a member of the Youth Chamber at the City Duma.
Mr President, I really love my job and I am doing what I really like. For me it is important to not just do my duties well, but to feel involved in a common cause. We created our youth council at the company, which, by the way, was recognised as the best youth council in our region in 2017. We exchange knowledge, experience, cooperate on projects and help each other. And I would like to involve others from other companies and other cities in this interaction. Please support this initiative.
Vladimir Putin: The initiative is good of course, and I will gladly support it. It is necessary to understand what needs to be done. But you can develop it yourself today with modern technology, with the internet. Of course, you need good and fast internet. But there are opportunities today. You need to involve your leaders, trade union organisations. Strictly speaking, you created this council yourself, and, as you say, it works well. But communities like this can be created on the internet, and it would be a natural movement, a grassroots movement. But as for support from above, I will try to provide it, with pleasure.
Do you know what else I would like? I would like you to join the programme that I talked about in the address – the Ticket to the Future programme for high school students. We even envisioned a billion for it this year, so they can learn about the opportunities of future professions, to begin the so-called process of early career guidance. Find out if it is possible to cooperate with schools. And it is not necessary to go far, this would be interesting. And, more important, it would be very useful.
What is the name of your company?
Pavel Andreyev: Teploenergo.
Vladimir Putin: We will see what can be done to promote it from above. Alright?
Pavel Andreyev: Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much.
Yekaterina Dragunova: Mr President, thank you for visiting our forum and for your sincere answers.
Vladimir Putin: We can take a few more questions.
Yekaterina Dragunova: Very good.
Gulnara Khamiyeva: Good afternoon, Mr President.
My name is Gulnara Khamiyeva, I represent the Republic of Bashkortostan.
In the forum’s mentorship track we talked about how Russia needs a new law on mentorship to comprehensively regulate this area including both financial and non-financial incentives.
I would like to know your opinion on this and also learn who were your mentor as you climbed your career ladder? Are you a mentor now, and if so, what is your incentive? What incentive do mentors need for this practice to develop in our country?
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Your question about my mentors is a difficult one. I’ve had them, and they were very wise, competent and decent people. I’ve never thought about it, but now that I recall them I have to say I’m grateful. Even though some of them were not my mentors officially, I learned from them nonetheless, and it is with a feeling of respect that I remember them.
Mentorship is a very good movement. It is essential that it be sincere, for experience and the attitude towards work to be passed from heart to heart, so to speak. It is very important and actually unique when it happens that way.
Of course, the state needs to step in to make sure everything is properly organised. You may have noticed that I met with the winners of the mentorship contest. They are great people, by the way, and some of them are young. Do we need a law? Yes, it is possible, so let’s work it through. Thank you for mentioning this, we will think about it. I think a law would be a good sign of support from the state.
I will talk to the State Duma deputies and officials in my administration. I think a law is possible. In any case, we won’t fail to support this movement, but a law is possible, too.
I see a hand raised over there. Please pass the microphone to whomever you see.
Regina Adizova: Hello, Mr President.
My name is Regina Adizova, I am training under the ChelPipe corporate educational programme, The Future of White Metallurgy. I have the following question for you.
Vladimir Putin: Great. You have such an interesting production system. The first time I went there, I was really surprised. I did not expect it, I did not know that we had this kind of production. I mean I knew about it in theory, but when I saw it myself… it makes an impression. As if I was at a clinic, with everyone in white coats. Sorry for interrupting you.
Regina Adizova: Please tell me, what is the main direction in Russia now, and where is there a lack of specialists?
Vladimir Putin: We have many main directions; I have talked about them many times: digitalising the economy, robotics, artificial intelligence, everything that is related to biology, medicine and genetics. Why such diversity? We are all different. But a variety of important directions for the country's development gives each of us a chance to find ourselves. I hope that you will succeed, too.
Anastasia Morozova: Hello! My name is Anastasia Morozova, Yekaterinburg.
Despite the fact that, perhaps, I am not directly connected with the technical professions, I have a strong feeling for them, really, because I teach speech in the Russian Trade Union of Industry, which includes over 1.5 million people.
Vladimir Putin: So you teach trade unionists how to speak eloquently, do you?
Anastasia Morozova: No, I teach them communication skills so they can be helpful and convey the information they need to.
Vladimir Putin: This is important.
Anastasia Morozova: I would like to thank you on behalf of all trade union leaders for raising the minimum wage to the subsistence minimum. Thank you from all working people. Of course, this will help increase the income of the population. Thank you very much!
And I have a very important question that concerns many people here. I have worked up all my courage to ask you this.
Tell me, please, what tools can improve the effectiveness of the dialogue between employees and management and authority? Perhaps, this can be done through the leaders of the trade union, through lawyers. But maybe there are still some tools that we have overlooked (but this is important)?
Vladimir Putin: As for the minimum wage, it took a lot of time to adopt the decision, as economic conditions did not allow us to resolve the issue completely. As for the trade unions, they made a very significant, appreciable contribution to this. Moreover, the head of our main leading trade union association, Mikhail Shmakov, proposed moving the deadline for the adoption of this decision up, when we met with him. And we agreed that it would be on May 1 of this year, on Labour Day.
This can improve the well-being of around 4 million people. However, as I said in the Address, it is not enough. This decision is not the final solution to the key issue of reducing the number of people living in poverty. We need to address this issue in a more comprehensive way to halve the number of people living below the poverty line, including people who are employed, which is absolutely unacceptable.
How can we improve the dialogue between employers, public officials and employees? We have a legally defined procedure that we use effectively. I am talking about three-party commissions and related agreements. One such document was recently signed in cooperation with the trade unions. The agreements may cover industries, regions, etc. I would call this a general approach. However, trade unions need to address this issue first and foremost in their day-to-day work. It is their purpose and mission – to protect the rights of the worker, in the broadest sense, not to limit themselves to simply calling for a salary increase or other benefits.
What is most important for trade unions is to have competent, economically trained staff who have expertise in today’s economy, a given plant, or the place they work, so they can build on this knowledge to raise the issues of improving labour conditions, increasing salaries, and solving social issues. If carried out in a professional way, these efforts can produce a decent result, fulfilling the mission of the trade union.
What you do is really important. There are other approaches, however. Political parties, public organisations, broadly speaking, and the media should contribute to this issue. What they should be doing in modern society is boosting the economy in order to reach the key goal of improving living standards for the people of Russia.
Friends, don’t be mad at me – I understand that all the issues are very important and interesting, and that we could spend a lot of time discussing them. But I must be on my way to the next item on my agenda. I have a meeting on a related subject – professional training in middle management. The meeting is in Yekaterinburg, where our colleagues are already waiting.
I wish you luck and success, and I thank you for your interested and pro-active stance. This alone gives you an edge. It proves, too, that your internal “nuclear reactor” is working.
I wish you good luck. Thank you very much.
See also
Visit to Uralvagonzavod Corporation
March 6, 2018
Geography
Sverdlovsk Region
Topics
Professional training
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 6, 2018, 16:15
Text version