President of the People’s Republic of China Xi Jinping President Putin,
Our cultural ties are developing rapidly. In 2018 and 2019, we will be holding the cross-years of Russia-China Interregional Cooperation. Our countries’ regions are making use of this opportunity to build up their ties, cooperation, mutual understanding and friendship. The number of educational and tourist exchanges between our countries is increasing.
In June of this year, Russia will host the FIFA World Cup, and in 2022 Beijing will host the Winter Olympics. China and Russia support each other in holding these international sports events and are increasing sports exchanges and cooperation.
China and Russia as permanent UN Security Council members are responsible world powers. President Putin and I have agreed to strengthen mutual support and assistance in international affairs and to deepen strategic interaction in this complicated and volatile international situation.
In this context, we are ready to work with the international community to firmly protect the world order and the system of international relations based on the norms and principles of the UN Charter. We will continue to advocate a multipolar world order and more democratic international relations, the political settlement of conflicts, new systems of international relations based on mutual respect, justice and mutual benefit. We will continue to create a community of nations with a common future and do all we can to build a clean and beautiful world of long-lasting peace, universal security, joint prosperity, openness and tolerance.
I know that the agenda of your visit is interesting and includes many events. I will accompany President Putin to a cultural event in Tianjin. We will continue discussions on issues of mutual interest. The day after tomorrow, we will attend an SCO summit with the leaders of the other member states to discuss the future of our organisation and the further development of the Shanghai spirit.
Friends, we will hold a special event soon. I will award President Putin with the first Order of Friendship. It is the highest state decoration in the People’s Republic of China awarded to foreign citizens. President Putin is a great friend of China. He is highly respected by our people and is making a great contribution to strengthening Russian-Chinese relations and friendship between our peoples. He truly deserves this award. I invite all of you to the award ceremony, which begins immediately after this meeting.
Thank you.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, my dear friend! Ladies and gentlemen,
The Russian-Chinese talks were held in a constructive and business-like atmosphere. We discussed all issues related to the current state and future development of bilateral ties. We also had a meaningful exchange of opinions on key international issues.
We made certain arrangements, as you can see from our Joint Statement and a number of interdepartmental agreements we have signed.
I would like to point out the strategic nature of Russian-Chinese interaction, which is based on the principles of equality, neighbourly relations and trust.
We look forward to welcoming the President of China as the main guest at the Eastern Economic Forum, which will be held in Vladivostok in September.
Our interdepartmental commission, foreign policy and industry-specific ministries are working productively. Our parliaments and the general public have developed rewarding ties.
Our trade and economic cooperation is growing. Last year, our trade reached $87 billion. We have increased the delivery of added-value products, including machines, equipment, and vehicles.
In January to March 2018, Russian-Chinese trade went up by 31 percent. If we keep up the pace, we will be able to report a record figure this year towards which we have been working for the past few years – $100 billion.
We are expanding our investment cooperation. Over 70 priority projects worth more than $20 billion are being implemented within the framework of the Intergovernmental Commission on Investment Cooperation.
Energy is the key sphere of bilateral cooperation. Russia is China’s largest fuel supplier to the Chinese market. It supplied over 50 million tonnes of oil to China last year and increased deliveries by 26 percent in January to April 2018. The construction of a gas pipeline via the eastern route is proceeding to schedule.
The parties have coordinated the main parameters of Russian natural gas deliveries from the Russian Far East to China. Russian and Chinese energy companies are working together in gas production and liquefaction at Yamal LNG. Chinese consumers received the first gas from the Yamal field in December 2017.
Under a package of agreements that have been signed in Beijing, Rosatom will build two more power units for the Tianwan NPP. Russia and China have coordinated the construction of one more Russian-designed nuclear power plant in China.
Russia will assist China in the construction of a demonstration fast reactor. Cutting-edge Russian achievements will be applied in China’s Moon exploration programme.
I would like to point out the unequalled format of Russia’s cooperation with China. I am referring to the highly sensitive, unique joint projects of Russian and Chinese researchers.
We also discussed cooperation in high-tech areas, such as the creation of long-haul aircraft and a heavy-lift helicopter.Events
Vladimir Putin awarded the Chinese Order of Friendship
President of China Xi Jinping awarded the Order of Friendship of the People’s Republic of China to Vladimir Putin. The President of Russia is the first foreign leader to be awarded this high national order of China.
June 8, 2018
13:45
Beijing
1 of 7
Vladimir Putin awarded the Chinese Order of Friendship.
The Order of Friendship of the People’s Republic of China is awarded to foreign citizens for special contribution to the development and modernisation of China, for promoting China’s ties and cooperation with other countries, and for maintaining world peace.
***
President of the People's Republic of China Xi Jinping (retranslated): President Putin, dear friends,
Today we are holding a ceremony to award the Order of Friendship of the People's Republic of China to an old and great friend of the Chinese people, President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin.
The Order of Friendship is China's highest state decoration, conferred on foreign friends for supporting China’s development and modernisation, as well as for outstanding contribution to promoting exchanges and cooperation between China and other countries, and to the defence of peace around the world.
The awarding of this decoration to President Putin is the first awarding since China introduced a system of decorations for state merit.
President Putin, the leader of a major power with global influence, is the founder of current Chinese-Russian relations and always promotes their development at a high level. Since 2000, President Putin has made 19 trips to China, including on official visits and to attend international events. He has visited China more often than any other global leader, and he is best known and respected in China. President Putin is also my best and closest friend.
In 2001, President Putin signed the Treaty of Good-Neighbourliness, Friendship and Cooperation between China and Russia, which created a solid legal framework for the centuries-old friendship between our countries. Thanks to his constant attention and personal involvement, Chinese-Russian relations have withstood the trials of a changing international situation; political and strategic trust between the two nations is growing stronger; significant progress is being made in our multifaceted cooperation; and the friendship between our peoples is deepening.
The increasingly ambitious Chinese-Russian projects bring benefits to the peoples of both countries, and are a worthy example of harmonious coexistence of world powers and neighbouring states. They serve as a significant contribution to the formation of a new type of international relations and a community for the common future of humankind.
Standing on the threshold of a new start, President Putin and I are ready to further advance Chinese-Russian relations and open up even more brilliant prospects in the spirit of good-neighbourliness and friendship, strategic interaction and mutual benefit.
The prestigious Order of Friendship is not only a testament to China’s high esteem of President Putin, but also the deep friendship between the great peoples of China and Russia.
We would like to take this opportunity and sincerely wish President Putin continued success in his position of high importance; we wish prosperity and power to the great Chinese and Russian nations, and happiness and eternal friendship to the peoples of our countries.
Thank you.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, my dear friend! Ladies and gentlemen, friends,
It is a great honour for me to be awarded this prestigious state award of China – the Order of Friendship.
I know that the order was established quite recently and is awarded for the first time today. I sincerely thank my Chinese friends for such a special sign of attention. I take this as recognition and appreciation of the Russian efforts to develop a comprehensive strategic partnership with China.
My colleagues and I are grateful to you, Mr President, for today’s ceremony. We can see what is being done, as well as how it happens.
This is also a sign of special attention and respect, based, of course, on our mutual national interests, the interests of our peoples and, of course, the friendly personal relations between us.
Allow me to emphasise that our country sincerely values the good-neighbourly relations and friendship with China. We are proud of our common achievements in politics, the economy, science, and culture. We appreciate the high level of cooperation achieved in the international arena. And we are fully confident of the certain success of all our undertakings.
I would like to thank you again for such a high award. I look forward to continuing our joint work to deepen Russian-Chinese strategic cooperation for the sake of welfare and prosperity of the peoples of Russia and China.
Thank you.
<…>
Geography
People's Republic of China
Topics
Foreign policy
State decorations
Persons
Xi Jinping
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 8, 2018, 13:45
Text versionEvents
Video address on the occasion of the 2018 FIFA World Cup opening ceremony
June 8, 2018
22:00
Video address on the occasion of the 2018 FIFA World Cup opening ceremony.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: To all football fans and the greatest football teams on the planet – welcome!
Welcome to all who have already arrived in Russia, and to those who are planning to take part in this landmark international event – the FIFA World Cup.
It is with immense joy and a great honor that we receive representatives of the great football family.
We want this event to be a celebration, filled with passion and emotions.
I hope you will have an unforgettable experience – not only watching the matches of your favorite teams and admiring the players’ skills, but also getting to know Russia.
Learning about its identity and culture, its unique history and natural diversity; its hospitable, sincere and friendly people.
We have done our best to ensure that all of our guests – the athletes, the staff and, of course, the fans – feel at home in Russia.
We have opened both our country and our hearts to the world. Welcome to the FIFA World Cup!
(In English.) Welcome to Russia!
Topics
Sport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 8, 2018, 22:00
Text version