Events
Meeting with President of Serbia Aleksandar Vucic
Vladimir Putin met in the Kremlin with President of the Republic of Serbia Aleksandar Vucic, who is in Moscow to take part in the celebrations of the 73rd anniversary of Victory in the Great Patriotic War.
May 8, 2018
21:15
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 5
Meeting with President of Serbia Aleksandar Vucic.
During the meeting the two presidents discussed the current state and future prospects of Russia-Serbia cooperation, as well as the implementation of joint investment projects. Vladimir Putin and Aleksandar Vucic
also exchanged views on current regional issues.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, I am happy to see you in Moscow again.
The reason for our meeting this time is certainly important – both for Russia and Serbia. I am referring to the end of World War II or the Great Patriotic War, as it is called here. Naturally, there are glorious pages of history in the historical memory of our people when Serbia and Russia were fighting together against a common enemy.
This year we will celebrate the 180th anniversary of diplomatic relations between our states. Our trade is growing – last year it increased 23 percent. I am very pleased that we have an opportunity to talk informally about the package items in our relations this evening.
President of the Republic of Serbia Aleksandar Vucic (retranslated): First of all, Mr President, I would like to thank you for this incredibly warm reception.
I would like to congratulate you on your exceptional victory in the Russian presidential election and wish you every success in your work.
On behalf of Serbian citizens, I would like to thank you for the support that you have always granted Serbia in times of trial.
As you know, nothing is less enduring in international relations than gratitude, and I would like to thank you once again for what you did in 2015 when you literally saved the Serbian people, that have been one of the most suffering nation during the past century, from the stigma of genocide by vetoing the UN British resolution.
I would like to assure you that the Serbian people will never forget what you have done. You have protected Serbia’s territorial integrity and sovereignty many times.
I would also like to say that I am very satisfied with the growth of our trade. In the first three months of this year it has already increased by 10 percent compared to the corresponding period of 2017.
Serbia will preserve its independence. Serbia will preserve its military neutrality and is not going to become a member of NATO or any other military alliance.
In concluding my introduction, I would like to say that Serbia has demonstrated that it is a reliable partner to the Russian Federation. Serbia has never acted against the interests of your country when Russia was going through hard times.
Thank you for the warm reception once again. I would like to express hope that we will further promote our cooperation and improve it in all areas.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much.
<…>
Geography
Serbia
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Vucic Aleksandar
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 8, 2018, 21:15
Text versionEvents
The President took part in a State Duma plenary session
Vladimir Putin addressed a plenary session of the State Duma, where he submitted the candidacy of Dmitry Medvedev for the post of Prime Minister of the Russian Federation.
May 8, 2018
15:45
Moscow
2 of 9
Before the State Duma plenary session. With State Duma Speaker Vyacheslav Volodin (right) and Acting Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
Yesterday, in accordance with the Constitution, I introduced the candidacy of Dmitry Medvedev for your consideration to be approved for the post of Prime Minister.
Mr Medvedev certainly needs no special introduction. For the past six years, he has led the country’s Government. You are well aware of how difficult these years have been. Russia and the whole world have faced new challenges and the situation has been changing dynamically. For our country it was particularly acute, and often seemed dramatic.
See also
The President appointed Dmitry Medvedev Prime Minister
May 8, 2018
The President submitted to the State Duma the candidacy of Dmitry Medvedev for the post of prime minister
May 7, 2018
The President instructed the Government to continue its work until the new Cabinet is formed
May 7, 2018
Vladimir Putin has been sworn in as President of Russia
May 7, 2018
Despite all these difficulties, the Government has managed to solve not only extraordinary and urgent tasks, but also to identify and preserve the prospects for development and to constantly boost these opportunities aimed at mid- and long-term periods. In my opinion, this is extremely important.
These extensive and comprehensive efforts were built on a solid, professional and fair foundation, without pursuing short-term political outcomes, in a responsible way and, as I said, aiming at the long-term perspective.
The Prime Minister made a detailed report on the Government’s work in the State Duma just recently – in April. I think the main point is that all the achievements of the previous years are creating a solid foundation for moving forward and resolving the historical tasks I spoke about in the Address to the Federal Assembly and at the presidential inauguration ceremony.
As you know, yesterday I signed Executive Order On the National Goals and Strategic Objectives of the Russian Federation through to 2024. This document talks about an active demographic policy and a steady growth of the population, a breakthrough in technology and science, high economic growth rates, new living standards for our citizens, an increase in their real incomes, and a drastic reduction of poverty.
It is necessary to build an effective social support system, continue reforms in education and healthcare, resolve the housing and environmental problems and support culture. Finally, it is essential to launch major infrastructure, transport and energy projects, develop the Russian Far East, the Arctic and all of our regions, and upgrade cities and rural communities.
The implementation of national projects and programmes will require joint, well-orchestrated efforts at all levels and branches of government – both legislative and executive, and all regions. I am also hoping for active participation of public and professional associations and the Russian business community.
At the State Duma plenary session.
Let me repeat that these goals are very broad and ambitious and to reach them the consolidation of the entire society is required and everyone’s contribution is important. You represent different parliamentary parties and different political forces but above all you represent our citizens, your voters. I am sure that their interests, needs, and aspirations and, hence, Russia’s interests and wellbeing are playing the most important role for you and for all of us. I count on your readiness to take part in our team creative endeavour. All constructive ideas and proposals will be taken into account in the interests of our common cause.
The previous Government was distinguished by its democratic nature, openness for dialogue and discussion, readiness to review constructive proposals and accept justified criticism. These qualities became its brand name, its professional style. Much credit for the establishment of this modern managerial environment certainly goes to Mr Medvedev.
I know that he held consultations with all the parliamentary parties yesterday and today, and I am sure he will continue to closely cooperate with the parliament in the future. I believe it is very important to provide continuity and new trajectory to the Government’s work. Today all of this is essential.
At the State Duma plenary session.
I will repeat what I said yesterday: we have no time to lose; we must act. In this sense, I believe it is of utmost importance to note that over the past year, or maybe a year and a half, Dmitry Medvedev and several members of the Executive Office and the Government have been working on the programme I set out in the Executive Order signed yesterday.
This is the programme we will have to implement together. Dmitry Medvedev with his staff and the Executive Office took part in developing this programme. I think it is logical for the same team to implement these plans.
Let me repeat, the Government will have the key and core role here. It must be strong, responsible and ready to make progressive and decisive steps. It must be formed as fast as possible and must include a professional core that can join the work started earlier effectively and proactively.
Additional
The President signed Executive Order On National Goals and Strategic Objectives of the Russian Federation through to 2024
May 7, 2018
But first of all, we must approve the Prime Minister. I address all of you, all the deputies and representatives of all parliamentary parties; although Dmitry Medvedev represents the leading fraction in parliament, I address all the parliamentary parties. I ask you to support my proposal to appoint Dmitry Medvedev the Prime Minister of the Russian Federation.
Thank you for your attention.
<…>
Topics
Civil service
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 8, 2018, 15:45
Text version