Events
Launching the third production facility at Bovanenkovo gas field
Vladimir Putin took part via video linkup in the launch ceremony of the third, and final, gas production facility at the Bovanenkovo oil and gas condensate field, the largest on the Yamal Peninsula in terms of its proven reserves.
December 5, 2018
15:10
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 4
Vladimir Putin took part via video linkup in the launch ceremony of the third, and final, gas production facility at the Bovanenkovo oil and gas condensate field.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Miller, colleagues,
First of all, I would like to congratulate you on this major achievement: you have successfully completed a large-scale and complicated project.
Today, we are launching the third, and final, gas production facility of the unique Bovanenkovo oil and gas condensate field. This means that it will reach its full capacity.
At the same time we are opening the second line of the Ukhta-Torzhok gas pipeline. This will make it possible to deliver more gas from Yamal to central regions of the Russian Federation.
I would like to thank everyone involved in building these important industrial and infrastructure facilities.
This is a significant contribution to the development of Russia’s gas industry and the comprehensive exploration of Yamal. Engineers, geologists, gas workers and builders have created an enormous new modern Russian gas production centre, in the peninsula’s very challenging climatic conditions, almost from the ground up.
The work was really large-scale. Well-equipped production sites and camps for rotating workers were built along with the 572 km Obskaya – Bovanenkovo railway.
Each of these is a large and significant construction project in its own right. Many kilometres of pipelines and other facilities, including an airport, have been built; all of this in compliance with the strictest environmental requirements to preserve the tundra and vulnerable nature of Yamal.
The third production facility will increase Bovanenkovo capacity to the target level, or 115 billion cubic metres of gas per year. This number is colossal, without exaggeration. It equals a quarter of Gazprom
’s current annual production. Mr Miller and I discussed this in the morning. This is almost half of what Gazprom provides for Russia’s domestic market and almost half of our exports, both to neighbouring and more distant countries. The scale is impressive.
Let me stress once again that such megaprojects as Bovanenkovo are very important for the national economy and the regions. They create jobs and improve the quality of life.
We are talking about gas production on Yamal. Let me remind you that the volume of Yamal’s largest gas field, Bovanenkovo, which we are taking to full capacity today, is 4.9 trillion cubic metres of gas. However, the exploration of Yamal does not end in Bovanenkovo. The explored gas supply in the peninsula is more than 16.7 trillion cubic metres. This is immense. It is expected that 310–360 billion cubic metres of gas will be produced here by 2030.
Gazprom CEO Alexei Miller during the launch ceremony of the third (final) production facility at the Bovanenkovo oil and gas condensate field.
But this is not the end. We are developing the province in general and moving forward. This July we decided that the exploration of the Kharasavey gas field located north from Bovanenkovo will begin in full in early 2019. The work will begin in the near future, and production is scheduled to commence in 2023. The target level is 32 billion cubic metres of gas. At the same time, geological exploration continues at the Tambei group of fields. All of this means that our energy and gas sectors are developing at a good pace.
The growth in gas production will further strengthen the energy security of Russia and our export potential and fully cover such new routes as Nord Stream 2, which is already under construction. And, of course, there will be additional capacities to speed up the provision of gas supply to Russian cities and villages. Soon we will begin the preparations and will hold a separate meeting on expanding gas supply in Russia at the beginning of next year.
I would like to thank you all very much for your labour, hard work and results, for fulfilling the most complicated technological and industrial tasks. I am sure that your unique experience of work in the northern conditions will be in high demand in the future, including in new projects.
I express my gratitude to you once again. Thank you for the work you have done and the results you have achieved. I wish you success.
Mr Miller, please.
Gazprom CEO Alexei Miller
: Mr President,
We are at the gathering station of the third gas production facility of the Bovanenkovo gas field, where all gas manifolds from all the production wells meet. The station’s task is to equalise the pressure of the streams and unite them in a single one.
Further in the process, the gas goes to the inlet separator station where the mechanical impurities and water are separated from the gas stream. The next stage is the low-temperature separation station where the gas is cooled down to minus 35 degrees, and the rest of water is separated from it. Then the dry gas goes to the booster pumping station where the pressure is raised to the working pressure of the main pipelines: 120 atmospheres.
There are 173 wells at the third gas production facility. We have with us the director general of Gazprom Dobycha Nadym who will report on production activity.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Menshikov, please.
Director General of Gazprom Dobycha Nadym Sergei Menshikov: Mr President, Mr Miller,
I am Sergei Menshikov, Director General of Gazprom Dobycha Nadym.
We are currently here, at the Yekaterina drilling rig. This Russian-produced fourth-generation drilling rig allows us to work in the harsh Arctic environment and drill wells with complex configurations from various angles. This particular well, for instance, will be 1,700 metres deep, and will be drilled at a distance of 790 metres from the rig.
Gazprom Dobycha Nadym Director General Sergei Menshikov during the launch ceremony of the third (final) production facility at the Bovanenkovo oil and gas condensate field.
The drilling bit enters the well with the help of drill pipes. Each pipe is eight metres long. You can now see the drillers use the top drive to bring the so-called stand consisting of three 24 metre-long drill pipes to the wellhead. Then, the threaded connection is cleaned, and a special thread lubricant is applied.
Now, we make up connections with the help of hydraulic drilling power tongs. While spinning the drilling bit, the turbodrill lowers the drill pipe stand into the well by 24 metres. The entire process is controlled by a joystick, operated by the driller working in the rig’s control cabin. The drilling fluid used for flushing the well is pumped through the pipes. The rock that is extracted from the well together with the drilling fluid is decontaminated with the help of a special installation, and then used as an environmentally friendly construction material for road and site filling.
That concludes my report.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Alexei Miller: Mr President.
The Bovanenkovo gas field reserves are so large that production will continue up to 2128, that is, for the next 110 years.
Bovanenkovo has an airport that can service almost all classes of aircraft used in the Russian Federation. It also has the 572-kilometre Salekhard-Bovanenkovo railway. The living conditions of local employees are as comfortable as possible. All the necessary transport and social infrastructure has been created here.
The Yamal Peninsula development will continue rapidly. As you mentioned, this July, a decision was taken to begin the full-scale development of the Kharasavey field starting January 1, 2019. This field has estimated reserves of 2 trillion cubic metres. At the same time, we are now exploring the Tambei group of fields.
New gas production capacities are being created at the same time with gas transmission capacities. New gas transmission capacities have been created in the northern corridor to transmit 115 billion cubic metres of gas from Bovanenkovo and today we are putting into operation the Ukhta-Torzhok 2 main gas pipeline. The northern gas transmission corridor is becoming crucial for the country’s unified gas supply system, both for supplying the domestic market and for export.
Now we will go to Director General of Gazprom Transgaz Ukhta.
Vladimir Putin: Please, Mr Gaivoronsky.
Director General of Gazprom Transgaz Ukhta Alexander Gaivoronsky: Mr President, Mr Miller,
This is Director General of Gazprom Transgaz Ukhta Alexander Gaivoronsky.
Gazprom Transgaz Ukhta Director General Alexander Gaivoronsky during the launch ceremony of the third (final) production facility at the Bovanenkovo oil and gas condensate field.
We are at the production control department operating main gas pipelines in the northern corridor.
The primary function of the northern corridor is sending gas from the Bovanenkovo field to consumers in Russia and abroad. Our company operates over 16,000 km of pipeline, including Bovanenkovo-Ukhta (first and second lines), Ukhta-Torzhok and Ukhta-Torzhok 2, the 970 km pipeline we are putting into operation today.
Mr President, Mr Miller,
I can now report that the Ukhta-Torzhok 2 pipeline infrastructure is connected to Russia’s unified gas supply system and gas is flowing in the target volumes.
That concludes my report.
Alexei Miller: Mr President,
Exactly 10 years ago, in December 2008, it was decided to create a new gas production centre in Russia on the Yamal Peninsula. Today we have brought a major field of this new gas extraction centre to the target capacity of 115 billion cubic metres of gas a year.
That concludes my report.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
I will repeat this number: 16.7 trillion cubic metres of gas on Yamal alone. These are vast reserves that are global in scale and will allow Russia to move confidently in the direction of consolidating its power security, and to guarantee reliable deliveries to our foreign partners.
Once again, congratulations on this result which is important for the whole economy of Russia.
I wish you new successes and achievements.
Thank you.
Topics
Energy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 5, 2018, 15:10
Text versionEvents
Presenting the Volunteer of Russia 2018 award
Vladimir Putin attended the Volunteer of Russia 2018 award ceremony held on the International Volunteer Day.
December 5, 2018
14:00
Moscow
1 of 5
Vladimir Putin attended the Volunteer of Russia 2018 award ceremony.
Vladimir Putin presented the Volunteer of Russia 2018 award to Anton Korotchenko from the Smolensk Region for his Healthy Village project.
The award ceremony was held as part of the International Volunteer Forum, the final event of the Year of Volunteer in Russia.
* * *
Speech at the award ceremony
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends,
It makes me so happy to address you as friends, because many people would like to have friends like you.
Greetings on the Volunteer Day.
Remark: Thanks!
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
I would like to greet all Russian volunteers who are with us today, in the audience and behind me, as well as our guests from 120 countries. Warm greetings to you all.
Friends, the volunteer movement embodies the best human qualities such as sympathy, kindness, cordiality and a civic stand. The latter is very important, and this is why.
By doing what you do, that is, by helping people in hospitals and hospices, helping people with disabilities, by taking care of our forests, our wildlife and our nature as a whole, by helping to open up our country to our guests from many countries during major sports or political events, you are doing an extremely important thing not only for yourself or those you are helping, but also for our society as a whole.
When people see what you are doing, they not only take the cue from you but they also interpret this as a sign of stability and social reliability. This is making our society better and all of us more balanced and more resistant to internal and external stress. There have always been many things that can stress you out anywhere, including in our country. This is why we are grateful to you.
Vladimir Putin attended the Volunteer of Russia 2018 award ceremony.
This does not mean that the volunteer movement ends when the Year of Volunteer ends in 2018. Of course, the volunteer movement will continue, and government support for volunteers will certainly continue, too. Soon my colleagues at the State Council and I will talk about it and think what can be done to help you further.
I want to wish all of you – those who help other people – happiness and good luck. I would like all of you to be personally happy.
Thank you very much for everything.
Host of the Volunteer of Russia 2018 award ceremony Dmitry Guberniyev: Mr President, last year you presented the main prize, the Volunteer of the Year award. Let's continue this tradition, with our wonderful young people chanting “thank you.”
Host of the Volunteer of Russia 2018 award ceremony Ksenia Vasilyeva: And the volunteer of the year is – Anton Korotchenko, 24, Smolensk, the Healthy Village project! Let’s give him a round of applause.
(Vladimir Putin presents the award.)
Dmitry Guberniyev: Anton Korotchenko has received this prestigious award from the hands of the President of Russia. And now, we give the floor to Anton, so that the entire country can hear our main volunteer live.
Anton Korotchenko: Thank you very much. But this victory is not only mine – it is a victory of a large team. It is thanks to these people that I am now standing on this stage.
Guys, you are the best. Thank you!
The Volunteer of Russia 2018 award ceremony. With Anton Korotchenko, declared Volunteer of the Year for his Healthy Village project.
I am sure that every volunteer here in this hall, every volunteer now helping someone in some remote part of our country deserves this statuette.
After all, everything we do is valuable and important.
Dmitry Guberniyev: Thank you!
Vladimir Putin: Anton is right: each of you deserves this statuette – those who are here in this hall and those who are not with us today. Because the entire volunteer movement would not be able to fit in here, in one hall, even a very large one. Therefore, congratulating you all on the Volunteer Day, congratulating you all on your personal results, I would like to ask a question that is probably rhetorical: will we continue doing good deeds?
Remark: Yes!
Vladimir Putin: Thank you!
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 5, 2018, 14:00
Text versionEvents
Answers to media questions
Vladimir Putin answered media questions after the Volunteer of Russia 2018 award ceremony.
December 5, 2018
14:40
Moscow
2 of 2
Answers to media questions.
Remark: Mr President, greetings on Volunteer Day!
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: The same to you.
Question: The number of volunteers has doubled over this year. Their projects received serious support from society and the state. But the Year of Volunteer is ending. You have just said that the state will continue to support volunteers’ projects. How will you do this?
Vladimir Putin: We have special support mechanisms for this.
As for the volunteers who take part in major international events, such as the Olympics or football championships, we have established a system of training at many educational establishments, which have been specially selected for this and which offer regular courses. The next event of this kind will be the Winter Universiade in Krasnoyarsk. We started working with young people and the so-called silver volunteers [people aged 50+] who want to be involved in this, long ago, and we will continue this work.
Regarding volunteer work in other areas, all of which are very important and include helping those who need your help, protecting forests and wildlife, as I said in my speech for the volunteers at the award ceremony, we must provide administrative and financial support. The volunteers usually work for free, but the state must finance the creation of the necessary conditions for their work.
We have a system of grants, which we will continue to provide in 2019 and beyond. Moreover, we have been gradually increasing the size of these grants, and we will do this next year as well.
Question: I apologise for going off the subject, but the international frenzy over the Kerch Strait incident continues to grow, and we keep hearing President Poroshenko’s complaints about not being able to reach you over the telephone. He is complaining to Western politicians and to Western journalists. Could you perhaps tell us what kind of environment could make this conversation happen?
Vladimir Putin: The problem is not me avoiding or not willing to have a conversation with Mr Poroshenko; it is not that. The problem is that I do not wish to participate in his election campaign.
What do you think is really going on here? Mr Poroshenko skilfully masterminds crisis situations, which are, in fact, provocations – step one. Step two: he immediately shifts the responsibility for them to Russia. And then, step three – he instantly wants to show everyone that he is successfully dealing with problems – problems, for which “he is not responsible”. That is what this is about. That is one pretty unsophisticated routine. I do not wish to take part in these routines, and I will not.
Question: Mr President, back to the international agenda: yesterday US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo basically issued an ultimatum, saying that Russia has 60 days to correct the alleged violations of the Intermediate-range Nuclear Forces (INF) treaty. The Americans state that we created missiles that violate the terms of the treaty.
How will we react to these statements? How will we respond?
Vladimir Putin: It is very simple. First of all, it is obvious and known to all by now – Mr Pompeo’s statement is somewhat late. It was the American side that announced its plans to quit the INF treaty first; only then they started casting about for a justification for doing this.
The most important justification is that we violated something. At the same time, as always, no actual proof of violations on our part has been provided.
As a reminder, in 2002, the United States, just as in this case, unilaterally withdrew from the anti-ballistic missile treaty. The ABM treaty is one of the cornerstones of the international security system. Nevertheless, they just walked out without any second thoughts. By the way, they did not even bother to invent any reasons – just withdrew, and that was that.
Now, in fact, the same thing is happening, only they are trying to find someone to blame for this decision – I would say a rather reckless decision.
The arguments cited are essentially clear: Russia and the United States are the only countries that do not produce weapons of this kind. This is actually true. Many other countries – probably about a dozen already – make such weapons, while Russia and the United States have limited themselves bilaterally. Now, apparently, our American partners decided that the situation has changed so much that the United States should also have such weapons.
What will our response be? Simple: then we will do it too.
Allow me to remind you that this year, I think, the US Congress earmarked funds for R&D projects to create these missiles, even before they announced withdrawal from this treaty. That is, the decision was made a long time ago, only quietly.
They thought we would not notice, but we did – the Pentagon budget includes the development of these missiles. Only after that they publicly announced that they were withdrawing from the deal. Their next step was to look for someone to blame; “Russia” is the first word that comes to mind and sounds familiar to a regular Westerner’s ear.
This is not true. We do not agree with the destruction of this deal. But if this happens, we will react accordingly.
See also
Presenting the Volunteer of Russia 2018 award
December 5, 2018
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 5, 2018, 14:40
Text version