Events
Meeting on space sector development
The President held a meeting on space sector development.
August 8, 2018
15:20
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 2
Meeting on space sector development.
The meeting participants discussed the implementation of the programmes to develop the space sector and measures to ensure its stable growth.
The meeting was attended by First Deputy Prime Minister – Finance Minister Anton Siluanov
, Deputy Prime Minister Yury Borisov
, Presidential Aide Andrei Belousov
, Deputy Commander-in-Chief of the Aerospace Forces and Commander of the Russian Space Forces Alexander Golovko, and General Director of the Roscosmos State Corporation for Space Activities Dmitry Rogozin
.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
As you know, a few weeks ago we met with the new leadership of Roscosmos corporation. Today we will continue analysing the situation in the space sector. This sector is of strategic importance for the country. Its steady and progressive development is essential for building up Russia’s defence capability and national security, for enhancing the country’s scientific potential and for creating innovative commercial technology.
Space exploration and making use of the opportunities it offers to serve the interests of the economy and social sphere are major areas for Russia’s technological breakthrough.
Today I suggest discussing the implementation of the programmes for the development of the rocket and space industry and additional measures to ensure its stabile and balanced growth.
Instructions were issued to the Government and Roscosmos in this connection, primarily to increase the orbital group, create a super heavy-lift launch vehicle, implement a manned flight programme and complete the construction of the Vostochny Space Launch Centre. I hope to hear reports on the implementation of these instructions today.
It should be noted that Russia has the necessary design, engineering and technical capabilities to successfully implement all of these projects, as well as the experience of designing complex space equipment and unique space exploration competences.
At the same time, our space industry must consistently improve the quality of its products and works, which should come at globally competitive prices. This is the key condition for increasing the industry’s commercial potential to ensure its successful operation on the global market, where competition, or even rivalry, continues to increase.
We must create conditions for fruitful and coordinated work of all space industry companies and their personnel, including designers, engineers and workers. We must also enhance the financial stability of these companies and provide additional social guarantees and incentives for improving the professional skills of their personnel and for attracting young talented professionals.
I propose discussing these matters in detail today. Before giving the floor to Commander of the Space Forces – Deputy Commander-in-Chief of the Aerospace Forces Alexander Golovko, I would like to listen to what Dmitry Rogozin can offer us. I know that he wants to submit proposals on the further development, promotion and commercialisation of GLONASS, as well as the continued commercialisation of remote sensing systems. Mr Rogozin, please.
General Director of the Roscosmos State Corporation for Space Activities Dmitry Rogozin: Thank you, Mr President.
At our previous meeting, we talked about the possibilities to further upgrade our GLONASS group, improve the signal, which should be more precise, and talked about the development of commercial services, including on Earth. I would like to make a proposal related to the practice that we use for road transport.
Based on your instructions, starting from January 1, 2017, we introduced a new procedure requiring all vehicles produced in Russia or supplied to Russia to be equipped with ERA-GLONASS units. This has already saved hundreds of lives. We are even ahead of European practice here. We propose to introduce a similar practice when Russian airlines buy or lease foreign-made aircraft and even more so, aircraft made in Russia. They should all be equipped the same way – and we propose making it a legal requirement – with GLONASS or GLONASS-GPS modules in some cases. This will enable more accurate navigation for the crews. We have airports equipped with this system, but the planes, which are still mostly foreign-made, do not have these units. I would ask you to support my proposal. I have prepared a report and will submit it to you today.
And the second question. I would like to show you an album today after the meeting. Since April 2014, we have been photographing the Crimean Bridge, while it was being built. From the first step on each autoshot path, 240 paths in all, were shot monthly by our satellite-based remote sensing devices. Now we have a group of 10 satellites; in a few years, there will be 23. This is also a very important area for the commercialisation of space activities. At present we can remotely monitor how objects change, observe changes in the landscape, changes in the natural environment, illegal logging and many other things.
Before the end of this month we will be presenting the latest capabilities of Roscosmos and its orbital group to the federal districts and the regional governors. These new capabilities need to be commercialised and promptly introduced into the national economy. I will report to you in detail, today.
Vladimir Putin: I support this. Please discuss it in due course with the Government and submit your proposals.
Thank you.
<…>
Topics
Space
Persons
Belousov Andrei
Borisov Yury
Rogozin Dmitry
Siluanov Anton
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 8, 2018, 15:20
Text version