Events
Meeting with President of Sudan Omar al-Bashir
Vladimir Putin met with President of the Republic of Sudan Omar al-Bashir in the Kremlin.
July 14, 2018
17:40
Moscow, Kremlin
2 of 4
Meeting with President of the Republic of Sudan Omar Al-Bashir.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President,
esteemed colleagues,
It is a pleasure to welcome you in Russia.
We met a little more than six months ago in Sochi. Now we can talk once again within the framework of the 2018 FIFA World Cup, as part of these events.
I must say that over this period of time – a short one, but still – there have been positive changes in our relations. The trade turnover, in general, is not big yet, but the pace is very good – a twofold increase over the past year.
Sudan became a major buyer of our wheat: almost 1.5 million tonnes were purchased in the previous period.
We have very good opportunities to develop relations in a number of areas including the military-technical sphere, and this cooperation is developing.
We are happy to see you, Mr President. Welcome.
President of Sudan Omar al-Bashir (retranslated): Thank you very much, we value highly and are grateful to you for this chance to meet. It is extremely pleasant for me that during our visit to Russia for various events, we have a chance to meet in person.
Let me congratulate you on the successful World Cup, which is taking place in your country, and let me assure you that this is the best World Cup in history.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Omar al-Bashir: This is why, in your person, I would like to congratulate the entire Russian people and your colleagues.
Let me also congratulate you and all the Russian people on your re-election to the post of President of the Russian Federation.
And as you correctly said, Mr President, after our last meeting in Sochi, our relations really demonstrated a positive dynamic.
As for the economic sphere, we are developing a programme to share information and opinions on how we can develop these relations.
Russian companies, including those producing mineral resources, actively work in Sudan. There will also be a meeting devoted to the agricultural sphere in September.
We hope that work to start tourist exchanges will kick off soon. We also encourage the participation of Russian oil and gas companies, so that they would work in our country.
Of course, there are positive shifts in the military-technical sphere and in military cooperation. We see big exchanges between specialists of Russia and Sudan. A big number of Russian specialists work in our country and this is why we highly praise the role that your country plays in preparing Sudanese military personnel. I would like to thank and express gratitude for the experience Russia shares with our country in this sphere – military-technical and military.
As for the political field, we highly praise the dialogue taking shape between our officials and the position that Russia holds on the international arena. I am referring to the position of your country as opposed to the position of London at the UN Security Council regarding the withdrawal of forces of the UNAMID mission.
 <…>
Geography
Sudan
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 14, 2018, 17:40
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of Moldova Igor Dodon
Vladimir Putin met with President of the Republic of Moldova Igor Dodon.
July 14, 2018
17:00
Moscow, Kremlin
2 of 3
Meeting with President of Moldova Igor Dodon.
Attending the meeting on the Russian side were Presidential Aide Yuri Ushakov
, Minister of Foreign Affairs Sergei Lavrov
, Deputy Prime Minister and Special Presidential Representative for the Development of Trade and Economic Relations with the Republic of Moldova Dmitry Kozak
.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, colleagues,
Allow me, from the very bottom of my heart, to offer you my sincere greetings and to welcome you here in the Kremlin.
We regularly meet at various venues, but this time we are glad to see you in Moscow.
Mr President, we closely follow the development of the situation with our neighbors, including that in Moldova, we see the efforts you undertake to stabilise Russian-Moldovan relations, and we will facilitate this process in every possible way.
You must be aware already that a special presidential representative for the development of trade and economic ties with the Republic of Moldova has been appointed – Deputy Prime Minister of the Russian Government, Mr Kozak. I hope that, with his experience, he will substantially facilitate our cooperation.
We will talk today about these areas of our efforts to stabilise and develop inter-governmental ties.
President of Moldova Igor Dodon
: Thank you very much.
Mr Putin, esteemed colleagues,
First of all, let me congratulate you on the top level organisation of the FIFA World Cup and a very good performance by the Russian national team. Believe me, all of Moldova – not only the President, but everyone followed the games and are pleased with the result you achieved.
I am very happy to exchange [views] with you on issues of bilateral cooperation. Of course, the latest period has seen ups and downs in our relations.
Among the positive aspects I would stress that, pursuant to our agreements [reached] 18 months ago, when I paid my first visit to the Russian Federation as President, during this period supplies of our goods to the market of the Russian Federation substantially increased thanks to our joint efforts.
Issues on immigrants were resolved. I would like to stress that there was serious progress on the Transnistria matter. I had three meetings with the leader of Transnistria over the period of the last 1.5 years and we were able to substantially resolve the issues on the agenda for resolving problems of the residents of both the left and the right banks.
In connection with this, I would like to re-affirm my position and the position of most citizens of the Republic of Moldova: we believe that the peacemaking mission in the Dniester, the role of Russian peacemakers – this is a successful mission and attempts to undermine or discredit it – believe me, most citizens of the Republic of Moldova understand this. Moreover, last week marked 26 years of this peacekeeping mission, we consider it a success and one that should be continued.
I would like to thank you for the cooperation you provided in getting us observer status at the Eurasian Economic Union. The first session with our employees has already taken place in Moscow. For us this direction and integration projects within the CIS are very important and we believe that both as part of the CIS and the Eurasian Economic Union we can achieve additional results for our economic agents.
Our position is clear and understandable. We want to be friends with everyone, but we do not want to be used geopolitically against someone else. We do not intend to be friends with the West against Russia, this is my position. And despite the fact that within the country there is the Government and a parliamentary majority that might think differently, in several months elections will be held and the situation will change.
I would like to say a big thank you for the new special representative, a person who has serious experience in this area. I hope we will meet with him in the upcoming days and discuss everything in greater detail.
<…>
Geography
Moldova
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Dodon Igor
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 14, 2018, 17:00
Text version