Events
Greetings on Interior Ministry Personnel Day
During a visit to Kikot Moscow University of the Interior Ministry of Russia Vladimir Putin addressed the current and former law enforcement officers and congratulated them on their professional holiday.
November 10, 2018
14:00
Greetings on Interior Ministry Personnel Day.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Comrade officers, veterans,
I wish you a happy holiday – Interior Ministry Personnel Day.
You have chosen a difficult occupation, one that is more than a job – it is your destiny. Because when you are handed a service weapon or are vested with special authority, your shoulders immediately feel an enormous weight of responsibility for performing these executive duties.
Law enforcement officers have always enjoyed a special respect in our country, those of them who honestly and diligently carry out their duties.
It took decades for the police traditions to establish. I would now like to go back to the veterans and thank them for what they have already done for their country, for our people and the service, and for what they are doing today as they share their experience with young police officers.
It is a special service, of course, as it requires cutting-edge knowledge and modern technology and equipment handling skills which we saw here today inside this leading educational establishment of the Interior Ministry.
But a successful service record has always been and will be grounded in the main qualities and principles that a police officer is guided by: personal integrity, honesty, commitment to their job and duty.
We know of examples, including in recent history, and we will never forget our comrades who gave the most valuable thing they had – their lives – for the sake of serving their people, country and our citizens.
I would like to congratulate your family members and wish them health and patience. I am sure that traditions of mutual respect, support for each other and love will be growing in your families because without that one can be neither happy at home nor have a successful service record.
Happy holiday and good luck!
See also
Visit to Moscow University of Russia’s Interior Ministry
November 10, 2018
Topics
Law enforcement agencies
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 10, 2018, 14:00
Text versionEvents
Ivan Turgenev monument unveiled in Moscow
Vladimir Putin attended the unveiling ceremony for the monument to outstanding Russian writer Ivan Turgenev and also toured the renewed exhibit at the writer’s restored House-Museum on Ostozhenka Street.
November 10, 2018
14:30
Moscow
2 of 7
At the unveiling ceremony for the monument to writer Ivan Turgenev.
The monument became part of the Turgenev Block architectural and museum compound, which includes the writer’s museum-house and adjacent garden and park on Ostozhenka Street in Moscow.
The sculpture is by National Artist of the Russian Federation Sergei Kazantsev.
* * *
Speech at the unveiling ceremony for Ivan Turgenev monument
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends,
First of all, let me greet you on the 200th anniversary of the birth of Ivan Turgenev, a great Russian writer. It is impossible to imagine Russian classical literature without him.
Celebrations marking this remarkable and wonderful anniversary are underway in the classic’s homeland in Orel, in the famous Turgenev reserve Spasskoye Lutovinovo, and all across Russia. This event is also marked abroad.
We have gathered today for the unveiling of Ivan Turgenev monument in Moscow. It was erected in the historical place closely connected to the Moscow period in the writer’s biography. Next to it is an old mansion where Turgenev lived when he visited his mother. His friends and contemporaries used to come here.
We have just discussed this with Mr Sobyanin
[Mayor of Moscow] – surprisingly, this building in the centre of Moscow has remained intact. It just looks like the work of Providence, it is a miracle. Thank God for it and that we were able to arrange an exhibition, and open the Turgenev House-Museum.
Its exhibition is unparalleled in many ways: true artefacts of the era will be showcased here, new opportunities will arise for holding exhibits, concerts, educational programmes to learn about the writer’s works.
We know that he spent many years abroad: many masterpieces of Turgenev’s prose were conceived there, whereas his translations [from Russian into foreign languages] gave the world the most renowned works of Russian literature.
The greatness of his personality and talent had been noted by his contemporaries, outstanding authors of the 19th century. Thus, George Sand wrote to Turgenev that they all must become his apprentices.
Meanwhile, Ivan Turgenev always remained a Russian, praising the beauty of the native tongue, the nature, the grandeur and soul of our people. He remained a Russian writer and a Russian man.
One of the most-read authors of his time, he reached out to the people, their sentiments and feelings, true eternal values, and this is the reason his works will always enjoy a great following.
It is our duty to preserve the classic’s legacy because Turgenev’s works are indeed not just our national cultural heritage but also that of the world. I am confident that the new monument that has appeared on the map of Moscow sights, and the Turgenev Museum-House will serve this noble cause.
Thank you.
See also
Message of greetings on bicentenary of Ivan Turgenev’s birth
November 9, 2018
Topics
Culture
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 10, 2018, 14:30
Text version