Events
Working meeting with Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev
Vladimir Putin held a working meeting with Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev, who presented the new government structure.
May 15, 2018
20:15
Sochi
Dmitry Medvedev also reported that proposals on the cabinet makeup would be presented on May 18.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Go ahead.
Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev
: Mr President, under Article 112 of the Constitution, the Prime Minister is required to present the composition of the Government of the Russian Federation to the President within one week. Fulfilling this obligation, I would like to submit the relevant executive order for your consideration.
This is what the suggested structure consists of.
First, considering that the current Government has proven effective, there are no major changes in the suggested new structure.
See also
Executive Order On the Structure of Federal Executive Bodies of Power
May 15, 2018
However, there are a number of important proposals aimed at streamlining the current system of executive government bodies. I am referring to dividing the Ministry of Education and Science into two separate bodies to deal with education issues in the country, notably the Ministry of Education that will be in charge of general education, that is, school and special vocational education, and the Ministry of Science and Higher Education that will be responsible for the activities of research institutions and the development of science in the country as a whole, and, consequently the performance of universities and other higher educational institutions.
This will allow us to make better use of our potential in the development of both education systems. With this change, the Federal Agency for Scientific Organisations that dealt with the Academy of Sciences will become part of the Ministry of Science and Higher Education. This is one of the suggested changes.
In this case, an agency for oversight over education will be a separate body monitoring national education. It will be under the Government, performing supervisory functions over both secondary schools, higher schools and science.
One more important change submitted for consideration is the transformation of the Ministry of Communications and Mass Media into the Ministry of Digital Development with a view to implementing the digital agenda, on which the whole world is working and which is absolutely urgent in this country, as you, Mr President, mentioned both in your Address to the Federal Assembly and the Executive Order of May 7 of this year.
Another important idea is to transfer trade missions that are now part of the Ministry of Economic Development to the Ministry of Industry. This will allows us to concentrate on supporting exports of our industrial enterprises and technology exports – the issues that the Ministry of Industry is dealing with today anyway. This would be a good merger of their capabilities within the country, while providing trade representation outside it. This is yet another structural change that is being suggested.
The number of deputy prime ministers and some issues linked with staff size and other technological issues of the new Government’s activities have been tailored to what you and I discussed.
Vladimir Putin: All right, agreed. I will sign this executive order today.
Mr Medvedev, when will you be ready to make proposals on staffing?
Dmitry Medvedev: Mr President, I will be ready to visit you on Friday and make proposals on staffing.
Vladimir Putin: All right.
Dmitry Medvedev: It is settled.
<…>
Topics
Civil service
Persons
Medvedev Dmitry
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 15, 2018, 20:15
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Defence Ministry senior officials
The President met with Defence Ministry senior officials in the first of a series of meetings on the development of the Armed Force.
May 15, 2018
20:45
Sochi
6 of 6
Meeting with Defence Ministry senior officials.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
Today we are starting another series of meetings on key issues related to the development of the Armed Forces.
We have worked in this format for more than five years now, and it has proven effective and much in demand during this time. It allows us to fully analyse and consider the dynamically evolving situation and, if need be, to promptly clarify and adjust our plans on modernising the Army and Navy and developing our defence industry, and to make decisions that will ensure the meticulous fulfilment of the state defence order.
In the last few years, we have done much for the consolidation of our Armed Forces. Their structure and numerical strength have been streamlined; surprise checks of combat readiness for all manner of forces are regularly held; units are being steadily equipped with new weapons and hardware.
This year our advanced weapon models and systems without analogues in the world were demonstrated for the first time. They vastly increase our ability to ensure Russia’s security and provide us with strategic balance, maintaining the strategic balance in the world for decades to come. We discussed work on these systems at our previous meetings. We know that they are in different states of readiness. We will continue paying regular attention to these issues.
Chief of the General Staff of the Armed Forces – First Deputy Defence Minister Valery Gerasimov (left) and Deputy Defence Minister Yury Borisov before the meeting with Defence Ministry senior officials.
Clearly, we need to keep moving, consistently modernise the Army and the Navy, develop them in all core areas.
The strategic nuclear forces undoubtedly are critically important for defence and security. In accordance with the State Armament Programme we will continue the scheduled replacement of expired Topol missile systems with cutting-edge Yars systems. Fourteen missile regiments will have to be equipped with them by the end of December.
During the year the air component of the “nuclear triad” will be reinforced with upgraded Tu-95MS and Tu-160 missile carriers that will carry modern long-range cruise missiles Kh-101 and Kh-102. The construction of Borei strategic missile submarines is to proceed strictly according to schedule.
One of the priorities is improving means of countering high-precision weapons and their carriers. We must actively develop and enhance technological capabilities in air defence, continue modernising the Pantsir complex, and complete the design and preparations for batch production of the newest S-500 system which is capable of operating at ultra-high altitudes including near space.
Please report on how work is progressing in these areas.
Absolute priorities include increasing the Navy’s combat capabilities, primarily by equipping vessels with Kalibr missiles, and installing cutting-edge reconnaissance and target designation systems. Their use will considerably enhance precision and will ensure a high concentration of strikes on target.
Acting Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu before the meeting with Defence Ministry senior officials.
And it is definitely crucial to develop the Land Forces. They play a special role in ensuring Russia’s security. They must be prepared to promptly and effectively neutralise potential threats in all strategic areas.
We must continue to provide units with cutting-edge weapons and equipment including combat vehicles based on the Armata, Kurganets-25, Bumerang, and Taifun unified platforms, and to provide personnel with Ratnik infantry combat gear.
Let us begin our work.
<…>
Topics
Armed Forces
Persons
Shoigu Sergei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 15, 2018, 20:45
Text version