Events
Working meeting with Krasnodar Territory Governor Veniamin Kondratyev
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Krasnodar Territory Governor Veniamin Kondratyev.
May 11, 2018
13:50
Sochi
1 of 3
Working meeting with Governor of Krasnodar Territory Veniamin Kondratyev.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Kondratyev, I know about the situation in the region, because you have recently updated me on it. Today I would like to talk about your plans for the main areas of the region’s development and for attaining the goals set in the Presidential Executive Order of May 7, 2018 with due regard for the region’s specifics and economic conditions.
I know that you would like to talk specifically about the use of marine and other biological water resources, as well as about the development of agriculture and agricultural cooperatives. Let us begin with these issues.
Krasnodar Territory Governor Veniamin Kondratyev
: Mr President, first of all, I would like to say that the May Executive Order is highly relevant and necessary. Speaking objectively as a representative of a region with developed agriculture, I can assure you that the people waited for this executive order and strongly hope that it will be implemented.
Consequently, we adjusted the region’s development strategy, known as the 2030 Strategy, since it runs until 2030. First and foremost, we do realise that financial resources are something we definitely need in order to deliver on your instructions.
Krasnodar Territory’s gross regional product (GRP) increased on average by 2.3 percent in 2017. Considering the objectives you have already set in your Executive Order, our GRP must double, and not just grow incrementally. The region’s GRP currently stands at 2.3 trillion rubles, which means that in order to comply with the Executive Order it must reach 4.5 trillion, at least.
Annual economic growth must be around 4 percent. It goes without saying that the industrial output must at least double, while labour efficiency must grow 2.5-fold. The regional budget must total about 600 billion rubles.
Let me assure you that we will implement all your instructions, taking into consideration that the regional economy is currently in good shape.
Speaking of the economy, Krasnodar Territory is of course an agro-industrial region, so it is a matter of principle for us to keep up this momentum in agriculture, in agribusiness.
<…>
Geography
Krasnodar Territory
Topics
Regions
Persons
Kondratyev Veniamin
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 11, 2018, 13:50
Text version