Events
Congratulations on Agriculture and Processing Industry Workers’ Day
Vladimir Putin congratulated agro-industrial complex workers on their professional holiday, Agriculture and Processing Industry Workers’ Day.
October 14, 2018
00:05
Georgiyevskaya, Stavropol Territory
Vladimir Putin congratulated agro-industrial complex workers on their professional holiday, Agriculture and Processing Industry Workers’ Day.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends,
Together with your colleagues standing here by my side, I would like to sincerely congratulate you on your professional holiday – Agriculture and Processing Industry Workers’ Day.
The labour of those working on land has always enjoyed and will enjoy a special respect in any country, and it has always been like that in Russia. It is no coincidence that you are affectionately called our breadwinners.
In recent year agriculture has shown remarkable growth. Just a short while ago it seemed impossible, it seemed that this could not happen in Russia: agricultural output grew by 20 percent in five years.
Agriculture has turned into a hi-tech industry and established itself as a driver of the Russian economy. Last year alone there was a record-breaking harvest of cereals: 135 million tonnes.
Almost a quarter of our citizens live and work in rural areas, which is why we will certainly keep making living in the countryside more eventful, better, making it possible for people to materialise their plans and intentions, and uncover their best qualities and talents in their native land.
We will do everything in our power to develop healthcare, roads and education. There is a great deal to be done in this respect, but together with you we are sure to move forward, only forward. I am confident that thanks to your talents we will succeed in that.
I would like to wish you all the very best. Success, happiness and wellbeing to you and your families.
Happy holiday!
Topics
Agriculture
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 14, 2018, 00:05
Text version