Events
Meeting with head of A Just Russia political party Sergei Mironov
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with head of A Just Russia political party faction in the State Duma Sergei Mironov.
December 25, 2018
23:45
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 3
At a meeting with head of A Just Russia political party Sergei Mironov.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Mironov, we recently met to discuss the work at hand. Today I would like to talk about your priorities for the short term, for the spring session and the first half of 2019.
Head of A Just Russia political party faction in the State Duma Sergei Mironov
: Mr President, we have already started this discussion. We have submitted a draft law on nationwide renovation to the State Duma. You know about the success of the renovation projects in Moscow. We have prepared a framework law on renovating other cities across Russia. What will be the main difference of these projects from the Moscow ones? In Moscow, new houses are built in place of the obsolete five-story buildings, whereas our renovation plan for other Russian cities stipulates the demolition or renovation of such buildings, including major repairs. In other words, the local authorities can choose which option is preferable. The main part of this framework law is the largest possible protection of the future participants of these renovation projects based on Moscow’s experience.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, but you should bear in mind that these projects in Moscow are financed from the city budget.
Sergei Mironov: Yes, we do, but we also stipulate different kinds of financing, including private investors in the case of certain old houses that are being demolished, land plots right in the city centre. You know that there are many cities in Russia, including beyond the Urals, where condemned houses unfit to live in are located in central districts.
Another law we have drafted is based on your Address to the Federal Assembly, where you set a goal for maintaining the country’s population. We have drafted a law to this effect. We propose 14 criteria for assessing the performance of regional authorities and the federal government. These are well-known criteria. The only thing we did was bring them together in a draft law, which will help us decide which regions are implementing the President’s May Executive Orders and the tasks you set out in your Address to the Federal Assembly, and which are dragging their feet.
The third bill that we have submitted and will be considering in the coming year is the law on social entrepreneurship. There are businesses in Russia that either produce certain goods used for social needs, such as products for people with disabilities, or employ people with disabilities at their facilities. Today, unfortunately, they have no preferences or legal guarantees. We do not think even the concept of social entrepreneurship is reflected in our legislation.
And there is one more issue. In the coming year, we will probably be forced to return to the subject of the Paris Agreement and climate change, as I have already reported to you. I was pleased that you said recently at the Energy Forum that the so-called anthropogenic factor has not yet been scientifically proven. This is really so. But at the same time, what they are trying to do now, because we have already seen that a draft law has been submitted, to put it in simple terms is, we are cutting the bough we are sitting on. We will be forced to reduce gas and oil production. We will actually restrict the industry… I think that the Climate Doctrine of the Russian Federation and our participation in general should be considered from the national security perspective. I have prepared a separate letter to you on this matter. Our scientists from Moscow State University have developed their ideas, including a scientifically based concept on climate change. I will hand it over to you.
Vladimir Putin: I do not think such threats exist in reality here. But of course, let us see and make sure that they do not arise.
Sergei Mironov: That is right. Indeed, there are no threats so far. But they can arise.
Vladimir Putin: As for our further work, I hope that we will constructively work with your faction in 2019. I would like to thank you for your work in the outgoing year.
Sergei Mironov: Thank you, Mr President. I have already said and will repeat with great pleasure that our faction in the State Duma has had a unique outcome this year: 25 bills were passed into laws, and 18 adopted in the first and second reading.
<…>
Topics
Parties
Persons
Mironov Sergei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 25, 2018, 23:45
Text versionEvents
Meeting with the leaders of the Federation Council and the State Duma
Vladimir Putin met in the Kremlin with the leaders of the Federation Council, the State Duma and dedicated committees of both chambers. The participants discussed the MPs’ work in 2018, and their priorities in developing and upgrading legislation next year.
December 25, 2018
20:20
The Kremlin, Moscow
3 of 7
Meeting with the leaders of the Federation Council and the State Duma.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, Ms Matviyenko, Mr Volodin, colleagues,
By tradition we meet ahead of the New Year. I am very glad to see all of you. We have an opportunity of summing up the results of your work in the outgoing year. Just recently we celebrated the 25th anniversary of the Russian Constitution and both chambers of the Federal Assembly. Indeed, we have traversed a very long road together, and accumulated a great deal of valuable experience during this time. You and your colleagues have shaped and continue developing our legislation and consolidating Russia’s legal system generally.
It is enough to say that over 8,000 laws have been adopted in the past quarter of a century. Understandably, the number of legislative acts is not the main indicator. What is much more important is their quality and systemic character, and concordance with public expectations and vital demands, as well as the fundamental tasks of national development.
The past year has shown that these priorities and understanding of national interests form the foundation of your work and serve as a guide for the efforts – despite the differences in views – of all parliamentary parties and regional lawmakers. This ensures constructive cooperation between all branches of power.
I would like to thank you for your support and meticulous work on the key decisions of this year, including the initiatives set out in the Address to the Federal Assembly and the May Executive Order, the funding for which has already been included into the new federal law on the budget.
Now it is very important to achieve success in implementing every national project, to move swiftly and confidently and to reach all of the set goals so that our people could feel the real positive results, the practical results of our joint work already in the upcoming year.
In this context I would like to ask you to pay special attention to the people on the ground, and to be in constant contact with your voters. In fact, this is exactly what you are doing.
It is necessary to step up open and practical work with public associations, trade unions and the business community. You should initiate an independent civil expertise of all legislative acts and draft laws that are being studied by the Federal Assembly, and keep in close contact with your colleagues in the regions, in particular, by actively using the potentialities of the Council of Legislators.
Today, regional work is extremely important and I have talked about this in public many times, as, I am sure, you know. The huge resources that we channel into the implementation of national projects will be used for the most part at the regional level. Therefore, coordination and joint work must be smooth.
We will be faced with ambitious tasks next year and much will depend on the professional, responsible work of the legislative and representative branches of power. I am hoping for the further continuation of our joint work.
Naturally, I would like to use this opportunity to wish all of you a happy New Year.
Thank you for your attention.
<…>
Topics
Parties
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 25, 2018, 20:20
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Communist Party leader Gennady Zyuganov
Vladimir Putin met with leader of the Communist Party of the Russian Federation (KPRF) faction at the State Duma Gennady Zyuganov.
December 25, 2018
22:45
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 3
Meeting with leader of the Communist Party of the Russian Federation (KPRF) faction in the State Duma Gennady Zyuganov.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Zyuganov, we recently met and agreed to hold a separate meeting, so here we are.
I would also like to thank you for your work, and please convey my best wishes to the members of your faction in the State Duma. I know that very often your position on some issues does not coincide with the Government’s opinion. But at the same time, on key issues, fateful for our country’s life, I know that you take a patriotic stance, for which I am very grateful to you, and I appreciate it very much.
I hope that, despite the differences in tactical approaches, and maybe not only tactical, we will still be able to find common ground to act cooperatively in the interests of the country.
Head of the Communist Party faction in the State Duma Gennady Zyuganov
: Thank you, Mr President.
You know that Russia has always been the most important political party for me. I have supported all strategic initiatives aimed at strengthening the country's position, the well-being of the working people and a decent standard of living for every citizen. Moreover, I believe that your Address to the Federal Assembly has set us realistic goals of reaching world development rates (they currently stand at around 3.5 percent) and joining the top five most powerful states.
Our main goal though is eradicating poverty. We have prepared our own programme to deal with it, Ten Steps Towards a Decent Life, with the main emphasis on reaching these rates in 2019 and getting tangible results, as you also said today.
We have reviewed the performance of several regions that our comrades are governing. Sergei Levchenko in Irkutsk has increased the growth rate to 4 percent; he has done a great deal to settle the region’s debt, which has decreased by one-third, and has prepared an action plan for the next five years. The average monthly wage at the employee-owned company in Usolye-Sibirskoye, which was established 40 years ago, has reached 100,000 rubles, and the management has preserved all social benefits.
The growth rate is truly impressive, and I am sure that employee-owned companies will fare even better under these conditions. We have balanced the accounts for all employee-owned companies. You probably remember the Zvenigovsky meat processing plant, for example, which you helped protect from raiders. Today the company has 200,000 pigs and 6,000 cattle. They have built a new dairy plant and won many medals at the IFFA meat industry fair in Frankfurt, which placed it among the top companies not only in Russia but also in Europe. They are now expanding the chain of stores: they have over 600 from Udmurtia to Ulyanovsk. The stores are happy to take Zvenigovsky products, which are moderately priced. I am sure that many companies can do the same in the future.
I invited you to the Lenin Collective Farm, which has recently marked its 100th anniversary and where the average monthly wage is 90,000 rubles. A wonderful children’s centre and a school opened there in time for the celebrations, and you promised to visit them. Many ministers, company leaders and journalists have visited this school. It is a school of the future. We are now completing the construction of a cheese production facility and a shop where products are sold with only a slight mark-up. This is wonderful.
Overall, we are working on several projects that involve new technologies. We prepared such a project with Novosibirsk Mayor Anatoly Loktev, and we are ready to present it in detail. The launch of the second phase of a unique research centre will help create world-class breakthrough technology. If you approve this project, we will implement it within two or three years.
I am especially grateful to you for my native Orel Region. The growth rate there is over 4 percent, and we have launched a programme of training in blue-collar jobs. We unveiled a monument to Turgenev on his 200th birthday anniversary, which was a marvellous event.
We have recently marked the 100th anniversary of the Komsomol. We had 10,000 visitors from around the world. I was hugely impressed. And they supported us on both Crimea and Donbass. By the way, yesterday we sent the 76th convoy with humanitarian aid to Donbass. Besides, this year, we provided rest and recreation to 2,000 Donbass children, who have become our friends and patriots, which is a matter of principle.
Overall, we have a number of proposals. I believe we will move forward if you agree to consider them.
Vladimir Putin: Let us have a look at them.
<…>
Topics
Parties
Persons
Zyuganov Gennady
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 25, 2018, 22:45
Text version