Events
Meeting with Government members
The President held a regular meeting with Government members.
January 31, 2018
17:00
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
Meeting with Government members.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon.
To begin the meeting, I will ask Mr Puchkov to tell us about assistance to the population during abnormal cold spells and bad weather conditions in a number of Russian regions.
You have the floor.
Minister of Civil Defence, Emergencies and Natural Disaster Relief Vladimir Puchkov
: Mr President, colleagues,
Since January 12, extremely low average daily temperatures – from -40C to -68C, wind speeds of up to 36 m/s and precipitation were registered on the territory of 24 regions of the Far East, Siberia and the Ural Region.
During this period the management bodies and forces of the Uniform State System for Emergencies Prevention and Elimination dealt with 10 emergencies, provided relief after household gas explosions, extinguished over 7,000 fires, rendered assistance in over 3,800 traffic accidents and helped over 6,500 people in other mishaps.
The Emergencies Ministry planned and continues implementing a system of additional measures to organise assistance to the population on the territory of the Far East, Siberia, the Urals and a number of other regions.
First, we have made sure that all critical systems are stable and that the operations of all housing and utilities, educational and medical institutions, and socially important facilities are being monitored. The Emergencies Commission was timely in its introduction of high alert and emergency regimes in 22 regions of the Russian Federation. All anti-crisis management structures under the aegis of the National Crisis Management Centre and over 700 operational groups of local government bodies were placed on high alert.
Secondly, a task force to organise the patrolling and closing of federal, regional, and local roads has been organised. There are 175 mobile and over 1,470 stationary heating, food and refuelling stations. Additional mobile technical support evacuation teams were created at 300 potentially dangerous sections of federal motorways, and truck tractors were brought in as well. This made it possible to provide assistance and support.
Overall, more than 230 vehicles have been evacuated, which were stuck in snowdrifts, with 780 people inside. Each one of them received the necessary assistance.
Mobile medical teams are on duty around the clock on all roads. Of course, priority is given to congestion-prone motorway sections. All heating and food stations, as well as ice crossings and winter roads have been lined with appropriate medical brigades.
Based on the forecast of abnormally low temperatures, 65 airborne units of the Emergencies Ministry totalling over 7,000 men were put on high alert. More than 3,500 additional preventive inspections at housing and utilities sites, transport and infrastructure have been planned and carried out. Equipment of the personnel, readiness of technical equipment, reserves of material resources, availability of supplies with all emergency and recovery teams that work, especially at the level of local government bodies, were also checked.
Over 1,700 intercity bus trips were cancelled. The people were informed in a timely manner and provided with necessary assistance. All new issues were resolved quickly and efficiently.
Unfortunately, during this period there were 86 accidents at housing and utilities sites, and we had to make additional decisions in order to provide uninterrupted service to our households. Thanks to the joint coordinated work of emergency services, all accidents were promptly taken care of and, overall, we can say that these days the number of man-made fires and emergencies has gone down, and all interruptions in service for social infrastructure were under control.
Thirdly, targeted preventive assistance was provided to the population during this period, with all social services and emergency commissions of local government bodies up and running. Particular attention was paid to large families, students, teachers, veterans and elderly people, as well as socially vulnerable groups and people with low mobility. Overall, this made it possible to provide assistance for the specific needs of all these groups.
In addition, extra inspections were conducted in all regions with abnormally low temperatures, all privately owned houses with stove heating, especially disadvantaged households, were put on special monitoring. In some regions, there were weather-related school cancellations at 3,300 schools, and employers were asked to provide leave to parents to make sure that children are not left home unattended. In 16 regions, corresponding announcements were made in advance, and students attended schools at their parents' discretion.
A powerful task force totalling 575,000 people, the appropriate equipment and tools were used to carry out all the work. The management bodies coped with all the tasks, which made it possible to ensure steady operation of all critical systems. Taking into account the weather forecast, the Emergencies Ministry management bodies and forces continue working. We beefed up all the units on duty in central Russia. Over 20 regions were hit by snowfall. All power lines, and federal and regional motorways are being monitored; 540 heating stations and mobile groups were deployed and, of course, people are being informed about weather forecasts and rules of behaviour in these circumstances. All necessary measures are being taken.
At a meeting with Government members.
Mr President, I report that the administrative bodies and forces of the Uniform State System for Emergency Prevention and Relief continue their work, have been properly winterised, and stand ready for any weather.
Vladimir Putin: I see.
And how are power facilities faring, Mr Novak?
Minister of Energy Alexander Novak
: Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, colleagues,
On the whole, during this autumn and winter period, all electric power facilities have been operating in routine mode. There are no significant criticisms of our electric power companies, generating companies or grid companies. No major technological disruptions have occurred. Local technological disruptions are promptly remedied by emergency crews.
We also monitor the situation at all companies, generation facilities above 25 megawatts and electricity mains. Compared with last year, the total drop in technological disruptions is 17.4 percent this autumn and winter.
We also monitor the average duration of power outages. I can state that over the last three years the average outage duration has dropped by 40 percent. In the past the average was one hour and 40 minutes and now we have reached the target of one hour. This is the average, of course and there are some deviations from that.
Currently 48,000 staff, 23,000 units of equipment and 4,500 backup power sources are on full alert. Compared with last year, the increase in resources for remedying technological disruptions went from five to 20 percent, depending on the region.
As for fuel, our generating facilities are also provided with backup fuel sources. Reserves exceed requirements by more than half. In those places where reserves drop below what is mandated for a short time, we take prompt action together with constituent entities of Russia to replenish reserves in short order.
It is also worth pointing out that some regions faced really difficult situations as a result of extreme temperatures, blizzards, high winds and snowfall. This caused technological disruptions in the Far East, on Sakhalin, in Dagestan and the Chechen Republic, but still all required steps were taken to transfer emergency crews from the neighbouring regions to promptly remedy technological disruptions.
The federal and regional headquarters are all operating. On the whole, we are monitoring the situation. There were almost no technical violations in Rosseti networks even during the recent New Year’s holidays. On January 28–29, there were blackouts in the Chechen Republic: about 200,000 consumers lost power. In the first case the power was restored in three hours, in the second case, in a little over an hour.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
The Government drafted amendments to the Forest Code and a number of other laws on forest reclamation. Every year we sustain irreplaceable losses – about 145,000 hectares during the implementation of infrastructure projects and forest clearing. Another 5,000 hectares are lost during felling for timber harvesting. Mr Donskoy, tell us about this, please.
Minister of Natural Resources and Environment Sergey Donskoy
: To begin with, I would like to say that today any forest felling evokes a strong public reaction because forests are a part of nature that has direct bearing on the quality of life. Both public and environmental agencies regularly address the ministry and you. Recently this issue has been raised at news conferences, during the Direct Line, and at meetings with activists of the Russian Popular Front. You said that every year about 145,000 hectares of forest are cut down on the average, during infrastructure projects with linear facilities and about 5,000 hectares of forest are withdrawn from the Forest Fund for the expansion of residential areas. We realise that under current legislation these are irreplaceable forest losses. Mr President, in this context we included in our proposals compensation procedures for forest restoration under a basic principle: if one hectare of forest is cut down, one must be restored. This is a tough principle that will have to be complied with by all those who deal with linear facilities and forest felling.
At the same time, we would use this draft law to substantially upgrade the quality of forest restoration. It sets qualification requirements for operators – sufficient machinery and equipment, enough forest seed and planting stock. By now these proposals have been coordinated with everyone and our task is to introduce them as soon as possible.
I would also like to recall that previously, in accordance with your instructions, we also significantly bolstered the ability of citizens to independently decide the fate of forests in densely populated areas (so-called green zones). Today, forest and green belts are being created. More than 53 regions actively joined this work. Currently, ”green shields“ have already been created in eight regions of the Russian Federation.
At the same time, we understand that the forest is an economic resource that must be put to commercial use. In 2017, a record was set for the past 20 years in timber harvesting: about 216 million cubic metres were produced. But at the same time, last year forest regeneration was carried out on an area of more than 953,000 hectares, which exceeded the area of felling. That is, we have completely restored everything that was cut down.
I would also like to report that in 2018 new rules for forest management, developed jointly with civic organisations, come into effect. Their implementation will improve the commercial characteristics of the Forest Fund and also introduce a model of intensive forest regrowth.
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Fine, thank you.
When will these amendments be introduced?
Sergei Donskoi: We want to work it out together with the State Duma in the spring.
Vladimir Putin: Good, thank you.
Let us now hear from Ms Skvortsova about the introduction of information systems in medicine provision.
Minister of Healthcare Veronika Skvortsova
: Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and colleagues,
In your Address to the Federal Assembly, you set the task of actively using information technologies for more effective oversight of the market of critical medicines. Following your instructions, in order to optimise the prices of medicines purchased for state and municipal needs and, in general, to improve medicine supply, the Ministry of Healthcare together with the state corporation Rostec, the Federal Service for Supervision of Healthcare, the Ministry of Finance, the Federal Treasury and the Federal Anti-Monopoly Service implemented a project to create an information and analytical system of monitoring and control in the procurement of medicines. The system is designed to analyse purchases in terms of customers, suppliers, manufacturers for each INN (international non-proprietary name) and each trademark, establishing reference prices for homogeneous groups of medicines and recording deviations from them.
Meeting with Government members.
Based on technical requirements developed by the Ministry of Healthcare and approved by the Government Commission on Information Technology and Rostech State Corporation, an information and analytical system using domestic and free software was developed and deployed at the computing facilities of the Ministry of Healthcare. This was done without public funds.
(The Minister then covered matters related to creating an information and analytical system, in particular, creating an appropriate legal framework, the Single End-to-End Directory and Catalogue of Medicines, and other measures that help minimise the price of medicines.)
The Federal Antimonopoly Service was a great help throughout this effort. The Ministry of Healthcare, the Finance Ministry and the Federal Treasury, as well as Rostech State Corporation, signed an integration test act with this information and analytical system and the single procurement system. Fully automated information exchanges began on May 29, 2017. This made it possible to conduct online analytical processing of data on purchased medicines and deviations from weighted average contract prices.
Following the pilot programme, in 2017 over 157,000 contracts for purchasing medicines worth over 131 billion rubles have been processed. Under a directive issued by the Ministry of Healthcare, the system went commercial on January 1, 2018, and continues to be populated by procurement data. So, to date, the number of processed contracts has exceeded 247,000 worth over 211 billion rubles. That is about one-third of the total annual volume of essential drugs.
The data accumulated in the information and analytical system forms the basis for calculating the starting or maximum contract prices. The Ministry of Healthcare has developed a directive on the procedure for determining the starting contract price, which was registered by the Ministry of Justice and agreed to by all stakeholder departments.
(Next, specific examples were provided of using the new methodology, which proved to be highly effective, as well as cost savings data.)
In 2018, the information and analytical system will continue to be improved, and an interdepartmental road map with the Ministry of Healthcare, the Federal Treasury, the Finance Ministry, the Federal Antimonopoly Service and Rostech, will be drawn up.
I would also like to say that in 2018 we will create algorithms for responses by monitoring agencies such as the Federal Antimonopoly Service and Roszdravnadzor [Federal Service for Supervision of Healthcare] to revealed violations during the input of information into the Integrated Medical Information and Analytical System [IMIAS]. In future, each stage of purchasing, starting with planning, will be monitored, which will establish a preventive system. So, it will be impossible to enter dubious figures beyond the price corridor into the system, and questionable purchases will be blocked.
Along with ensuring affordable prices on medicines, we are focusing on eliminating counterfeit products. A comprehensive programme on the provision of safe, high quality medicines has received a new section – a system of marking medicines and monitoring their movement. In effect, this system has become a priority project that is being carried out now. A voluntary experiment on container marking was launched on February 1, 2017.
During the last year, and in cooperation with the Healthcare Ministry, Roszdravnadzor and the Finance Ministry, the Federal Tax Service established an information system for marking pharmaceuticals that was integrated with the relevant departments and information systems. It included a full commodity distribution chain from producer to end-user. A free mobile application has been developed and made publicly available. Any person can check on a smart phone the legitimacy of a drug bought at a pharmacy.
Before the meeting with Government members. Accounts Chamber Chairperson Tatyana Golikova and Emergencies Minister Vladimir Puchkov.
Today over 1,380 production, pharmaceutical and medical organisations are taking part in the pilot programme on 116 medicine titles. By now 7,765,000 packs have been marked.
The first year of the experiment confirmed the efficiency of the system. The introduction of markings does not lead to considerable price hikes. The maximum price increase is up to half a ruble per pack even for the least expensive medicines. At the same time the system makes it possible to identify pharmaceutical distribution related crime. In the first three months, violations worth more than 100 million rubles were identified. Importantly, these were detailed violations linked with the repeated introduction into the market of medicines that were purchased by the state.
The main objective of the second year of the experiment is to scale the labelling system for all regions of the country and connect all medicine supply channels to it, for which there are coordinating centres in each region that are responsible for connecting pharmaceutical and medical organisations. In addition, great work is done by the Ministry of Industry and Trade to provide manufacturers with the necessary equipment.
International experience shows that, given the fact that the volume of the Russian pharmaceuticals markets exceeds 7 billion packs representing over 1.34 trillion rubles, it will take some five years to introduce such a labelling system. At the same time, the first two or three years are spent creating databases, pass-through structured reference guides and providing equipment to manufacturers. We consider it possible to significantly shorten the time frame for the introduction of this system in our country due to the fact that the Uniform Catalogue of Medicines has already been created.
The Federal Tax Service has significant experience in labelling fur products. In addition, in the first quarter of this year, the state corporation Rostec plans to start production of domestic equipment for labelling medicines, which will make it possible to reduce the cost of equipment for manufacturers by 25–30 percent. This further facilitates the task.
The process is enhanced by the fact that the EU countries will launch the mandatory labelling of medicines from January 1, 2019. Expansion of the labelling system will be carried out in accordance with the federal law adopted in December 2017. Mandatory labelling will be introduced on January 1, 2020. At the same time, the Russian Government has the authority and roadmaps to accelerate the introduction of labelling for certain segments of the medicine market. First of all, this concerns expensive medicines in seven nosologies and high price segments of critical drugs. Currently, all project activities are being implemented in accordance with the roadmap.
In conclusion, I would like to say that in the future, as part of the Unified State Health Information System, the two information systems will be linked to monitor, purchase and supply medicines, which will make the oversight system even more efficient and transparent.
Thank you.
<…>
Topics
Energy
Healthcare
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 31, 2018, 17:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Prime Minister of Belgium Charles Michel
At his suburban residence in Novo-Ogaryovo, Vladimir Putin received Prime Minister of Belgium Charles Michel.
January 31, 2018
18:10
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Michel, colleagues, welcome and good afternoon.
Last year marked the 300th anniversary of Peter the Great’s visit to Belgium. This year marks the 165th anniversary of diplomatic relations that were established during the reign of the first King of Belgium. Leopold I, who, as you know, was part of Russian Emperor Alexander I’s entourage and was enlisted in Russian military service in his early childhood. So we have good, solid and deep ties.
I am aware that you have a very busy itinerary during your stay here in Russia. Prime Minister Medvedev told me about yesterday's meetings and talks, and we have a mixed Russian-Belgian-Luxembourg commission on economic cooperation, which will meet soon.
Mr Prime Minister, I am confident that your visit will be beneficial for our countries and economies. We are very pleased to have you. Welcome!
Prime Minister of Belgium Charles Michel (retranslated): Thank you very much, Mr President, for your warm welcome.
I am pleased that you receive me here; I am pleased to have this dialogue. I recently met with your Foreign Minister in Brussels and your Prime Minister as well.
This year marks 165 years of diplomatic relations between Russia and Belgium. I am convinced that there are many subjects that we could discuss in order to better understand each other. In the spirit of this dialogue, I am pleased that we can discuss a large number of issues related to security, the fight against terrorism, and southern European borders.
History has known good and not so good moments in relations between Europe and Russia. However, since we are neighbours, we will always work together.
I am pleased to have the opportunity to discuss not only the subjects that may divide us, and regarding which we, perhaps, still do not always understand each other, but also the ones where we can make progress. I am also pleased that I was able to discuss economic matters with Mr Medvedev yesterday.
Thank you.
<…>
Geography
Belgium
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 31, 2018, 18:10
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Russian athletes to compete in 23rd Olympic Winter Games in PyeongChang
Vladimir Putin met with the Russian athletes who will be competing in the 23rd Olympic Winter Games in PyeongChang (Republic of Korea).
January 31, 2018
15:30
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
7 of 17
Meeting with Russian athletes to compete in 23rd Olympic Winter Games in PyeongChang.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, my friends.
I am happy to see you. We all know very well the price of victory in modern high performance sports and how much hard work it takes – and you know it better than anyone does.
But it becomes twice as difficult when sports get mixed with extraneous events, phenomena, circumstances, politics or other things that have nothing to do with it. And it becomes three times harder when the public in a country – our country in this case – has very mixed and complex attitudes, sometimes completely opposite opinions on the matter. This creates a very tough environment for achieving results. Please forgive us for not being able to protect you from this.
You and all sports fans must have no doubt that Russia has always supported and will support clean sports in every sense − clean from doping and clean from superficial circumstances unrelated to sports.
At a meeting with Russian athletes to compete in 23rd Olympic Winter Games in PyeongChang.
Of course, we feel very sorry for those of our athletes who will not be able to compete in the Olympic Games this year and will do everything to support them.
At the same time, while admitting our own failures, mistakes, lack of attention to the things relevant and important in modern sports, we really hope that our colleagues in international sport organisations will do everything to make sure these organisations do not become departments of certain countries’ government bodies, no matter how powerful and influential these countries seem at first glance. We really hope for this kind of attitude towards this matter, towards sports, and rely on their courage.
We realise that modern sport is linked with sponsorship, advertising and everything else that accompanies major international competitions. But if modern international sports and the Olympic movement lose the main element of sport, which unites peoples and countries, all of it will become pointless. In this case the appeal of the founder of the modern Olympic movement, Pierre de Coubertin “O Sport, You are Peace!” will lose its meaning.
Russian athletes to compete in 23rd Olympic Winter Games in PyeongChang.
We will do everything to prevent this from happening. We will work with international organisations and support, as I said, our athletes who did not make it to the Olympics.
Some things really seem strange to us in this context. As you know, many of them were allegedly banned from the Games for the totality of circumstances not related to doping. What are we fighting against then? Doping or something else? We would like to know what it is.
We hope to have a substantive conversation with our colleagues from international organisations to sort it out.
Naturally, I wish you good luck. I would also like to wish you not to think about anything that is not part of your preparations for the Olympics, not to worry about anything I just spoke about. I wish that you only concentrate on your sport competition, knowing that as usual you are watched by hundreds of thousands, by millions of fans that love you and hope for your victory.
I sincerely wish you victory and good luck. All the best to you.
Thank you.
At a meeting with Russian athletes to compete in 23rd Olympic Winter Games in PyeongChang.
Alyona Zavarzina: Friends and athletes,
Mr President, thank you for your words. You always find the words that stay in our hearts for a long time and support us in this complicated situation.
The current situation in sport, not only in Russia, but also internationally, is truly unprecedented. No one can recall anything like this. This is my third Olympic Games. It has always been a place of unity with other countries, a festive occasion filled exclusively with positive emotions. Now, I can say that I do not feel anything like that.
I believe that what happened to our colleagues who are unable to participate in these Games is a case of blatant injustice. It is not fair. I want to say that we will continue to fight and we will do our best to bring home the medals that we deserve. I want us to show what we are really worth.
Thank you.
Pavel Datsyuk, captain of the Russian Olympic ice hockey team, presents Vladimir Putin with a sweater with the Russia In My Heart logo, signed by the team members.
Roman Repilov: I would like to thank you, Mr President, for supporting sport in such a complicated situation. I also want to tell all the athletes that we are going to the Olympics, where the entire world will watch us and wait for us to make a mistake, or fail at something. We must prove to all of them that we are Russians, we are strong, and we will not cave in just because our teammates were not allowed to participate. We must pull ourselves together, go there and win. We are the best in our respective sports – and we must prove that we are the most powerful sports force in the world.
Thank you.
Pavel Datsyuk: Mr President, as captain of the team, on behalf of all those present, I want to thank you for what you have done to promote Russian hockey, to support our Olympic team, and to promote sports in general across Russia.
To use sports terminology, you are the captain of our country, of Russia. We want to present you with a sweater that our national team signed, all the players, which says, ”Russia is in My Heart.“
Vladimir Putin: I would like to briefly comment on what you have just said.
With Russian athletes to compete in 23rd Olympic Winter Games in PyeongChang.
First, you need to focus on the result and on winning. Everything that happens around sport and around our athletes should not distract you. You know how to do this. Many athletes are going, both experienced and novice ones. However, all of you are used to putting up fights and know how to do it. You need to compose yourself.
One more thing. Someone here mentioned that since some athletes were not allowed to participate, we will double our efforts to make up for the missing ones. There is an old song dating back to Soviet times: ”For myself and that other guy.“ Keep this in mind, and you will succeed.
All the best to you.
Topics
Sport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Commissions and Councils, Council for the Development of Physical Culture and Sport
Publication date: January 31, 2018, 15:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with representatives of Franco-Russian Chamber of Commerce and Industry Economic Council
Vladimir Putin met with representatives of the Economic Council of the Franco-Russian Chamber of Commerce and Industry.
January 31, 2018
21:15
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues, friends, it is a pleasure to meet again with members of the Economic Council of the Franco-Russian Chamber of Commerce and Industry.
Last time, in May 2016, we had a productive discussion of the prospects for developing trade and investment cooperation and links between Russia and France. Your recommendations turned out to be very helpful and we took many of them into consideration while working in the economic field and establishing economic policy rules. For this reason, I would suggest organising our conversation in the same business-like manner and discussing issues that concern you as our partners, investors and entrepreneurs who have long been working in Russia and who are interested in continuing to do business in our country.
I would like to emphasise that we see France as one of Russia’s key partners in Europe, we intend to develop our dialogue with your country on all bilateral and international issues on a pragmatic and equal footing. We certainly pay attention to trade and economic cooperation. I would like to note that in the first 11 months of 2017 bilateral trade grew by 15 percent. France’s accumulated capital investment in Russia has reached almost $14 billion. Over 500 French companies operate in many sectors of our economy: car manufacturing, pharmaceuticals, food production, retail trade, and more.
At the meeting with representatives of the Economic Council of the Franco-Russian Chamber of Commerce and Industry.
Energy cooperation has strategic importance for bilateral relations. French companies have been granted access to the Russian energy market. ENGIE plans to take part in the construction of Nord Stream 2 alongside Gazprom. Total helped build the Yamal LNG plant.
We welcome French corporations willing to set up manufacturing in Russia and place orders with our SMEs. Renault operates assembly plants in Moscow, Togliatti and Izhevsk. The retailer Auchan is investing in processing Russian agricultural produce. There are also great investment opportunities for our French partners in the innovations sector.
The Digital Economy programme was adopted in Russia with the view to improving the digital business environment. Schneider Electric is already involved in its implementation by opening R&D centres in the Skolkovo and Innopolis technology parks. We will continue supporting forward-looking projects of this kind.
We expect new trade and investment contracts to be signed at the St Petersburg International Economic Forum in May 2018. We hope to see a high-profile delegation of top corporate executives representing French manufacturers and financial institutions. We will be glad to see all of you in St Petersburg.
Meeting with representatives of Franco-Russian Chamber of Commerce and Industry Economic Council.
Friends, Russia is proactive in its efforts to improve macroeconomic stability. GDP increased by 1.4 percent in 2018, while the inflation rate was at its record-low of 2.5 percent. The decelerating trend is expected to spill over into 2018. Foreign trade is rapidly increasing. In January-November 2017 it surged by 25 percent. Foreign currency reserves have been growing lately, reaching 442.8 billion dollars.
Foreign direct investment in the non-financial sector in the first three quarters of 2017 amounted to 23 billion dollars, which is double the amount in the same period of 2016, and the highest result over the last four years.
We continue to work on ways to cut red tape, simplify customs procedures and expand companies’ access to loans. Thanks to these measures, Russia has risen to 35th place on the World Bank’ Ease of Doing Business Index. I would like you to note that France is ranked 31st. If we keep performing like this, we will catch up with you soon, I hope. And then working in Russia will be more comfortable than in France.
Anyway, we have moved ahead of not just all the CIS countries but also several EU states. We do care for the opinion of our foreign partners regarding our efforts to improve the business climate in Russia. Frankly, there is still much to be done in this sphere.
Meeting with representatives of Franco-Russian Chamber of Commerce and Industry Economic Council.
This is why I suggest that we start our discussion. But first I would like to give the floor to Gennady Timchenko, Co-chair of the Economic Council of the Franco-Russian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, and then to Emmanuel Quidet, President of the Franco-Russian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Please.
Gennady Timchenko: Thank you, Mr President.
First of all, I would like to thank you on behalf of the Economic Council and French business leaders for this opportunity to have a second meeting with you in this format.
As the Co-chair of the Chamber’s Economic Council, I would like to provide several figures to illustrate the relations between Russia and France as well as between their business communities.
For example, there are some 1200 companies with French capital in Russia now. They are leaders on the Russian market in this sense.
As for the number of jobs created at companies with French capital, there are over 150,000 such jobs in Russia. By the way, there are representatives from Renault and AvtoVAZ here. They have over 50,000 workers. Another major company, Auchan, employs over 43,000 people. And the other companies represented here employ tens of thousands of workers.
Since 2014, for three consecutive years, French companies have been number one in terms of direct investment in Russia. You have said that the overall investment has reached 14 billion, but it is also important that French companies invest two billion or over two billion every year.
Meeting with representatives of Franco-Russian Chamber of Commerce and Industry Economic Council.
In the constantly changing economic and foreign policy environment, we see that French companies are willing to adapt, and some companies are beginning to set up enterprises and fully localise their manufacturing in Russia. Specifically, Saint-Gobain already operates nine production facilities in Russia, they are up and running, and the production has been localised.
In addition to this, these companies are beginning to export their products from Russia, which is an important trend. Cars are one such product. But there is also Sanofi, which exports insulin made in Russia, as well as cosmetic products.
These volumes are increasing by the year.
Let me highlight an important detail: the French companies have crossed a mental boundary and now invest in enterprises to the east of the Urals as well as in Russia’s Far East, which is essential for the development of this region.
I would once again like to point out the Yamal LNG project, since I was personally involved in it. Thank you so much for attending the opening ceremony. We are now in talks, including with Total, on the second construction phase and an even larger project called Arctic LNG-2. We are hard at work, and I hope that the French companies will remain proactive on the Russian market.
Thank you.
Meeting with representatives of Franco-Russian Chamber of Commerce and Industry Economic Council.
Vladimir Putin: I just had a meeting with the Prime Minister of Belgium, where we discussed ways to expand cooperation with this country. There is a project to expand the capacity of the port in order to be able to ship larger volumes from Yamal LNG. You all know very well that the shipments have begun. The first tanker has already docked in the United States.
Gennady Timchenko: Yes, the market has taken notice, but we want to keep a low profile, as we need to be cautious.
Vladimir Putin: This has already been reported by the media, and you are still cautious.
Gennady Timchenko: We are business people.
Vladimir Putin: Good for you. I am not a businessman, so I think that speaking about it would not do any harm.
Please, Mr Quidet.
Emmanuel Quidet (retranslated): Mr President, thank you for holding this meeting with us today, specifically, for finding the time to meet with French business leaders. We are also grateful to the Economic Development Ministry, the Industry Ministry together with the Foreign Ministry for organising this event.
As you said, 1,200 French companies are working in Russia and many French companies have their branches here. There are also very many French individuals who have come to Russia in order to open their companies here. There is a cultural reason for this number of French investors. No other nation is closer to France than Russia. It is said that the French are bad tempered Russians. But I think we have many more things in common than this.
Co-chairman of the Economic Council of the Franco-Russian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, owner of Volga Group private investment company Gennady Timchenko, left, and the President of the Franco-Russian Chamber of Commerce and Industry Emmanuel Quidet prior to the meeting.
This meeting is very important to us, because it comes after your meetings with President Macron and is in keeping with the policy set out in Versailles, contacts between Russian Economic Development Minister Maxim Oreshkin and French Minister of the Economy Bruno Le Maire, as well as Mr Macron’s intention to attend the St Petersburg International Economic Forum, which, we hope, will materialise.
Of course, I will give the floor to representatives of French companies, which is our main task today. However, actually, we would like to see practical measures taken following this gathering. If possible, we would like to have a minute of your time in the future to see what has been done following this event. In fact, much has been already done thanks to our previous meeting. In other words, we will be able to move forward based on what we discuss here.
Once again, thank you very much, Mr President.
<…>
Geography
France
Topics
Economy and finance
Foreign policy
Industry
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 31, 2018, 21:15
Text version