Events
Meeting with women entrepreneurs
Vladimir Putin met with women entrepreneurs during a visit to the Samara bakery and confectionery complex.
March 7, 2018
11:50
Samara
2 of 10
At the meeting with women entrepreneurs.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: You have chosen a pleasant but dangerous place for our meeting. Your products smell so good!
I would like to welcome you. Good afternoon.
We have met ahead of the March 8 holiday, which is why I would like to begin by congratulating all of you on this day and to wish you all the best.
During a meeting yesterday with the young people in Nizhny Tagil who have chosen engineering worker occupations, we spoke about the traditional jobs for men and women. I do not know if you have taken note of this or whether the media have reported this. As you can see, this question is of interest to them.
Judging by our meeting today and by those who are attending it, the difference between men’s and women’s jobs is gradually disappearing. It takes special skills, primarily leadership skills, to become a large shareholder, or even a small but active shareholder, or a company director.
I believe that women can do this very well, and that they even have an advantage over men, who can act tougher than women do, if I may say so. But when leadership skills combine with women’s traditional qualities – in the direct meaning of this word – the result is often better than the toughest of men can achieve.
I am sure that we will have a business-like conversation, and I am a little apprehensive, because you are practical people who come across problems in your work. But we will do our best – the acting governor and I, as well as our aides and the plenipotentiary envoy – we will try to represent the male half of humanity as well as possible today.
Please, accept my heartfelt greetings on the coming holiday.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: We talked today, and we spoke about the problems which are still to be resolved, and the challenges which have not yet been overcome. However, there are also positive examples, such as those given by the lady on my left, or by the young lady who has just spoken and told us about her achievements. This means that the support mechanisms we have created over the years do work and help the development of businesses, including small and medium-size ones. Even though a lot needs to be done, let me repeat, a great deal, we are now going to additionally propose those mechanisms for the economy and to promote them in the market.
But I would like to conclude with the following. You know that we keep on saying that men and women should be made equal in all areas. It was said here that things are more difficult for women. Indeed, there is such an approach and understanding that today’s world, the world in general, is a man’s world. And the other side of the coin is, in fact, about equality or inequality of rights. And we really have to do a lot in this regard so that there are no differences in rights. Yet there are some values in our cultural code that I believe to be fundamental. For us, a woman remains a woman and a man remains a man. Thank God we have no confusion in our heads, in our souls and in our culture. And with all the advantages that women have – business acumen and a very careful attitude towards their occupation – they also have other competitive advantages: charm, beauty, warm-heartedness. This is what men have always valued very much, still value and will always value.
I wish you a happy holiday!
See also
Visit to Samara bakery and confectionery complex
March 7, 2018
Additional
Trip to Samara Region
March 7, 2018
Geography
Samara Region
Topics
Support for business
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 7, 2018, 11:50
Text versionEvents
ASI Supervisory Board meeting
In Samara, Vladimir Putin chaired a meeting of the supervisory board of the autonomous non-profit organisation Agency for Strategic Initiatives to Promote New Projects (ASI). The meeting participants summed up the Agency’s performance in the past six years and outlined prospects for 2018.
March 7, 2018
15:30
Samara
1 of 5
Agency for Strategic Initiatives (ASI) Supervisory Board meeting.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
First of all, I would like to thank you for the practical success that the Agency for Strategic Initiatives has achieved in various spheres. I will not list everything but will instead go over the things that I think are the most important.
Over its seven years of work, the Agency has become a real centre of attraction for energetic and proactive people throughout almost the entire country.
I am aware that about half a million people, including the Leaders Club community, are already involved in the projects supported and initiated by the Agency.
You help remove barriers and open the path to implementing thousands of ideas in entrepreneurship, creation of advanced technologies, education and social sphere. Of course, this work must continue, especially since its content and meaning are consistent with the tasks mentioned in the Address to the Federal Assembly as priority areas of our development.
As part of the national technology initiative, it is necessary to provide conditions for rapid introduction of new developments in production, to support start-ups and high-tech companies, to create breakthrough products, including in the digital economy, and to facilitate their access to global markets.
Together with innovators, researchers and entrepreneurs, it is necessary to draft proposals for removing legal barriers to the creation and wide application of robotics, artificial intelligence, and unmanned vehicles. It is necessary to continue to work on developing professional competencies consistent with the technological breakthrough needs and the tasks facing the digital economy.
We agreed that your projects, the WorldSkills movement experience, will serve as a foundation for modernising secondary vocational education and as a basis for developing a modern career guidance system for students and extracurricular education, including in science and technology.
Thanks to the Agency for Strategic Initiatives, children’s technoparks, or quantoriums, have opened in 37 regions. The Atlas of Emerging Jobs has also proved popular. By the way, we plan to extend the quantorium practice to a total of 51 Russian regions this year.
As I said, the Ticket To The Future project will also receive one billion rubles from the state budget. It will be launched in the next academic year.
Next. Relying on local entrepreneurs, it is necessary to continue creating a favourable business climate in Russia’s regions. As part of the national entrepreneurial initiative, we have significantly updated the law and eliminated many excessive barriers. But it is very important to constantly move forward. I have just had a meeting with women entrepreneurs. They raised some very specific questions and practical issues that need to be resolved. All this must be thoroughly reviewed based on the national investment climate rating and the audit of local law enforcement practices.
It is necessary to help the regions to implement target models for improving the business environment. Special efforts must be applied to supporting social initiatives aimed at improving the quality of life. This includes creating comfortable conditions for people with disabilities. Such projects are proposed by socially-oriented non-profit and business organisations. Barriers in the way of their activity must be removed, best practices must be widely promoted. Of course, it is important to further develop the initiatives that help create the spirit of mutual help and ensure the continuity of essential values in society.
We will certainly continue working with you on supporting the volunteer movement. It is necessary to assist authorities at all levels with creating comfortable and clear conditions for volunteers’ work.
I would like to specifically address the development of the Mentorship movement. I believe it is one of the agency’s key objectives. We understand how important it is to pass on not only expertise but also love for your job, from hand to hand, from heart to heart.
Let us start. Please.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: This is what I would like to say in conclusion. I am very pleased that the initiative made in 2012 did not fall flat and did not become idle talk, that this is a project that has really been carried out and is making a tangible contribution not only to the promotion of specific projects but also to the improvement of the business environment in general. It is also working in several areas, including social issues, that have just been mentioned here.
But the main point is that it is fulfilling its main goal that was formulated when the Agency was established, notably, it is improving the business environment, facilitating the development of business in various sectors and doing so efficiently.
And what matters is not even that our ratings are going up but that our business associations, including those whose heads are present here, are seeing a change for the better. Of course, this is not only the result of the Agency’s work but also a result of your own work. I would like to thank all of you for this. I would like to thank former Head of the ASI Andrei Nikitin and Svetlana Chupsheva for taking the reins firmly in her hands and continuing with all the projects.
I would like to ask members of the ASI Supervisory Board to continue supporting ASI with the same enthusiasm. All initiatives that have been completed or are being implemented and were noted in Ms Chupsheva’s report as accounting items are by all means accepted.
And the main point is that the plans that you are making and we are discussing certainly follow the current economic trend and will enjoy the most active support both from the Presidential Executive Office and the Government.
So I would like to thank all of you very much.
Geography
Samara Region
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 7, 2018, 15:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Acting Governor of Samara Region Dmitry Azarov
Acting Governor of the Samara Region Dmitry Azarov briefed the President on the socioeconomic situation in the region. Samara’s preparations to host the 2018 FIFA World Cup matches were discussed separately.
March 7, 2018
14:15
Samara
1 of 3
With Acting Governor of Samara Region Dmitry Azarov.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Azarov, you have been working for a while and have ample experience and a good understanding of the situation. However, this is a new level of responsibility. How long have you been acting governor?
Acting Governor of Samara Region Dmitry Azarov
: For six months, since September 25, Mr President.
Vladimir Putin: How do you feel in this capacity and what is your development plan for the near future?
Dmitry Azarov: We are alert and alive, so to speak. We have a lot of ambitious plans for the current year. Naturally, these include preparations for the FIFA World Cup. I am sure we will be able to use the groundwork of the previous period.
We scored good results last year. The industrial production index finally grew to 1.6 percent, and this is largely owing to AvtoVAZ state support measures because AvtoVAZ increased its production by 17 percent and continues expanding its sales and its niche in the car market. Of course, this played a role.
Mr President, I would like to thank you separately for your decisions on AvtoVAZ. I was there yesterday. People remember it and thank you. Probably, today it would have been difficult to speak about its future, not to mention the prospects of the city of Togliatti, had it not been for the timely support.
Today we are talking about launching new models and there is a demand for new jobs at AvtoVAZ. The plant’s employees are undergoing retraining owing to federal support measures and this gives us certain confidence in Togliatti and the region as a whole.
On a separate note, I would like to thank you for the decisions that were made on giving the aerospace enterprises work, including the heavy-duty rocket. There were many concerns regarding the choice of who would get this contract. Of course, it is important for us that the decision on the lead company was made; and this will be the Progress Rocket Space Centre. The attitude is different now; the people are willing to take on major challenges. There are 18,000 employees at this enterprise.
Vladimir Putin: A major enterprise.
Dmitry Azarov: It is, indeed. Of course, the investment which, including Kuznetsov, is over 35 billion, has created a lot of potential for the future. We are bringing back competencies that we lost at some point, and are now confidently looking to the future.
The production numbers are good as well: we produced 16.3 million tonnes of oil last year and remained in the group of leading regions in terms of this indicator.
Our farm workers had a great harvest, 2.7 million tonnes, which is an impressive number. This is the best year in history in terms of yield. The harvest was greater in 1978, but this number is very close. Of course, such a harvest made us reconsider storage and processing, Mr President. We will work on this, and we are already adjusting the programme to further expand agriculture. Also, we have adjusted our focus, and will, of course, pay more attention to livestock production. We have a lot of potential here that has yet to be tapped.
Mr President, preparations for the World Cup are a special area of focus. People in our region are proud to have been entrusted with this. We will host six matches.
We will need to accelerate our work. We are fully mobilised and are working as a team with the federal customer and the contractor, as a regional team. Of course, this is strong motivation to complete the work in all areas.
Vladimir Putin: Are you lagging behind schedule?
Dmitry Azarov: Mr President, if we are talking about the key site which is the Samara Arena stadium, a catch-up schedule was approved in December. The work must be completed in late March under this schedule.
Recently, Deputy Prime Minister Vitaly Mutko and an oversight commission were here. We expect the contractor to fulfil its obligations.
Vladimir Putin: Are you monitoring this process?
Dmitry Azarov: Mr President, I definitely go to the stadium several times a week. There were issues, as always, between the federal contractor and the regional authorities. Today, we are working as one team. All of the regional infrastructure sites will be finished on schedule, everything is ready and on time.
Vladimir Putin: Good.
<…>
Geography
Samara Region
Topics
Regions
Persons
Azarov Dmitry
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 7, 2018, 14:15
Text version