Events
Visit to the Anatoly Rakhlin memorial youth judo tournament
Vladimir Putin attended the 6th Youth Judo Tournament in memory of distinguished trainer of Russia Anatoly Rakhlin at the Yubileiny Sports Centre.
May 23, 2018
16:40
St Petersburg
The head of state watched the tournament finals and presented medals to the winners.
The annual tournament dedicated to the memory of Anatoly Rakhlin (1938–2013) has been held in St Petersburg since 2013. This year, more than 300 athletes from Russia, Azerbaijan, Argentina, Armenia, Germany, Greece, Georgia, Israel, Latvia, Moldova, Mongolia, Poland, Serbia, Finland, France, and Estonia took part in the competition.
Competitors were divided into nine weight classes for young men and seven for young women – lightweight under 37 kg, heavyweight over 66 kg.
The date of the tournament coincides with the legendary Russian coach’s birthday. In 2018, Anatoly Rakhlin would have turned 80.
* * *
Speech at the awards ceremony for the tournament winners and runners-up
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends, athletes, tournament participants, guests,
I welcome you with all my heart. Congratulations to the participants and winners of this tournament.
This is the sixth tournament in memory of a remarkable person and a wonderful coach, Anatoly Rakhlin. Thanks to the efforts of people like him and his allies, mass participation in sports in our country has been progressing successfully, because Anatoly Rakhlin and all the people like him have been training girls and boys for decades on end, and helping promote sports in our country. Thanks to their efforts, such a wonderful sport as judo is gaining popularity as well.
Mr Rakhlin always taught us to focus on the goal, to only move forward, overcome difficulties, and be friendly and respectful toward opponents. On that note, I would like to welcome all our foreign guests. Young athletes from 12 countries took part in this competition. Thank you very much for coming and participating.
Thanks to the efforts of coaches and organisers, judo in Russia is making great strides. You are all aware of our athletes’ remarkable results in high-performance sports. They are wonderful people and remarkable athletes who will always be a good role model for rising athletes.
I am confident that many of those who are participating today in this junior tournament will make themselves known in the coming years during major international competitions and will win the most prestigious competitions.
I wish you every success.
Thank you.
See also
Greetings to organisers, participants and guests of 6th Youth Judo Tournament in memory of distinguished trainer of Russia Anatoly Rakhlin
May 23, 2018
Geography
Saint Petersburg
Topics
Children
Sport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 23, 2018, 16:40
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Commissioner for Entrepreneurs’ Rights Boris Titov
Commissioner for Entrepreneurs’ Rights Boris Titov presented his latest report to the President.
May 23, 2018
19:10
St Petersburg
3 of 4
Commissioner for Entrepreneurs’ Rights Boris Titov.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Titov, you have the annual report.
Presidential Commissioner for Entrepreneurs' Rights Boris Titov: Yes, Mr President, this is the fifth annual report. I would like to present it.
I must say that, like previous ones, it is based on the appeals that we receive. Over the past year, the number of appeals has increased by almost 23 percent.
In addition, we hold meetings with the business community. There were over 80 meetings and situational analyses in the regions. And in Moscow we held 34 meetings on various issues.
In addition, we carry out sociological research. Of course, the general conclusion to date is that the situation remains difficult. There are positive changes, for example, the growth in criminal prosecutions has slightly slowed down today, but we still cannot say that the problem has been solved.
In addition, there is also administrative pressure on businesses. Unfortunately, businesses are still feeling this and are rather negative about this and about these trends. More than 80 percent said that administrative pressure remains high.
But there is also positive change: for example, according to our studies, businesses are positive about the fact that corruption is going down and transparency of government procedures is getting better.
However, at the same time, I must say that there are also other problems, and they are connected primarily with the economic conditions of doing business today.
Vladimir Putin: Just a second. We have already discussed some of these issues and even formulated the task of amending existing laws. In fact, the task of amending current legislation was assigned based on your suggestions. What is going on there? How far along are solutions to these issues? Do you remember what we discussed and how this was formulated?
Boris Titov: As for criminal prosecutions, amendments were made to damage thresholds on which the penalty for certain violations or crimes depends. In this sense, the situation has improved. Of course, there are fewer cases of punishment, because damage thresholds went up.
Unfortunately, Article 159 remains an issue. As you know, it is the “loosest” article in the code, since it accounts for 80 percent of charges brought against businesses in Russia.
Vladimir Putin: This is so, but we were also discussing other matters of a purely procedural nature, such as detention and so on.
Boris Titov: There were amendments to Article 108 of the Criminal Procedure Code whereby entrepreneurs are not to be subjected to pre-trial restrictions involving arrest or deprivation of liberty. Unfortunately, we see that this is not working so far, although the number of entrepreneurs in pre-trial detention has actually dropped by almost 5,000.
Vladimir Putin: What about the extension of the time limit of the investigation? Sometimes the time limit is extended indefinitely.
Boris Titov: This is still happening. For example, there was a case when entrepreneurs spent three years in prison before the trial begun. We hope that now the proceedings will take less time.
It is unfortunate that there are no limits in this field so far.
As you said at a meeting in Amur Region, our procedural rights should be expanded in terms of our involvement in court proceedings to defend entrepreneurs, and I am referring to both civil law courts and criminal courts. I made legislative proposals to this effect.
Vladimir Putin: But you are referring to specific cases rather than a limited number of individuals.
Boris Titov: Yes, my proposals refer to entrepreneurs who are members of business associations and unions.
Vladimir Putin: You also mention specific cases.
Boris Titov: Yes, this is correct.
Vladimir Putin: We have talked about the need to introduce limits regarding extensions that are sometimes endless. What do you have to say on this matter?
Boris Titov: We made our proposals, but they have not been accepted yet, Mr President. Our first proposal was to have any subsequent decision to extend pre-trial restrictions to be made by a court of a higher jurisdiction, but so far this is not the case.
In addition, we proposed that judges who rule on pre-trial restrictions cannot preside over the trial, separating these two functions. This used to be the case just a few years ago, but this proposal has yet to be taken up as well.
Vladimir Putin: We need to understand whether this requirement is reasonable.
As for endless extensions, I think that we need to go back. I sought advice from the President of the Supreme Court and the Prosecutor General before supporting your proposal. The heads of the main agencies in charge of citizen rights largely agree with you. So let us get back to this approach.
Boris Titov: Yes, definitely. Thank you very much, Mr President. After all, we made our proposals, but unfortunately, they have yet to find their way into legislation.
Vladimir Putin: I would ask you to come back to this and formulate your proposal again, and work on this, would you?
Boris Titov: Yes, of course.
As I have said, the issues certainly have to do with the current economic situation, because the growth that we see today in the Russian economy does not yet cover all sectors. It is primarily less pronounced in manufacturing. Therefore, many business leaders are not yet aware of a new stage beginning in the development of Russia’s economy. As many as 70 percent said they felt as if they were still in 2014, because the negative economic changes that occurred in 2014 are not completely gone yet.
At the same time, I would like to say that we are also doing a big job here. We have compiled two special reports, which I would like to submit to you. This year’s reports cover the most pressing problems that entrepreneurs are concerned about. The first deals with natural monopolies’ rates, mainly electricity, and the second – with fire safety.
Regarding electricity rates, we are doing a lot of analytical work on how the rates are set – whether this is done in compliance with the law or not. I can say that the first conclusions we made after analysing nine pilot regions, were that we did expose violations – an almost 28 percent overvaluation of the grid component alone.
Vladimir Putin: Do the regional commissions make such decisions?
Boris Titov: Regional commissions, plus the generating companies’ markups. I would like to ask you, if possible, to issue instructions to the Prosecutor General's Office. We have already started working with them and have very effective interaction. We have analysed state contracts and payments and practically eliminated government debt to businesses for the work performed. It also is necessary to streamline rates in the same way.
Vladimir Putin: Fine.
Boris Titov: Thank you.
As for fire safety, we have to admit that the situation is grave. Many businesspeople are responsible for this, but the regulating authorities are liable as well, because we see that the fire safety requirements for different facilities are not quite clear, are not comprehensive, meaning that they can be increased or otherwise adjusted depending on the situation. In addition, these requirements are not imposed by a single regulatory agency but by a host of such agencies.
Therefore, we would like to suggest, if possible, switching over to an obligatory fire safety declaration for the most hazardous facilities that attract large numbers of people. This used to be voluntary. In other words, requirements for such facilities must be detailed and exhaustive, signed by a regulatory authority and binding for the owner. The good part is that there will be no new requirements and no amendments to the approved list.
If all sides, that is, the government and businesses, accepted such requirements today, at least for the fire hazard facilities, this would greatly improve our fire safety.
Vladimir Putin: I agree with you. The recent tragedies have shown that much is still to be done to restore order in this sphere. Of course, it would be wise to draft the guidelines you have mentioned, which must be clear, transparent and effective. But given the rapid development of technology, these guidelines must also be flexible and subject to revision. This is my first point here. I agree with you on this.
My second point is that we must certainly pay more attention to the fire service. It would be reasonable to think about increasing the number of personnel, or at least bringing it up to the previously proposed standards. We must also provide new technology. This is a comprehensive task. Please, formulate your proposals, and we will work on them together.
 <…>
Topics
Support for business
Persons
Titov Boris
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 23, 2018, 19:10
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Secretary of United Russia Party General Council Andrei Turchak
The President had a meeting with Secretary of the United Russia Party’s General Council Andrei Turchak.
May 23, 2018
18:40
St Petersburg
1 of 4
With Secretary of United Russia Party General Council Andrei Turchak.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Turchak, major party functions have been held recently. There will be elections in a large number of regions of our country in September. I am aware that United Russia is getting ready for them. Let us talk about this.
Secretary of United Russia General Council Andrei Turchak
: Mr President, a large party conference was held on Monday, which was a new format for us. The conference was preceded by discussions in the regions with the participation of over 30,000 party members, supporters and experts. Of course, they discussed progress in implementing the Presidential Address to the Federal Assembly and the new May executive order.
There was an extensive discussion. Speaking about the development of the party, we remember what you said: the party should not become a monument to itself; it should evolve, and adequately respond to our citizens’ requests. Therefore, we agreed on several innovations during the conference.
First, we will develop a performance evaluation system for our deputies at the federal, regional and municipal levels. In addition to the results of their activities during the election campaign, the evaluation will include their activities between elections. We introduced a ban on deputies delegating their aides to receive citizens. The deputies themselves must be present. The only exception was made for State Duma deputies, because they work in the regions as part of regional weeks, and, accordingly, will have the opportunity to meet with constituents remotely.
We also hear and understand citizens' request for fair treatment, so we will also monitor compliance with ethical norms and ethical behaviour of our MPs and fellow party members. We will respond to violations in the strictest manner, up to expulsion from the party. Indeed, there are instances where deputies show up before their constituents only during the campaign period, advance their programme, give their stump speech and then vanish for the next four to five years. This is unacceptable.
We have discussed in the regions your Address to the Federal Assembly, the May executive order and the guidelines that you formulated in these two documents.
What are the most pressing issues for our people? First, there is the issue of wellbeing, which we differentiate from prosperity. Wellbeing is a much broader concept. It is important for people to live in a comfortable environment where they will have a kindergarten, school and hospital within walking distance. We have started discussing this issue, in part, the so-called standard of wellbeing. We will continue talking about it in the course of the election campaign and discuss it in the regions during the September election cycle.
One of the concerns is lack of personnel, primarily in healthcare. Naturally, in this respect we should enhance the efficiency of targeted personnel recruitment. Once again the issue that is discussed in the regions – and we are collecting proposals from our regional affiliates – is to resume the discussion of the possibility of assigning publicly-funded graduates of medical universities to certain locations. This is a somewhat contentious issue and, naturally, it requires further discussion. However, in cooperation with the Minister of Healthcare and the Ministry of Education, higher education in particular, we will monitor this issue in the regions and also suggest concrete solutions.
Dumpsites and the demand for clean water are also pressing issues for the regions. In this context, the conference resolved to launch a new party project called Clean Country. It provides for feedback and environmental monitoring. Not all regions have adopted territorial systems of handling solid waste. The party will oversee this matter directly. We will bring adoption of these systems to 100 percent in the majority of regional parliaments. The systems must be transparent and discussed with the population. This is the feedback we are talking about.
As for the September election cycle, this is going to be a large campaign. Elections at various levels will be held in 42 regions. Deputies will be elected to legislative assemblies and dumas of administrative centres. They will compete for over 1,200 seats. For the first time the party has launched an open procedure for selecting its candidates, the so-called intraparty voting.
I must say competition is high – over five candidates to a seat. This reflects trust in the transparency of this process. Therefore, we choose the best at the stage of preliminary selection and then they participate directly in the election campaign. In this way, we are planning to preserve a majority in all regional parliaments.
We are facing big challenges and are ready to meet them, realising that September 2018 will be followed by preparations for Duma elections in 2021.
Vladimir Putin: The best way of preparing for the State Duma elections is active efforts to resolve the problems on which we worked in the past and find the solutions our people expect.
I hope the entire party structure will be oriented to this practical work.
Andrei Turchak: Absolutely.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much.
<…>
Topics
Parties
Persons
Turchak Andrei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 23, 2018, 18:40
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of Central African Republic Faustin Archange Touadera
Vladimir Putin met with President of the Central African Republic Faustin Archange Touadera. The leaders discussed boosting the two countries’ economic and humanitarian cooperation.
May 23, 2018
20:45
St Petersburg
1 of 5
With President of Central African Republic Faustin Archange Touadera.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President,
It is a pleasure to welcome you to St Petersburg.
I would like to thank you for coming to the St Petersburg International Economic Forum.
At the outset, I would like to recall that our country was one of the first to recognise the independence of the Central African Republic.
In the 1960s and 70s, specialists from our country worked in many spheres in your country, dozens of highly qualified specialists in many fields. Over 500 people were trained in Russia and managed to apply the knowledge and skills they received to develop their homeland.
Later, for many reasons our cooperation was, if not completely curtailed, stuck at a rather low level. We will be happy to consider various plans to boost our relations, first of all in the economic and humanitarian fields, including personnel training.
I am happy to see you, Mr President, and hope that today we will manage to find areas where we can work together to advance our relations.
President of the Central African Republic Faustin Archange Touadera (retranslated): Thank you very much, Mr President.
I am most grateful to you personally and the Government of the Russian Federation for the invitation. It is a great honour for me to take part in the St Petersburg Economic Forum.
You mentioned the very important historical cooperation between our country and the Russian Federation in the 1960s and 1970s. In these periods, our contacts were much closer.
You spoke about personnel training. Some students received education in the Soviet Union, while others studied in our country. For example, I studied at home but my teachers were Russian, which illustrates the very high level our relations were at.
I am very happy to be here at your invitation. I think this is a wonderful opportunity to enhance our cooperation in many areas. I believe we can map out ways, areas and means for more active cooperation. You mentioned the economy and humanitarian contacts and I agree with you.
Today our country is among the least developed but we have huge potential. I think participation in the economic forum will allow us to tell its participants about this potential and the business and economic opportunities opening up in our country.
I went to Sochi on October 7 and saw that there is an opportunity for large-scale partnership based on trust between our countries.
I would like to once again thank you, Mr President, the entire Government and the people of the Russian Federation for your support in the process of consolidation and reconciliation in our country.
Incidentally, recently a Russian convoy covered a very difficult route from the East to the West in the framework of such partnership. Its goal was to set up mobile hospitals that will render simply invaluable support to our population that is currently in a very difficult humanitarian situation.
We have big expectations for potential economic and humanitarian exchanges. We will discuss ways of promoting our cooperation.
<…>
Geography
Central African Republic
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 23, 2018, 20:45
Text version