Events
Russian-Qatari talks
Vladimir Putin held talks at the Kremlin with Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani, Emir of the State of Qatar, who arrived in Russia on a working visit.
March 26, 2018
20:10
The Kremlin, Moscow
5 of 5
The Russian-Qatari talks. With Emir of Qatar Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani.
Before the meeting, the Emir of Qatar expressed his condolences to the Russian President in connection with the fire in Kemerovo which led to massive casualties.
The prospects for building up bilateral cooperation in various areas and current issues on the international agenda, in particular, the situation in Syria, were discussed during the Russian-Qatari talks.
Following the visit of the Emir of Qatar to Russia, an agreement on cooperation in science and education between Rosneft and the Qatar Foundation for Education, Science and Community Development was signed in the presence of the two countries’ leaders.
* * *
Before the Russian-Qatari talks. With Emir of Qatar Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Your Highness, colleagues,
Let me cordially welcome you to Moscow. Last time we met was almost two years ago, but the relations between our countries are constantly developing, and we maintain contact.
This year marks the 30th anniversary of diplomatic relations between our countries. Over the past year, trade has grown, however, in absolute terms, it can do much better, but the trend is good. Investment cooperation is developing as well.
Your Highness, we are very pleased to have you. Welcome!
Emir of Qatar Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani.
Emir of Qatar Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani (retranslated): Thank you very much, Mr President,
I am very pleased to be in Moscow, in accordance with the invitation. Indeed, as you said, last time we met was two years ago, but the relations between our countries have noticeably strengthened over these two years.
2018 is important for our two countries in terms of cultural cooperation. Today I visited one of your museums. I believe it is very important that our cultural cooperation is being developed.
Indeed, I agree with you regarding the ambitions of our two countries. Even though we are tied by strong relations and mutual trust, we must move forward with regard to strengthening our relations across all areas – trade and other areas – so they are in line with our ambitions.
The Russian-Qatari talks. With Emir of Qatar Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani.
We count on our Russian friends with whom we cooperate, knowing that Russia plays a significant role regarding the things that matter for the Arab world.
You have historical relations with the countries of the Arab world. I hereby note the role that you play in helping to resolve the problems of some of our countries.
Today, I hope to discuss a number of issues concerning this subject with your Excellency.
<…>
Geography
Qatar
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 26, 2018, 20:10
Text version