Events
Meeting with Russian Direct Investment Fund CEO Kirill Dmitriev
The President met with CEO of the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) Kirill Dmitriev to discuss the fund’s performance in 2018.
December 29, 2018
17:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
3 of 4
CEO of the Russian Direct Investment Fund Kirill Dmitriev.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Dmitriev, let's talk about the fund’s performance this year.
CEO of the Russian Direct Investment Fund Kirill Dmitriev: Thank you, Mr President.
I am very grateful to you for supporting the RDIF. I would like to report on our work in 2018 regarding national projects and interaction with Chinese investors.
For several years now, the RDIF and our partners have accounted for 90 percent of Russia’s direct investment market and about 60 percent of the venture capital market. This year, we have invested 350 billion rubles, of which 30 billion are RDIF-owned funds, and 320 are funds contributed by our partners, which translates into a good 1:10 mobilisation ratio.
This money went to 25 highly promising projects in Russia, including, for example, Rostec City, the largest technology park, which will allow us to implement a project worth $1.3 billion with $300 million invested by us and our partners. Thus, a major technology park will be created in Russia. This includes an investment in Transneft Telecom, where our Russian-Japanese fund will invest in a broadband cable between Japan and Russia; we will use 16,000 kilometres of existing Transneft broadband cable and create a bridge between Japan and Europe through Russia, a digital bridge of sorts.
Just yesterday, our partners and us approved investment in the pharmaceutical cluster being created together with Sistema which is an association of Obolensky and Binnopharm. The holding company will be a top-ten Russian pharmaceutical manufacturer. We believe in import substitution and our ability to support the holding company on Arab markets.
With regard to our portfolio companies’ profit, it grew by 17 percent last year, which is a very good number, with earnings up 12 percent. Other good news is that the Russian and Chinese parts of the first Russian-Chinese bridge have been connected, and we invite you to the opening ceremony for this bridge next year, if you have time for that. The bridge will cut the distance for cargo shipments from Russia to China by 700 kilometres.
The Mother and Child medical group opened seven new clinics. Vladivostok Airport recorded a 45 percent increase in passenger traffic. This is a very important example of Singaporean investment, and during your visit to Singapore they allocated another billion dollars of investment with us following the success of Vladivostok Airport.
As for national projects, we are actively involved. You have described our role as an investment filter on many infrastructure projects. We have analysed over 200 projects and have identified opportunities to reduce budget funding to 30 percent and replace it with private money, investments from our partners. And as I reported to you, we consider it possible to attract 7 trillion from our co-investors and partners per 3 trillion in government funds.
In conclusion, a few words about China. We understand that this is a very important area. In addition to the Russia-China Investment Fund (RCIF), which you supported and which has already made 30 Russian-Chinese investments, we have begun our first Russia-China Venture Fund (RCVF). As you know, according to our deal with Alibaba, it is committed to localized production and software in Russia and will use all data in Russia. We are also carrying out many other technological projects with our Chinese partners.
We have established the Russia-China RMB Fund. Our partners very much value this cooperation between Russia and China. Thus, Saudi Arabia allocated another $500 million for the creation of an additional fund with Russia, China and Saudi Arabia. This is why we are actively working with co-investors from both China and the Middle East.
Vladimir Putin: I hope that next year you will not reduce your activity and will work with the same results. Indeed, our – your sovereign fund is performing a very important function in attracting investment. On the whole, you are meeting all the objectives that you were given. I would like to thank you for the good job.
Kirill Dmitriev: Thank you, Mr President.
Our partners (20 major sovereign funds) asked us, if there was an opportunity, to congratulate you on the New Year, wish you all the best in the New Year and thank you for supporting their investments in the outgoing year and in previous years.
Vladimir Putin: This is also how it will be in the future.
Kirill Dmitriev: Thank you very much.
<…>
Topics
Investment
Persons
Dmitriev Kirill
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 29, 2018, 17:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko
In accordance with a preliminary agreement, Vladimir Putin met with President of the Republic of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko in Moscow.
December 29, 2018
12:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 4
With President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko.
The two heads of state continued their discussion on current issues of bilateral cooperation.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Lukashenko,
This is the second time we are meeting this week.
President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko
: More and more often. (Laughter.)
Vladimir Putin: This is good. Thank you for accepting my invitation and for coming here.
As we agreed, we are creating a working group for the further development of our economic relations and other areas and, as you proposed, we will work on our plans for the Union State development.
I propose discussing this topic today – what has been done on our part. You said you would issue relevant instructions to the Government so that our colleagues from the Belarusian side could work on it.
We will compare notes on how the work begins, or rather continues, in the areas in which we agreed to step up work at our last meeting.
And the New Year’s Eve is close: let’s wish each other a very happy New Year.
Alexander Lukashenko: Thank you, Mr Putin, first of all for your invitation just ahead of the New Year.
I was joking that we are tired of each other. We probably never will be, because there are issues that need to be discussed, this is our work.
Indeed, last time we agreed that we would talk seriously about our further coexistence in this difficult world; we cannot get away from it because many problems must be dealt with for the future. Therefore, I have indeed been working hard on the coordination of the same issues that we need to consider so that they would not stand in the way of our integration – just as I know you have, too.
We have formed a group in a similar way as in Russia, and made similar decisions to you in terms of the membership and leadership of the group. I think that after the holidays, as soon as the time comes, we will be ready to work, as will you here in Russia. Moreover, all the questions are spelled out in the Union Treaty; we have listed them last time. And indeed it is good that we finally came to the solution of these issues.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you. This may be a start of a good tradition to meet before the New Year.
Alexander Lukashenko: Maybe. I also want to wish a Happy New Year to you, to the Russian people, our brothers. This is a highly anticipated holiday. I know you love this holiday, as do I. Please pass on my best wishes to your family, friends and all Russians.
Vladimir Putin: For my part, I wish a Happy New Year to you and all of Belarus and all citizens of Belarus. I wish you happiness and good luck in the New Year.
Alexander Lukashenko: Thank you.
<…>
See also
Meeting with President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko
December 25, 2018
Geography
Belarus
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Lukashenko Alexander
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 29, 2018, 12:30
Text version