Events
Meeting with Head of Chechnya Ramzan Kadyrov
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Head of the Chechen Republic Ramzan Kadyrov.
June 15, 2018
19:50
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
2 of 6
With Head of Chechnya Ramzan Kadyrov.
Current issues relating to the development of Chechnya, including investor appeal, were discussed at the meeting.
Vladimir Putin also extended his greetings to Ramzan Kadyrov
and all Muslims in Russia on the occasion of the holiday Eid al-Fitr.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Kadyrov, let us talk about the situation in the Republic. What has been done in the previous period and what are the plans for the near future?
Head of the Chechen Republic Ramzan Kadyrov: Mr President, life in the Republic has changed since our last conversation. People have a different outlook on life…
Vladimir Putin: This is thanks to you and the residents of the Republic.
The level that has been reached, especially in terms of social indicators, should not go down when drafting the budgets for 2018 and subsequent years. On the contrary, it is imperative to do everything in order to keep it going up.
Ramzan Kadyrov: We are resolving many social issues. We have fulfilled the May Executive Orders and are already prepared to meet the basic indicators of the Russian Government. Our Government is already making its plans. They have tentative figures for social plans and other standards. Figures on the roads also meet world standards, and they are available as well.
Our Republic is developing peacefully. We have certain issues and if today you support us, as you always do, I think Chechnya will become a problem-free region in the near future.
After all, our region is nothing like what our Western and world adversaries say about us: “Everything bad happens there, in the Chechen Republic.” In reality, our territory is the safest and most prosperous region.
Dozens and hundreds of thousands of tourists come to our Republic today. Each of them – from America, China and Mongolia – say that their media gives them a different story and shows them a different picture. But life here is completely different. Ours is a prosperous republic.
Thank you very much for this, Mr President.
Vladimir Putin: Credit for this primarily goes to the residents and leadership of the Republic. Everything is organised properly to reach the desired result.
Do you know what I would like to focus on? The level that has been reached, especially in terms of social indicators, the level of wages in the social sphere, I am referring to the 2012 May Executive Orders, should not go down when drafting the budgets for 2018 and subsequent years. On the contrary, it is imperative to do everything in order to keep it going up.
I am aware that in several regions, unfortunately, in connection with the drafting of budgets for this and subsequent years there is already a decline in indicators. This cannot be tolerated. Please pay special attention to this.
You can do this, ensure the safety of these investments, a good return rate so that investing in the Republic of Chechnya is profitable and safe. This is important for creating a favourable investment climate.
Ramzan Kadyrov: By all means.
We are dealing with this, primarily with investment policy. Thanks to you, it is good, because since your last meeting with the Arab world – Abu Dhabi [UAE], Saudi Arabia, and after the Russian Direct Investment Fund started working in conjunction with Saudi Arabia and the Emirates, we have business in this area going strong.
The Emirates have opened a five-star hotel in our Republic, set up a joint fund to promote small and medium-sized businesses, and are building an international university. Saudi Arabia also promises to invest in our agriculture. In these areas, we are also making progress. I am sure we will be able to keep the pace and will continue to grow.
Vladimir Putin: This is very important.
I am aware that you can do this, ensure the safety of these investments, a good return rate so that investing in the Republic of Chechnya is profitable and safe. This is important for creating a favourable investment climate. Then not only investors from Arab countries, but also from other countries will go to the North Caucasus and Chechnya, in particular.
See also
Greetings to Russia’s Muslims on Eid al-Fitr
June 15, 2018
Today is Eid al-Fitr, and I have already congratulated all Muslims of Russia on this holiday. I would like to extend my greetings on this holiday to you and the residents of Chechnya, and the North Caucasus, in general, where Muslims live predominantly. Of course, not only the North Caucasus, I congratulate all Muslims, including you.
Ramzan Kadyrov: Thank you very much.
<…>
Geography
Chechen Republic
Topics
Economy and finance
Investment
Regions
Persons
Kadyrov Ramzan
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 15, 2018, 19:50
Text version