Events
Meeting of Council for Strategic Development and National Projects
Vladimir Putin chaired a meeting of the Council for Strategic Development and National Projects, in the Kremlin.
October 24, 2018
22:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
8 of 8
At a meeting of the Council for Strategic Development and National Projects. With Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev.
First Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Anton Siluanov
presented the main report on the national projects developed by the cabinet of ministers pursuant to the May Executive Order.
In addition to this, the meeting participants discussed national projects concerning social matters, the digital economy and transport infrastructure, the environment, culture, residential construction and the urban environment.
* * *
Transcript of the meeting of the Council for Strategic Development and National Projects
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues,
Today I propose to discuss system-wide approaches to the strategic tasks set in the Address to the Federal Assembly
and the May Executive Order.
As you well know, over a period of the next few years, we must achieve a real breakthrough in the economy, infrastructure, technology, science and social matters – mainly, to ensure prosperity and a new quality of life for Russian citizens, an abundance of opportunities to fulfill one’s potential for every person, and to generally strengthen the country’s competitiveness and achieve leadership in the fields that will, without a doubt, define the future of Russia and the entire world. These are, without exaggeration, historic objectives.
In the May Executive Order, the Government was instructed to develop a detailed plan of this breakthrough, this purposeful progress in every direction. Within a considerably short time, the Government conducted substantial work and developed national projects that outlined target indicators and practical mechanisms to achieve these indicators, as well as the amount of required funding.
Today, at this Council meeting, we will hold an extensive discussion of the national projects and agree on their main parameters. We will specifically address measures to monitor the implementation of the national projects and programmes.
I would like to point out that this stage requires constructive and substantive control. It will not be enough to simply prepare superficial bureaucratic reports and formally check the issues off the list as it happens sometimes.
The main goal is to bring about positive changes in the life of every person and every Russian family. This is exactly what is important to us: we need actual results. For example, we want people to actually notice that cities and villages are becoming more comfortable and pleasant to live in; that new roads are built; that kindergartens, schools, hospitals and other social facilities are improving their operation. Social and municipal services must be accessible without long waiting times. This is the important aspect.
Once again, it is extremely important to establish efficient feedback, synchronise our actions with the interests of the public and do everything to ensure that the people are directly involved in our development projects.
It is necessary to more thoroughly rely on the civil control experience. I would like to ask activists and experts from the Russian Popular Front to continue the vigorous efforts that they demonstrated in the past.
Colleagues, the success of the national projects and programmes largely depends on the regions’ efficiency. Moreover, it is the regional administrations that are to play the key role in solving certain practical tasks in such areas as education, healthcare, housing availability, improving the environment and supporting businesses, increasing labour productivity, and many other areas as well.
However, this does not mean that we can simply shift responsibility to the constituent entities and delegate our plans and indicators as an assignment to them. And of course, Mr Sobyanin
[Moscow Mayor] and I spoke about preventing excessive bureaucracy. We do not need a thousand items on the list that will be impossible to make sense of. As I said earlier, we do not want to just formally check these items off the list.
In this regard, I am asking the Government, with due account of the proposals of the regions, to detail the national projects by adding very specific measurements, I mean regional measurements.
Each constituent area of the Federation should see its place in the development programmes and clearly understand its substantive tasks – what resources it needs to attract, how to build governance mechanisms and its budgeting policy, and what kind of federal support can be expected.
Federal co-financing should certainly reach the regions promptly and it is necessary to control the further targeted use of these funds.
I believe all these issues are highly important and crucial, and I propose discussing them with representatives of the regions at a special meeting before the end of this year, to fully take into account the position and interests of each region, and to build an effective model of joint work.
Please note that our projects are neither federal nor regional, but national, which implies the consolidation of efforts at all levels and branches of government, of representatives of civil society and certainly business.
Naturally, it is mandatory to actively participate in state-owned companies’ development projects. It was for this reason that they were established, after all. In this regard, we are all waiting for the managers of VEB, Gazprom
, Rostec, Rostelecom, Rosneft, Rosatom, and other corporations co-owned by the state to submit proposals on financial, technological, scientific and personnel contributions to breakthrough programmes and projects.
Also, I definitely view the private sector as the most important partner of the state and society in the implementation of development plans. I repeat, this is not about making businesses invest in certain industries, but the idea is to offer investors, private companies really promising and profitable projects so that they can develop, create new jobs, increase exports, and enter global markets.
These issues are being discussed in detail by a group of business associations and major companies co-chaired by First Deputy Prime Minister Anton Siluanov from the Government and Mikhail Shokhin [President of the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs] from the business community.
Above all, they are working on effective models for financing and for the involvement of private businesses in projects on the national agenda. This is an extremely important matter.
Three portfolios are being considered: projects proposed to businesses by federal agencies; projects proposed by businesses involving collaboration with the state; and business projects that fit with the development priorities but do not require support under the national projects. All of them are important.
I ask Mr Siluanov today to report separately on the agreements reached with business representatives.
Colleagues, while working on development projects, it is of course necessary to attract technology and specialists, to build chains of cooperation, in short, to use all the best there is in the world.
However, it is obvious that we must move forward, relying primarily on our own technological, personnel, and industrial base.
Allow me to remind you that within six years, about 28 trillion rubles will be channeled into national projects from all sources. This is an astronomical figure for us today.
However, we have long worked on consolidating these resources – those of the state, the regions, and business. They must be put to use within the country and for its development, become a stimulus for the national economy, industry, science and education.
This means that the necessary technologies, equipment, and software need to be manufactured in Russia. We need to use local manufacturing facilities wherever possible, and as much as possible.
True, we need to be part of the global system, but we also need to make our money work for the country, inside our country. For that, we need to create reserves like those in the defence industry – we have already talked about this many times. We also need to increase the output of civilian products at defence enterprises.
All deputy prime ministers jointly with the Industry and Trade Ministry must promptly determine which types of machinery and equipment and which technology will be required to implement the national projects, what additional production facilities and competence centres need to be built; what tasks need to be set for our research, scientific and engineering centres. Vnesheconombank and other development institutions will need to make provisions for funding these projects.
If we succeed, and we must succeed, we will solve two problems, which is the transition of defence industry facilities to the production of civilian machinery and equipment, and, most importantly, the use of their resources for achieving development targets.
I would like to ask Mr Borisov
[Deputy Prime Minister] to present consolidated proposals on the technological and production support of the development programmes. We will discuss this issue at a separate meeting.
Further, taking into account the objectives of the national projects, starting next academic year, we need to modify training programmes and enrolment plans for secondary vocational and higher education institutions.
Universities, colleges and vocational schools must be geared up towards achieving the set goals. Even today, we must do everything to make sure that in several years, our industrial facilities, corporations, schools, hospitals and research organisations employ graduates with up-to-date knowledge and qualifications who can meet the most complicated professional challenges.
Colleagues, the national projects are to unite our nation for achieving this breakthrough. It is essential at this turning point in the history of our country. I have already said this and I want to remind you once again to make sure we do not fall asleep on our feet.
Under no circumstances can we act and work in our regular mode. We must realise where we stand and what problems we are facing.
Without exaggeration, the wellbeing of Russian citizens depends on these results, along with the future of our country, the future of Russia. It is our obligation to go through with these plans.
I want everybody to understand this very well and to be ready for hard and intense work. Now, let us proceed to the discussion of issues on our agenda.
<…>
Topics
Priority National Projects
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Commissions and Councils, Council for Strategic Development and National Projects
Publication date: October 24, 2018, 22:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Italian business leaders
October 24, 2018
17:20
The Kremlin, Moscow
Vladimir Putin and Prime Minister of Italy Giuseppe Conte
held a meeting with heads of leading Italian companies.
In addition, Vladimir Putin and Giuseppe Conte took part via videoconference in the opening of a high-voltage motor plant in Chelyabinsk.
The new plant to produce AC motors and generators is located at the Stankomash Industrial Park in Chelyabinsk and will ensure complete domestic production in Russia, hence making it independent from foreign suppliers.
Production capacity is projected at up to 300 items per year. These motors are used primarily in pumping units for main oil pipelines.
* * *
Meeting with Italian business leaders
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister, colleagues, friends,
First of all, I would like to welcome all Italian entrepreneurs present here, our friends and colleagues, our partners.
Your companies work successfully with your Russian partners, invest in Russia and implement large joint projects in various areas, from energy, transport and food processing to high technology, sports and entertainment.
I am confident that you will not stop here, that you plan to expand your presence in the Russian market. The large package of commercial contracts prepared for signing during the Italian Prime Minister’s visit also indicates this.
Let me stress that Italy is an important economic partner for Russia, so naturally, today, trade and investment cooperation was the key topic of our talks with Prime Minister Conte.
Last year bilateral trade grew by 21 percent, to $24 billion; in January–August 2018, it grew by another 15 percent. We hope that this positive dynamic will continue and we will return to the numbers we had in previous years.
As a reminder, in 2013, trade between Russia and Italy was 53.8 percent (over twice as much as today). The impressive technological, resource and human potential of our countries makes this a realistic goal.
We see good prospects in the investment area. Italy’s direct investment in Russia is about $5 billion. There are about 500 Italian companies in the Russian market.
Many of them have located production in Russia and aim to increase industrial cooperation and create industrial alliances; the “Made with Italy” brand is becoming more popular in Russia.
The new plant in Chelyabinsk can serve as an example of successful and mutually beneficial cooperation. This innovative full-cycle enterprise was built with Italian technologies and will produce high-voltage power supply units that meet advanced energy efficiency and safety standards.
This project was the result of the close partnership between Russian companies Transneft and Konar, and the Italian company Nidec, a world leader in industrial power systems.
The motors are to be used primarily in oil and hydrocarbon shipping. They are very popular in the Russian fuel and energy sector, and of course will be in high demand in third country markets.
Other key areas of the Russian economy, especially shipbuilding, will also use the plant’s products. In the future, the motors will be installed in Arctic vessels on the Northern Sea Route and also used for natural gas liquefaction in such projects as the Arctic LNG 2, Baltic LNG and Vladivostok LNG plants, as well as in the metals and mining spheres, railway transport and wind turbines.
I would like to note that the new enterprise became the fifth to be created in collaboration with Italy at the Stankomash Industrial Park in Chelyabinsk. In fact, the Italian side helped us create a whole industrial cluster that encompasses important high-tech enterprises.
Both of us are well aware that in the course of this work, our Italian partners received big orders and are now carrying them out profitably and successfully, and for our Italian friends, too. It is hardly the only successful example of our bilateral business cooperation.
Our countries have been productively cooperating in power engineering for many years as well. In 1969, Italy became one of the first European countries to sign a long-term gas supply agreement with the Soviet Union.
Today, Italy is the second largest western European consumer of Russian gas after Germany. Russia values its reputation as a reliable, proven partner and will continue supplying the Italian economy and the rest of Europe with energy.
Our bilateral cooperation in the energy sector does not end with fuel supplies. Together with the Italian company ENI, Russian oil and gas companies Rosneft, Novatek and Lukoil are developing hydrocarbon deposits.
The company Maire Tecnimont is participating in the construction of the Amur Gas Processing Plant, the second largest in the world. This plant will become the largest Russian gas processing plant, and one of the key industrial infrastructure facilities for the Power of Siberia pipeline, which will be used for transporting gas to China.
We welcome Italian businesses’ desire to invest in the development of electrical power engineering in Russia, namely ENEL’s participation in modernising the country’s generating capacity – the construction of wind farms in Murmansk and Rostov regions.
Colleagues,
Here in Russia, we strive to create the most comfortable environment for attracting foreign, including Italian, investment and technologies. We are simplifying the administrative regulation system, creating a sophisticated infrastructure, and offering investors significant preferences in a number of Russian regions.
The Russian Direct Investment Fund is making major efforts to attract foreign capital. Today the RDIF will sign an agreement with several Italian partners.
We are also considering a serious undertaking to set up a Russian-Italian investment platform. Actually, we reached an agreement on this several years ago, but then it was put on hold.
Today, while speaking with Mr Prime Minister, we decided it was appropriate to resume this work, even if at a slower pace; the main thing is to begin. I am convinced that when this organisation appears, it will be much easier for Italian companies to establish themselves in the Russian market.
I would also like to draw your attention to the positive trends in key macroeconomic indicators that we can see in Russia. Industrial production is developing; growth was 3 percent in the first nine months, mainly due to the processing industries where growth is 3.3 percent.
At the end of the first six months, fixed capital investment in businesses and organisations grew by 3.2 percent. We understand that this is a reserve for the short term.
Economic activity indices are increasing. Freight turnover has grown by 3 percent and retail trade by 2.7 percent in the eight months of this year.
I would like to mention low inflation – 3.4 percent at an annual rate, unemployment at 4.6 percent, a stable financial sector and an increase in gold and foreign currency reserves by 5.7 percent to $459 billion since the beginning of the year. The Russian Government’s reserve funds are also growing.
This positive macroeconomic background allows companies to work steadily and make long-term plans. I expect Italian business circles to continue taking advantage of the opportunities opening up in the Russian market.
I would like to mention that we have minimal external debt, about 15 percent, and considerable growth in the trade balance. All this creates favourable conditions for joint work. We count very much on your active cooperation with your Russian partners.
Let me turn the floor over to Mr Conte.
Please, Mr Prime Minister.
Prime Minister of Italy Giuseppe Conte (retranslated): Mr President,
Russia is an essential economic partner for Italy. We have traditionally strong ties in energy.
It is very important that our indexes have once again shown a positive dynamic, both last year and in the first months of 2018. We can look to the future with optimism.
We have our mutual investment in various sectors and, despite the crisis of the past years, this has not decreased.
We are facing important challenges today. We want to strengthen Italy’s economic indexes and to use this market’s opportunities.
We are working to use new opportunities, we are working in the areas of high technology and healthcare, which were not as popular in the past as such traditional sectors as energy and all the areas related to furniture, clothes and food.
Large and small Italian businesses are looking for partners in not only Moscow and St Petersburg, but also all across Russia. The videoconference we have just seen proves that. We can see that our partnership is succeeding in Chelyabinsk and other Russian regions.
The Government (I can assure you) is ready to support Italian companies that want to promote industrial cooperation with Russian companies and want to establish new joint enterprises, create new investment and transfer technology. We are ready to participate in new development projects.
We understand that Russia can find excellent partners in Italian businesses that traditionally provide ready products. We can strengthen industrial relations; this is our duty, considering the complimentary character of the Russian and Italian economies.
The presidents and general directors of the major Italian companies here represent the main areas of our cooperation. They will present the development projects they have implemented in Russia. Today they represent a wider range of businesses.
Mr President, let me note that the businesses that are present here have always believed in this market and, in many cases, started their operations in Russia dozens of years ago. They opened the way for the entire Italian production system.
In the most politically and economically challenging times they have never thought about leaving Russia. And I, as the head of the Italian Government, wanted to acknowledge this in front of Russia’s main authority.
Thank you.
<…>
See also
Meeting with Prime Minister of Italy Giuseppe Conte
October 24, 2018
Geography
Italy
Topics
Economy and finance
Industry
Regions
Persons
Conte Giuseppe
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 24, 2018, 17:20
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Prime Minister of Italy Giuseppe Conte
Vladimir Putin met with Prime Minister of the Italian Republic Giuseppe Conte, who is in Russia on an official visit.
October 24, 2018
13:50
The Kremlin, Moscow
7 of 7
With Prime Minister of Italy Giuseppe Conte.
The parties exchanged opinions on expanding bilateral cooperation in energy, investment, culture, the humanitarian sphere and other areas.
Vladimir Putin and Giuseppe Conte
also discussed a range of international and regional matters, including developments in Syria and Libya, as well as the two countries’ cooperation in the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) in light of Italy’s 2018 OSCE chairmanship.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister, it is a pleasure to welcome you in the Moscow Kremlin, in Russia. We are very glad to see you.
In recent years, decades, Russia and Italy have developed very business-like and at the same time friendly relations supported by almost all the political forces both in Italy and in Russia. Despite the current difficult times, we have never lost the high level of political contacts and have always maintained them.
Unfortunately, Italy has somewhat stepped down as an economic partner on the Russian market, but trade between our countries remains extensive.
Italy is currently Russia’s sixth largest trading partner, with 500 Italian businesses working here, and we can see the trade volume growing steadily over the past two years.
We are very happy to see you, to discuss the current situation of our relations and outline the development prospects for Italian-Russian ties in the short and long term.
Welcome.
Prime Minister of Italy Giuseppe Conte: Mr President, I am very glad and grateful to you for the opportunity to have this meeting today.
Relations between Italy and Russia are characterised by unusual strength; I am referring to our ties in culture, economy and trade.
As you rightly said, despite all the difficulties we can see today in the international context, which I would define as quite delicate, we manage to preserve the quality and volume of our ties and relations, and I believe this proves the strength of our ties.
One of my visit’s goals is to examine once again how the potential of our ties and relations can be expanded.
If I may, I would like to begin this meeting with a request: I would like you to visit Italy as soon as possible. You have not been there for too long. I do not want the Italian people to get the impression that you do not pay enough attention to them.
Vladimir Putin: For my part, I would like to express my gratitude to the Mayor of Rome and the medical personnel who treated the football fans injured during the incident in the Rome subway.
Thank you very much.
<…>
Geography
Italy
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Conte Giuseppe
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 24, 2018, 13:50
Text versionEvents
News conference following Russian-Italian talks
October 24, 2018
19:15
The Kremlin, Moscow
8 of 8
News conference following Russian-Italian talks. With Prime Minister of Italy Giuseppe Conte.
Vladimir Putin and Prime Minister of Italy Giuseppe Conte
gave statements for the press and answered media questions following Russian-Italian talks.
A number of bilateral economic agreements were signed in the presence of Vladimir Putin and Giuseppe Conte on the sidelines of the meeting.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen,
We are happy to welcome Giuseppe Conte, who is in Russia on an official visit for the first time.
The Prime Minister and I have had substantive and quite productive talks involving almost the entire range, the entire spectrum of Russian-Italian cooperation.
We have also held a meeting with the heads of leading Italian companies that operate in the Russian market, and we launched the new motor plant in Chelyabinsk via videoconference.
The interdepartmental and commercial agreements that have just been signed are evidence of our mutual commitment to promoting bilateral ties in various areas.
In this context, I would like to stress that Italy is a very important economic partner, and today Mr Conte and I have focused mostly on cooperation in trade and investment.
In 2017 bilateral trade grew by more than 20 percent reaching $24 billion, with another 15 percent added in January–August of this year.
Mutual investment is more than $7.5 billion, and, according to the data from the first quarter of this year, Italian investment in Russia grew more than $1 billion to reach $4.8 billion.
The effective work of the Russian-Italian Council on Economic Cooperation and Industrial and Financial Cooperation has been widely helpful in reaching these figures. The next meeting of the Council will take place in Italy in December.
Of course, we have had a detailed discussion of cooperation prospects in energy. Russia is a large supplier of natural gas to Italy covering 35 percent of the demand.
In addition, our countries are carrying out a range of joint energy projects. Russian and Italian companies are developing gas fields and are involved in the production and supply of liquefied natural gas.
We are studying the possibility of building main pipelines via the southern route to supply Russian gas to Europe.
Italian corporations are assisting us in upgrading our electric power industry. ENEL is taking part in modernising Russian electricity grids and building wind farms in Russia.
Mutually beneficial industrial cooperation is developing through the joint efforts of the two countries as well. Pirelli and Rostec – you just saw the documents being signed – cooperated in the technological renovation of the Kirov and Voronezh tyre plants.
With the participation of our partners from Italy, the construction of a large ammonia manufacturing facility is nearing completion in Leningrad Region; and, the construction of the Amur Gas Processing Plant.
Italian companies are part of infrastructure projects in Russia. In St Petersburg, the modern Western High-Speed Diameter Motorway and Pulkovo Airport project are complete.
It is important that strong cooperation is underway in the scientific and technical sphere. The Russian Academy of Sciences and the Russian Foundation for Basic Research closely cooperate with Italian researchers.
Russia's Kurchatov Institute and Italy's National Research Council are working together on innovative projects in thermonuclear fusion and on the construction of the Ignitor fusion reactor. Italians are also involved in a number of hi-tech projects at the Skolkovo Innovation Center.
Successful cooperation can also be seen in manned space activity. Currently, preparations are taking place to send an Italian citizen to the International Space Station.
We have agreed with the Prime Minister to take every effort to expand inter-regional connections. Russian and Italian regions are implementing over 40 joint agreements.
Last year, Days of Moscow were held in several Italian cities. A presentation of the investment potential took place in the Kaluga Region.
Of course, I must mention bilateral interaction in the cultural sphere. This year, events are ongoing in Italy as part of the Russian Seasons festival, and they are enjoying great success, including tours by music groups, ballet and theatre companies, as well as festivals and film screenings.
By the way, Mr Conte and I have just watched scenes from a film by Andrey Konchalovsky about the great sculptor and painter Michelangelo Buonarroti. This is an exceptional collaborative work by Russian and Italian filmmakers, which will undoubtedly spark interest not only in Russia but also in Italy and, I am sure, in other countries.
Large Russian museums regularly host Italian art exhibitions. Currently, there is an exhibition of 18th century Venetian paintings at the Pushkin Museum of Fine Arts. We understand that Mr Conte intends to visit it.
I would also like to mention that Italy will take part in the 7th St Petersburg International Cultural Forum on November 15–17 as a guest country.
Reciprocal tourism is growing. In the first six months of the year, 20 percent more Russians visited Italy and the number of Italians going to Russia is increasing.
When we discussed current issues on the international and regional agendas, we said that the views of Russia and Italy on many matters were close.
Russia supports Italy’s efforts topromote a Libyan settlement, in particular, the initiative to hold an international conference on Libya in Palermo on November 12–13.
Mr Prime Minister and I discussed this in detail today. Unfortunately, the situation in Libya remains critical. It is important to prevent an escalation of the crisis and find ways to restore Libya’s sovereignty and territorial integrity.
We exchanged opinions on the situation in Syria. We informed Mr Conte of the steps Russia is taking, including in the Astana framework, to promote a political settlement and to step up inter-Syrian talks.
We also discussed the possibility of joining the world community’s efforts to provide humanitarian assistance to that long-suffering country.
Restoration of Syria’s economy will create favourable conditions for the refugees to return and in this way will reduce the migration load on the European countries and Syria’s neighbours.
In conclusion, I would like to thank Mr Giuseppe Conte, the Italian Prime Minister, and all our Italian colleagues and friends for these useful and constructive talks.
I am convinced that the agreements we reached today will contribute to further developing our extensive Russian-Italian cooperation.
Thank you for your attention.
Prime Minister of Italy Giuseppe Conte (retranslated): I am truly happy to be here on my first visit to Moscow as the President of the Italian Council of Ministers. I would also like to thank President Putin for the warm welcome and the fruitful time we spent together.
It was an opportunity to review the cooperation between Russia and Italy and improve it in culture, trade and the social sphere. It was a very positive and constructive meeting.
Mr President and I stated a good trend in our relations and worked on their future prospects.
As for the international perspective, we are facing a huge number of challenges for the security and development of Italy and Europe, and we believe that it is crucially important to discuss these issues with such a strategic partner as the Russian Federation.
We need Russia to develop solutions to the main international crises; I have been saying this since the beginning of my term. It should be sustainable development and first of all, sustainable political decisions. I sincerely believe in Moscow’s constructive approach.
As he already mentioned, Mr President and I touched upon the Libyan issue. The strengthening of the country’s institutes, as well as its economic and social development can only be achieved through an inclusive dialogue and reconciliation, which should be led by the UN and implemented by the Libyan people themselves.
It is essential that the international community show solidarity and support for the UN. On November 12–13, Italy plans to hold a conference on Libya in Palermo. We invited all Libyan parties that are directly involved, as well as the main partners in the region and on the global stage.
Russia’s participation is crucially important as it can ensure progress towards stabilisation in Libya. I shared my thoughts with Mr President and received his full support. Therefore, Moscow will make a significant contribution to this conference.
We also exchanged views on the developments in Syria. We support the Geneva process and the actions of the United Nations to bring about stability and reconciliation of the parties, which is necessary and must be achieved through a peaceful, political, inclusive and sustainable solution.
It is also necessary to involve all the main players in the region and the world, and Russia holds a fundamentally important place among them.
We very much appreciate Moscow’s role in the demilitarisation of Idlib. Due to its efforts, it was possible to avoid a humanitarian crisis and a dangerous military escalation. We hope that efforts will be made to develop a long-term solution.
We also spoke about the Ukrainian crisis, which remains a pivotal issue and needs to be resolved. This crisis has put the foundations of relations between the European Union and Russia into question.
If we do not resolve this crisis, we risk losing the trust, cooperation and rules developed in the 25 years of our dialogue. Italy will facilitate this dialogue because all of Europe needs a security framework that all the main actors will share.
There is no alternative to the Minsk Agreements. Italy fully supports the Normandy Four and the OSCE, in which Italy is currently presiding.
As for the relations between Italy and Russia, Mr President already mentioned several issues. We also confirmed the excellent state of our bilateral relations.
Despite the persisting conditions that resulted in the EU sanctions in this sensitive time for the global economy, I consider it right to maintain economic ties between Italy and Russia, in particular, to support the activity of numerous Italian companies that work in Russia in the interests of both our countries.
In addition, I repeatedly said and want to confirm again here that sanctions have never been a goal for Italy; they are a tool that must be abandoned as soon as possible because dialogue is the best solution.
Italy is a large industrial country and it should not be afraid of globalisation. On the contrary, it should be able to use the amazing opportunities it offers.
Russia ranks fifth in terms of our exports, excluding the EU. There is a huge number of Italian companies, large, medium and small, operating in Russia.
In 2017, our exports finally began to grow and in the first nine months of 2018, this trend persisted, so we believe that it can grow even further.
Italian companies show a growing interest in the Russian market. The readiness to improve industrial cooperation is also proved by the signing of numerous agreements between Italian and Russian companies, which Mr President and I attended with great enthusiasm.
In addition, we have wonderful cooperation in culture and science, and Mr President mentioned this as well. The popularity of the Italian language in Russia is huge. Russia has 50 schools that teach Italian. There are many formats of cooperation between research centres and universities, especially in physics and medicine, and I strongly hope that these relations between Italy and Russia will continue to develop.
Question: Good evening. I have two questions.
The first is for Prime Minister Conte because you hope that Russia will return to the Group of 7, or to be more exact, it should become the Group of 8 again.
Considering the evident very good relations between Russia and Italy, how much is the Italian Government prepared to oppose the tacit extension of economic sanctions against Russia from the European Union? Do you mean to impose a veto?
And a question for President Putin, if I may. Considering that Russia is already treated as a principal actor in solving large international crises, as I far as understand, you have received an invitation to personally take part in the conference on Libya in Palermo. Are you going there? And specifically, what is Moscow’s vision of a settlement of the Libyan crisis?
Giuseppe Conte: First, I will answer your question. It is evident that, as I said, the Ukrainian crisis is a problem that created a bottleneck and that slowed and even blocked a dialogue that had been developing for 25 years. We cannot accept this. We need to overcome this by all means. It has lasted too long.
You ask about a veto. Italy believes that productive work means persuading our European partners to move in one direction. This is why we would prefer not to make a decision now. We will make it in due time.
Italy is very ambitious, and we would like to persuade our partners that the best way to find a solution is through dialogue.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you for the first part of the question. In appreciation of this, I will do my best to answer your second question in detail.
I mentioned that we support Italy’s efforts to settle the crisis in Libya. As you know, it was manmade, and not by Russia. Still, we support everything Italy is doing in this respect.
I have already said and will repeat: I believe that our approach fully coincides with Italy’s approach, to the effect that ultimately the Libyan people themselves should solve internal Libyan problems.
For our part, we can only provide assistance and act as guarantors. We hope for success at the scheduled conference in Palermo and at the moment I do not know if I will be able to take part in it personally. In any case, Russia will definitely be represented at a very high level.
Question: I have a question on the INF Treaty, the subject being discussed these past few days not only in our country and in the US, but also in Europe.
Due to the specifics of these arms –intermediate and short-range missiles – the Europeans could become hostages to the US if Washington withdraws from the treaty, as my colleague said yesterday.
It is not clear yet if Washington is withdrawing or is revising the format of this document, however, whatever the case, if Trump and his administration move beyond words, what steps will you take? This question is addressed to both leaders.
Vladimir Putin: This problem did not come up yesterday or even three days ago when the US President announced it. It came up earlier, and as you might have noticed, and we did notice, the United States Congress had already earmarked expenses for R&D on intermediate and short-range missiles.
This means the decision has been taken. Once research and development is underway – and they do not do it so it can sit on the shelf and collect dust, it means that the next step will also be made.
The budget was passed, the Congress approved it while a political statement was made several days ago. Yes, indeed, there are certain questions regarding progress in missile technology and the limitations undertaken only by the United States and the Soviet Union, now the Russian Federation.
However, what worries us is that the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty has been scrapped. Now we are talking about the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty. And the future of a new START Treaty on limiting strategic offensive arms is unclear.
If all that is scrapped, then nothing will remain to limit arms growth. The situation will then become very dangerous, in my view. There will be nothing left but an arms race.
Now regarding Europe. Of course, the key question, if the United States withdraws from the INF Treaty, the main question is what will they do with any new missiles?
If they deploy them in Europe, we will naturally have to respond symmetrically, and the European countries that agree to this, if it goes as far as that, must realise that they will put their own territory at risk of a retaliatory strike. This is an obvious situation. We will go back to Pershings in Europe.
I actually do not understand why Europe should be brought to such a high degree of risk? I see no reasons for that, but let me reiterate, this not our choice, we are not pursuing this. In answer to your question as to whether we will be able to respond – yes, we will, and this will happen very quickly and efficiently.
What is the formal pretext for our partners’ withdrawal from the INF Treaty? Accusations that we are allegedly violating it. However, as usual, no evidence of this is produced, whereas the United States has already violated it by deploying Aegis anti-missile defense launchers in Romania, by placing them on land, on the territory.
What have they done? The Aegis launchers can be used for offensive missiles, not anti-missiles. They only need to update the software and that’s it. This can be done in hours. We will not even be able to guess what is happening, we will not be able to see it from the outside. The US has already violated the treaty.
How about unmanned aircraft? This is in essence also a direct violation. Drones are no different than intermediate and short-range missiles in this respect. This is an old trick, when nobody shouts ‘Stop thief!’ louder than the thieves do, but it will not work in this case.
We are carefully analysing everything that is going on in real life. But let me repeat, we are ready to work on this with our US partners without any hysterics. What matters is what will follow, which decision will be taken.
I hope we will be able to talk about all these issues with the President of the United State at least on the sidelines of the meetings in Paris on November 11.
Giuseppe Conte: I would like to add that this is a matter of concern for Italy as well, since we are talking about intermediate-range missiles. For this reason, we cannot remain indifferent to the fact that this treaty may be cancelled. I told Mr Putin that I was very young at the time of Pershing missiles, and have no desire whatsoever to return to a time that we have managed to leave behind us.
I will also inform President Trump during a telephone conversation that Italy will do everything it takes, as it usually does, to make sure that dialogue remains possible on this matter. We must focus on other cooperation opportunities and we must avoid any disruptions that would be a concern for everyone.
Question (retranslated): Good afternoon. President Putin, what do you think about the possibility for Russia to invest in Italy’s government bonds, maybe using funds from the National Welfare Fund?
And Prime Minister, a question for you. I would like to ask you whether there might be misgivings in Washington or Brussels should Russia decide to invest in Italy’s securities.
In general, could this help stop the erosion of trust, improve bond spread and stop capital outflow from Italy?
Vladimir Putin: We are aware of the current controversy between the Italian Government and the European Commission. In our view, this results from a difference in approaches to choosing the most effective way of ensuring economic growth and performance.
This dispute has been going on for a long time now, and not just between Italy and the European Commission, but also on the expert level too. What is better: fiscal relief or restrictions designed to suppress inflation?
In this case, this is none of our business. We are not going to interfere, so I will refrain from making even the slightest allusion regarding this matter. Despite all these complicated developments, we are aware of the debt burden together with the other challenges. We are quite aware of all this.
Nevertheless, I do believe that the Italian economy has a solid foundation, and overall we have trust in what the Italian Government is doing. We have no doubt that these matters will be resolved in one way or another. Russia does not intend to create any political limitations in operating its National Welfare Fund.
Of course, we are looking for various new investment options, since our funds are increasing quite rapidly. I think that our reserves are growing by seven or eight billion dollars per month, and I am not even talking about the Central Bank’s currency reserves that have reached 460 billion dollars.
However, this is a question for economic actors. Let me repeat that there are no political restrictions here.
As for the effect, in any case, it is always positive when an investor shows confidence in sovereign bond issuers. Let me reiterate that we did not discuss these matters today, and Mr Prime Minister did not raise these questions during the discussions that we had today.
Giuseppe Conte: I would also like to answer this question.
This question is also relevant for me. Let me be absolutely clear. Asking President Putin to buy Italian bonds was not the purpose of my visit here.
The Italian economy is on a stable footing, as Mr President has said. However, while this is recognised abroad, not everyone in Italy would agree with this assessment. If the Central Bank of Russia or the National Welfare Fund take a decision of this kind, it will mean that they view the investment as a good deal. This is all I have to say about it.
Question: Good evening.
Since energy was discussed during the talks, as you have said, could you tell us whether the Nord Stream 2 project was mentioned considering the differences that exist in Europe regarding its implementation?
And concerning the southern pipeline, what practical steps could be taken so that Italy receives Russian gas across the Black Sea and possibly joins projects to develop the gas transportation system in southern Europe where gas will be delivered via Turkish Stream?
Vladimir Putin: In this sphere, everything is possible.
As you know, hydrocarbon exports, including both gas and oil, from Russia to Europe are growing. We are active in other sectors as well, including alternative energy sources. Italian companies are involved in projects to build wind farms, as well as develop Russia’s power grids into what is referred to as smart grids. This goes to say that energy cooperation between our countries covers a wide range of initiatives and sectors.
As for the specific question of infrastructure development, we are considering all possible options, including connecting Italy to various branches of the Turkish Stream, which could go through Bulgaria, or even through Serbia or Hungary or Greece, as well as stepping up ties in the context of increasing deliveries through Nord Stream 2, though we did not discuss Nord Stream 2 at this meeting.
Let me inform you, just to make sure that you all remember this, that pipelines from Baumgarten, where Russian gas will be delivered by Nord Stream 2, to Italy is a Russian-Italian joint venture. In this sense, Italy must be interested in the Nord Stream 2 project.
Let me reiterate that we are looking at all possible options. I would like to stress once again that they are not designed to be detrimental to the interests of any third parties, and do not target Ukraine’s interests.
The purpose of the options we are considering is to satisfy the growing demand of the European energy sector and economies in general in hydrocarbons in the near future. It is obvious that there is a growing demand. It is increasing by the year.
This year, Gazprom will produce and deliver to its European customers a record-high volume of 200 bcm, I think. For this reason, it is natural for us to promote these efforts, and this is what we discussed, broadly speaking.
Thank you. See you soon.
See also
Meeting with Prime Minister of Italy Giuseppe Conte
October 24, 2018
Meeting with Italian business leaders
October 24, 2018
Geography
Italy
Topics
Foreign policy
Industry
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 24, 2018, 19:15
Text version