Events
Meeting with Acting Governor of Altai Territory Viktor Tomenko
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Acting Governor of the Altai Territory Viktor Tomenko. The President and the Acting Governor discussed the socioeconomic situation in the region, specifically, plans to attract investment, the situation in the labour market, and ways to improve the quality of life in the Altai Territory.
August 31, 2018
14:40
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
3 of 3
Meeting with Acting Governor of Altai Territory Viktor Tomenko.
Viktor Tomenko
, who has been Acting Governor since May 30, reported to the President that the most important tasks now concern agriculture, preparation for winter and the heating season. The summer works and improvement projects are going according to plan.
The Acting Governor also noted the major issues for the Altai Territory related to the low income of local residents and the region’s modest financial capabilities. The Altai Territory’s revenue is 110 billion rubles per almost 2.5 million people, including 40 percent from the federal budget, targeted and non-reciprocal payments. The condition of roads and social infrastructure facilities is the most critical issue, especially in rural areas where 44 percent of the Altai Territory residents live.
Viktor Tomenko noted that there are ideas and, most importantly, practical plans to rectify these long-standing problems. It is necessary to focus on the region’s strengths, which include its well-developed agriculture, the processing and food industry, engineering, the pharmaceutical industry, chemical production, and tourism. It is also necessary to create conditions for external investment. In addition, measures are required to train and retain the workforce.
Vladimir Putin and Viktor Tomenko discussed some of the most complicated situations that require support from the President and assistance from the federal Government.
Geography
Altai Territory
Topics
Agriculture
Industry
Investment
Regions
1 more
Persons
Tomenko Viktor
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 31, 2018, 14:40
Text version