Events
Meeting with Emergencies Minister Yevgeny Zinichev
Vladimir Putin met with Minister of Civil Defence, Emergencies and Natural Disaster Relief Yevgeny Zinichev.
August 2, 2018
18:20
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 2
With Minister of Civil Defence, Emergencies and Natural Disaster Relief Yevgeny Zinichev.
The Emergencies Minister reported on the actions taken by the Ministry in the regions affected by fires and floods as well as measures taken to protect residential areas and restore the social infrastructure.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Zinichev, what is the situation in the regions? I know you are prepared to talk about Amur Region and Trans-Baikal separately.
Minister of Civil Defense, Emergencies and Disaster Relief Yevgeny Zinichev
: Mr President, the most pressing issue now is wildfires. The affected regions are Krasnoyarsk Territory, and the Republic of Sakha-Yakutia. And there are floods in Trans-Baikal Territory, and Amur Region.
Regarding the wildfires, they cover around 2 million hectares. Although there is no threat to local residential areas, there is a lot of smoke in some places.
As for the floods, the rivers have been rising since July 8 due to torrential rains and snowmelt in the mountains; as a result of this 65 villages (about 800 buildings) and several thousand garden allotments and household plots are flooded in the Trans-Baikal Territory.
The situation is now stabilising; the water level is dropping. At the moment, only two residential buildings and about 900 residential plots remain flooded. In Amur Region, the emergency declaration has been lifted, the water is receding. Meanwhile, our forecast – we have done a simulation – on August 3 and 4, the next wave of flooding will reach Khabarovsk Territory.
Khabarovsk is not threatened, but, according to our forecasts, 3,000–4,000 gardens and household plots may be flooded. We are alerting the population and have prepared water craft so people can leave their summer houses, save their harvests, that is; we are well prepared.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Zinichev, primarily, you need to inform people about a possible natural disaster in a timely manner.
Secondly, you need to concentrate your crews and resources in the most dangerous areas. You have good rapid mobility crews; I hope you will be able to act in time.
Yevgeny Zinichev: Yes, we are directing our main efforts to protecting people.
Vladimir Putin: Good. You also need to evaluate the damage to their houses and plots in a timely manner…
Yevgeny Zinichev: The Government Reserve Fund has allocated 238 million roubles. The regional government allocated another 174 million just to compensate owners.
Vladimir Putin: Where?
Yevgeny Zinichev: In Trans-Baikal Territory.
Vladimir Putin: In Trans-Baikal Territory. But you need to reach people in time. Please keep an eye on this and report back to me.
Yevgeny Zinichev: Yes.
<…>
Topics
Regions
Persons
Zinichev Yevgeny
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 2, 2018, 18:20
Text version