Events
Meeting with foreign business leaders
Vladimir Putin had a meeting with heads of foreign companies on the sidelines of the St Petersburg International Economic Forum.
May 25, 2018
22:00
St Petersburg
4 of 7
Meeting with foreign business leaders.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues, I am happy to greet you.
There are many familiar faces, many people in this room that I have known for a long time, there are many of those who have been cooperating with Russia for many years. And since you are here, it means the work is progressing in a positive vein. I would like to welcome all of you.
I hope there are those in this room who is planning to make or is making their first steps in the Russian market. I want to say that we will do everything for your work in Russia to be successful. We are as much interested in it as you are.
I have talked a number of times at different venues today about our priorities, about what we are going to do in the near future, what aims we are going to achieve. I will not be going through all that again. I will only say a few words – even though it may also be a repetition – on the current situation in our economy.
I think you will agree that we have recovered our growth – that is an obvious fact. We have decreased sensitivity to volatility in the global markets. Last year Russia’s GDP growth amounted to a modest but sustainable figure of 1.5 percent. We set the task to become one of the world’s top five economies in the coming years.
Actually, we are close to reaching this goal in terms of the purchasing power parity. There was a time when we were part of the top five. Different indicators move either up or down. But we set the task to remain in the top five, and I am sure that we will. In particular, we plan to achieve this by expanding domestic consumer and investment demand.
In this regard I would like to reiterate that, as I just said that at a meeting with our Japanese colleagues, capital investments stood at 4.4 percent in our country in 2017. Taking into account that the GDP grew by 1.5 percent, it means that GDP growth is guaranteed in the short and midterm because capital investments are in advance. This means the money for that growth has already been invested in the economy. And it is a very good indicator.
Household consumer spending grew by 3.4 percent. According to Rosstat [Federal State Statistics Service] preliminary estimates, the GDP grew by 1.3 percent in the first quarter. In January through April the industrial output increased by 1.8 percent, and agricultural output by 2.6 percent. You are aware of the Bank of Russia base interest rate: it is 7.25.
We have achieved a considerable decrease in consumer price growth. Last year, in 2017, inflation, as I have already said, was a record 2.5 percent. In future we plan to rein it in within 4 percent – as my aide Mr Belousov has written for me here. Let me remind you that the Central Bank’s target is somewhat below three percent. All that is related, on the one hand, to the Government’s economic bloc wishing to spend more, which will drive inflation up, whereas the finance authorities want to stash liquidity, and in this case, we would stay below three percent.
The consumer price index in April was 2.4 percent year on year. Unemployment in Russia remains very low at 5.1 percent. This is also a record low. And overall, you know what these figures are in the world economy and the world’s leading economies. This is a good situation.
Trade balance surplus is growing. It was $130 billion last year, which is a quarter more than a year before, so the trend is positive and it continues this year.
According to the Central Bank’s estimates, the trade surplice in January through April of this year was almost $61 billion, and this is also a good figure because it is 43 percent higher than in the same period last year.
The ruble retains stability under floating exchange rate conditions. Russia is invariably among the world’s leaders in terms of gold and currency reserves. Their volume reached $457.7 billion as of May 11, 2018 whereas it was $432 billion at the beginning of the year. Therefore, we see a continuous growth.
We are among the countries with the lowest public debt, which is under 20 percent. Combined with other figures I gave you, it all proves the stability of the Russian economy.
We are pursuing a responsible and prudent budget policy. Last year the federal budget deficit stood at 1.5 percent of GDP whereas the target numbers were around three percent. (Addressing Andrei Belousov.) Is that right, Andrei?
How did we manage to cut the budget deficit? Not only on account of growing prices on our traditional export items, because initially there were none, in fact, but primarily through a targeted policy of cutting ineffective expenditures.
According to the Finance Ministry, this year will see at least a 0.5 percent surplus. In January through April, the federal budget has already been executed with a surplus of 0.6 percent of GDP.
I think I will stop at that, on this overview of the situation in our country, in the Russian economy. Let us engage in a direct and open discussion as we used to do in the previous years.
Thank you for your attention.
<…>
See also
St Petersburg International Economic Forum plenary session
May 25, 2018
Topics
Economy and finance
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 25, 2018, 22:00
Text versionEvents
Russia-Japan Business Dialogue
Vladimir Putin and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe took part in the Russia-Japan Business Dialogue panel discussion.
May 25, 2018
21:10
St Petersburg
1 of 6
At the Russia-Japan Business Dialogue panel discussion.
Excerpts from transcript of Russia-Japan Business Dialogue panel discussion
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: I will just say a few words.
Japan is undoubtedly one of our priority partners when it comes to cooperation in the Asia-Pacific region. And not just in Asia. We would like our relations with Japan to acquire global dimension.
Actually, our Japanese friends often act exactly like that. Mr Repik has just told us about Toyota’s activity here in St Petersburg, that is, in the north-west of the Russian Federation. I know that the goods manufactured here go not only to the Russian domestic market but also to neighbouring countries.
You know that Russia is making steady progress on the path of integration in the post-Soviet space. We have set up, as many of you are no doubt aware, the Eurasian Economic Union, and it already represents a market of 170 million people, an actively developing market established on WTO principles. This means we have no boundaries to the flow of goods, investments and workforce. It is very convenient to work in such a market, including via the Russian Federation.
We took a keen interest in Japanese Prime Minister Abe’s initiatives on developing Russian-Japanese relations in eight priority fields, and have already proposed an 80-project plan on its basis. Some of these projects have already kicked off.
Japan’s achievements in high technology are world-renowned, as are those in particular industries where Japan has been and remains an absolute leader. We are naturally interested in working in those fields.
We place special emphasis on developing traditional cooperation areas, including energy.
The automobile industry has already been mentioned here. The Prime Minister pointed out, including at today’s panel discussion, the possibility of working in healthcare. There are concrete proposals here, including working together in the fight against cancer. I should stress that Russia also has something to offer to our Japanese friends and partners.
To sum up, the tenor of Russian-Japanese relations right now gives me every reason to hope that the volume of Japan’s investments – it is currently fairly modest, let us say, around two billion dollars overall – in the Russian economy, as well as the volume of trade – which is also modest so far in view of our potential, something like 18 billion dollars as of last year – all that can be increased many times over.
And we are aware of our Japanese friends’ interest in improving relations. I would like to assure you that for our part we will do everything possible to ensure favourable conditions for investing and for the economic activities currently underway.
Thank you very much.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: First, I would like to thank our colleagues for the attention to cooperation with Russia and for working in our market in general.
But I will start with the last issue. Digitalisation and digital transformation is one of our priorities and not only in the petrochemical and energy industries. In general, we want to work more actively – and we spoke about this at today’s panel discussion – in the area of artificial intelligence, and the digitalisation of the economy as a whole, including the energy industry.
There are plenty of areas here, which are primarily linked with enhancing efficiency and reducing costs. Japan has really succeeded in this respect, and not only in the hydrocarbon energy industry but also in energy transfer and consumption. There are many areas here and you know this much better than I do.
Our power companies are working on resolving these tasks and are doing a good job. The same applies to energy production and transportation and all other related processes.
You decided to cooperate with Gazpromneft and this is a good choice because it is one of the advanced, high-tech companies in this area. Probably, now I understand, maybe partly owing to you, that it is paying much attention to resolving these tasks. Quite recently, I had an opportunity to talk with the head of this company. He told me in a very general sense what this company is doing in this area.
However, there are no restrictions on work with our other large companies – both private and publicly owned, such as Gazprom, Lukoil, Transneft and private energy companies that are working in Siberia – this is where the production is mainly. There are no restrictions at all. You are welcome to work with electric power companies. This work is very important in hydropower engineering. To sum up, there are no restrictions whatsoever.
A few words about support measures. These measures are, of course, general in character. We are trying to come up with some benefits to spur the development of the digital economy. We have a whole list of them. Have a look at it, please. I think it will continue to be improved.
Regarding the pharmaceutical industry, this is a very important field. We have our programme for the pharmaceutical industry’s development but we are aware that our Japanese friends have succeeded in many areas. I draw your attention to the fact that we have increasingly more foreign partners taking part in this work, primarily from Europe. We have Swiss, Italian and German companies working here. We will definitely welcome that. But there is apparently a problem related to drug registration which may take a year and a half. There is too much red tape here.
We have advanced in many areas, and the advances were good, I mean basic issues involved in setting up a business. For example, company registration, grid connection and so on. But purely bureaucratic matters certainly require extra attention. I am not sure we can fully accept certificates for medicines issued by foreign countries, this requires thorough consideration.
We have a certification procedure of our own. However, it should become more flexible, there is no doubt about it. I ask the Healthcare Minister to address that, even though we spoke about it a number of times. I heard what our colleagues said, and will look into what is going on in this area.
We have very good experience here when our foreign partners work, and they work successfully. We met with French businessmen in this very hall today. Joint insulin production in Russia and its sale to third countries was cited as a positive example. And the number of such examples is growing.
Now, regarding work in the Far East. My colleague mentioned in his speech the capabilities of the free port of Vladivostok. We have expanded this regime of the free port of Vladivostok with its various benefits to the other ports of the Far East, but this is all part of the so-called priority development areas.
I am confident that our colleagues working there know what that is. Let me reiterate, there is a whole collection of benefits and preferences – starting with the customs and tax regime and ending with administrative procedures.
What would I like to say in this context? I know that the matter deals with expanding the term of some benefits and we can, of course, think about this. But we proceeded from the premise that it is first necessary to try and make the most of what is offered today. I understand that this is about bigger investments that take longer to recoup. We are ready to consider this as well.
However, to expand the term of benefits that we are discussing, we need to understand the kind of investment we are talking about, the size. We are ready to discuss this. The Minister of Economic Development is present here and is listening to what we are saying. We often discuss this issue between ourselves.
These seven years that seem to be the subject of our discussion are a compromise decision on our part. The Ministry of Economic Development often insists on extending this period as you are suggesting. The Finance Ministry believes we should first see how it works in practice over seven years. We are ready to discuss this.
Now the next issue linked with currency risks and settlements. I have just said this at today’s meeting with the heads of major international news agencies. I believe the obstacles that our US partners sometimes create for dollar settlements are a big mistake on their part. I think so because, as they try to address momentary political concerns, however unsuccessfully, they are undermining confidence in what is essentially the only reserve currency in the world.
All countries without exception are starting to think about how to get away from this US currency monopoly and how to ensure the normal functioning of their financial institutions. I think our American friends should ponder this. I am certain that…in fact I know, because I read American analytical materials, that many experts criticise such decisions in the US itself. However, this makes it necessary to think about how to work normally in these conditions. 
There is the issue of the volatility of the yen and the ruble, but as you know, we have said it and Ms Lagarde mentioned it today, we can safely say that in recent years Russia has achieved highly stable macroeconomic indicators. We have brought inflation down to an all-time low. Last year it was 2.5 percent, and this year, as our government economists say, it will be three percent or slightly higher. The Central Bank says it will be 2.8 percent.
Do you know why this is happening? The reason is that the government members in charge of the economy want to spend more money and proceed from the premise that inflation will edge upward, while the financial authorities whose task it is to hold inflation at bay, say no, if we are careful, we may keep inflation at 2.8 percent. Meanwhile the gold and currency reserves are growing, the external government debt is less than 20 percent, the trade surplus last year was $130 billion and unemployment stood at 5.1 percent.
Besides, we have robust growth of investment in fixed assets. While the GDP increased by 1.5 percent, investment in fixed assets amounted to 4.4 percent last year. We all know what this means. It provides the foundation for growth in the coming 12 to 12 to 18 months because last year investments in fixed assets grew 2.5 or actually 3 times faster than GDP last year.
Thus, basically, the trends are very positive. The ruble is essentially a fully convertible currency. Let us settle in rubles. We are all for it. We can work out a mechanism of free conversion into the yen, the euro and the dollar. This can be thought out in detail, it simply needs an effort.
I believe that together with the central banks, together with the financial authorities on both sides we will certainly solve this problem and will work effectively. I would like to thank you all for the joint work. And I would like to say something else.
Yes, problems exist, but still our trade with Japan amounts to $18 billion, with China it is $86 billion and with Germany it is around $50 billion. Obviously, our trade with Japan does not match our potential at all.
Yet all our other partners are working in the same conditions, so with them, the situation is different, and we move forward faster and achieve greater volumes. We can certainly do the same with Japan, all the more so because our economies, due to their structures, can well complement each other.
We are aware of the keen interest our Japanese friends are showing in cooperation in the field of energy, and how Japan feels about buying our gas, oil and petroleum products. All this can be done. We can develop nuclear power together. We discussed it with the Prime Minister, and we can discuss power transmission lines and cable lines – there are many options – and transport infrastructure. In short, if there is good will, and I see that there is good will on both sides, success is inevitable.
Thank you very much.
<…>
Geography
Japan
Topics
Economy and finance
Foreign policy
Persons
Abe Shinzo
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 25, 2018, 21:10
Text versionEvents
St Petersburg International Economic Forum plenary session
Vladimir Putin spoke at the plenary session of the 22nd St Petersburg International Economic Forum.
May 25, 2018
18:00
St Petersburg
3 of 14
St Petersburg International Economic Forum plenary session. Photo: TASS
Foreign heads of state and government, heads of major Russian and international companies and banks, leading experts and politicians from around the world were invited to the forum. Honorary SPIEF guests include French President Emmanuel Macron and Prime Minister of Japan Shinzo Abe.
The plenary session participants also include IMF Managing Director Christine Lagarde as well as Vice President of the People's Republic of China Wang Qishan.
The forum’s theme this year is Creating an Economy of Trust.
* * *
Excerpts from transcript of St Petersburg International Economic Forum plenary session
Panel moderator, Editor-in-Chief of Bloomberg News John Micklethwait: Thank you very much. It is a great pleasure to be here.
This is, as, I think, you can all see, an extraordinary panel. I think we have roughly a third of the world’s GDP. We have maybe a quarter of its population, though with Madame Lagarde here we can perhaps claim we have a 100%.
I have searched in vain to find a panel that includes as many world leaders on one panel, even if you look at it from an Asian perspective. It is very rare to find the leaders of… such leaders from China, Japan and Russia in one room.
I think the coming together is a tribute to Mr Putin’s energy and power of persuasion. But it may also just be a sign of Donald Trump’s unique ability to bring people together. (Laughter. Applause.) Without him…although he could be… he likes surprises… and he often changes.
The format is each of the panellists will come up and deliver some brief opening remarks, and then we will have a discussion between all of us. The aim is for the first remarks to be relatively brief so we can have a full and frank discussion afterwards.
The first panellist to talk is our host, the President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Emmanuelle Macron, Mr Shinzo Abe, Ms Lagarde, Mr Wang Qishan,
Ladies and gentlemen, friends,
I am delighted to welcome all of you to the 22nd St Petersburg International Economic Forum, Russia.
The St Petersburg meetings have become a good tradition. We value the forum’s atmosphere of trust and openness. We have just exchanged opinions, as they say, on the sidelines, about the forum, and Ms Lagarde just told me that she was pleasantly surprised by this friendly atmosphere.
Such a discussion and an informal dialogue are particularly important today when the international political, economic and trade system is undergoing a major strength test, and the environment for doing business and making investments, as well as everyday life, going through dynamic changes too.
The quality, sustainability, nature and speed of growth of the global economy are increasingly determined by new competences and human knowledge, advanced technology and means of communications, which were simply unimaginable a short while ago.
The one who will be able to effectively use these growth factors, to provide a breakthrough in the economy, social sphere, research and education, will significantly improve the quality of life of the people.
We identified these goals as our national priorities. In the near future, the newly formed Government should deploy them into specific action programmes, national projects and legislative initiatives, and provide for the necessary resources to achieve these goals.
In our development we are going to rely on our human, creative and labour potential. We are ready to learn and adapt the world’s best practices, and, of course, to use our own successful experience in tackling the most complicated structural tasks.
We will act primarily proceeding from our national interests. This is natural for any sovereign state.
However, it is possible to pursue one’s interests in different ways – either by ignoring others or respecting the position of one’s partners based on the understanding that the modern world is interconnected and countries are mutually dependent, and every state, especially the world’s major economies, bears an enormous responsibility for the common future.
Russia is part of the global economy. We are taking an active part in integration processes and exerting serious influence on the energy, food and other markets. This country and our companies are deeply involved in international trade, financial and production ties.
This is why we are attentively studying what strategies of economic, technological and social growth other countries are planning to carry out. Naturally, we are not indifferent to what global trends prevail in long-tern perspective.
Until recently, global development was based on two most important, determining principles. The first is the freedom of business, trade and investment, which is recorded in the general rules adopted by the participants in international relations. The second is sustainability and predictability of these rules, which is guaranteed by clear-cut legal mechanisms.
Based on these values and principles, the world economy managed to achieve impressive results and put into the orbit of development the overwhelming majority of international players, the majority of countries.
However, today we are witnessing not even erosion – and I say this with regret – but the undermining of these foundations. The system of multilateral cooperation that was built for decades is being crudely destroyed instead of undergoing natural and needed evolution. Violating rules is becoming a rule.
Open markets and fair competition are gradually replaced by all kinds of exemptions, restrictions and sanctions. Different words can be used to describe these notions but the meaning remains the same. Many countries now use these approaches as their official trade policy tools. And some countries simply had to adapt to this environment, respond and come up with tit-for-tat measures.
Let me highlight a fact that is quite telling. Until recently, a joint statement was issued following practically every leaders’ meeting of the G20 or APEC with calls to refrain from creating new protectionist barriers. Of course, these statements were non-binding, since new barriers kept creeping up, unfortunately. Today, however, we are unable to agree even on symbolic steps.
Let me give you another example: free trade agreements are losing momentum. This process started five or seven years ago. In 2010, the WTO was notified of more than 30 agreements of this kind, but last year this figure was down to just ten. There is a feeling that this downward trend can carry on.
Finally, we used to face what we can refer to as traditional protectionist measures that were also regrettable, of course, and consisted of introducing import duties, technical requirements and covert subsidies. Now, however, we are facing a new kind of protectionism. What is the purpose of all these far-fetched pretexts and references to national security interests? Their purpose is to suppress competition and extort concessions.
The spiral of sanctions and restrictions is only widening, harming more and more countries and companies, including those that never expected to face any trade restrictions or problems of this kind.
Arbitrary action and lack of control inevitably create a temptation to use restrictions more and more at a much broader scale and in any circumstances, without regard for political loyalties, solidarity or pre-existing agreements or cooperation ties dating back many years.
There are many businesspeople in the audience, and you know all too well that when one of the parties to a contract withdraws from the legal framework, the breakdown of agreements always creates substantial risks and losses. This is a fundamental truth for any business. On a global scale, when entire countries and centres of gravity act this way, this may pave the way to the most destructive consequences. This rings especially true today, when disregard for the existing norms and the loss of mutual trust may overlap with the unpredictable nature and turbulence of the ongoing radical technology transformation.
This combination of factors may trigger a system-wide crisis that the world has never faced or has not faced for a long time. It will affect all participants in the world economic relations without exception.
Global mistrust is calling into question the prospects of global growth. The logic of economic egotism does not fit in well with the current specialisation of countries and companies and the building of complicated global production chains. In effect, this may throw the global economy and trade far back into the past, into the era of subsistence farming when every household had to produce everything itself. This inevitably reduces economic efficiency, lowers labour productivity and wastes scientific and technological achievements that can change life for the better.
We are already witnessing alarming trends. The stability of business ties is undermined. Disintegration processes are gaining in strength. Forms of multilateral cooperation are devalued and the efficiency of international institutions and agreements is reduced.
Thus, the international community has so far failed to find acceptable solutions in the World Trade Organisation (WTO), which despite all difficulties and contradictions remains a key link in the global trade system and a major universal venue for resolving disputes and conducting dialogue on the issues that concern all economic actors without exception.
Needless to say, the WTO is not ideal. At the same time, there are no insoluble problems in its system. Giving it up without any replacement means destroying the established balance. In this case there will be neither complainants nor defendants in trade disputes. Force alone will decide who is right.
Naturally, the aim is not to freeze or mothball the existing order and turn into dogma the ideas that have outlived themselves and are no longer viable. Naturally, the world is changing and institutions and rules should be changing with it.
But one thing is clear: these rules must be transparent and uniform for all and should be observed by all international economic players.
It is very important for us to draft and introduce together a legitimate mechanism of changes, which will allow the international community to get rid of obsolete and sometimes inefficient and archaic norms, preserving all the best practices and creating new instruments that meet the requirements of the time.
For example, the spheres where multilateral “rules of the game” are still being formed are of particular importance for the global trade agenda. I am primarily referring to the development of new technological markets, such as e-commerce, access to information and transparency, protection of intellectual property and the rights of consumers of new, digital services.
Talks on the majority of these subjects have been launched. Much painstaking work, patience and perseverance will be needed. But let me repeat that there is no alternative to the joint development of rules in the global economy and mechanisms capable of guaranteeing their enforcement.
What we need today is a full-scale trade peace rather than trade wars or even temporary trade armistices. The theme of this year’s St Petersburg forum is Creating an Economy of Trust. I am convinced that experience shows that the role of trust as a development factor will grow.
Look at how hi-tech companies, start-ups, science, advanced innovative spheres are outgrowing existing traditional legal, corporate regulations. The work being done by partners, even if relations between them are complicated, is largely based on mutual trust. I know that this subject was repeatedly broached in discussions at this forum and on different venues.
Of course, we are not trying to idealise the situation. There has always been rivalry and clashes of interests; there still is and, of course, there will continue to be in the future. But it is important to maintain respect for each other. The guarantee of progress, the source of progress is in the ability to deal with differences and in fair competition rather than its restriction. This is the basis for each country’s confident, sustainable development and for tapping the huge scientific and technological potential that has been accumulated in the world as a whole.
Russia favours trade freedom, economic integration, and constructive partner-to-partner dialogue and calls on our partners from Europe, from America, from Asia and other regions to advance together towards the sustainable development goals and the development of a growth model that would provide the most fitting response to modern challenges.
What I mean is overcoming inequality of opportunity, solving demographic and environmental problems, preserving national cultures and identities, improving people’s wellbeing, and using the advantages of the new technological wave on a broad scale.
All countries run into such challenges one way or another. However, we are faced with all of them at once. For us to remain who we are, Russia, we must address all these challenges at the same time.
For us, state sovereignty and national identity have unconditional value. However, we need to make a major breakthrough in our development, to join the advanced countries in terms of life expectancy and quality of life, and to become a global technology leader.
Our vision of the country's future is based on four key principles.
First, we plan to build our policy around people, their well-being, interests and needs. I am convinced that the only way for our country to be strong and successful is to make sure that our people can fully realise their potential.
To do so, we will continue to modernise our economy and create modern jobs, to support wage growth, and to make our healthcare and education systems among the world’s best.
We plan to use best practices in planning our cities and villages, organising comfortable spaces for life, work, and recreation, to significantly boost housing construction and to make housing affordable primarily for middle-income households and families with children. Improving the environment is critical, and will be another of Russia's contributions to resolving global environmental issues.
Everyone should have a chance to excel in social and volunteer activities, in manufacturing, business, and public service, and have a good start for a successful life and career. Social mobility and improving human capital are the cornerstones of our country's progress.
We launched a whole series of projects to support and promote talented and goal-oriented schoolchildren and students, as well as established professionals, and also projects to expand the mentoring movement.
To make this work part of the system, an autonomous non-profit organisation, Russia – Land of Opportunity, is being created. Many in this audience are aware that a corresponding executive order has been signed. Along with existing agencies, such as the ASI, we will coordinate this work between the two organisations and work on the goals which I just mentioned.
Second, we will expand the space of freedom. This is something we talk about all the time, but these are critically important things. For this reason, I believe that it is my duty to say this once again, since it is essential for the emergence of an empowered civil society, for promoting economic, social, scientific and cultural development.
The policy of removing barriers and liberalising laws is primarily designed to meet the interests and aspirations of our citizens. We will seek to create a business climate for operating in Russia that would meet the highest standards. This includes supporting business initiatives.
One year ago, in my remarks here in St Petersburg, I stressed the need to make active use of project financing mechanisms. Today, we see that a new mechanism was put in place to create a project financing factory of sorts, which, of course, is a positive development. Agreements to fund new investment projects worth more than 700 billion rubles will be signed at this forum, while the annual amount is expected to exceed 1 trillion rubles.
The Bank of Russia, the financial and economic ministries and agencies within the Government, and Vnesheconombank worked together on this programme. We have been able to break up some of the bottlenecks related to bank oversight, guaranteeing investor interests, which enabled us to attract a substantial amount of private investment with minimal budget spending. Let me emphasise that we relied on a market-based, transparent mechanism when we took decisions to fund projects.
It will depend to a large extent on the regions, their efforts and effectiveness, whether our plans and projects to promote economic, social and infrastructure development plans succeed. I believe in the importance of continuing the policy of bringing new people into regional teams. It is at this level that the new governance culture is taking shape alongside modern approaches to attaining economic and social objectives. It is at this level that inclusive interaction between the state and the society can be promoted so that people become actively involved in local governance and are able to overcome challenges they face in their everyday lives. As you know, a number of successful governors joined the newly appointed Government of the Russian Federation.
Today, regions are competing against one another to provide the best business environment. They are competing for investors and for the best human resources. What this means is that we have been able to launch a mechanism of continual change. The National Investment Climate Ranking played a major role in achieving this result.
As always, I would like to congratulate this year’s winners: the Tyumen Region, Moscow and the Republic of Tatarstan. The top five also includes the Tula Region, and for the first time ever St Petersburg, my hometown, which is particularly pleasing for me. Let me note the positive momentum in Russia’s Far East, as well as in Buryatia, Kaliningrad, Pskov, Novgorod and Yaroslavl regions. I strongly believe that all our regions will keep up their efforts.
Third, for a technological breakthrough, and in order to be competitive in today's dynamic world, we must be receptive to innovative ideas and technologies that make a difference in people's lives and determine the future of the country and the world.
We adopted a major comprehensive digital development programme which will be among our priorities for the coming years. Above all, it is about developing and using end-to-end digital solutions in public administration, the economy, housing and utilities, and the social sphere, as well as energy, industry and transport. We are open to working with all stakeholders, making use of advantages together and responding to the risks of the digital age.
I would like to take this opportunity and invite everyone to take part in the Second Global Manufacturing and Industrialisation Summit to be held next year in the city of Yekaterinburg, in Russia’s Urals, which will focus on the use of advanced and prospective technologies in the economy, industry and other areas.
The fourth and final key principle behind our development includes our country's openness and focus on participation in global processes and integration projects. This, in particular, includes the implementation of major infrastructure projects which are an important part of our national agenda.
Developing Russia’s transport, energy and digital backbone, we plan to effectively integrate it into the global infrastructure and thus open up more opportunities for our citizens, domestic and foreign businesses in Russia, and to improve our country’s role in the global transport and information and communication system.
Colleagues, friends,
I have already mentioned how the modern world is interdependent. Working on the tasks at hand and achieving breakthroughs across all areas, we will create technologies and solutions which will not only improve the quality of life of Russian citizens, but also be used in other countries and benefit their development. Of course, as we move toward our goals, we plan to use and borrow best practices and achievements from other countries who are our partners.
A prosperous future cannot be created by working in isolation. Indeed, only cooperation and combined efforts can open up unlimited possibilities. Russia is committed to this kind of interaction. I am sure we will certainly be successful if we strengthen mutual trust and the spirit of partnership.
Thank you.
<…>
John Micklethwait: Thank you very much.
We have had five very eloquent speeches, and now is the time for questions, and I hope direct answers. The conversation has gone all the way from football to endoscopy and climate change, but now I wanted to centre on that idea of trust, and especially look at three areas where this is an issue.
We have the Iranian nuclear accord, which broke up, we have North Korea where there has been news about Donald Trump, and we have the US-China trade war. And then we will go look at Russia’s relationship with the rest of the world.
Mr Putin, as the host, will you take the first question? I hope that you will set the fashion for making a direct answer.
There was a nuclear deal signed with Iran in 2015. Donald Trump as we all know has unilaterally withdrawn from it. You have condemned this, Mr Macron has condemned this. We all know you want to keep the deal. You say you are a man of action. What actions will you take to keep the Iranian nuclear deal alive now?
Vladimir Putin: The Iran nuclear deal has been formalised by an appropriate UN Security Council Resolution. It is a multilateral international document. If we want our actions to be predictable, we must comply with common rules.
Unilateral actions lead to a dead-end and are always counterproductive. This is why everyone, all parties to this process must talk with each other openly and look for solutions. An idea occurred to us yesterday when President Macron and I discussed this problem.
The United States holds presidential elections every four years. If international legal documents are reconsidered every three or four years at the most, we will have a zero planning horizon. This would create a nervous atmosphere and mistrust. On the contrary, if we respect our agreements, this would lead to stability and initiate the search for mutually acceptable solutions.
John Micklethwait: Can I push you on a particular thing? If during the previous sanctions regimes Russia supported the sanctions against Iran, and you followed the rules, this time you disagree with what has happened. If the Americans impose sanctions on Iran selling oil, will you buy the oil, perhaps in exchange for wheat, or something like that, and allow Iran to get round the deal?
Vladimir Putin: This is a simple question, because we do not buy oil, we produce and sell it. Russia is a major oil supplier in the international market.
As for sanctions, Russia supported the sanctions against Iran that were adopted by the UN Security Council, but we never supported anything that is enforced by anyone unilaterally. I always said so and always considered such actions to be harmful and counterproductive.
Experts in Russia and the West recall the speech I made in Munich in 2005, when I spoke about the unacceptability of the exterritorial use of national legislation, or more precisely, US legislation. Many people in the United States and Europe were angry with me. But this is exactly what I warned everyone about. And now we see this in full bloom. “Dinner is served, enjoy.” (Applause.)
If we look carefully at what is happening and react in good time, there will be fewer such problems. We supported everything that was proposed by the international community to convince our Iranian partners to accept these arrangements.
It should be noted that our Iranian partners made many compromises and are honouring their obligations now. I have recently met with the IAEA Director General – he is a respected person and the head of a respected organisation that is trusted universally. He told me once again that according to IAEA data, Iran is fully honouring its commitments. Why should it be punished then? I do not understand this. This is the first part.
The second part concerns what will happen if this deal is destroyed. Would this benefit anyone? Would this benefit the international community and the region? Will the regional countries, including Israel, with which we have very good ties, feel safer? Mr Netanyahu has recently been in Moscow. Moreover, he attended the events we held to mark the victory over Nazism, and he marched on Red Square with a photograph of a WWII hero. It was a unique gesture and evidence of the good trust-based relations between us.
But will Israel be better off if Iran withdrew, is forced to withdraw from or is pushed out of this deal? In this event, Iran’s nuclear activities will be hidden from everyone, and we will not know what is happening there. What risks will this create? Look, we are still grappling with North Korea. There are many problems there, and none of them has been settled.
Do we want to create one more problem of this kind, or even a bigger problem, considering the explosiveness of the region? I do not think so. Therefore, I believe we must not get worked up. We should conduct a dialogue calmly in a considerate and professional manner, and we must find a solution.
As for sanctions, I have said that we always supported legitimate actions approved by the UN Security Council, and we never supported anything that was enforced unilaterally.
<…>
John Micklethwait: Mr Putin, I will come straight to Mme Lagarde in a second, but do you have any advice for the world in terms of how to deal with President Trump, because you were somebody who was associated with the election of President Trump. And yet you can look and see what happened, there are many here who are under sanctions. He has just withdrawn from the Iran deal; there are doubts about the North Korean deal. What do you think you have got from the relationship with him? This is the same question that I asked Mr Macron.
Vladimir Putin: Provocator. I was not related to Mr Trump’s election campaign. (Laughter.)
But of course, we cannot be satisfied with the level and nature of Russia-US relations. We are ready for this dialogue. Mr Trump suggested having a meeting specifically on the issue but we have not had a chance to have it yet, there have been too many issues to address. However, we are ready to have a substantive dialogue on a great number of issues. I think it is high time we did this. Donald has expressed concern over a potential new arms race and I fully agree with him.
The steps we are discussing now, both on the North Korean problem and Iran, they are not bringing us closer, that is for sure. And this is also a reason to discuss them.
Emmanuel said that Europe and the United States have mutual obligations. Europe depends on the US in terms of security. But there is no need to worry, we can help with security. At any rate, we will do everything we can to prevent any new threats. I think we need to take this road. This is the first thing.
Second, as concerns the United States and the US President losing by withdrawing from the Iran nuclear deal, I will talk this over with the French President. I do not think so. I do not think that President Trump lost. First of all, because he is fulfilling his election obligations. And in that, he has won in his domestic policy, to a certain extent. However, if the deal gets completely ruined after all, many will indeed lose. We must do everything we can to prevent this from happening.
Of course, this requires working with all participants, first and foremost, with the United States. Why? Because – let me take you behind the scenes of this deal – the main dialogue took place between the US and Iran. The other participants in the talks only adjusted the process slightly, including Russia. I am not going to hide this, we often did it to protect Iran’s interests. Eventually, after rather extensive bilateral talks between Iran and the US, everybody reached a compromise. This means that, despite all the difficulties, the two countries managed to agree.
Even now, the US President is not closing the door on talks. He is saying that he is not happy about many of the terms of the deal. But in general, he is not ruling out an agreement with Iran. But it can only be a two-way street. Therefore, there is no need for unnecessary pressure if we want to preserve something. Doors must be left open for negotiation and for the final outcome. I think there are still grounds for hope.
<…>
President of France Emmanuel Macron (retranslated): I just wanted to say that I am not saying the Iranian agreement was Trump's defeat; I was talking about the climate agreements. I said that he cannot threaten this agreement with Iran at the international level. I am just explaining what the consequences might be, but these are agreements between us.
As for security, I would like to assure Vladimir that I am not at all afraid, because France has an army that alone can defend the country. However, I have certain obligations with regard to other European allies. I think that the European security architecture I just spoke about is our responsibility. But in any case, we will not turn our backs, and this should not be done to the detriment of other European states. I think we can act this way, so I am not afraid and I want to fulfil my responsibility.
Vladimir Putin: It is a pity. You do not need to be afraid, of course, but the practice is already accumulating. Look, we all are focusing on Iran now. After all, European economic operators have already faced US sanctions – 9 billion for Paribas, a French bank, and Deutshe Bank – just for violating unilateral sanctions. So what? They paid. And a Japanese bank went through the same thing. It is necessary to end this, as it is unacceptable. That is what this is about.
What if this continues? What good will it do? It is destroying the existing world order. We must certainly agree with our American partners about some common rules of conduct. This is extremely important, because it is precisely what is at the heart of our discussion today – trust. Either there is trust, or there is not.
If there is no trust, nothing good will ever come about. Then really, as I said in my remarks, force will remain the only element that is left in international affairs, and this can simply lead to tragedy in the end.
Emmanuel Macron: I share your point of view. I fully share your point of view, all your economic and financial reasoning. Indeed, there is no doubt. I have also spoken about this. We really need to build a useful world order, and a stable one. Indeed, this depends on sovereignty, and on a multilateral approach to cooperation.
Sovereignty means respect for the interests of citizens and companies that depend on their government. From this point of view, we have full agreement. We need to have the appropriate means, and we must agree on this with the United States of America.
To be clear, I want to put an end to this insufficient sovereignty, which, perhaps, was the case in Europe before. The first decision I took with respect to France was precisely this. I completely agree. I think that there should be no uncertainty about security. We have a common history, so we need to find the right line of action in this regard. There is a collective security system and defence. This is very important for the European part and for the United States.
I think that the mistake that was made in the last 20 years was that we in NATO failed to fully comply with all the obligations we had taken on, and this caused certain fears, quite reasonable ones. And we did not have the trust that Russia rightfully expected. If so, as far as NATO is concerned, should we turn our backs on the US in this partnership? No. Otherwise I would have lied.
I came here to tell you the truth. Yes, indeed, as regards economic and financial sovereignty, I agree, but as for collective defence and security, indeed the European Union, France and Russia should try and build a new architecture that would allow us to move forward in an atmosphere of trust.
This is something else. I think that we should not confuse these two topics, but I completely agree with the first point.
<…>
John Micklethwait: Before I come to Mr Abe, and Ms Lagarde, can I just ask President Putin something? President Putin, if you look around this room, you would seem to see evidence that sanctions do not work. Virtually everyone I meet here has been sanctioned in some way, and yet Russian business continues to thrive. Do sanctions still have any effect at all?
Vladimir Putin: You see, today we already mentioned sports, and my good friend, Mr Prime Minister imagined Russia and Japan playing in the World Cup final. This is not a good idea. What if we lose? It would be an unimaginable disaster.
But that is beside the point. The point is we are seeing in the world today a situation where everyone pretends to be playing football, while actually following the rules of judo. What an interesting game that is: not at all football, and not judo either, just chaos. This is where we are headed, and it causes us concern.
This is not just about the so-called sanctions or restrictions. There are people here who feel and understand what this means, and have first-hand experience in this matter. This applies to a vast majority of those present here, since the sanctions truncheon, as has been mentioned here already, is increasingly used against many, not only Russia. Is it good or bad? Can this be overcome or not?
It is clear that the Russian economy has now gained a more stable footing despite the double and triple blows that came with the drop in prices of our traditional exports – energy, metals and chemical products, exacerbated by the pressure of sanctions. We had to face all this at the same time.
However, we were able to find a way through, and have even gone further by strengthening our economy somewhat. I am very grateful to Christine [Lagarde] who said today that she sees positive developments on the macroeconomic side of Russia’s economy. But the losses are still felt by everyone, and development is held back.
In any case, these restrictions hold back the development of Russian businesses, which are unable to fully refinance their loans on international markets, and so forth. At a certain stage, this creates constraints, but once solutions are found, a breakthrough still happens, and everything goes back to normal. For this reason, this policy ultimately makes no economic, political or military sense.
As for the military aspect, I have already mentioned this. One of the reasons behind the attempts to contain Russia is to prevent the development of defence technology. We have shown recently that Russia is now ahead of many of our partners in defence technology despite the sanctions. Therefore, it is pointless, but still pernicious.
<…>
John Micklethwait: Mr Putin, the theme of this conference is “Building trust.” As you know in the rest of Europe, the newspapers over the past couple of days have looked at one particular issue to do with Russia. Yesterday, the Dutch investigation team into the destruction of Malaysia Airlines plane MH17 came forward and said it had proof that the Buk missile that hit the plane came from the 53rd Anti-Aircraft Missile Brigade of the Russian Army based in Kirkuk. When you were asked about this yesterday, you said you did not have an explanation. I wondered now, what is the explanation? Have they made this up? Or was the missile allowed to cross into Ukraine? What happened to the chain of command on this particular issue?
Vladimir Putin: I discussed this issue yesterday, and I can repeat that, unfortunately, we were not allowed to take part in a full-fledged investigation. Therefore, we have no reason to completely trust the results of this investigation. We are not involved in it. The commission conducting this investigation does not heed the arguments we present so that they could be taken into account during the investigation.
I would like to note once again that this is a terrible tragedy. Yesterday, Emmanuel rightly said that we must always remember the families of the people who perished and the people who died as a result of this terrible disaster. Of course, it goes without saying that we will always remember this. But, for some reason, no one even recalls the fact that Ukraine had failed to fulfil its obligations stipulated by the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) and did not close the air space over the conflict zone.
There are different versions of what happened in this tragedy, but no one considers them. Therefore, it will be very hard for us to accept the findings of this commission, which is working without us, unless there is a full-fledged investigation. That is it.
Unfortunately, we have experienced some other tragic incidents linked with Ukraine. Some time ago, they downed a Russian aircraft flying from Israel over the Black Sea and did not admit their guilt. They did later, but did not pay any compensation whatsoever. Unfortunately, we have a negative history.
Regarding this specific tragic incident, we would like to take a full-fledged part in the investigation.
John Micklethwait: One last question, are you saying this was not a Russia missile? This was not a Russian army missile?
Vladimir Putin: Of course, not.
I repeat: There are several versions of what happened, including a Ukrainian army missile, an aircraft and so on. But, I repeat, there is nothing that would make us trust these findings. This will not happen, unless we fully participate in the investigation.
<…>
John Micklethwait: President Putin, what is your goal for Russia and West? Where do you want to see Russia and the West? Despite all these misunderstandings, we could have gone through many other ones, where do you actually want to take Russia? Do you want St Petersburg, this place, which is seen as the symbol of the Western capital of Russia, can you image this again being integrated into Europe in the sort of way that Mr Macron described?
Vladimir Putin: Each country has its own national priorities and its own interests. I spoke about this in my remarks today. We will certainly strive to attain our national interests. What are they, today and in the near future?
First of all, internal development. We need to ensure the growth of labour productivity in our economy, create an attractive environment for investment, because without investment, it is impossible to meet another important goal – to diversify our economy.
Ms Lagarde here told me about it yesterday and hinted again today. But we had a 4.4 percent growth in fixed investment last year, and 11.5 percent economic growth. This is a good sign –accelerated growth in investment, but this is not enough at all. Absolutely not enough!
To attract capital from friendly companies and countries, we need good relations with Europe, and with the whole world, including the United States. We understand this perfectly and are aware of this.
But if we are faced with a choice – either to remain a sovereign state or to suffer certain restrictions – then, of course, we choose the first option. Because these are too disparate substances to be thrown into the balance: either existence as an independent state, or investment thrown as a bone.
We seek only one thing: we want new rules of the game developed, or the old ones returned in the sphere of security and global economic politics with the help of international institutions that have already been established need to be further developed.
This is the groundwork we need to attain our next goal – to diversify our own economy, and make it innovative. We want to work on artificial intelligence, on robotics, and so on and so forth.
By the way, Christine has voiced concerns about robotics and job losses. This is not so terrible, actually, although such fears do exist, and so does the danger, to be honest. Still, according to experts, including international experts, only 5 percent of jobs worldwide can be entirely automated and only 10 percent of those have been automated so far. So there are good prospects for both our economy and the world economy.
Actually, we need this to achieve our main goal: to improve the lives of our people, to reduce the number of people living below the poverty line, and to raise the main indicator of welfare, life expectancy, to 78 years by 2024 and to 80 plus by 2030, as I already said.
All these tasks are absolutely solvable, but, of course, we need favourable external conditions. We will work for this in every way, not forgetting that it is in our national interest as well, yet we certainly cannot sacrifice our sovereignty and our deep, fundamental interests. I hope that this balance will be found between Russia and our partners.
John Micklethwait: Can I ask you one final question? Who will win the World Cup?
Vladimir Putin: The winners will be the organisers, those who organise this wonderful event at the proper level for the entire international community, for all lovers of this great international game. In any case, this is how we see our mission.
As for the teams, may the best one win, as they say. I would really like it to be a real celebration for everyone who loves sport: for the footballers and for our guests alike. We will make every effort to ensure that fans, experts and players all feel at home in Russia.
Topics
Economy and finance
Foreign policy
Persons
Abe Shinzo
Macron Emmanuel
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 25, 2018, 18:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with heads of international news agencies
Vladimir Putin held a meeting with heads of leading international news agencies on the sidelines of the 22nd St Petersburg International Economic Forum.
May 25, 2018
19:30
St Petersburg
3 of 8
Meeting with heads of international news agencies.
The meeting was attended by Bloomberg News International Government Executive Editor Rosalind Mathieson (USA), Associated Press Vice President Ian Phillips (USA), Xinhua Editor-in-Chief He Ping (China), Kyodo News Executive Director Hiroki Sugita (Japan), Deutsche Press-Agentur Chief Executive Officer Peter Kropsch (Germany), Anadolu Agency Editor-in-Chief Metin Mutanoglu (Turkey), EFE President Jose Antonio Vera (Spain), Press Association Chief Executive, President of the News Agencies World Council (NACO) Clive Marshall. Russia was represented by TASS Director General Sergei Mikhailov.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ladies and gentlemen, friends, colleagues, guests,
Let me welcome all of you in St Petersburg. Thank you for taking an interest in our work at the St Petersburg International Economic Forum.
Meetings like this have become a tradition. This is a special venue where you can talk to each other (I don’t think that your work schedules allow you to see each other often enough) and which gives us an opportunity to listen to you and state our position on what are generally major issues that are of great interest, in your view.
You have heard my address at the St Petersburg International Economic Forum and my colleagues’ addresses as well. On the whole, the agenda is clear, as is Russia’s position on key issues. So I will skip the long introduction and go straight to the discussion, questions and answers, your comments or my comments, so that our meeting today is productive and useful.
I suppose I’ll stop here. Thank you for listening and let’s begin.
TASS Director General Sergey Mikhailov: Thank you very much for your time, Mr President.
You have already said everything in your introduction, right off the bat.
We have a tradition. Last year, though, members of the fairer sex were not at our table but this year Rosalind Mathieson from Bloomberg is here. John Micklethwait just did a great job moderating a session, in my opinion. So please, over to Bloomberg. Rosalind, go ahead.
Bloomberg News International Government Executive Editor Rosalind Mathieson (USA): My question actually is about OPEC and oil. Russia and Saudi are in talks about an easing off of the OPEC Plus…
Shall I start again? Thank you.
Russia and Saudi are in talks on potential easing off of the OPEC Plus agreement that caps output. I’m curious as to why that is. Is that because oil prices are too high? Is it because the US President has been pressing OPEC? Or a combination of that? I’m wondering also what is the preferred price for oil for Russia?
And if I might be so cheeky as to ask a very quick second question. Will you tell us here today that you will indeed step down at the end of your next term? Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: I will start with your last question. I have always acted strictly in keeping with the Constitution of the Russian Federation. It is clearly set out in the Constitution that a person can serve no more than two consecutive terms. I am currently in my second term. The limit is two consecutive terms.
You may remember that I served two presidential terms before, but after that I left the office, because the Constitution did not allow me to be elected for a third consecutive term. This is all there is to it. I intend to follow this law in the future as well.
I hope that I answered your second question.
As for your first question, we have developed business-like relations with a number of OPEC members and cooperate with them quite constructively. I am referring primarily to Saudi Arabia and our cooperation in the energy sector. There are many questions in this regard, but we have common ground in quite a few areas.
As you know, we took a decision to limit oil production to respond to what we saw as unfairly low oil prices. When the price of oil reached $60 per barrel, I mean around $60 or slightly above $60, we believed this to be a balanced price that was sufficient to make plans for the industry and invest in it. A higher price can be an issue for consumers, which is something major producers want to avoid.
The upsurge in the price of oil we are currently witnessing is beneficial for the Russian budget. On the one hand, Russia’s currency reserves are growing, and last year we had a trade surplus of $130 billion. These are all positive developments, but this is only one side of the story. On the other hand, we understand that this empowers our competitors, including US shale oil producers, as they take some market share. We have nothing against them, especially since much of the oil they produce is consumed domestically. However, we are not interested in the prices of energy resources and oil growing indefinitely.
You asked me what I believe to be a balanced price. I mentioned it. A price of $60 per barrel, whether fair or not, suits us.
Having all the parties involved in the talks on a production cut come to an agreement was not an easy task. It was not easy to strike a deal with some of our partners. I am referring to Iran, since the country had to cut its production, while demanding exclusive terms regarding production volumes. At the end of the day, we were able to strike a balance that was acceptable to all, and everyone benefited from what came out of this agreement.
Even before President Trump decided to withdraw from the Iran deal, we agreed with our Saudi partners to continue our consultations. It is also important that the supply on the global market be taken into consideration. In fact, the reserves were gradually shrinking as consumption started to increase around the world. We took all these factors into consideration and agreed to continue our consultations. To be honest, our arrangements were never intended to remain in force forever.
So there is nothing unusual here. We are working on these matters in keeping with our agreements. Time will show what happens in the future. Of course, a lot will depend on whether the Iran nuclear deal remains in place or not, and the way it affects the global energy market. We will see.
We believe that the global energy market is currently balanced, since excessive reserves are leaving the market. Overall, the market price must be fair. There is no place for artificial restrictions driven by politics. All they do is hurt the global economy instead of benefiting it.
Sergei Mikhailov: There is an organisation known as the News Agencies World Council (NACO). Mr President, we hold conferences within the framework of this forum – we have held five conferences this year. The president of NACO is a man I respect, Clive Marshall, who is also the CEO of the Press Association (PA), the national news agency for the UK and Ireland that marked 150 years since its inception last week.
(Addressing Clive Marshall) Clive, I would like to express my best wishes on this occasion. Your question, please.
Press Association Chief Executive, President of the News Agencies Clive Marshall: Mr President, the UK government has blamed Russia for the poisoning of the Skripals in Salisbury, sparking the expulsion of 150 of your diplomats from nearly 30 countries and severely impacting the relations with the West. The head of Britain’s MI5 agency says your officials have put forward 30 different theories of what happened to the Skripals. He even accused the Kremlin of barefaced lying.
Mr President, given your experience and your time in the KGB, what do you think is the most plausible explanation for what happened to the Skripals and the poisoning, and what steps can you and the UK Prime Minister Theresa May take to start to rebuild the relationship and the trust between Russia and the UK?
Vladimir Putin: As for this unpleasant event, we have spoken on this subject more than once. We said that the most objective explanation to what happened can be only provided as a result of a thorough, unbiased and joint – the latter is very important – investigation. We proposed working on it together from the very beginning, but as you know, the British side rejected our offer and investigated the incident alone.
It is also a fact, as this was announced at the very beginning, that the victims were poisoned – if it was a poisoning – with a chemical warfare agent. I have spoken about this before, but I will say again that although I am not an expert on chemical warfare agents, I can imagine that the use of such agents should result in the almost instantaneous death of the victims.
Thank God, nothing like this happened in the case of the Skripals, and that Skripal himself and his daughter are alive, have been discharged from hospital and, as we have seen on television, his daughter looks quite well. Thank God, they are alive and healthy.
Therefore, I believe it would be wrong to say that it was a chemical warfare agent. If so, everything the British side has said can be called into question.
How can we settle this? We should either conduct a comprehensive and objective joint investigation, or stop talking about it because it will only worsen our relations.
Sergei Mikhailov: Let us move to the east. Our old partner and good friend is a news agency that has been developing very quickly and now works in all imaginable and unimaginable formats in 15 languages. It is the Xinhua News Agency from China. Xinhua’s editor-in-chief, Mr He Ping, is attending our meeting for the first time.
Mr He Ping, please, you have the floor.
He Ping (retranslated): Mr President, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on your re-election as President.
Our relations are developing under the guidance of President Xi Jinping and President Vladimir Putin and are currently the best ever. You will be making a state visit to the People’s Republic of China soon, where you will attend the SCO summit in Qingdao. I would like to ask about your plans for strengthening Russian-Chinese strategic partnership and cooperation during your new presidential term, including the integration of the Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU) and China’s Belt and Road initiative. What should be done to reach new achievements?
You plan to attend the SCO summit in Qingdao. What are your expectations for this meeting?
Vladimir Putin: There is no need to talk about the level of Russian-Chinese relations. We describe our relations as a privileged strategic partnership, which is absolutely correct. We have a concrete plan of interaction and expanded cooperation.
As for politics, I believe that the latest decisions adopted at the congress of the Communist Party of China have created additional solid conditions for deepening Russian-Chinese relations, because they are adding stability to our relations and creating conditions for forecasting joint actions not only for the medium but also for a historically longer term. This is becoming a major factor in Russian-Chinese relations. This is the first thing.
The second is that we have mapped out concrete plans for deepening our interaction in different spheres of the economy, if we are speaking about economic ties.
China is our largest trade partner with bilateral trade estimated at over $86 billion. I do not doubt for a second that our trade will grow to $100 billion a year or more if we continue at this pace.
I am especially pleased at the diversification and structural improvement of our trade. For example, Russian engineering supplies to the Chinese market continued to increase last year and have reached more than 9 percent. This is a sustainable trend, which is especially good.
We are increasing cooperation in the high-tech sectors where both sides have things to offer. We are also promoting investment cooperation. China is one of the largest investors in the Russian economy.
China is a reliable partner. It has implemented large projects under the guidance of President Xi Jinping. I do not think they would have been implemented without his direct support. These projects are certainly benefitting the Russian and Chinese economies. I am referring to the projects in the traditional (hydrocarbon) and nuclear power sectors, our first but surely wise steps towards developing unconventional types of renewable energy, our cooperation in mechanical engineering and space exploration, where we can make very great strides soon, as well as aircraft manufacturing and the chemical industry. There is also agriculture. We strongly hope that we will develop production and investment in this sphere, and that we will work more energetically in each other’s markets.
And finally, regional cooperation. This is becoming increasingly diverse. We are exploring infrastructure opportunities, building roads and bridges, and establishing direct ties between regions and the heads of the Chinese provinces and the Russian territories and regions across the border.
Taken together, this means that we have good prospects. We will work to implement them jointly on both sides.
<…>
See also
St Petersburg International Economic Forum plenary session
May 25, 2018
Topics
Foreign policy
Media
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 25, 2018, 19:30
Text versionEvents
Russia-France Business Dialogue
Vladimir Putin and President of France Emmanuel Macron took part in the Russia-France Business Dialogue panel discussion.
May 25, 2018
14:30
St Petersburg
2 of 16
Vladimir Putin and President of France Emmanuel Macron took part in the Russia-France Business Dialogue panel discussion. Photo: TASS
The participants discussed Russia’s investment appeal for French business and new areas of mutually beneficial cooperation, in particular, in the digital economy.
Following the panel discussion, Vladimir Putin and Emmanuel Macron met with participants in a friendly match between Russian and French women’s national sabre teams held the day before as part of the sporting programme of the St Petersburg International Economic Forum. The Russian team won 45:44.
The two presidents also posed for a photograph with members of the Coordinating Council of the Trianon Dialogue civil society forum.
* * *
Excerpts from the Russia-France Business Dialogue panel discussion
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: To begin with, I would like to thank President Macron for coming to Russia and St Petersburg.
We had a very substantive discussion on international issues yesterday and a very open, meaningful and, I think very useful exchange on bilateral ties.
France is a traditional, old and reliable partner. I say that it is a reliable partner because France always took an independent stand on international affairs and always tried to at least uphold its sovereignty. We appreciate this.
It is especially important and highly valued today as an earnest of stability in relations. Overall, stability is what matters most in international affairs, as well as in interstate and economic ties.
Our relations with France are developing consistently and progressively. Our trade increased by 16.5 percent last year and by 25 percent in January-March 2018. As for investment, France’s direct investment has reached $15 billion, and Russia has invested around $3 billion, or more precisely, over $2 billion, which is not enough. But the French investment is not enough either.
I will disappoint Emmanuel: Germany is no longer our number one partner. China has long snatched first place in terms of investment and trade. Our trade with China is approaching $850 billion. Sorry, it is $86 billion. I would like to say that our trade with the EU used to be $450 billion, but it has plunged by half over the past few years, while our trade with China has grown. It has backslid a bit, but it is still growing consistently. It will definitely grow to $100 billion soon. Sorry, 850 billion was a slip of the tongue.
The same goes for investment. How much has Fortum invested in Russia, just this one Finnish company? Around $6 billion. One Finnish company has invested $6 billion, and the whole of France only $15 billion. Is this how it should be?
Yes, this is true. Fortum was the first company that came to mind. We gave this Finnish energy company a permit to work in Siberia, where it supplies energy to highly sensitive facilities, including nuclear ones. I would like to point out that the Russian economy is wide open to our partners and is very reliable, because we have attained macroeconomic stability despite the ongoing turbulence, which is important for our investors.
We were consistently working on targeting inflation and we made it. Last year we had a record low inflation rate of 2.5 percent. The Central Bank forecasts the inflation rate at 2.8 percent but our experts believe it will be a bit higher. Yet, this is still a sign of stability.
We purposefully reduced expenses – and not only owing to energy price hikes last year – and decreased the budget deficit from the expected more than three percent to 1.5 percent. This year we will have a surplus of 0.5 percent of GDP. The unemployment rate is also historically low, 5.1 percent.
All this is put together in a package: the national debt is less than 20 percent and our gold and currency reserves are growing – we had 430 billion at the beginning of the year, I believe, and now this is already 450 and 460 billion and the trade balance is positive at over 100 billion, 130 billion, I think. Put together, these figures create a platform for confident action, including joint action. We hope our French friends will develop their companies in Russia and make a profit.
Yesterday I met with the biggest investors in our economy. Some foreign funds took a fairly unprecedented step. They automatically invest together with our Direct Investment Fund into any project. When our fund invests money, our foreign partners follow suit because they trust it.
Of course, we realise that our task is to create attractive conditions for investment. This is a key area of our development. This is obvious and we are fully aware of this as well as the need to enhance labour productivity. Our job is to increase it by five percent per year. This is a very complicated thing to do, especially for our economy that we need to structure – an extremely complicated problem. But the road to this also lies through investment because through it we hope to achieve a cardinal change in the structure of the economy and make it innovative.
Mr Shokhin said that I got “infected” with digitalisation last year. But I am in great health, actually. (Laughter.) It is not that I was “infected,” but the global economy is “pregnant” with digitalisation. As we all know, there is nothing wrong with being pregnant. (Applause.) I think that the applause come from the ladies.
President of the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs Alexander Shokhin
: Mr President, this is what Igor Shuvalov told us at one of the panel sessions. Now we know why he is no longer in the Government.
Vladimir Putin: Well, he did not go too far away. Mr Shuvalov will now work with the Government in one of Russia’s development banks. So he will have a lot to do.
I would like to follow up on what my French colleague said on urban development. This and spatial development in general are priority areas for us. Our French colleagues possess many world-class competences in this field. The President of France mentioned our cooperation in space. But there is much more to it.
I think that we had 15 or 17 space launches as of the end of 2017, and another two or three launches from Kourou are scheduled for this year. Let me remind you that we also cooperate in aircraft manufacturing. After all, the Russian medium-haul SuperJet 100 aircraft includes a significant share of French parts. I do not remember the exact figure, but it is at least 25 percent. We are already selling this aircraft to third countries, while we all know that this is a very challenging business, and how hard it is to promote aviation products on the global markets. We also work in the pharmaceuticals industry and construction. All in all, there are many things we do together.
It is particularly good that Russia has developed a diversified relationship with its French partners. This diverse mix can pave the way to success moving forward.
Mr Macron talked about the need to enhance economic sovereignty, but this is relevant for the entire world. I will not go into details right now, and I will not point fingers or criticise anyone. This is not the reason we gathered here today. It is clear however that we need to work on the capacity of our own markets, and promote cooperation and integration. We need to resist the trend of markets becoming secluded from one another, because separatism, be it in the economy or any other kind of separatism, always means trouble.
We have all it takes to step up cooperation and achieve positive results without trying to oppose anyone. There is no doubt that in this case both France and Russia would stand to benefit.
Thank you very much for your attention.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: (Commenting on the questions from Total CEO Patrick Pouyanné.) Patrick indeed raised a few questions. The first one was in fact a question about improving the business climate. We are getting there; we have a whole programme for that. I hope it will be implemented. I already spoke about stability of the macroeconomic policy. We will achieve the same in taxation policy.
Now the Government is working on introducing certain changes to the taxation system. But once we are done, we will commit to it for the next six years. In that respect, businesses can be sure that the taxation terms will be observed.
Then we will develop infrastructure. Patrick himself just recalled that we built a port [for the Yamal LNG project] with businesses’ participation; however, the Government met its commitments in full. We will develop the infrastructure not only for this project but for others as well – and the infrastructure in general – because the infrastructure is one of the priorities outlined by me in my Address to the Federal Assembly and by the Government. After that, we will be reducing administrative barriers and administrative pressure on businesses. There is still work to do in this area. In fact, this is not only our problem. I know that businesses have to deal with it in many countries.
And finally, direct financial support and concessions for the projects that, we believe, are of national importance. These are the areas of focus.
Now, concerning Yamal LNG. Indeed, they built an entire city around it. I was greatly impressed, also because, frankly speaking, in the very beginning there were many sceptics, even in our country, even in the gas industry, who doubted that it would be possible to carry out such a large project at those latitudes. But along with our Russian partners, along with NOVATEK, along with Chinese partners, we managed to make it a reality. Total has a 20-percent share in it. I know that the second stage is about to be built. For now, the annual capacity is 16.5 million tonnes. I think it will soon be 18 million. Their LNG is sold all over the world, including the US market. Everything is fine, everybody is buying it, everything works.
As regards our gas pipeline projects, specialists in this field know that in some cases it is reasonable to implement liquefied natural gas projects – for instance, supplies to the United States, India and other remote markets; it is most reasonable to implement them through liquefied natural gas projects. With certain distances and supplies, it is only pipeline gas that is most profitable. This is why all our gas pipeline networks are connected to main customers in Europe and have practically no competitors – of course, as long as Europe wants to stay competitive and does not want to purchase gas at triple the price from other producers.
The thing is that production and supplies for such distances and with such volumes allows us to reduce prices for liquefied natural gas, which could technically be supplied from the United States, by at least 30 percent. Numerous liquefied gas handling terminals have already been built in Europe and only 25 percent of their capacity is being used as the rest is economically impractical. That is all.
As far as I know, the French company Engie takes part in Nord Stream 2. We will welcome other participants, including Total. We can expand this list by adding other European companies, because this is truly a pan-European project.
We know that it is being opposed, but mostly for the reasons of competition because our American partners want to supply their gas to Europe. I have already said how the economic parameters of these supplies correlate. There are also geopolitical issues involved, in particular, transit across Ukraine. I will once more repeat that we are not going to cut transit via Ukraine as long as it is economically feasible; we are ready for talks with our Ukrainian partners.
But the thing is that when we talk about the Nord Stream 2 project, we are talking about plummeting production in Europe, the Netherlands and Great Britain. And these shortfalls in volume must be substituted. The most right and economically feasible substitution option is Russia's pipeline gas, that is all. But we are ready to further discuss it with our partners.
Thank you very much.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: Not to sound impolite, but Patrick asked another question on transporting gas to Europe through pipeline systems, speaking of your current Russian partners, and this can be done today via Gazprom Export. (Laughter in the audience). What is funny about it? Nothing. (Addressing Emmanuel Macron) Sorry, we are speaking a kind of secret language with him, we understand what we are talking about.
But of course, we will think about liberalisation. Today, Nord Stream 2 involves five European companies. If Total is the sixth one, it will be welcome to directly participate in the transportation. We can talk about it and discuss it now. Sooner or later, it will be done in a totally liberal mode.
Nevertheless, we can discuss these issues today.
Geography
France
Topics
Economy and finance
Foreign policy
Persons
Macron Emmanuel
Shokhin Alexander
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 25, 2018, 14:30
Text version