Events
Visit to Sirius Educational Centre
Vladimir Putin and Narendra Modi attended the closing ceremony of the May educational programme at the centre.
May 21, 2018
18:45
Sochi
8 of 12
Vladimir Putin and Narendra Modi attend closing of the May educational programme at the Sirius Centre.
The President of Russia and the Prime Minister of India had a brief conversation with students enrolled in the most recent session at the centre, and congratulated them on its completion.
Together with head of the Sirius Centre Yelena Shmeleva, Vladimir Putin gave Narendra Modi a short tour, telling his Indian guest about the history of the centre and its new projects.
Following the talks that took place at the Bocharov Ruchei residence earlier in the day, the President of Russia invited the Prime Minister of India to take a boat tour. They travelled from the port of Sochi to the port in the Imereti Lowlands on the Chaika (Seagull) boat.
* * *
Speeches at the ceremony closing the May programme at the Sirius Educational Centre
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Hello, everyone! Good afternoon!
We congratulate you on completing your session at the centre. I hope that you liked it here. You are so beautiful and handsome, all of you, and smart too. We wish you success!
Today we have here with us a great friend of our country, a great friend of Russia, the head of the Indian Government, Mr Modi. Let's welcome him! (Applause.)
India is actively developing high technology; it has many interesting and promising development centres. I would like to show our guest the work Russia does in this area.
(Addressing Narendra Modi.) Mr Modi, I hope you have enjoyed your time here.
Prime Minister of India Narendra Modi
(retranslated): I would like to thank my close friend, President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin, for the chance to meet and talk with you.
Usually, I see sad and tragic faces at schools, but here I see very active, energetic children, children who are ready to put all their efforts into contributing to the development of humankind in general and Russia in particular and, of course, to do something special.
Would anyone like to go to India?
(Children raise their hands.)
Remark: Everyone!
Narendra Modi: I would like for you to go to India; we will get you on an official tour. And when you come to India, I will meet with you in person and discuss various issues. I promise that if you come, you will meet Indian pupils.
(Applause.)
Today the President of the Russian Federation and I have been in talks for the entire day. We discussed regional and international issues. But when we were talking about Sirius, he had a special look on his face. So if you want to understand what he is like, you can judge from the emotion he shows when he talks about this centre, about you. This shows his character as a national leader, who wants Russian children and pupils to grow up and become leaders of the future.
Had I not come here today, I would have only known Mr Putin as President. But, thanks to you and thanks to my visit here, I know that he has special, emotional character that sets him apart from others.
I wish you all the best. Please come and visit us in India. I wish you a bright future, because Russia’s future is closely connected with your future, and Russia’s future is very important for the peace and stability of the entire world.
Thank you, my friend. (In Russian.) Mr Putin, spasibo.
Vladimir Putin: The Prime Minister told you we have been working for the entire day. And he told you what we have been doing: we have been talking the whole day.
(Laughter.)
If you want a job like that, you have to study hard.
(Laughter, applause.)
Good luck!
See also
Meeting with Prime Minister of India Narendra Modi
May 21, 2018
Geography
India
Topics
Children
Professional training
Persons
Modi Narendra
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 21, 2018, 18:45
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Prime Minister of India Narendra Modi
Vladimir Putin met in Sochi with Prime Minister of the Republic of India Narendra Modi, who had come to Russia on a working visit.
May 21, 2018
13:45
Sochi
4 of 8
With Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
The agenda included issues related to the development of Russian-Indian partnership, as well as pressing international and regional topics.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister, friends,
Allow me to welcome you wholeheartedly in Russia.
I would like to start by thanking you for accepting our invitation and coming to this meeting.
There is no need to explain Russian-Indian relations, since we all know that they have deep roots. However, we have been able to create additional momentum recently. Last year, our trade saw a significant increase, adding another 17 percent since the beginning of this year.
Russia and India are proactive in their foreign policy cooperation, including within international organisations such as the UN, BRICS
, and now the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation
. We have established close contacts and collaboration between our defence agencies. All this is indicative of the high level of strategic relations between our countries.
We are delighted to see you, Mr Prime Minister, and consider you personally as a big friend of our country. We are very glad to be able to have this meeting.
Welcome!
Prime Minister of India Narendra Modi
(retranslated): Your Excellency, President Vladimir Putin,
Russia is India’s old-time friend. We share long-standing historical ties, and Mr President is my personal friend, and a friend of India.
I am very glad to meet with Mr President in Sochi. I am the first Prime Minister of India to visit this city.
We share long-standing ties; we hold bilateral meetings. I would like to thank President Putin for organising this informal meeting and inviting me. This initiative is yet another step in developing our relations.
Mr Putin, you have been elected President of the Russian Federation for your fourth term. I want to congratulate you on that. My best wishes. We have already discussed it by telephone, but I wanted to congratulate you in person, and we were able to arrange this meeting at very short notice. Let me congratulate you on my own behalf, as well as on behalf of 1.3 billion people of India.
Mr President, you were elected President for the first time back in 2000, and made a major contribution to developing relations with India. In 2000, you made your first visit to India when Atal Bihari Vajpayee was Prime Minister. You said very eloquently back then that India and Russia were ancient civilisations and vibrant democracies. People remember your words very well and highly appreciate what you said.
Russia and you specifically always played a very important role in my political career. In 2001, when I served as Chief Minister of Gujarat, I made my first visit to Russia with Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. And you were the first international leader I met as Chief Minister. Moscow and you yourself marked the beginning of my career.
Over the past 18 years I had a chance to sit down with you and discuss important bilateral matters with a view of further developing our relations.
Eighteen years ago, you and Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee planted the seeds of strategic Russian-Indian partnership. We can say proudly now that this partnership, the seeds of which you planted, has grown into a huge tree of privileged strategic partnership. It is a major achievement in itself.
We held annual bilateral summit meetings for the past 18 years. You also used informal meetings to add an innovative element to our ties. This is a very good opportunity to discuss our relations.
For the past four years, you and I stood side by side in the bilateral format and on the international stage. We openly talked about all aspects of our relations and chose the path for our onward movement. I am very glad that it was so.
When you visited India for the first time in 2000, Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee said that India as a friend of Russia wants Russia to be a strong and confident country holding an important place in a multipolar world. This dream of Mr Vajpayee is leading us towards success, and I am glad that we have been part of this plan.
Mr President, we work together at international organisations, such as the SCO. You played a key role in granting India full membership in the SCO and BRICS, the Conference on Interaction and Confidence-Building Measures in Asia (CICA), as well as in such mechanisms as the North-South International Transport Corridor. We are working together within these organisations and mechanisms.
Being a real friend, you never forget about me. Last year you invited me to the St Petersburg International Economic Forum
. It was a great privilege to be invited by you as a guest of honour. I am grateful to you for this. This year’s forum will be held in St Petersburg this week. My very best wishes.
Mr President, the world is looking forward to the FIFA World Cup, for which you have prepared so carefully. The world will be looking at Russia. I wish you every success.
I would like to thank you once again for inviting me to this unofficial meeting.
(In Russian.) Spasibo.
<…>
Geography
India
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Modi Narendra
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 21, 2018, 13:45
Text version