Events
Meeting with Inspection Commission of the International Exhibitions Bureau
Vladimir Putin met with members of the Inspection Commission of the International Exhibitions Bureau (BIE).
April 5, 2018
18:10
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 7
Meeting with members of the Inspection Commission of the International Exhibitions Bureau (BIE).
The commission is in Russia to consider Yekaterinburg’s readiness to host World Expo 2025.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you to Moscow.
I know that you have a busy agenda. You have visited Yekaterinburg, the city that is bidding to host World Expo.
You probably already know everything I am about to say, but I wish to emphasise it. Russia has been taking part in these exhibitions for a long time. We participated in the first exhibition in the 19th century, and last year, in 2017, we were partners of the Expo 2017 business agenda in Astana.
We regularly take part in such events held at various venues, but Russia has not hosted an event this large yet. You have seen for yourselves that Yekaterinburg is a large Russian industrial centre where most leading industrial companies are represented and have headquarters. There are many joint enterprises; I think almost 400 international enterprises involving foreign capital.
We believe that an additional 500 hectares will be allocated for the exhibition if it takes place in Russia. I believe you have seen the location: it is conveniently located between the city centre and the airport. If this happens, we are planning to welcome people from at least 140 countries. This is approximately 14 million people, or 10 times more than the population of the city and its suburbs, which is about 1.4 million with the adjoining areas.
The construction of the facilities will cost about 1.5 billion euros. The funds will be allocated from the federal and regional budgets. We are planning to balance these expenses with the activities of the exhibition venue and partly by attracting private companies that are interested in this.
You have probably been told that we are planning to launch a campaign to improve the urban environment. This includes transport infrastructure, city development, metro and monorail upgrades and expansion and the park zone. Of course, all of this will benefit the region’s development. And the region, as I said, is well developed in terms of industry.
I would like to point out another fact. We propose an agenda for people from developing economies in this exhibition. In addition, we are ready to pay a large part of the expenses that their participation would involve.
In this case, I believe Yekaterinburg’s exact location between Europe and Asia is important. As you have noticed, it is situated almost in the centre of Russia’s huge territory in the Urals.
I think this is an advantage: the travel time to get there from various parts of the world is almost the same.
This is what I wanted to say. I would like to welcome you once again and hear your opinions about what you have seen and your impressions after visiting Yekaterinburg.
Chairman of the BIE Executive Committee Jai-chul Choi: Your Excellency, Mr President. Thank you very much for receiving our Enquiry Mission in spite of your busy schedule.
First of all, I wish to express our deep condolences to the victims and their families of the tragic Kemerovo fire incident. Our thoughts are with you and your people.
Having said this, I take this opportunity to report to you that the Enquiry Mission has successfully accomplished its mandate given by the BIE.
Since our arrival here last Monday we have had a series of working sessions with your team, headed by Deputy Prime Minister Arkady Dvorkovich. And everything is excellently arranged and well prepared. So, our preliminary finding is very positive.
First, the project proposed by Russia is viable and feasible, with the strong support of the federal government.
The second point is that the theme proposed by Russia has strong relevance for the global agenda. Also it is very appealing to the international community.
And third point, we met with representatives of various groups. This morning, we had a meeting with political leaders of the State Duma as well as the Council of Federation. Also we were well received by your Prime Minister, and we confirmed strong political support and assurance for this project.
At the same time, in Yekaterinburg we met with representatives of civil society organisations. It is very impressive to witness their active participation and strong support for the success of this project.
So everything is very much encouraging to us. Also we got to know that Russia has a wonderful strong track record of successfully hosting global events such as the Olympics, and also the G20 summit and APEC summit.
Russia has successfully participated in the International Expo. In some cases the Russian pavilion has been elected one of the best pavilions. So in this case we believe Russia has the capacity and the capability to successfully host the 2025 World Expo.
So, our preliminary finding will be submitted to the BIE Executive Committee meeting scheduled for early May. If the Executive Committee approves our report, then this report will be submitted to the General Assembly for further consideration. And the final vote to select the host country will be decided in November at the General Assembly, Your Excellency.
That is the summary I wish to report to you at this stage.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Jai-chul Choi, ladies and gentlemen,
I would like to add something else. We have a lot of expertise in holding international events of this scale. We have almost completed our preparations for the FIFA World Cup. At the beginning, when we started this work, we adopted a federal law structuring all the work to prepare for the World Cup.
If Yekaterinburg’s bid wins, we are ready to adopt a similar federal law, which we will draft in cooperation with the organisers in order for this work to be structured and systematised.
<…>
Topics
Regions
Science and innovation
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 5, 2018, 18:10
Text versionEvents
Meeting of the State Council on promoting competition
In the Kremlin, Vladimir Putin chaired a State Council meeting on priority areas of activity of the Russian regions to promote competition in the country.
April 5, 2018
14:50
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 8
State Council meeting on priority areas of activity of the Russian regions to promote competition in the country.
Head of the Republic of Udmurtia Alexander Brechalov
, Head of the Federal Anti-Monopoly Service Igor Artemyev
, Minister of Economic Development Maxim Oreshkin
and Governor of the Ulyanovsk Region Sergei Morozov
presented the main reports.
The meeting participants discussed the measures needed to achieve the goals set forth in the Presidential Executive Order No. 618 of December 21, 2017 on State Competition Policy Guidelines.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
Today we hold the first meeting of the State Council after the presidential election.
You know what ambitious tasks the country has. They require that everyone engages in their solution as effectively as possible: the civil society, businesses and government bodies must work together. And, of course, the efforts of all the Russian regions are needed.
Promoting competition in Russia is the subject of our meeting. First of all, I would like to say that this is a key area of our work. We cannot do anything without solving tasks in this area; we cannot reach any goal.
Let me stress once again that the fundamental importance of the competition is determined by the Russian Constitution. As I have already said, this is one of the most important areas in order to reach the goals I listed in my Address to the Federal Assembly.
Fair and honest competition is a basic condition for economic and technological development as well as for the country to reform and dynamically advance in all fields of life.
Let me begin with regulations in this sphere. In general, they are in line with international standards. Recently we have approved four packages of antimonopoly laws. The main thing is to provide the corresponding legal precedents.
Unfortunately, there still are many cases when the competition law is ignored, especially by local authorities.
Let’s see what we have in practical terms. Of the total number of antimonopoly law infringements in 2017, 1.2 percent falls to federal authorities, and 98.8 percent, to regional and local authorities, which means Russia is not paying enough attention to this. We think this is some kind of nonsense, nothing serious; figuratively speaking, people must care about their companies, state unitary enterprises and municipal unitary enterprises. I will talk about this later.
To be quite frank with you, the damage to Russia’s economy is enormous. We cannot see or feel it, but it is huge.
Currently, the Federal Anti-Monopoly Service is developing the fifth legislative package. But in addition to the legislation, the managerial logic must change, too. I believe the most important task is to introduce pro-competition approaches in government agencies.
However, the approaches based on encouraging competition are very rarely used. The reason lies in a customary and long-standing bureaucratic mindset and the lack of commitment to building an economy of state or municipal procurement that would be beneficial to the region and its residents.
As I said, it is easier to work with local state and municipal unitary enterprises than select efficient contractors in the competition-based market. This practice leads to higher budgetary spending and preserves outdated production and low quality. Eventually, it affects consumers, Russian citizens.
It should be particularly noted that public and state-run companies are occupying the niches that could be taken by small and medium-sized businesses. They are forcing SMEs out of the markets and monopolising these markets. Therefore, cartels are growing in the industries with high competition; entrepreneurial initiative and motivation to open a business get undermined.
People believe they have little chance to succeed in the markets taken up by public and state-run companies; that it is difficult to win a state or municipal order through honest competition. Public and state-run companies have very different opportunities for lobbying and funding. They can access loans much easier. They also have instruments to turn tenders in their favour and we are aware of them.
For your information, in 2017 some 675 court cases on anti-competitive agreements were filed, including 360 cases on cartels. This is eight percent higher than in 2016. For the second year in a row, the construction industry is number one for this kind of violations.
We have discussed these problems many times. We have taken a number of decisions, specifically, those that would expand the access of small businesses and socially-oriented NGOs to state and municipal orders and services. Apparently, this is not enough. I would like to hear about the current state of affairs and what specific measures you plan to take.
It is also necessary to create a single register of state and municipal property with full information on rights to it, encumbrances and designated use and, while this work is in progress, to activate the identification of unrecorded or inefficiently used real estate and plots of land.
This subject has been discussed for a long time, but, unfortunately, there is no real progress here so far. In this regard, I propose to discuss in detail improving the efficiency of management of state and municipal property at one of the State Council meetings.
Since 2015, the regions have started to implement the competition development guidelines, approved by the Government. For a number of Russian regions, this has become a real incentive to support competition. This is so, we can see it. But in general, the country has no systemic changes for the better.
In December last year, an Executive Order was issued, which stipulated competition promotion as a priority for the authorities’ work, while the National Plan for 2018–2020 outlined specific industries and the targets of competition development in them.
I believe that the same subject areas need to be defined for each region – of course, this work should be carried out together with the regions, taking into account their specifics and capabilities. Thus, regional teams will have clear indicators as regards the creation of a competitive environment, as well as obligations to develop private enterprises in priority markets, including new ones, digital ones, and so on.
I would like to point out another important problem – the trend towards the development of so-called regional protectionism. The motives for such actions are clear: the regions try to create favourable conditions for local producers and to simplify their access to the market.
Meanwhile, I would like you all to hear it now: a local producer means a Russian producer, this is extremely important. But we can see regional protectionism even in those regions that are in the forefront and show good development results. This is absolutely unacceptable. I would like to draw your attention to this.
I agree that it is possible and necessary to use regional preferences for supporting business and thus to increase employment and incomes of residents and revenues of the budget. However, it is one thing when benefits are equally available for everyone but it’s another story all together when discriminatory restrictions are created for entrepreneurs from different regions or bans are imposed on the imports of goods.
This directly contradicts the principle of the unity of the country’s economic space. Such overprotection is distorting the competition environment.
I would like to add that having got hold of these artificial advantages such companies, and you understand this full well, will become less effective in the long term and will impose on you low quality goods or services for inflated prices.
I would like to make two important points in this context. First of all, each of our steps aimed at supporting industries, companies, including as part of the import replacement, should encourage the production of modern competitive goods and services that are in demand both on the domestic and international markets.
The second thing I would like to point out is that it is necessary to take a general look at the markets and consider the prospects of the demand to prevent exclusive terms for projects and investors in some regions from having an adverse effect on the development of successful similar companies in other regions of the Russian Federation.
It is necessary to search for and find a balance as well as ensure fair and equal competition. I am quite sure that everyone will have enough work if managers do their job properly.
Let me repeat that for a breakthrough in national development it is critical to ensure economic freedoms and a high level of competition. Very much depends on the state and all levels of the authorities. But, of course, business itself is playing an enormous role in forming the business climate, the ethics of entrepreneurship and the practice of fair competition.
It is clear that profit is the main priority for a business but it should not be gained at any price. You know why I am talking about this today and why responsibility of business to the people and society is so important. Entrepreneurs should work honestly and conscientiously. They should not be timeservers that are only worried about their own prosperity. We have huge tasks and goals lying ahead.
I believe the business community understands just how important its contribution to a breakthrough in national development is. And once again I would like to appeal to every single one of you: we cannot afford to waste any time!
See also
News of the State Council
Topics
Regions
Support for business
Persons
Artemyev Igor
Brechalov Alexander
Morozov Sergei
Oreshkin Maxim
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, State Council
Publication date: April 5, 2018, 14:50
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Special Envoy of the President of China Wang Yi
Vladimir Putin received Special Envoy of the President of the People’s Republic of China, Member of the Chinese State Council and Foreign Minister Wang Yi at the Kremlin. The prospects for further developing and strengthening Russian-Chinese relations were discussed.
April 5, 2018
17:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 5
With Special Envoy of the Chinese President, Member of the Chinese State Council and Foreign Minister Wang Yi.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Minister, friends, good afternoon and welcome to Moscow. I am very glad to see you again.
There is no need for us to speak in general terms about the character of our relations. We have noted many times that they are of an unprecedented close nature, close in all senses of the word, both economically and politically.
This year, we are planning a series of meetings with the President of the People's Republic of China. In June, the SCO Summit will be held in China, so I will pay a visit to the country. Then a series of meetings on the sidelines of major events, including BRICS, the G20 and APEC. And of course, we will communicate as needed at any time.
First of all, to begin our conversation today, I would like to congratulate you and all the Chinese people on the successful conclusion of a very important event – the National People's Congress, where a number of decisions that are very important for the development of the People's Republic of China were adopted.
We are sure that all these decisions will benefit the Chinese people, help strengthen Chinese statehood and make China even more stable and prosperous.
I would like to express my hope that after the Russian presidential election, and after the important domestic political events in the People's Republic of China, we will continue our policy of strengthening bilateral ties and friendly relations.
I am very glad to see you. Welcome to Russia!
Special Envoy of the President of the People’s Republic of China, Member of the Chinese State Council and Foreign Minister Wang Yi (retranslated):Thank you very much, Your Excellency, Mr President.
Despite your busy schedule, you took the time to meet with me. This time, as a special envoy of President Xi Jinping, I have arrived in Russia to personally report to you on our approaches to issues of mutual interest.
Recently, Russian Kemerovo suffered from a deadly fire that resulted in significant loss of life. As friends of Russia, we took it to heart. We mourn with the Russian people. The President instructed me once again to convey the deepest sympathies of the Chinese people.
Let me also once again convey to you the sincere congratulations of President Xi Jinping on your re-election as President. You won with a record result, which fully reflects the immense authority of the President of Russia and the broad support you enjoy among Russian citizens. Your re-election meets the expectations of China and the needs of China-Russia relations as they continue to develop.
We are absolutely convinced that a bright new future awaits Russia under your leadership. We are also absolutely convinced of the bright future of China-Russia relations under the guidance of our leaders.
<…>
Geography
People's Republic of China
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 5, 2018, 17:00
Text version