Events
Meeting with Communist Party of China Politburo member Yang Jiechi
Vladimir Putin met with Yang Jiechi, member of the Politburo of the Communist Party of China’s Central Committee responsible for foreign policy.
August 15, 2018
19:00
Sochi
1 of 7
Meeting with Yang Jiechi, member of the Politburo of the Communist Party of China’s Central Committee responsible for foreign policy.
Various bilateral issues were discussed, as well as details of the upcoming visit to Russia by President of the People's Republic of China Xi Jinping
.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Comrade Yang Jiechi, dear friends. It is a pleasure to see you.
I would like to start our meeting by noting that our relations are developing as planned, everything is going according to our plan. This is largely due to the proactive stance of our reliable, good friend President Xi Jinping.
Please convey my best wishes to him. We are looking forward to his visit. It will take place in Vladivostok this September and then together we will take part in the Vladivostok Economic Forum.
Last year bilateral trade amounted to $87 billion. In the first half of this year alone it increased by 50 percent, and this year it will likely reach $100 billion.
I know that you have already held fairly detailed talks today with Mr Patrushev. I am very pleased.
Member of the Politburo of the Communist Party of China Central Committee Yang Jiechi (retranslated): Your Excellency Mr President, I am very grateful to you for meeting with me and my colleagues today. I will pass along your best wishes to PresidentXi Jinping by all means. Allow me to also convey to you PresidentXi’s best wishes and warm regards.
Your Excellency Mr President, in June you paid a state visit to Beijing and then attended the Qingdao Summit. In July of this year, you took part in the BRICS Summit together with President Xi Jinping.
During these events, you had a detailed conversation with PresidentXi Jinping on a broad range of issues. All of your meetings were highly important and added a powerful new impetus to the development of bilateral relations.
Following the generous invitation, President Xi Jinping will attend the forthcoming Eastern Economic Forum in Vladivostok. A regular top-level meeting of the two leaders will also take place.
We believe the forthcoming meeting will be a major event in the foreign policies of China and Russia. There is no doubt that the next Russia-China summit will be crowned with great success. We would also like to wish success to the forthcoming Eastern Economic Forum.
There will be many opportunities for top-level bilateral meetings on the sidelines of international events before the end of the year. It is important for us to fully prepare for these meetings.
You were absolutely right in saying that bilateral trade and economic ties are continuously growing both in quantity and quality, and we can expect trade to reach $100 billion.
At the instruction of the leaders of the two countries, Mr Patrushev and I conducted a regular round of consultations on strategic security. Our consultations focused on practical matters, and were highly productive.
We are very grateful to Russia for the warm reception and excellent organisation of our stay. I have already invited Mr Patrushev to attend a regular round of consultations on strategic security next year.
Mr Putin, thank you once again for receiving us today.
Vladimir Putin: For our part, we remember the truly warm and friendly reception we enjoyed in China last June, almost like family, I would say.
We will do our best to offer the same to President Xi Jinping. I do not know if we succeed, but we would like to do this very much, in both substance and form.
<…>
Geography
People's Republic of China
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 15, 2018, 19:00
Text versionEvents
Mashuk 2018 Educational Forum
Vladimir Putin attended the Mashuk 2018 North Caucasus Youth Educational Forum in Pyatigorsk.
August 15, 2018
13:20
Pyatigorsk
16 of 17
Vladimir Putin attended the Mashuk 2018 North Caucasus Youth Educational Forum in Pyatigorsk.
The President toured exhibitions and displays, and addressed forum participants.
The Mashuk North Caucasus Youth Educational Forum has been held in Pyatigorsk, Stavropol Territory, on Komsomolskaya Polyana at the foot of Mount Mashuk since 2010.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Do you know what always surprises me when I meet people like you? It surprises me that what you do, how you spend your time, even years of your life, is unrelated to any pragmatic interests.
Doing business is good and useful, but it has to do with profit. However, volunteer work, your volunteering activity has nothing to do with profitmaking. Rather it has to do with compassion, with the kindness of the heart, with the needs of the soul.
As we well know, no engine is more powerful than a human heart – humanity does not know a more powerful driver. And when people like you do something from the bottom of their hearts, it produces maximum effect.
Therefore, for the state, volunteer activities are often more effective than the bureaucratic machine. For the Caucasus, this comes naturally – here people imbibe with their mother's milk the feelings of friendship, the desire to support a loved one and, in general, anyone.
That is why it was so interesting for me to see today what kind of projects you are involved in here: the restoration of ancient art forms and traditional dress, restoring the national family tower in North Ossetia, addressing environmental issues in Daghestan, and a very important undertaking in Chechnya – assistance to people with disabilities and their rehabilitation. Good job, well done, great!
I have to say that I cannot enumerate everything I saw here and read on my way here, but everything you do is needed. Just now we visited a tent with an entire display about the heroes of Russia – past and present.
These living examples of our compatriots help encourage current and future generations of young Russians. This is a source of strength for each person’s small homeland, and for our vast and great Russia. Thank you very much.
In conclusion, I would like to wish you all the very best, because if anyone deserves success, it is people like you.
Good luck! Thank you.
Geography
Stavropol Territory
Topics
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 15, 2018, 13:20
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of Turkmenistan Gurbanguly Berdimukhamedov
Vladimir Putin received President of Turkmenistan Gurbanguly Berdimukhamedov at his Sochi residence.
August 15, 2018
16:15
Sochi
1 of 9
Before the meeting with President of Turkmenistan Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedov. Photo: Sergey Guneev, RIA Novosti
During the meeting, the leaders discussed key issues of developing bilateral cooperation in the political, trade, economic, scientific, educational, cultural and humanitarian areas, as well as major regional issues.
Earlier in the day, the Russian President visited Pyatigorsk, where he took part in the Mashuk-2018 North Caucasus Youth Educational Forum.
* * *
Beginning of the meeting with President of Turkmenistan Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedov
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, I sincerely welcome you to Russia.
We met recently and talked during the Caspian Five Summit, where we signed a very important document on a settlement in the Caspian Sea.
As you and I said, we will hold a meeting in Sochi today to discuss our bilateral relations in detail. As you suggested, we will do this informally, the two of us – we will simply sit down and discuss the issues that are of interest in our bilateral relations: the economy, the social sphere, humanitarian cooperation and our international activities. Here our positions are close or almost identical as diplomats say. We are working very closely with each other and this work is effective.
I am very happy to see you. Welcome.
President of Turkmenistan Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedov: Thank you, Mr President, first of all for creating conditions for this meeting in the wonderful city of Sochi. We are grateful.
As you correctly stressed, Turkmenistan and the Russian Federation are strategic partners and we have always built our relations on mutual respect. This is why we are doing a lot to implement matters of our cooperation.
I would like to emphasise that our Intergovernmental Commission is working well. We are grateful for the appointment of the new head of the commission because much of what we have planned is being carried out. I believe the work of the new Intergovernmental Commission will produce positive results.
Using this opportunity, I would like to congratulate you – better late than never, as they say – on the wonderful 2018 FIFA World Cup that was held at such a high level. Please accept our congratulations once again.
Today, you are doing much on the international arena to enhance stability and security and strengthen friendship between Turkmenistan and the Russian Federation. I would like to thank you for this enormous personal contribution.
Indeed, today there are quite a few issues that we could discuss: international trends as well as trade, economic and humanitarian issues. Therefore, I would like to thank you again for what you are doing to promote friendship between our peoples.
I wish you great success in your future state activities and wish prosperity, happiness and all the best to the entire people of Russia.
Vladimir Putin: I recall how warmly you received me in Ashgabat during my official visit. I hope I will be able to reciprocate today with traditional Russian hospitality.
<…>
See also
Mashuk 2018 Educational Forum
August 15, 2018
Geography
Turkmenistan
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Berdimuhamedov Gurbanguly
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 15, 2018, 16:15
Text version