Events
Greetings on Border Guards Day
Vladimir Putin congratulated military and civilian personnel and veterans of the FSB Border Guards Service on their professional holiday, Border Guards Day.
May 28, 2018
09:00
Moscow
Vladimir Putin congratulated military and civilian personnel and veterans of the FSB Border Guards Service on their professional holiday, Border Guards Day.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Comrades, veterans,
I congratulate military and civilian personnel and veterans of the FSB Border Guards Service on Border Guards Day.
The decree to establish the Border Guards Service was issued 100 years ago, in 1918, which were very challenging times for our country.
As we mark this historic occasion, we can be proud of the glorious tradition of courage that runs deep in history, spanning the frontier strongholds of the Russian epic heroes, the bogatyrs, those who served on Great Abatis Border fortification lines, soldiers and officers of the Separate Border Guard Corps, the immortal feats of heroic border guards who fearlessly went into combat in the summer of 1941, and those who performed their duties in Afghanistan and combatted international terrorism.
The memory of military valour, honour and unrivalled courage will never fade, and will serve as a moral compass for those who guard the borders of their Motherland, today and in the future.
Today, the FSB Border Guards Service carries out extremely responsible and multi-faceted tasks, and is very effective in enforcing border controls and protecting national interests.
The government will continue its comprehensive efforts to improve border management. We will do everything we can to make sure that our border guards have cutting-edge weapons, communications and inspection systems.
Comrades, thank you for your honest and responsible work. I am confident that you will always perform your duties with the same professionalism and perfection.
I wish you and your close ones good health, success and all the very best.
Happy Border Guards Day!
Topics
Armed Forces
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 28, 2018, 09:00
Text version