Events
Meeting with muftis of centralised Muslim organisations of Russia and the leaders of the Bulgarian Islamic Academy
After a working trip to Ufa, Vladimir Putin went to Kazan, the capital of Tatarstan, where he met with representatives of Muslim organisations and the leadership of the Bulgarian Islamic Academy.
January 25, 2018
00:40
Kazan
2 of 8
Meeting with muftis of centralised Muslim organisations of Russia and the Bulgarian Islamic Academy leadership.
The meeting participants discussed the creation of an integral system of religious education, the further development of the Russian theological school and the initial performance results of the Bulgarian Islamic Academy.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends, or is it good evening?
See also
Meeting with Chairman of the Central Spiritual Directorate of Muslims of Russia Talgat Tadzhuddin
January 24, 2018
Meeting with Mintimer Shaimiyev
January 25, 2018
As you know, I have come here from Ufa, where I met with your esteemed colleague. I remember meeting many leaders, including some who are present here, at the celebrations of the 225th anniversary of the establishment of the Central Spiritual Administration of Muslims in Russia in Ufa in 2013. We said then, and I want to repeat this, that traditional Islam is, unquestionably, a vital element of the Russia’s cultural code and that Muslim Ummah is unquestionably a vital part of the multinational Russian people.
Back then, we spoke about the need to revive the system of Islamic theological education in Russia. Islamic education has always been very deep and has a long history. We have said today that before the 1917 revolution, Muslim theologians from Russia and their opinions were highly respected around the world. It is true that much of this heritage, if not all of it, was lost or watered down during the Soviet period, and we need to create a new theological school now.
As you know, I immediately gave my support to this initiative of the Tatarstan leadership, and Mr Shaimiyev started implementing it – let us wish him health, for he is a bit unwell now, but I hope he will get better soon. The establishment of the Bulgarian Islamic Academy completed the development of the theological triad, which comprises madrassas, universities and the academy.
I want to thank everyone who has contributed to this project. Without your active position, and without the sponsors, whose names you know very well, this project would not have become reality. It is an attractive project of importance to the country.
Let us talk about its development and the additional measures we should take so that not only this project but also other projects, possibly more modest but nonetheless important projects, are implemented where people need them, and so that we create our own theological school while respecting the achievement of the Islamic world in this area.
We have talked about this many times with some of those present here. But time flies, and the venerable age of some of our muftis makes us think about the need to train their successors, which should be done at home and based on the precepts of traditional Islam.
<…>
Additional
All news about the trip to Tatarstan
January 25, 2018
Geography
Republic of Tatarstan
Topics
Regions
Religion
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 25, 2018, 00:40
Text versionEvents
Forward Together national forum of student clubs
Vladimir Putin addressed the Forward Together national forum of student clubs.
January 25, 2018
15:30
Kazan
4 of 5
At Forward Together national forum of student clubs.
Over 5,000 delegates from 38 Russian regions are attending the Forward Together forum, which has been timed for Russian Students Day. The main goal of the forum is to promote team spirit among students and the collective activity of Russian universities.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon,
I have come here to congratulate you on Russian Students Day, which is marked on St Tatyana’s Day. I am pleased to do this. Congratulations on Russian Students Day!
I congratulate everyone in this room and all students in Russia and their mentors and professors. I wish you academic excellence and success in life. Thanks to students and other young people, Russia will forever remain a young, daring and forward-looking country. I wish success to all of you.
Also, I want to wish you to remain as you are now: forward-looking, daring and brave, and to make use of the numerous advantages offered by our enormous country.
You have grown up in a new era. I assure you that you have many advantages over those who came before you. You are absolutely free to create new meanings, new fashions, new music, new art and new technology. Do not be afraid to make mistakes but always look for ways to overcome them and to find the solutions you need, and you will be a happy and successful generation. I sincerely wish it to be so. Good luck!
Congratulations once again and all the best.
Thank you.
See also
All news about the trip to Tatarstan
January 25, 2018
Geography
Republic of Tatarstan
Topics
Universities
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 25, 2018, 15:30
Text versionMintimer Shaimiyev was supposed to take part in a  with representatives of Muslim religious organisations and the leadership of the Bulgarian Islamic Academy, which was held yesterday, but was not able to attend due to illness. Vladimir Putin and Rustam Minnikhanov told Mr Shaimiyev about the meeting and thanked him for his charity work. The President highly praised the atmosphere in the republic where various religions are able to coexist.Events
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with President of Tatarstan Rustam Minnikhanov
Prior to the meeting, the President joined a ceremony at the TANEKO company’s oil refinery in Nizhnekamsk live via video linkup and ordered the launch of the new naphtha hydro treatment and isomerisation units.
January 25, 2018
17:45
Kazan
1 of 3
The President ordered the launch of the new naphtha hydro treatment and isomerisation units at the TANEKO company’s oil refinery in Nizhnekamsk. With President of Tatarstan Rustam Minnikhanov.
The launch of the units is the first step for TANEKO, a company of TATNEFT Group, as it implements full-scale production of automobile petrols meeting the Euro 5 environmental standard.
* * *
President of Tatarstan Rustam Minnikhanov: Mr President, this is a project we started in 2006 in accordance with your instructions: 307 billion in investment, a 99.2-percent refinery yield, and a design capacity of 8.7 million tonnes instead of 7 million tonnes. Today, we completed and, pending your order, can launch a naphtha hydrotreating unit and an isomerisation plant worth $200 million. The work continues.
If you issue the command – we now have Nizhnekamsk joining us –the CEO could give us a brief report.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Go ahead.
Tatneft Director General Nail Maganov: Good afternoon.
Mr President, we have fulfilled your assignment to enhance the refining of petroleum produced in Russia. Notably, the Government has taken all the necessary decisions to stimulate petroleum refining capacities for the industry, to expand private-public partnerships, to develop infrastructure, and to provide tax incentives. As a result, a new petroleum refinery complex of an innovative technical level was built in Nizhnekamsk with the highest possible refinery yeild. To date, we have zero output of heavy petroleum products, only light petroleum products.
See also
All news about the trip to Tatarstan
January 25, 2018
In the course of project implementation, the company invested 307 billion rubles, created 3,500 new jobs, and refined more than 50 million tonnes of petroleum. The construction site employed over 10,000 builders at the peak of the effort, not counting those who were engaged in machine building, design, and production support. With them, the number would be 10 times greater.
In the course of the project, our machine engineers have developed 25 new groups of equipment that we actually use here: reactor equipment, electronics, automation, and pumping and compressor equipment. Some of them were never made in Russia before.
Mikhail Smirnov, CEO of the United Heavy Machinery Plants, is here at the site with us. It is no accident that it was with the Izhora Plants that we implemented the first project, which was unparalleled for the domestic petroleum refinery industry. He came here now to get acquainted with our future plans.
As Mr Minnikhanov mentioned, the project continues to evolve. We decided to pursue, until 2025, the sites that we will build. Currently, 6,000 people are working at the construction site, and construction work continues.
We have two new production facilities ready for launching: a naphtha hydroprocessing plant for 1.1 million tonnes and an isomerisation plant for 420,000 tonnes per year. Notably, the isomerisation plant is 100-percent Russian design. It was the first time that our machine builders and we used the assembly of oversize production units in domestic construction.
Mr President, we would be honoured, and it would be only fair, if you gave the command to launch these plants. No new refineries have been built since the late 1970s, before the decision was made to enhance petroleum refining and proper conditions were put in place.
Vladimir Putin: Go ahead.
Nail Maganov: Thank you, Mr President.
Let us begin.
Mr President, thank you very much. We started the launching procedure.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Maganov, I congratulate you and your big team, including the builders and engineers. What you did is truly a great job and an excellent result. I wish you every success in your future work.
Nail Maganov: Thank you. I wish every success to you as well, Mr President.
* * *
President of Tatarstan Rustam Minnikhanov: Mr President, I have briefed you on the Republic’s work. I would like to focus today’s meeting on further development. Of course, the measures taken in recent years present an opportunity for implementing large investment projects.
I wanted to raise something with you today. We have worked out, with federal agencies, particularly, with the Finance Ministry, the SPIC 2.0 variant – a special investment contract that makes it possible to carry out large projects. The draft is already with the Government, the Finance Ministry has approved it, it has to be adopted at the spring session.
This document allows us to carry out large, major projects, it expands the special investment contract. It involves processing industries only, but new opportunities are emerging in transport and other areas. It has been approved at the level of the Finance Ministry.
Vladimir Putin: It is a good initiative. Let us discuss it in detail but we definitely support it in principle.
<…>
Geography
Republic of Tatarstan
Topics
Regions
Persons
Minnikhanov Rustam
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 25, 2018, 17:45
Text versionEvents
Meeting with KAMAZ-Master Team
Vladimir Putin met with the KAMAZ-Master Team and congratulated them on winning the Dakar Rally.
January 25, 2018
18:15
Kazan
4 of 6
KAMAZ-Master Team presented Vladimir Putin with a replica of the first prize of the race and a model of the KAMAZ truck used in the rally.
The President saw a video of the latest Dakar Rally. The team members presented the President with a replica of the first prize of the race and a model of the KAMAZ truck used in the rally.
The Russian KAMAZ-Master team led by Eduard Nikolayev won the Dakar Rally’s truck division. The other Russian crew led by Airat Mardeyev took the bronze. This is the KAMAZ-Master’s 15th victory in this race.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: I would like to congratulate all of you.
This is a unique achievement; there is no other way to put it. Dakar is never easy. And everyone who understands what it’s like holds their breath as they follow your fight for the victory. In addition to this hard work, it is also dangerous. The fact that you have won 15 times is an incredible result, a unique achievement; it also illustrates your teamwork.
Of course, the drivers, most likely, play the essential role, but, nevertheless, the result would not have been the same without the equipment maintenance, without the technicians and without the teamwork. This also says a lot about the company that produces the equipment and about the general level of the team.
I wish you all the best. I would like to see you succeed again. I hope it will come true.
Remark: Thank you, Mr President!
<…>
See also
All news about the trip to Tatarstan
January 25, 2018
Geography
Republic of Tatarstan
Topics
Sport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 25, 2018, 18:15
Text versionEvents
Video conference with leading Russian universities
During his visit to the Institute of Fundamental Medicine and Biology of Kazan Federal University, Vladimir Putin held a video conference with the country’s leading higher education institutions.
January 25, 2018
17:15
5 of 6
Video conference with the country’s leading universities.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
I just had the pleasure of congratulating representatives of student clubs who gathered here, in Kazan, practically from all over Russia, on the occasion of St Tatyana’s Day. I want to begin our meeting here with congratulations as well. I wish all of you and everyone who sees or hears us a happy Students Day. I wish success to all of you – all students, your mentors and professors.
All of our work to promote education and support talented students, creativity, and social, scientific, and business initiatives is aimed at making sure that our young people can fully realise their potential, be successful in their lives and dedicate a significant part of their lives to our country, Russia. So, today I propose we have a substantive discussion of the positive experience of the federal universities and the approaches that are important to apply to the entire system of higher education.
See also
Visit to the Institute for Fundamental Medicine and Biology
January 25, 2018
We have just looked at the sites of Kazan or rather Volga Region Federal University, as it is called now. Of course, this is an example of how a university with history, good traditions, and outstanding scientific schools can meet the challenges of the times and move forward. As the rector said, we now have two dates for the university’s founding: a very old one, 1804, and 2010, when several sites were added to it, and the university got a new lease of life.
As you may be aware, we have established a network of federal universities, including Siberian (Krasnoyarsk), Southern (Rostov-on-Don), Northern or Arctic (Arkhangelsk), Kazan (Volga Region), Urals (Yekaterinburg), Far Eastern (Vladivostok), Northeastern (Yakutsk), Baltic (Kaliningrad), North Caucasus (Stavropol), and Crimean (Simferopol). That is how all of our 10 federal universities strive to work, as I said about the university where we are now.
As you remember, we began to form this network in 2006 with the creation of Siberian and Southern federal universities. It was a project fully geared to the future and designed to achieve long-term goals. Federal universities are designed to become the flagships of industrial, social, and technological development of entire areas of Russia, and, accordingly, entire industries; they should contribute to developing vast spaces of our country, including such strategically important ones as the Arctic, Siberia and the Russian Far East. That is why we released significant financial resources for developing our educational centres, and stuck with these programmes through the difficult period of the global economic crisis. Today, it is safe to say that this project has come to fruition.
The funding of the project (for those in this audience, and those who will see and hear us with the help of media) in 2016–2017 from the federal budget amounted to 52 billion rubles. The universities and those who supported them, the regions made 22 billion rubles available. In 2010–2016, an additional 40.7 billion rubles were allocated to form a modern scientific structure for the federal universities. During the same period, federal universities earned 38 billion rubles by doing research activities.
Federal universities have become centres of attraction for talented people, talented young people, strong scientists and researchers, including those who actually determine the course of modern science. Let me remind you, dear friends and colleagues, that 18 world-class scientists worked at federal universities as part of the so-called mega-grant project from 2010 to 2017. We made a special effort to distribute them across Russia. Of them, 11 were foreign scientists of international standing, leaders in their industries, two Russian researchers, whom we selected on a competitive basis, and five our compatriots who once left to work abroad but returned and worked here. It is hard to say now where they spent more time working, here or abroad.
The concentration of intelligent potential and access to modern research infrastructure allows for training top-class personnel, designing advanced solutions in the interests of the national economy. This includes such critical promising areas as artificial intelligence, projects in biology, medicine, agriculture, natural resource extraction and processing. In this sense the federal universities have become a tool in making our country more technological competitive and stronger.
I would also stress the important fact that we have managed to significantly bolster the unified educational and scientific field in Russia. Joint academic mobility programmes have been launched. Students and lecturers gained a greater capacity to move between universities, select education courses, conduct joint projects and also employ modern training and research equipment, including in so called collective use centres. By the way, 30 such centres were established during that time. Modern expensive equipment is concentrated there, and it can be used by scientists and research groups from any organisation.
Let me underscore that today the federal universities are setting the standard for the whole education system to reach so that graduates of all Russian universities could start a successful career and realise their potential.
I am sure that this topic is most important to our students. So, let us have an in-depth discussion about it and share experiences. Especially since the rectors of Moscow and St Petersburg universities will also be joining our talk. Those universities have a tradition of strong systemic work on career counselling and employment for their graduates, and degrees from those universities are a reliable ticket to the future.
Practically all our federal universities have joined the video conference. Let us get to work.
Dinar Valeyev: Good afternoon, Mr President. Good afternoon to all the videoconference participants. My name is Dinar Valeyev; I am a postgraduate law student at Kazan Federal University.
Mr President, thank you very much for visiting Kazan Federal University on this remarkable day, Russian Students Day, and bringing together the community of Russia’s leading universities at our alma mater.
Our remote participants today are representatives of Lomonosov Moscow State University, St Petersburg State University, Immanuel Kant Baltic Federal University, Boris Yeltsin Ural Federal University, Vernadsky Crimean Federal University, North Caucasus University, Northern (Arctic) Federal University and Southern Federal University.
I think many will agree that academic mobility is essential for a student today, as you rightly noted. It allows us, students, to expand our competencies and skills, gain unforgettable experiences and competitive advantages.
Many Russian universities are offering academic mobility programmes within the country and internationally. Some very common practices include double degrees, academic networking programmes, language schools, research missions, internships, various competitions and festivals. We hope that participants of this videoconference will share their experience in organising mobility programmes.
We have something to share too. Kazan Federal University offers more than 60 exchange programmes and internships. The most popular programme is called Algarysh and it reimburses students for all academic travel expenses.
Our republic is interested in qualified professionals. After completing a programme, each participant must return home to work at a local organisation or company for at least three years.
Our university also has extensive experience in interacting with Kanazawa University and the RIKEN Institute of Physical and Chemical Research in Tokyo and Yokohama. The 25 years of cooperation with Japan helped us to win a Japanese government grant for training future leaders. As soon as next year, we will be sending 70 of our students to Japan and receiving 100 students from Japanese universities.
Additional
All news about the trip to Tatarstan
January 25, 2018
Our university is traditionally open for researchers and scholars from all over the globe. The invited experts from the world’s leading universities expand the borders of our education space.
Our university takes part in network interaction programmes implemented by federal universities. It is a very promising area. In our opinion, it is necessary to pay more attention to academic mobility programmes within the country, because they will allow us to exchange the best educational practices that have developed in Russia.
It is obvious at the moment that there are many more ways to improve academic mobility programmes.
Mr President, we suggest that other participants in the video conference join in this discussion.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you, Dinar.
Dinar Valeyev: Let us give the floor to the representative of the Northern (Arctic) Federal University.
Arkhangelsk, good afternoon!
Albert Chunkevich: Hello, Mr President, colleagues,
My name is Albert Chunkevich, I am the chairman of the university’s student self-government council.
I am very pleased on behalf of all the staff of the university to congratulate you on Russian Students’ Day.
Thanks, Dinar, you have raised a very relevant subject. Being a student, I know that to develop one’s educational, research and professional skills, it is very important to take part in academic development programmes. By the way, Mikhail Lomonosov, who was also from Arkhangelsk, was not only the founder of university education in Russia, but also, speaking the modern language, took part in academic mobility programmes. He studied in Moscow, Kiev, St. Petersburg as well as Germany.
In 2013, federal universities came together to form the Club of Ten and agreed to exchange best practices and to implement network projects. This programme is yielding its positive results. Today, over 20 joint networking educational programmes are being implemented for undergraduate and graduate students.
For example, there is the Advertising and Public Relations programme. Students of Northern (Arctic) Federal University, Baltic and Northwestern federal universities study full-time or long-distance. Last year, 115 students at Northern (Arctic) Federal University contacted other universities on networking programmes, with our Arctic University receiving students from five Russian regions. Today, the National Arctic Research and Educational Consortium unites 33 organisations, and students can also conduct advanced training and fieldwork at 12 unique stationary facilities in the Arctic.
Academic mobility is also important for research projects. Those involved in the famous Arctic Floating University national project receive unique competencies and learn practical skills. Northern (Arctic) Federal University implements it jointly with the Hydrometeorological Centre of Russia and the Russian Geographical Society. Nine high-seas expeditions have already taken place. Over 500 participants from various universities and research agencies in Russia, as well as participants from foreign countries, have been trained. The tenth anniversary expedition is scheduled for July 2018.
Academic mobility facilitates the all-round development of students and the eventual employment of graduates. Northern (Arctic) Federal University and other universities have everything they need to receive guests, including unique programmes, intellectual centres, modern academic buildings, centres for collectively using research equipment, a residence hall and sports facilities.
We need to expand students’ opportunities for taking part in academic exchanges and to merge information as to which university has specialised equipment and which lecturer is ready to work with them. This would make academic mobility more effective.
We are planning together with other federal universities to set up a pool of experts on designing and implementing joint education and research programmes, including our readiness to participate in improving regulations of academic mobility inside Russia.
A student does not have to study abroad to expand their opportunities to gain knowledge, experience and practice, since we want to live and work in our big multi-ethnic and beautiful country.
Thank you for your time
Vladimir Putin: Albert took up the student mobility topic and referred to Lomonosov. We all know that it was a very original kind of mobility. As is known, if this is not a legend, Lomonosov walked all the way from Arkhangelsk. Yet for us it remains the best example of striving for knowledge and reaching for one’s dream. This is why we should certainly always remember it. Whereas in the modern world it concerns the organisation of the process.
Since your tutors and heads of universities are listening to us, it is crucial that the ministry should support this very important, to my mind, component of modern education, and heads of universities should also bear in mind that a university is not compromised by undergraduate and graduate students going to other universities. On the contrary, it only raises the overall competitiveness of Russian education. Albert is definitely right here: there is no shame in also studying abroad. But on the whole, when the possibilities of the Russian education system are used, there is no need. At any rate, it definitely expands opportunities for training first-rate specialists.
Thank you.
Dinar Valeyev: Albert, thank you very much for sharing your experience.
It seems that academic mobility and subsequent employment of graduates are closely related. We would like to hear more about employment, this topic needs to be covered in greater detail.
I would like to ask Ural Federal University to share their extensive experience. Yekaterinburg, good afternoon. Aslan, you have the floor.
Aslan Kagiyev: Good evening, Mr President,
Good evening to all participants of the videoconference.
My name is Aslan Kagiyev. I am the chairman of the Ural Federal University Student Union.
When we speak about employment, it is very important to emphasise the significance of finding jobs, because after graduation, a student has tremendous prospects, and it is very important to find a good job. And what is a good job for a student? It is a space where he or she can attain their ambitions, so that their skills are in demand; the employer, in turn, looks for good employees. For the employer, a good employee is a person who aspires high and is certainly interested in the development of the corporation. Therefore, employers’ interaction with universities has changed. They show interest in more things about the graduates besides their degree – how deeply the student was involved in volunteer work, how much they know about managing projects, their communication skills and all that we call additional skills: the so-called soft and digital skills.
The university actually faced these realities, and it was important to respond to this challenge. So we became pioneers in building a new level of relationships with employers, because today the university has developed a number of unique projects that allow us to develop soft skills and record results.
A striking example is the students’ general rating, which, on the one hand, shows the entire educational and research component, and on the other hand, the additional things that interest the employer, the so-called extracurricular part. It primarily includes the ability to work in a team, volunteer experience, communication skills, including in a foreign language, and leadership potential. And most importantly, upon graduation, the student receives a Student Union certificate, which describes the full scope of their student life.
It is important that our model be competitive, so we have built constructive professional contacts with both Harvard University and Navarra University. They lead the world ratings in terms of employment. And the main thing is that we conducted an array of global projects within the framework of the World Festival of Youth and Students. It is worth noting that our experience is unique in many respects.
We are prepared to share our experience with other universities. We sincerely hope that this initiative will help create a platform for the further development of career assistance offices.
Thank you very much for your attention, friends.
Mr President, we expect you to visit Ural Federal.
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much, Aslan, or Mr Chairperson, such a big boss. The fact that you study the experience of other countries is very important and essential. It is necessary to take a look at how things are organised over there and introduce their best practices on our soil.
However, at the same time, it is still more important that you, as a chairperson, and your colleagues, students and post-graduate students work with key Russian employers. Here, one does not even need to wait for any initiative, or to put it differently, there must be an initiative, yet one should not pin one's hopes solely on an initiative that is supposed to come from university administration. It is up to the students themselves to take care of their employment, do not forget it. If you have such a structure as a student union, no one forbids you to work directly with your future employers, something you can do even in the first year of studies. Perhaps, this is something a student may find hard to do all alone, but it seems to me that a student union can easily cope with the task.
What can and must be done is establishing direct contacts with employers, setting up professional ties, since you are all full of energy, providing career internships for students at the proper time. Organising an internship is essential for future employment. As you said: on the one hand, on the other hand. Well, on the other hand, this internship must not be a purely formal matter – for the mere sake of obtaining certificates or other papers – because if you confine yourselves to obtaining certificates or other papers, sometimes forged ones, you cannot expect to get a decent job and then it will be no use accusing the university administration of allegedly not caring about your employment. You must actively try to do it yourself and you will succeed, especially since employers are interested in such contacts.
Heads of universities are involved in the training process; business leaders are concerned with the results of practical work; and your job is to get employed. True, the universities must find employment for you in order to raise their rankings, so they want to make sure that all of you are employed. Employers are interested in getting quality professionals. Bring everything into focus, join everyone’s efforts in this area. You are the ones who have the most at stake, so take this into your hands. By all means, you can take these matters into your own hands.
Aslan Kagiyev: Yes, Mr President, this is precisely what we are doing. The database that we are talking about comprises information that is specifically based on indicators: which activities the students took part in, what role, what projects they completed, and their overall volunteer experience. We provide this information to employers, because they are the customers, we work for them. This is the whole point of this portfolio and, in principle, the theme of an attachment to a diploma.
Vladimir Putin: Great, good luck to you, Aslan. Thank you.
Dinar Valeyev: Aslan, thank you.
As a follow-up to the discussion on student portfolios, allow me to introduce our next speaker, a student at St Petersburg State University. Good afternoon, everyone, welcome to the video conference from Kazan.
Denis Mikheyev: Good afternoon. Thank you, Dinar. Good afternoon, Mr President, conference participants.
I am Denis Mikheyev, second-year student in the Master’s programme in social studies.
When I joined the university’s Bachelor Degree programme in 2012, I already knew that the diploma that I would receive would be significantly different from the diplomas of the graduates of other universities, specifically because it was issued in two languages – Russian and English. In 2016, I defended my graduation work before the State Examination Commission, which consisted entirely of employers. That year, more than 1,500 people took part in these commissions at our university.
Having received my diploma, I saw that it included information about our lecturers, where I had practical training and an internship, and which employers were specifically part of the state examination commission.
Also, this diploma is different because it has a QR-code. With only a smart phone, an employer can scan this code and access the students’ portfolios, an electronic copy of their diplomas, the comments of a research advisor and reviewer of their graduation papers, as well as information about whether the student studied abroad – this is related to academic mobility, which we discussed earlier.
Let me note that starting in 2014, the students that study abroad at one of the universities in the top 300 in the international rankings can have the results of their study abroad recognised here without taking extra exams for the term they missed.
This code also opens up access to the student’s portfolio which contains records of the student’s merit recognition and acknowledgements, personal fellowships, the student’s in-class and extra-curricular achievements, and also whether the student’s graduation paper was approved or proposed by employers.
For instance, the topic of my graduation paper was approved by the Institute of Sociology of the Russian Academy of Sciences. Meanwhile, today’s students can choose topics for their papers from an electronic registry, which includes over 5,000 different topics suggested by employers. The university has over 2,000 employers with whom we cooperate directly.
However, each student who gets such a diploma is aware that it may contain a totally different sort of information, for example, whether he was disciplined, had academic backlogs, or overdue library books.
The diploma I am going to get this year, my Master’s degree, will also be different from the one I currently have.
Our university has been very active in the digital environment, which is why a 2018 graduate of St Petersburg State University will have a record of online courses taken at this or other universities. This was made possible thanks to the changes suggested by students themselves, which, in turn, was possible due to each order issued at our university having a section listing the official to be contacted and their address for feedback and suggestions on changing the order itself.
This is why we expect some other changes in our diplomas next year. The university, of course, will not be standing still and will keep up with the times.
We believe that any university graduate should have this kind of diploma, and the opportunities that go along with it. Therefore, today we suggest that leading Russian universities use the experience of St Petersburg State University and have QR-codes on diplomas, with each graduate’s portfolio available on their websites.
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Well, this is true, any information technology that can be used in the education system needs to be used as much as possible. I will not list everything now, but the possibilities are great. But what you, Denis, are doing, and what you have at my university – I am pleased with the part you just described. This should certainly help with employment, if a future employer has comprehensive information about the potential job candidate.
However, of course, you need to ask the university administrators to provide future graduates with as much information as possible about available employers, including in a digital format. This will help them decide on specialisation at an earlier stage and then, perhaps, more purposefully seek contact with companies, arrange to do their practicals there, and so on. This would be good, too. In general, you are saying the right things. I would like to wish you success.
Mr Kropachev, would you like to say something?
Rector of St Petersburg State University Nikolai Kropachev: We have created education programme councils for all programmes to facilitate such contacts. These councils only include employers. The contact was established from the moment this council was organized, a very close relationship, because employers participate in both academic and methodology commissions. The study curriculum councils determine the requirements for enrolment, the requirements for teachers; they determine the study curriculum and, therefore, are involved in the education process from start to finish. As our graduate said, 1,700 employers also partially administer exams and graduate paper defence, after having recommended the subject for the paper.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you, Mr Kropachev.
D. Valeyev: Thank you very much.
On January 25, 1755, Russian Empress Elizaveta Petrovna signed a decree on creating Moscow University. This happened on Holy Martyr St Tatiana’s Day, who has been considered the patroness of Russian students ever since.
On this student festival, we give the floor to Viktor Sadovnichy, Rector of Moscow University, the oldest university in Russia.
Good afternoon, Mr Sadovnichy. Greetings to Moscow State University.
Rector of Moscow State University Viktor Sadovnichy: Good afternoon, Mr President, good afternoon, dear students.
Today is Moscow University's birthday, St Tatiana’s Day. It is so good that this tradition was born in this very building, built by Kazakov in front of the Kremlin. Kazakov, together with Bazhenov, built the Catherine Palace, the Kremlin halls, and later he designed the first university building in Russia.
Many outstanding things have happened inside these walls. Pushkin read his poems here. Lermontov, Turgenev, Griboyedov and Chekhov studied here. And there was one more chapter depicting the feat of our students in history. On June 22, 1941, 5,000 Moscow University students, like their fellow students from other universities, volunteered to go to the front. Of those 5,000, only 2,000 returned. Of course, we honour their sacrifice.
St Tatiana’s Day was always marked by students because on this day students mapped out their prospects and reviewed what they managed to do over the past year.
Mr President, we are grateful to you for meeting with the students of Moscow University in our library on January 25, 2005, and for supporting their request to make this day special for all Russian students.
In fact, this is our common day, as we were all students and we all recall our university years, but of course, this is a special day for these young people, who are currently studying at our universities.
We discussed many topics in the run-up to this meeting. I very much support the ideas advanced by the universities. However, I would like to emphasise two points, Mr President. Our education has always been strong and fundamental. The fundamental nature of our education has always been the hallmark of our education system. So, university science is certainly very important. And science and high technology need to be linked, which you mentioned in your remarks.
Moscow University initiated the adoption of the law on scientific and technological valleys, which you supported. It was adopted. Now this law is being implemented. It is not only for Moscow University, but the entire country and other universities. Implementation means that, in these valleys, university research, the work of students and graduate students will be linked with industry, state corporations, and high technology. I think the creation of such campuses, valleys, and innovation centres at universities is a new concept in our university activities.
I want to mention one more idea. The researchers at Moscow University have developed the idea of a Trans-Siberian Belt, which concerns connecting territories and strategic areas. We even crunched the economic numbers and estimated completion deadlines. This belt should cover a vast portion of northern Russia from Europe to Alaska. We are making such proposals and want to put them up for broad discussion.
Today, we are talking about students, Mr President. I wanted to share a thought with you. The World Festival of Youth and Students was held in Sochi. We participated as a large delegation, and I had the honour to moderate the Science and Education panel. Students from all countries agreed that it was necessary to create an international union of young scientists. There is a good base for this. We have been holding the Lomonosov Forum for 25 years now. About 10,000 students from 40 countries come to attend, and so we have a good basis. Now we are busy creating such an international forum of young scientists so that young people have a broad outlook on the world, cooperation, and the future. We believe this is important.
One more positive development, or direction, in the education system. We have looked into and studied the number of foreign students currently enrolled in Russia – we have not had such a high number in the history of education. Moscow University has 9,500 foreign students; this is twice as many as Cambridge, Oxford, MIT or Stanford have.
Mr President, we have students form Chad, Uganda, China, Cuba and other countries. They study at Moscow University, they will earn their degrees and will be our friends, while our students will have a broader world outlook and will cooperate more.
Thus, the idea of supporting the status of Russian education is certainly related to this effort to enroll as many young people from other countries as possible. We have proved to be strong.
The People’s Republic of China has established the first ever joint university – Moscow and Beijing Polytechnic. It is now open; classes are being held. They expect you, Mr President, to come for the opening ceremony. The Chinese built the building for this university – a copy of the Moscow University high-rise – in one year. Which means China attaches great importance to the quality of Russian education.
Mr President, today is St Tatyana’s Day, students celebrate and mark it – they have passed their exams without fails, and they look forward to their medovukha [honey drink]. It will certainly arrive. Thank you for the gift of establishing Russian Students Day.
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Sadovnichy, I congratulate all the students in Russia on Students Day, on St Tatyana’s Day. I must also congratulate Moscow University because everything started with it. So my best wishes to you, to all your students and post-graduate students, and lecturers.
Regarding technology valleys – this was your idea, I am happy that it is being developed, and the regulatory acts have been adopted for this. I think it is a very significant direction. We have to test-run this project in Moscow and then use it wherever possible and where it will function effectively.
As to the student association, the federal authorities will be pleased to provide support if needed.
Dinar Valeyev: Mr Sadovnichy, thank you very much.
Mr President, we understand that, unfortunately, your time is limited. We could probably still say a lot about employment and academic mobility, but we have to start wrapping this up.
Vladimir Putin: You know we have Kaliningrad, Rostov-on-Don, Simferopol, and Stavropol in the videoconference with us. We can ask our colleagues to say, very briefly, what they consider important for our teamwork. Let us start with Kaliningrad.
Pavel Chechko: Mr President, the videoconference participants welcome you from the westernmost point of Russia. My name is Pavel Chechko. I am a first year Master's student majoring in radio physics.
Regarding mobility, it is important for us to attract students and specialists from other universities in Russia. It is also important for us to send students not only abroad, but also to other Russian regions.
We could say that Kaliningrad is the outpost of Russia and Russian culture in the centre of Europe; so foreign students primarily consider our university – not only students from neighbouring European countries, but also students from overseas, from South America and Asia.
Student organisations organise many events aimed at popularising Russian culture and Russia. Foreign students also take part in these activities. Over the past two years, the number of foreign students at our university has doubled.
I would also like to remind you that foreign students’ growing interest in our city and our university is due to Kaliningrad being one of the World Cup host cities.
I would also like to draw attention to the proposal made by Albert and Dinar about launching a federal programme to support Russian student mobility, and to attract not only Russian, but also foreign students to it.
Thank you. And happy Students Day to everyone.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you for your suggestions. We will work on them.
Are you a first-year student?
Pavel Chechko: Yes, first year, Master’s Degree programme in radio physics.
Vladimir Putin: All right. Thank you.
Now Rostov-on-Don.
Aram Bugayev: Good afternoon, Mr President, colleagues, participants of the video conference.
My name is Aram Bugayev. I am a postgraduate physics student at Southern Federal University. Thank you all for raising topics that are so important for students. In particular, I mean employment and, above all, mobility.
But I would like to add that for many students, like me, who have chosen science, the university should be the first employer. Mobility is a very important issue for science. We should share our experience; we should send our students abroad and across Russia. I was no exception; I completed a postgraduate programme at Turin University, Italy, got my PhD and returned to my alma mater.
I did not return because I had signed some contract. Dinar said that there was an excellent programme, under which graduates had to come back and work in their republic for three years; but I have returned because, first of all, there was an up-to-date laboratory awaiting me at home, which by the way had been supported by a large grant from the Russian government. There also was an excellent team waiting for me, a good salary and good working conditions. I was not coming back empty-handed; I have brought back new contacts and skills that I now share with my younger colleagues.
That is why I would like to wish for more such laboratories for all of us today, on St Tatiana’s Day. I know there are many such laboratories in our country, I have visited many of them and I hope our government will continue supporting such research centres in Russia, where students, including those who took courses abroad, will be happy to return to; I hope that thanks to these students we will promote a dialogue between research centres, universities and knowledge-intensive industry. Thank you very much.
Vladimir Putin: What can I say? Yours is a very good example of professional development and loyalty, in the best sense, to your university, your country and your Fatherland. I would like to wish you professional success and I hope you will achieve everything you set out to. Good luck!
Aram Bugayev: Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Simferopol, please.
Kseniya Slutskaya. Good afternoon, Mr President. Good afternoon to participants in the video conference. My name is Kseniya Slutskaya; I am a postgraduate student at Crimean Federal University.
Despite certain geopolitical difficulties that Crimea faces today, international activities remain part of the life of our university and practically each one of us. Almost 3,000 foreign students from over 50 countries study at our university. Every year we conduct or co-organise over 100 international events, receive many foreign delegations and develop international academic mobility projects.
It is international academic mobility that is particularly important for increasing the personal competence of students and broadening their world outlook. But its role goes beyond this. Being abroad, Crimean students, students of Crimean Federal University are ambassadors of this country. They pass information to others via personal communication and make new contacts and friends. This is particularly important for Crimea because it is a manifestation of public or people’s diplomacy, about which we have talked more than once and that works when official diplomatic channels are blocked. After all, education and science have no borders or barriers. Thank you for your attention. I wish you happy Students Day.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you for this information. You mentioned certain political difficulties, but when was it ever so calm in Crimea? During Vernadsky’s time in the 1920s, life was very hard, there was a civil war, but the university was alive. Moreover, it was not just alive but was the centre of Crimea at that time and remained a centre of science and education for the entire country.
This is a clear if not excellent example of how important education is in any situation. As for today, I do not think the situation around Crimea is dramatic. Quite the contrary, I am sure that everything will stabilise, gradually. You know how development proceeds. I am confident that after the resolution of some infrastructural issues this development will gain momentum in several areas simultaneously: socially, in science, education and different branches of production. I wish you success. Thank you.
Let Stavropol take the floor.
Lyudmila Kiryukhina: Good afternoon, Mr President. Good afternoon, participants in the video conference. Greetings from the North Caucasus Federal University and the city of Stavropol. I am Lyudmila Kiryukhina, a first-year student in the master’s course, a future lawyer.
Mr President, first of all I would like to say that the federal university system has created incredible opportunities for students that we could not even dream of before. This also applies to academic mobility, which my colleagues have talked about so much today.
At present, students from 69 regions of the Russian Federation study at our university, which points to its status as a federal university. Just recently, our university hosted a presentation of the navigator of professions that will be in demand for developing the economy and the social sphere of the Far East in the next few years.
During that week, we received information not only on vacancies but also on benefits that may be offered to young specialists. This information was of interest both to students from the Far East that study at North Caucasus Federal University and to students from other regions that are ready to work in the Far East and help develop Siberia, as it was in the past, in our country’s best education traditions.
I would like to conclude by saying that all students of North Caucasus Federal University are grateful to the Government of the Russian Federation and to you, Mr President, for the opportunities that are opening up before us today. They are helping us to expand our professional knowledge and, most importantly, to study the best experience that domestic and foreign educational institutions have to offer. Thank you very much. Happy Students Day to all of you once again.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you. Thanks to all participants in the current meeting.
This is what I would like to say in conclusion. We have just taken part in what is essentially a national event. We celebrated St Tatiana’s Day but in a working atmosphere and in contact with practically all federal universities. There are ten of them in all. But apart from them, we have also established a network of research universities. I would like to note that other universities and secondary schools will never be abandoned on the periphery.
When we established a system of federal and later on research universities and institutes, we believed there should be some examples of how it is possible to grow and what goals to strive for. I know from experience in other areas, apart from education, that as soon as these growth points appear, all other institutions, including those in education, immediately strive to emulate them.
I have no doubt at all and would like to reassure you – those students that study at other universities – not federal universities, Moscow, St Petersburg or research universities – that, as they say in such cases, nobody will be forgotten. We are well aware that the educational system in Russia is much broader than 10 federal universities and a network of research universities. We will pay attention to the entire educational system. This is the only way we can produce the desired results in developing university science and training students for the professions required by the national economy and the social sphere, the professions that the country needs in general. And so, I wish success to all students and teachers, especially in light of today’s holiday, St Tatiana’s Day.
I wish you all the best! I am convinced that you will achieve your goals as you have done so far.
Topics
Universities
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 25, 2018, 17:15
Text versionEvents
Meeting with workers of Gorbunov Kazan Aviation Factory and Tu-160M pilots
During his visit to the Gorbunov Kazan Aviation Factory, Vladimir Putin had a brief conversation with its workers.
January 25, 2018
15:10
Kazan
2 of 5
With the staff of the Gorbunov Aviation Factory in Kazan.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon,
Who is the pilot?
Alexei Ryabov: Crew chief, 1st Class Test Pilot Ryabov Alexei.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Ryabov, congratulations.
Alexei Ryabov: Thank you.
Mr President,
Allow me to report. The test flight programme was performed in full using the new No. 804 Tu-160 following the resumption of production. The aircraft is stable, flies well across the entire range of high speeds, and is ready for comprehensive upgrade. The equipment passed the test with flying colours. Therefore, on behalf of the crew, allow me to congratulate the entire team, you, myself, and our entire country on this landmark event. We hope that this aircraft will take on a new life after comprehensive modernisation. We invite you to fly this aircraft 12–18 months from now.
Vladimir Putin: Do you know that I flew the older version of this plane?
Alexei Ryabov: Yes, I do. It was clean and beautiful.
Vladimir Putin: Your praise is, of course, for the pilots, I had little to do with that. I was just sitting next to them.
As for the project that has now been brought to the point that we are now discussing, this is, of course, a great achievement by the factory's workers. I see older workers and young people here. A large group of young specialists has come here over the past two years. I just discussed this effort with a senior executive. The older version of this plane was discontinued in 1993. In 2015, we decided to modernise it and resume production. This, in fact, is a completely different aircraft, including avionics and everything else. You know that this is different aircraft altogether. It may look the same, but the engine, the flight range and the capacity are different. Of course, this is a big success for this young and already experienced team. Congratulations.
Alexei Ryabov: Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: This is a major step in developing this high-tech sphere and improving our country's defence capability, because it represents an element of our nuclear triad in the air. A very important thing. So thank you very much. I am sure that the work will continue in the same way and with the same result.
Remark: Thank you very much for supporting aviation.
Vladimir Putin: Let’s move on. Aviation holds the future, combat aviation will ensure our country's defence capability, and civil aviation is important as well. We also need to think about the civilian version of such aircraft. With a vast territory like ours, the flight from Moscow to Vladivostok is almost as long as it is to New York. So, I am confident that this will be in demand. Of course, in this respect, more work will be needed, but seeing it to completion is absolutely feasible. So, everyone will have something to do. Not just something, but interesting and necessary things. So, thank you all. Congratulations, everyone.
Remark: Let us hope so.
Vladimir Putin: We will sign a contract soon. Ten aircraft, 15 billion each, more than 15 billion – 160 billion in total. The plant will run at full capacity until 2027. There is a lot to do.
Remark: Importantly, the subcontractors should not fail us.
Vladimir Putin: They have not, so far. A refuelling tanker flew to Ulyanovsk today. So our aviation is making strides.
Remark: Yes, we can see it and feel it. We all know it from Soviet times, so to speak, sitting in an ejection seat. So, we know. (Laughter.)
Remark: Experimental aviation should also be developed as a category of aviation, so that we can test things and move forward. We must develop our own equipment.
Vladimir Putin: Exactly. How does the team feel?
Remark: Great.
Sergei Mansvetov: Mr President, Sergei Mansvetov, deputy chief technology officer. I have been working here since the 1980s. I want to thank you in advance for the contract to be signed, which will give peace of mind and hope for tomorrow to us, our workers and their families, as well as to the associated enterprises.
I started this work in 1975. In 1980, we began to develop this aircraft. We received new plans and instructions, worked on them, wrote our own instructions, and arrived at a good product in the end. Now, I hope for a much-improved plane.
The years have passed. There were hard years where specialists left the plant, lots of back and forth. With the help of the republic’s authorities, the Defence Ministry and your participation, the plant was preserved. New ambitious, smart, and competent young people have joined our team; they know the equipment inside out. Our first experiences with welding and assembling the aircraft have shown that we can be confident in success. I can assure you that the contract to be signed will be fulfilled.
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: I do not doubt it at all. We are using the latest technology. They showed me the parts that are made with modern equipment. They are more durable and reliable, and are made ten times faster. Ten times! This is what I call productivity. If it were that way in all other industrial sectors, the manufacturing industry would be different, and the economy would be different as well.
Renat Khammatov: Mr President, as a follow-up to what Sergei Mansvetov said, I would like to boast about our achievements.
We are in this wonderful shop, and Russian enterprises helped us modernise two outstanding units: the world's largest electron beam welding unit, and Russia’s largest titanium vacuum annealing furnace. We are striving to create the most complex element of this aircraft which is the wing sector centre beam. It is right there behind us.
The goal of the entire team, which has been brought back together, including young specialists and older workers who share their experience with us, is to build this unit. This is a critical part of the aircraft. It takes three years to build a production plane, and the beam takes a year to complete. As Sergei Mansvetov said, we brought in the people; the workers came to the plant, we can do it, the shop was repaired and the equipment was restored, and with the help of the All-Russian Institute of Aviation Materials, we developed the production modes and processes and are now making combat parts. They are here in the shop. They will be mounted on the new aircraft, which we will get off the ground in the near future.
Vladimir Putin: You have already. (Laughter.)
Renat Khammatov: The state defence order, which we have been waiting for, for so long, and look forward to being signed, will be fulfilled, have no doubt.
Vladimir Putin: I have no doubt about that. I can already see that it can fly. The pilots got it off the ground. I have no doubts, and I am particularly pleased to see the symbiosis of young and older workers. There are people to work with, and there are people to learn from. Our colleague put it very tactfully, did you catch it? He said ”youth“ and ”adults.“ He did not say ”old workers.“
Renat Khammatov: We respect them. We never treat them like old people because without them we would be nowhere.
Vladimir Putin: That is true.
Renat Khammatov: This is the hallmark of Tupolev.
Vladimir Putin: The firm is notable, with much expertise under its belt.
Renat Khammatov: Because we preserved the staff.
Maxim Anyutov: Mr President, Anyutov Maxim.
In 2005, you personally piloted this unique piece of equipment as a crew member.
Vladimir Putin: I was sitting beside them.
Maxim Anyutov: Today, you witnessed the take-off and landing of the new upgraded version of the plane. I would like to know what you felt then, 13 years ago, and now, as you looked at this new machine?
Vladimir Putin: You know, it is not just that I flew the Tu-160 and sat in the cockpit. I saw what kind of work it was, and I saw how the aircraft behaved. It’s unforgettable. I said it then and will say it again: it is like a dream. Everything happens as in a dream. So, we can be jealous of the pilots to a certain extent. This is part of their life. Of course, their life is connected with risk, but it is very exciting and very substantive.
Regarding the airplane itself and its modernisation, let me reveal a small secret to you. We have started using it. It became absolutely evident to me that the airplane should be changed. As soon as we got to work on it for real, it became obvious that huge work ought to be undertaken. It did not even officially enter into military service. It has just been done. And they seemed to say that we have such a carrier. But in reality, it definitely ought to have been refined, even in its previous version.
Well, and today with the emergence of new technologies it was clear that we should not just refine, we can make it on a totally new technological foundation. And we succeeded. It is indeed a great success, a big step forward. It only looks like the Tu-160 I used to fly. But it is a totally different plane. And it has very big, good development prospects. This is a considerable step forward, let me repeat it, in enhancing the country’s defence capabilities, its nuclear triad, in this case its air component. This is why this work is major and very important. And it is interesting, too.
Alexei Kochetkov: Mr President, I am Alexei Kochetkov, head of therepair and modernisation unit for these beautiful aircraft.
We said that many young people come to our plant. I have the following question. Training for aviation professions is a long process of at least five years. There is a respective college where the WorldSkills system has been introduced, by the way, with government help. The training process there is very labour intensive. During an internship or upon graduation young people, sometimes ambitious, come and train here.
Firstly, apart from what they have been taught, we impart our own expertise, we have classes that teach specialists to work with their hands in practice. And here is the question – conscription in the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation. We wouldn’t like to lose such specialists even for one year.
I have a suggestion for you – to count working on such equipment under the state defence order as military service in the Armed Forces and issue a military service card.
Vladimir Putin: We have to think it over. We have to have the draft in full. But we have several options for conscription military service with parallel full use of the skills and knowledge a person has acquired.
The Defence Minister has just reported, and I have authorised it, the establishment of a techno park; we are doing this in a very good and convenient place. And we will recruit young specialists, young scientists who can, and I am confident, will effectively work within their profession. We can discuss how to best use the specialists you just talked about. Of course, I think we will be able to do this as we implement our plans on increasing the number of voluntary recruits, not conscripts. The more voluntary recruits, the fewer conscripts.
Alexei Kochetkov: Professional selection.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, this is related to many parameters; I will not go into detail, but it includes budget capacity. But nevertheless, we will follow that route. I understand what you said, and you are generally right. We will proceed gradually.
Alexei Kochetkov: All right, thank you.
Vladimir Putin: For you to have a better understanding, the ballet people say “We should not draft men from the ballet. There are so few of them.” Musicians say, “We work hard to train a musician for five or seven years, and just as he reaches a professional level, you draft him into the army. He will be playing the trumpet all day whereas he is, let’s say, a cellist.” This might mean we would have many exceptions like this. Nevertheless, you are right: those who work in the defence industry work for the defence capability of the country.
Thank you.
Please, go ahead.
Alexander Grunin: Good afternoon,
Alexander Grunin, head of the special equipment service laboratory.
I have the following question: our enterprise is currently undergoing a global reorganisation and technical upgrading. Huge funds are being invested in our company, but as soon as we gain momentum and increase output volume, is it possible that state defence orders will decline?
Vladimir Putin: No. As I said, we will now attend the signing of the contract between the Defence Ministry and Tupolev for the purchase of these planes by the Defence Ministry, ten aircraft in one order. The enterprise will be fully engaged until 2027, plus repairs, major rebuilding, and service. There are no questions here.
Of course, and we spoke about this in Ufa yesterday, we have a diversification programme, a programme of gradual diversification in the military industries so that the cutting-edge equipment available here, in this shop, can be used not only in the interests of defence and security but also for manufacturing dual-purpose or civilian products. I set this goal some time ago, in 2015, but now we are focusing on this, planning the immediate and mid-term steps. This must be done by all defence enterprises because the peak of the defence orders will one day come and go. Not soon for you, you have a full load through 2027. But we have to think about the future, and we will certainly deal with it.
Dmitry Voloshin: Mr President, may I speak? Test pilot Dmitry Voloshin.
Experimental aviation is, in fact, the platform for the development of both state and civil aviation. And I hope that today's event in particular and the development of the defence industry of the Russian Federation in general will pave the way for the further progress of experimental aviation that requires legal and administrative regulations based on new principles as well as staff training. Incidentally, the Fedotov Test Pilot School in Zhukovsky celebrated its 70th anniversary this year and it also needs more attention from the government. Naturally, experimental aviation requires the modernisation of airfields…
Vladimir Putin: Yes. Like here.
Dmitry Voloshin: This includes the modernisation of test grounds and all other elements of test flight infrastructure. And of course, we need advanced tests and research in terms of flight testing methods.
For example, Alexei Ryabov, our commander, has been working at the plant for 23 years and his experience can be used for this as well. Our commander and I, we are average experimental aviation test pilots. We are both 53 years old. The average age should be younger.
Vladimir Putin: What do you suggest?
Dmitry Voloshin: In order to resolve this, we need government support and the development of experimental aviation as a separate type of aviation in the Russian Federation.
Vladimir Putin: What should it consist of?
Dmitry Voloshin: A state programme.
Vladimir Putin: Separately for experimental aviation?
Dmitry Voloshin: Yes.
Vladimir Putin: Well. I will think it over. I do not have an immediate answer now. I must take a look one more time at its current state and see what more needs to be done. Support is necessary, this is obvious. Only, what precisely needs to be done and within what time limits? I will take a look.
Dmitry Voloshin: Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Anything more?
Remark: Mr President, good afternoon. I would like to ask you on behalf of our team to give us an autograph as a memento.
Vladimir Putin: Any more questions to me?
Question: How do you manage to stay in such good physical shape? You are always energetic, cheerful.
Vladimir Putin: I spend time with people like you. (Laughter.)
Being positive, result-oriented, and active gives everyone energy. People like you power me like a battery.
Question: Since you fly a lot, you have recently visited Ufa, how do you manage to stay fit and maintain that pace of work? Perhaps you know some secret.
Vladimir Putin: No secrets. I play sports, as you know.
<…>
See also
Visit to Gorbunov Kazan Aviation Factory
January 25, 2018
Additional
All news about the trip to Tatarstan
January 25, 2018
Topics
Industry
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 25, 2018, 15:10
Text version