Events
Meeting with the newly elected President of Paraguay Mario Abdo Benitez
Vladimir Putin met with the elected President of the Republic of Paraguay Mario Abdo Benitez, who arrived in Moscow to take part in the 2018 FIFA World Cup opening ceremony.
June 14, 2018
13:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
With the newly elected President of Paraguay Mario Abdo Benitez.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President,
I will address you this way, despite the fact that you are taking office only in August. I would like to congratulate you on winning the election. I want to thank you for coming to Russia.
Diplomatic relations between our countries were established in 1909. It is well known that our compatriots made a significant, tangible contribution to the development of your country.
Thank you for the fact that Paraguay received Patriarch Kirill. This emphasises our spiritual ties.
I am very glad to see you, to meet with you and talk about various options for advancing our bilateral relations. I hope that the time spent in Russia will also create the right emotions and a good mood, and will become the driving force behind the development of our ties.
President-elect of the Republic of Paraguay Mario Abdo Benitez (retranslated): First of all, on behalf of the people of Paraguay, I would like to thank you for the message that was sent on your behalf in connection with the election in Paraguay in April this year.
With the newly elected President of Paraguay Mario Abdo Benitez.
Today is a truly remarkable event for our people because this is the first time that the President of Paraguay offers his hand to the President of Russia.
As you so rightly pointed out, Mr President, we are united by a common past. During the hard times for our people, Russian officers gave us a helping hand and assisted us when we were fighting for freedom. Our people are extremely thankful to Russia and Russian officers for their heroism as well as dedication.
There was one special man, an officer, who will forever be in our hearts. I am talking about officer Vasily Serebryakov who took part in the decisive battle of the Chaco War, the battle which helped us triumph over Bolivia. On that day, Serebryakov said, “It is a good day to die.” He was killed on that very same day. We will always remember him.
To commemorate those events, we would like to present you with a few things. These are the medals of the officers who fought in the Chaco War. And this statue weights 7 kilogrammes. It is made out of the bullets used in the war.
Meeting with the newly elected President of Paraguay Mario Abdo Benitez.
It is a great honour for me to be the president-elect of Paraguay, and to be visiting Russia to meet with you. As a senator, I visited Russia and met with Federation Council Speaker Valentina Matviyenko. It was an honour to speak before the senators and it was the first visit on such a level.
Undoubtedly, information support of the Russian intelligence service is maintained well, so we can make good contacts at this level.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much and thank you as well for the gesture, for the orders of Russian officers. All of them, of course, will be kept in a proper place. We will definitely talk about it with members of the public. It is a momentous event that shows just how very close we are. The memory of such people must be preserved. In any case, we are doing this, we are collecting things and will use them so that the future generations know about our heroic compatriots.
<…>
Geography
Paraguay
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 14, 2018, 13:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of Panama Juan Carlos Varela
Vladimir Putin met with President of Panama Juan Carlos Varela at the Kremlin. The Panamanian leader has come to Moscow to attend the opening of the 2018 FIFA World Cup.
June 14, 2018
13:40
The Kremlin, Moscow
Meeting with President of Panama Juan Carlos Varela.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, colleagues and friends,
I am delighted to see you in the Kremlin. Yesterday we had the pleasure of attending a concert together. I hope you enjoyed it.
It is the first time that your national team is taking part in the World Cup, and very many Panamanian fans have come to Russia. We wish success to your national team.
Of course, I am also glad to have this opportunity to discuss bilateral relations with you. Our trade is rather modest so far, but this is something we can work on. I know that you are accompanied by a large delegation of your business leaders. As far as I know, they plan to meet with their Russian colleagues at the Chamber of Commerce and Industry today.
President of Panama Juan Carlos Varela (retranslated): Mr President, to begin with, I would like to congratulate you on hosting the World Cup. The organisation is just perfect, both technically and in terms of security.
Indeed, yesterday we enjoyed a concert in Red Square with you.
President of Panama Juan Carlos Varela.
This is a truly historic meeting, because it is the first time that the presidents of Panama and Russia have met in the Kremlin. I would like to express my appreciation of the development of our relations and our cooperation and to thank you for training Panamanian professionals in Russia.
I hope this meeting will open up a further way to develop and strengthen our relations and give a fresh boost to our countries’ bilateral relations.
Some time ago, Panama completed a project to extend the Panama Canal. This has made our country a real transport hub when it comes to both sea and air logistics. We believe that direct flights between our capitals will allow for the promotion of our bilateral relations, including in the field of trade and the economy.
Although the population is small – there are four million people living in Panama – our economy is steadily growing and we have become an important actor in Latin America. Our role in the region is becoming ever more important.
At the meeting with President of Panama Juan Carlos Varela.
Panama is a neutral country. We believe that we are an ideal place to develop and continue the political dialogue to reach a consensus on various matters on the agenda.
Our government is set to develop ties with Russia, India and China in order to expand our trade and economic cooperation. I hope that you, Mr President, will pay a visit to Panama to see not only the Panama Canal but the whole country with your very own eyes as well as to meet our people.
We are united by our vision on many aspects of international affairs, including some common activities with President of China Xi Jinping. We hope that together we will be able to act to settle various conflicts we can see now.
Panama has always considered dialogue the main tool to resolve conflicts.
<…>
Geography
Panama
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 14, 2018, 13:40
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of Kyrgyzstan Sooronbay Jeenbekov
Vladimir Putin had a meeting with President of the Kyrgyz Republic Sooronbay Jeenbekov.
June 14, 2018
14:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
3 of 6
Meeting with President of Kyrgyzstan Sooronbay Jeenbekov.
Mr Jeenbekov will take part in the 2018 FIFA World Cup opening ceremony.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, friends,
I am delighted that we are meeting once again. We met recently, in China, and we are to meet again within the framework of the CIS Summit. We always have something to discuss, this time included, considering the character of our relations as well as the growing trade. Last year, it grew 31 percent and the positive trend is still showing. We must do everything to keep it up in the future.
I am so happy to see you. Welcome.
President of Kyrgyzstan Sooronbay Jeenbekov: Thank you.
Mr President, I am very pleased to see you too and to be able to discuss several topical matters concerning bilateral cooperation.
First of all, I would like to thank you for inviting me to take part in the World Cup opening ceremony in Moscow. I sincerely wish Russia’s football team every success and lots of victories.
I would like to confer my belated very best wishes to you and Russia’s many peoples on your recent public holiday, Russia Day.
And thank you once again for the invitation to come here.
<…>
Geography
Kyrgyzstan
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Jeenbekov Sooronbay
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 14, 2018, 14:30
Text version