Events
State dinner in honour of the President of Russia
November 13, 2018
15:30
Singapore
2 of 6
Before the state dinner in honour of the President of Russia Vladimir Putin.
A state dinner was held in Singapore on behalf of the President of the Republic, Halimah Yacob
, in honour of President of Russia Vladimir Putin. The function took place in the presidential residence, the Istana. The Russian leader gave a welcoming speech.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Madam President Halimah Yacob,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
First of all, I would like to thank you for the invitation to visit the Republic of Singapore and the hospitality extended to us.
As has already been said, it is symbolic that this year we celebrated the 50th anniversary of diplomatic relations. During this period, our interaction developed steadily and filled with new content.
Singapore is an important and promising partner of Russia in the Asia-Pacific Region. Madam President and I have had productive, comprehensive and interesting talks; we discussed almost all of our bilateral agenda in a friendly and open atmosphere.
As far as I know, they often say in Singapore that among friends, even water runs sweet as honey. Mutual trust is the foundation of progress, friendship and development. The relations that have developed between us are truly based on mutual respect and trust. This was confirmed by the groundbreaking ceremony for the first Russian cultural centre and Orthodox church here in Singapore today.
I am confident that this gesture and the subsequent construction of the centre will serve as a solid foundation for the development of bilateral relations, especially for the people who will come here, to Singapore, more and more often, will get acquainted with your country and will have the opportunity to visit the Russian Orthodox Church and our cultural centre. The people in Singapore, in turn, will be exposed to the culture of the Russian Federation.
Allow me to make a toast to the well-being and prosperity of Russia and Singapore! To our friendship and Madam President’s health!
Geography
Singapore
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 13, 2018, 15:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Malaysian Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad
Vladimir Putin met with Malaysian Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad as part of his visit to Singapore.
November 13, 2018
17:00
Singapore
2 of 6
Meeting with Malaysian Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad.
The President of Russia arrived in the Republic of Singapore on a three-day state visit to attend the Russia – Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) Summit and the 13th East Asia Summit.
* * *
Beginning of the meeting with Malaysian Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister, colleagues, friends.
I am very pleased to see you again. I remember back in 2003 I presented you with an Order of Friendship when I was in your country.
Over the years, we have maintained, by and large, fairly good relations between our countries. In the first eight months of the current year bilateral trade grew by over 60 percent. However, much can still be done, and much, I think, could have been done in previous years.
I am very pleased to see you and discuss all these opportunities.
Prime Minister of Malaysia Mahathir Mohamad: I am very glad indeed to meet you again. I hope that with our meeting we can look into the relationship between Malaysia and Russia. I hope that we can increase our trade. Our trade is quite good, but we can do better.
There is an economic, scientific, technical and cultural agreement.
Remark: We are now finalising the co-chair of the committee, and once we finalise that, we can continue with the meeting.
Mahathir Mohamad: As you know, we have a number of Russian aircraft. I think we need to learn more about how to maintain and repair the aircraft.
<…>
Geography
Malaysia
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 13, 2018, 17:00
Text version