Events
Meeting with Russian fighter Khabib Nurmagomedov
Vladimir Putin met with Russian fighter, UFC Lightweight Champion Khabib Nurmagomedov. The President congratulated the fighter on winning the UFC Championship. The athlete’s father also attended the meeting.
October 10, 2018
18:35
Ulyanovsk
With Russian fighter Khabib Nurmagomedov (right) and his father.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: I would like to congratulate you on your victory. And I also want to congratulate your father on having such a great son and on raising such a good fighter.
The athlete’s father and coach Abdulmanap Nurmagomedov: He was not an easygoing child; it was hard dealing with him when he was a child, but then he grew.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: If he had been easygoing, he probably would not have become such a great fighter.
(Adressesing Khabib Nurmagomedov.) Let me congratulate you again and wish you success in the bouts to come.
There is a lot of talk, for sure. I saw the way they received you at home.
Of course, this was a commercial event, but it is still sport, and I must agree with those who believe that certain rules should be adhered to, and not just the written rules but the general rules of morality in sport. I hope everyone will follow these rules in this sport, as well.
Yes, you were not performing as part of a team, you performed as an individual, not even representing a country. You performed as an individual, but, you are a Russian citizen.
We are not indifferent to how our citizens are treated wherever they are and whatever they do. This is why we closely follow everything, and we were definitely very concerned about you.
Sport Minister Pavel Kolobkov, left, congratulated Khabib Nurmagomedov on winning the UFC Championship. On the right: the athlete’s father and coach Abdulmanap Nurmagomedov.
And I will ask your dad not discipline you too severely because you achieved your main goal: you won the fight, and you did it with dignity and convincingly.
To conclude, I would like to express hope that the ideals of sport will prevail, will prevail over money, advertising (I am referring to your rival’s team, of course), and that inroads will ultimately be found to normal communication, friendship between competitors, sport friendships – these are the goals sport is dedicated to and promotes – and you will build up good and kind-natured relations with your rivals, relations of rivalry, yet good-natured, human ones.
Anyway, nobody can reproach you for not striving for this. I want to express hope that this will also be appreciated by your rivals, your adversaries, and that everything will be settled in a personal and athletic way.
I will finish as I started – I want to wish you success in the future.
Khabib Nurmagomedov: Thank you.
I also hope they will appreciate not only my jumping out of the ring but also my performance. So far, they are only talking about my jumping out of the ring even though my performance was not bad, and unlike his [Connor McGregor’s] coming in and showing disrespect for my side, my parents, my country, I behaved with dignity.
I did not hold back either, of course, because the provocations continued through the fight. I hope the hearing that is now underway will rule in our favour.
Vladimir Putin: What can I say in this regard? You and I understand that this was done on purpose – and I am sure your father also understands this – to make you lose control, to get some advantage during the fight.
I see us as one big family in our country. And we must avoid extremes; we must not allow this behaviour no matter what happens.
We have a very big and diverse family, and anything can happen in a family, but we never permit ourselves to go beyond certain limits. But, if we are attacked from the outside, then all of us, not just you, can respond in a way that will not be taken lightly.
I wish you success.
Khabib Nurmagomedov: Thank you.
<…>
Geography
Ulyanovsk Region
Topics
Sport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 10, 2018, 18:35
Text versionEvents
International Forum Russia – Country of Sports
At the 7th International Forum Russia – Country of Sports Vladimir Putin took part in the plenary session titled Physical Education and Sports: New Development Targets.
October 10, 2018
17:35
Ulyanovsk
International Forum Russia – Country of Sports
More than 3,000 people from Russia and other countries, including heads of federal and regional government bodies, leaders of world sports, as well as representatives of the Olympic movement and international sporting organisations, attended the forum.
Earlier, Vladimir Putin sent the participants, organisers and guests of the forum a message of greetings.
***
Speech at the plenary session Physical Education and Sports: New Development Targets at the 7th International Forum Russia – Country of Sports
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Dear guests, friends, ladies and gentlemen,
I am very pleased to welcome all the participants and guests of the International Forum Russia – Country of Sports. This year it is dedicated to the promising aspects of promoting fitness and sport, and it is important that representatives of various countries want to set new tasks and establish new approaches for the future together.
A professional dialogue between athletes, public activists and sport specialists stresses the unity of the global sport family and will allow for building the most effective models of its development and for developing the most efficient forms of support from the government, businesses and all interested partners.
In Russia, issues related to sport and fitness are absolute priorities. We promote the values of a healthy and active lifestyle in society, among all generations. Sport determines longevity and quality of life, and provides a wide range of opportunities for personal and professional fulfillment.
See also
Greetings to 7th Russia – Country of Sports International Forum
October 10, 2018
The job of federal, regional and municipal authorities is to create conditions for the development of mass sport, ensure access to sport facilities and adapt the infrastructure of cities, towns and villages to sport, to make them convenient to engage in sport.
It is important to make better use of the potential of public-private partnership both in building sport facilities and in using them afterwards.
The Governor has just spoken about several facilities here in Ulyanovsk. The idea is for an investor not only to put money into the construction of a sport complex or arena but also to take part in their further development.
Some good examples include projects that have been planned for this year in Altai and Tatarstan, and the Ice Palace in Buryatia that may give an impetus to the development of the infrastructure of the entire republic.
A network of physical fitness and sport clubs in residential, and work and study areas and, of course the revived GTO programme (Ready for Labour and Defence) that resolves tasks of both public sport and the training of sport reserves, are also aimed at promoting a healthy life style.
The road from a GTO badge to an Olympic medal is uphill but straight. The main point is for sport educational organisations to work consistently and smoothly regardless of affiliation and to use the same methods.
Naturally, large-scale competitions occupy a special place in the development and promotion of sport. I would like to note that after the Universiade in Kazan, the Olympics in Sochi and the FIFA World Cup, sport club membership has sharply increased, growing many times over.
We certainly counted on this when we competed for the right to host these events and organised these large sports competitions. I hope this trend will continue next year when Russia hosts the World Winter Universiade and the World Boxing Championships, and if it hosts the World Volleyball Championships in 2022 and the Junior and Main Hockey Championships in 2023. We intend to offer a special sports tournament to our partners in BRICS
and the EAEU
. Overall, we are interested in the world’s best athletes meeting each other more often, competing and being friends. We are interested in developing sports exchanges.
After the 7th International Forum Russia – Country of Sports Vladimir Putin took part in the plenary session titled Physical Education and Sports: New Development Targets.
Outstanding athletes are an important example for the younger generation regardless if they are still competing or have retired from their career. These people are symbols of the true ethos of sport, will and unity of sports. Of course, they have earned universal respect.
I would like to note the Foundation for the Support of Russian Olympians. For 13 years, the Foundation has been implementing programmes for winners of Olympic Games; it helps them receive their second degree at leading universities. I would like to take this opportunity to express my gratitude to the members of the Foundation and wish them further success in their activities.
Supporting honoured veterans, training exceptional young people, promoting mass sport and establishing easily accessible infrastructure are tasks that must definitely be envisaged in Russia’s strategy for fitness and sports development for 2021–2030. The Government must approve this no later than 2020.
Strengthening international cooperation must be part of the overall goal. Russia has always strived for the most constructive and comprehensive cooperation with sports organisations around the world. Russia has been progressively fulfilling its commitments, including the countering of doping.
This is a sensitive area, but I cannot ignore it. We are determined to establish one of the best anti-doping systems in the world. In order to do this, we have developed and are now implementing a national programme. We believe this to be a matter of principle for Russia and for the entire world.
Yes, of course, we have seen flaws in our anti-doping system, but I would like to note that these are not only our internal problems. They have demonstrated obvious flaws in the entire international anti-doping system.
We agree with our partners who say changes are necessary in this area. We believe that this work should be carried out within UNESCO as part of the corresponding International Convention, with the more substantive involvement of the Olympic movement’s key participants: the International Olympic Committee, international sports federations and national Olympic committees.
Of course, we all need common rules, transparent, just and equal for all the athletes. World sport and its future need them.
Based on the Olympic Charter and international legislative acts, taking into consideration the opinions of international sports federations and complying with national laws, we can show concern for sport and its great humanitarian mission, for today’s generation and generations to come.
Let me wish you success and all the best. Thank you for your attention.
Geography
Ulyanovsk Region
Topics
Sport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 10, 2018, 17:35
Text version