Events
Address to participants and guests of Army 2018 forum
Vladimir Putin addressed participants and guests of the Army 2018 International Military-Technical Forum.
August 21, 2018
13:00
Moscow
Vladimir Putin addressed participants and guests of the Army 2018 International Military-Technical Forum.
The Patriot exhibition centre, the Kubinka airfield and the Alabino range serve as the main venues for the forum, held between August 21 and 26 and featuring exhibitions, demonstrations, as well as research and business programmes.
The Army 2018 Forum is a large-scale event. Apart from its main exhibition, it includes a number of special projects, such as Intellectual Industrial Technology 2018, an international exhibition of high-performance equipment and technology for modernising defence manufacturers, and the Innovative Club specialised exhibit.
The forum will also include a research and business programme consisting of more than 140 events of various kinds, grouped around a number of key topics.
As in previous years, demonstrations will be the most spectacular event, showcasing Russia’s excellence in making arms and military and specialised equipment.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends,
It is a pleasure to greet the participants and guests of the Army 2018 International Military-Technical Forum.
Just as in previous years, this major event offers an opportunity to review the latest defence technology, bringing together leading Russian and foreign experts. It is also an important platform for discussing matters related to military-technical cooperation. It goes without saying that the forum facilitates partnerships among defence agencies from various countries. After all, it is only by working together and with mutual trust that we can counter our common challenges and threats, and ensure global stability and security.
I strongly believe that the forum’s rich programme will offer Russian arms manufacturers, including engineers, designers and workers, yet another opportunity to demonstrate their immense potential. The unique technology available to the Russian Army and Navy is created by their hands and talent.
Of course, demonstrations of the most advanced military models and spectacular performances by air display teams will be the highlight of the forum’s programme.
I have a special message for the young people who are visiting these exhibitions for the first time. I strongly believe that not only will you learn many new and interesting things, but you will also feel the pride of defending the Motherland, and learn about the opportunities for personal fulfilment and creativity in research, defence and other economic sectors.
It all depends on your diligence, hard work and commitment to results when pursuing success and serving Russia.
I wish the forum participants good health and all the very best.
Topics
Armed Forces
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 21, 2018, 13:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous Area Acting Governor Dmitry Artyukhov
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Acting Governor of the Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous Area Dmitry Artyukhov.
August 21, 2018
15:10
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
2 of 3
Acting Governor of the Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous Area Dmitry Artyukhov.
Dmitry Artyukhov
thanked Vladimir Putin for supporting development projects in the Arctic. The Government has approved a concession for the Northern Latitudinal Railway, and the construction of its most complex and important segment – a joint railway and automobile bridge across the Ob River – will begin this winter. Overall, this is a large-scale project that covers the north of Russia as far as the Baltic Sea.
The Acting Governor also spoke about the project to build a railway to Sabetta, which is the main development centre of the Northern Sea Route today.
Overall, according to Mr Artyukhov, the region’s economy is developing steadily. The main industrial indicators grew by 12 percent in the first six months of the year. Key Russian companies take part in many project in the region, for example, Gazprom is to begin developing the Kharasaveyskoye field next year. The Yamal LNG project is ahead of schedule: the second section has been commissioned; the third section is to be launched by the end of 2018, a year ahead of schedule.
Geography
Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area
Topics
Energy
Regions
Persons
Artyukhov Dmitry
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 21, 2018, 15:10
Text version