Events
Meeting with Alexander Osipov
Late yesterday evening, Vladimir Putin held a working meeting with Alexander Osipov. The President informed Mr Osipov of his decision to appoint him Acting Governor of Trans-Baikal Territory.
October 25, 2018
09:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 5
With Acting Governor of Trans-Baikal Territory Alexander Osipov.
Alexander Osipov, in turn, informed the President of plans to implement a number of socioeconomic projects.
* * *
Alexander Osipov
: The implementation of large projects is an important issue. The work has started on several large-scale projects in Trans-Baikal Territory, including the development of the Bystrinskoye poly-metallic deposit, the Argunskoye uranium deposit and others.
To secure their stable and successful operation, a supporting infrastructure is required, including the construction of social facilities for the personnel of the enterprises that are being established.
See also
Alexander Osipov appointed Acting Governor of Trans-Baikal Territory
October 25, 2018
I ask for your support as regards the development of the plan on providing social security to the areas of growth. Similar plans have been developed and are currently implemented in the Far Eastern Federal District
. If you support the plan, we will develop it and then submit it for approval and financing.
I would ask for your support and assistance in expanding the measures and support mechanisms that are commonly used in the Far East now and have proven their efficiency.
These include creating priority development areas, infrastructure subsidies for investment projects being implemented, and offering land plots of one hectare to residents for free.
Among such measures are also the use of support mechanisms envisaged by the law on the Free Port of Vladivostok, such as the 24/7 work of local checkpoints, where we are experiencing problems at the moment. People and vehicles have to wait for two or three days and cannot complete the formalities on time. This is a tense situation that needs to be resolved.
The support tools used in the Free Port of Vladivostok that can be helpful include the 24/7 work of checkpoints, accelerated procedures for control over transportation vehicles that cross the border, and creating a free customs zone.
There are also electronic visas for entrants, with the procedure simplified and a greater number of tourists arriving.
<…>
Geography
Trans-Baikal Territory
Topics
Regions
Persons
Osipov Alexander
Zhdanova Natalya
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 25, 2018, 09:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Head of Federal Customs Service Vladimir Bulavin
During the meeting, the President congratulated the Russian customs service staff on their professional holiday.
October 25, 2018
15:15
The Kremlin, Moscow
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Bulavin, today is a holiday, Customs Officers’ Day. I would like to congratulate you and the staff of Russia’s Customs Service on your professional holiday and to wish you success, good luck, good health and high spirits.
Let us talk today about several things. The first and most important is transfers to the federal budget. Second, what transformations you consider the most important now and what is on the agenda.
But one of the most important questions is how the creation of a single mechanism for fiscal payment administration is proceeding.
Head of the Federal Customs Service Vladimir Bulavin
: Mr President, thank you for congratulating Russian customs officers. We constantly feel your support and will not let you down.
According to the results of work in the first nine months of this year, it can be reported that we have managed to fulfil the task of transferring funds to the federal budget.
In the first nine months, 4 trillion 55 billion rubles have been transferred. This is 31 percent or one trillion rubles more than last year. Of course, the growth of oil prices has played a role here, as well as the macroeconomic situation, the increase in the weight characteristics of imports, and the rise in the average customs value. Therefore, as head of the Federal Customs Service, I can report to you that this testifies to a certain extent to the effectiveness of the work of the customs authorities.
We face difficult tasks before the end of the year: we must meet the forecast target of 5 trillion 930 billion rubles. This means that we have to collect about 20 billion daily. The job is difficult, strenuous, but we will make every effort to do it.
The current state of the customs service and its further development is directly related to the introduction of digital technologies and the development of telecommunication systems and information resources.
At present– here is my presentation – the information system of the customs agencies includes 81 programming tools and 67 information resources.
Every day, 30 million various messages and records are processed in a single automated information network. We have the ability to automatically maintain information contacts with 32 departments and automatically generate requests for them, and they, of course, make requests for our information resources in the same way. Suffice it to say that during the year we have generated 17.5 million requests for information resources of other federal authorities. This allowed us to accomplish the task you set on concentrating electronic declaration.
In 2018, we are to create three electronic customs and three electronic declaration centres. I must report to you that yesterday at the international customs forum, the first e-customs office in Nizhny Novgorod of the Volga Federal District was launched.
In 2020, we will have eight e-customs offices located in federal districts and eight electronic declaration centres: three marine electronic declaration centres, one aviation, one energy, one excise, and electronic declaration centres of the Moscow Region and Kaliningrad Region customs services.
What benefits will it have? Up to now, we have had 672 customs clearance points – but now there will be 16. There is a fundamental point: if, as a rule, these 672 customs clearance centres were located on privately owned premises, the 16 electronic declaration centres will be located in state-owned facilities. This significantly increases the level of manageability and the efficiency of handling customs payments, reduces the administrative burden on business, and most importantly, we disclose the personal contact between the issuing inspector and customs applicant and significantly reduce corruption risks.
This year we did a lot to simplify the customs clearance procedure and make it faster in order to meet businesses’ expectations. There is a special section in our comprehensive programme to develop the Federal Customs Service until 2020 that is entitled Ten Steps Towards Facilitating Business. We have already taken these steps.
Suffice it to say that this year our automated system registered 1.5 million electronic customs declarations and cleared 250,000 of them, that is, without the involvement of a customs officer. We plan that by 2020 the automated system will be able to register 99 percent of all customs declarations and clear 80 percent of all customs declarations for risk-free shipments. The average registration time for one customs declaration is three minutes, and the average clearance time is five minutes. I believe this is quite fast, taking into account the total amount of customs declarations we have to handle.
We also worked hard on expanding the range of My Account services we provide to those who are involved in foreign trade. Currently, exporters and importers while on holiday, at the office or at home can file a customs declaration in electronic form, consult customs officers about issues that might arise, submit accompanying documents in electronic form, archive these documents, if necessary, and check their current account balance or the amount debited from the account. There are quite a few new services we have presented, and we plan to further expand the range of these services.
It took us two years to introduce, practically from scratch, the electronic clearance system for transit shipments going through our country and, as of October 1 of this year, 99.7 percent of all transit customs declarations are processed electronically.
Mr President, you know we had a problem with tracking transit shipments through our country, as it was often the case that goods remained in the Russian Federation while relevant documents were registered as they should in a neighbouring country.
Vladimir Putin: These are member countries of our Union.
Vladimir Bulavin: Yes, they are.
There is a pilot project underway for a month now to track transit shipments through our country. We make sure that vehicles have hinged seals that allow us to track the trajectory of a moving vehicle and see to it that it follows the designated route.
Our colleagues from Kazakhstan have joined the pilot project, and we have also reached relevant agreements with our Belarusian colleagues, as well as our other colleagues in the Customs Union. In general, the pilot project has been showing good results.
Vladimir Putin: Very good, this will also safeguard their interests.
Vladimir Bulavin: Yes, of course.
Vladimir Putin: Good, thank you.
<…>
Topics
Customs
Persons
Bulavin Vladimir
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 25, 2018, 15:15
Text versionEvents
Ceremony to present senior officers and prosecutors appointed to higher positions
The President met with senior officers and prosecutors appointed to higher positions and awarded higher military (special) titles and class ranks.
October 25, 2018
14:20
The Kremlin, Moscow
9 of 11
During the ceremony to present senior officers and prosecutors appointed to higher positions.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Comrades,
I welcome you at the official ceremony in the Kremlin. Congratulations on your appointment to higher command positions and the conferment of higher military ranks.
Your experience, the ability to effectively solve tasks and serve as an example for your subordinates receive deserved recognition. I expect that your new powers will allow you to more fully uncover your professional potential and to achieve significant success in strengthening the defence capability of Russia and protecting law and order.
One of the key areas of our common work is developing the Armed Forces. I repeat, Russia is not threatening anyone. We strictly abide by our obligations in the field of international security and arms control. We are always open for constructive partner work in the interests of stability in the world.
At the same time, our duty is to do everything necessary to reliably protect our Motherland from any potential threats. Therefore, we will continue to update the army and navy, primarily under the new State Armament Programme, which has been implemented since the beginning of this year. It focuses on the development and supply of advanced weapons and equipment to the troops. Many of them will soon be ready for mass production. In their tactical and technical characteristics, they are significantly ahead of foreign developments, and some simply have no analogues.
The operational and combat training level of the troops is to be raised. At the same time, it is necessary to fully take into account the experience of the military operation in Syria, the nature of potential threats and to solve increasingly complex and multifaceted tasks. It is precisely such tasks that our troops successfully worked through recently together with the military personnel from China and Mongolia during the most ambitious manoeuvres in the history of our country, Vostok-2018.
Of course, we will develop the best military traditions of our Motherland. This year, a military-political agency was established in the Armed Forces. Its task is to educate the young generation of service personnel using the examples of patriotism, loyalty to military duty and responsibility for the Motherland. At all times, these values have been the moral foundation of the Russian Army and fuelled its victorious spirit. This is how it should be in the future too.
Comrades, the stable development of Russia, the security of our citizens depend directly on the efficiency and quality of work of the security and law enforcement agencies.
I would like to note that in the nine months of this year, Federal Security Service personnel prevented 26 terrorist crimes, including 15 terrorist attacks. These figures testify to the saved lives of our citizens.
It is essential to continue acting with equal determination and efficiency. In close cooperation with the National Anti-Terrorism Committee
, we need to gradually lower the level of the terrorist threat, first of all through up-to-date information and careful preventive measures.
This fully applies to all other areas of your work: counteracting extremism and corruption, protecting the state border and counteracting foreign security agencies.
The Foreign Intelligence Service is also facing demanding tasks. Your information on global and regional challenges and developments in hot spots must be as detailed, accurate and as timely as possible.
I would like to note that some areas of the Interior Ministry’s activity saw an improvement in 2018. Together with other law enforcement and security agencies, police officers efficiently ensured security at the 2018 FIFA World Cup in Russia.
The Federal National Guard Service also has a wide range of tasks. You must promptly suppress any violation of public order. Please note that it is necessary to significantly improve gun control. I expect from you concrete proposals, including regarding the legal framework.
The priorities of the Prosecutor’s Office bodies include ensuring the social rights of citizens and the legality in spending budget funds, as well as overseeing the implementation of legislation in the housing and utilities sector.
Of course, prosecutors must promptly respond to violations of labour and pension law, citizens' rights to healthcare and education, as well as to abuses of power by officials in the law enforcement and regulatory agencies.
The Investigative Committee staff must focus on investigating the most dangerous crimes.
I would like to note the great commitment of the Federal Guard Service personnel. I hope that you will continue to successfully accomplish the tasks before you, including ensuring the reliable operation of special communications and the hosting of major international events.
During the ceremony to present senior officers and prosecutors appointed to higher positions.
Russian rescuers work competently and smoothly. It is important to keep public places under constant control, including educational institutions, shopping, cultural, leisure and sports centres and large transport facilities.
The Chief Directorate for Special Programmes makes a major contribution to the security of Russia. The stable functioning of state civil and military authorities largely depends on the quality of your work.
The Federal Penitentiary Service should also focus on solving priority tasks. One of them is to upgrade the infrastructure of correctional institutions. The conditions of detention of prisoners must meet modern standards, and the security system must be reliable.
Comrades, I am sure you will do everything necessary to effectively solve the tasks that have been set for you.
In turn, the state will continue to strengthen the social guarantees of service personnel.
Thus, from October 1, 2019, taking into account the decision on indexation, the monetary allowance for service personnel and persons of equivalent status will increase by 4.3 percent, and military pensions will also be further indexed by another 2 percent as of October 1, 2019. Thus, the overall increase in military pensions will be 6.3 percent.
I instruct the Government to allocate appropriate resources in the 2019–2021draft federal budget, and I ask parliament members to support the necessary amendments.
In conclusion, I wish you health and success in your service, and happiness and well-being to your families and loved ones.
<…>
Topics
Armed Forces
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 25, 2018, 14:20
Text version