Events
Meeting with President of South Ossetia Anatoly Bibilov
Vladimir Putin met with President of South Ossetia Anatoly Bibilov at the Kremlin.
August 24, 2018
13:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
With President of South Ossetia Anatoly Bibilov.
The Russian leader congratulated Anatoly Bibilov
on the 10th anniversary of South Ossetia’s independence.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, friends,
I am very happy to see you and welcome you to Moscow. Very soon, the day after tomorrow, we will mark the 10th anniversary of the Russian Federation’s recognition of the independence of the Republic of South Ossetia.
We all know and remember well what it was about and what difficult events the country went through ten years ago. Nevertheless, despite all the hardships – and there are always many of them – the republic is developing. We are doing our best to ensure the security of the Republic of South Ossetia and to support it economically.
Meeting with President of South Ossetia Anatoly Bibilov.
I would like to note that mutual trade is growing at a good pace, by 24–25 percent. Investment projects are being carried out, including those with Russia’s support. There are some good results, for instance, the construction of a children’s hospital, which. I believe, has opened already, and the republican hospital’s surgical wing. The road network is also expanding. Other areas of our cooperation include housing and utilities projects.
Overall, work is ongoing. There are probably more problems than we have managed to solve. However, our relations are developing and the republic is improving and strengthening its positions.
I would like to congratulate you on the tenth anniversary and wish you and the people of South Ossetia prosperity and wellbeing.
President of South Ossetia Anatoly Bibilov: Thank you, Mr President.
First of all, I would like to congratulate you on my own behalf and on behalf of the delegation on Russian State Flag Day and to thank you for inviting us to Moscow. It is even more significant on the eve of the tenth anniversary of the day when Russia recognised the statehood of the Republic of South Ossetia.
President of South Ossetia Anatoly Bibilov.
I would like to note that the recognition of the Republic of South Ossetia is a historical event for South Ossetia. It was after the peace enforcement operation and recognition of South Ossetia that the people of South Ossetia began living in an entirely different format: the format of stability, peace and prosperity.
Today children in South Ossetia do not shudder from explosions; today the republic is developing. And, of course, we know what an enormous part you personally played in this and what a great political role you played in all the events in South Ossetia. Of course, we are very grateful to you for this.
Meeting with President of South Ossetia Anatoly Bibilov.
As of today, South Ossetia has built tens of thousands of square metres in the social sphere, including education and healthcare. The infrastructure in South Ossetia is expanding. And, of course, we must thank the Russian Federation for this.
I have the great honour to thank you today on behalf of the people of South Ossetia for that fact that the country is peaceful today and that it is developing. Thank you very much.
<…>
See also
Meeting with Raul Khadjimba and Anatoly Bibilov
August 24, 2018
Meeting with President of Abkhazia Raul Khadjimba
August 24, 2018
Geography
South Ossetia
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Bibilov Anatoly
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 24, 2018, 13:30
Text version