Events
Meeting with the new Cabinet
Vladimir Putin had the first meeting at the Kremlin with the new Government of the Russian Federation. The meeting participants discussed the renewed Cabinet of Ministers’ top priorities and areas of activities until 2024.
May 26, 2018
16:15
The Kremlin, Moscow
8 of 9
At the meeting with the new Government of the Russian Federation.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
Allow me to once again congratulate you on your appointment to top government positions and wish you success in the forthcoming work. You have joined the Russian Government, which faces not only complicated but also extremely responsible tasks.
These are targets of a new level. The viability of our nation, the energy of its progress, its future – I am not exaggerating – depend on achieving them.
I am confident that you are fully aware of the scale and content of these breakthrough tasks, that each of you, the ministries’ teams that are being formed, and the Government as a whole will work dynamically, meticulously, closely together, and with the utmost dedication.
The Government must promptly draft and approve the main guidelines for its activities and key projects in accordance with the May 2018 Executive Order On National Goals and Strategic Objectives of the Russian Federation through to 2014. These goals and tasks, their concrete targets, as you saw for yourselves, require a similarly clear and understandable mechanism for their implementation, including the provision of resources.
This large, fundamental volume of work must be completed by October 1, 2018. I discussed this with Mr Medvedev a number of times recently.
Let me stress that this stage will directly impact how successful and fruitful our further progress will be. So there can be no excuses that some kind of circumstances prevented you from doing this work with high quality, at the due level and on schedule.
You must show initiative, find unconventional approaches, and establish a modern governance style. Key issues of Russia’s breakthrough development will be resolved here, in the Government; measures will be taken that the time and our strategic goals demand.
It is the place for the “engine,” the driver for innovation and change in all areas of our life, and the whole nation should feel the beat, the energy of your work.
It is absolutely crucial to ensure proper coordination with regional management teams. I ask you to constantly pay close attention to that since we know perfectly well that all our plans will be materialised in the regions.
You must also show an example of constructive cooperation with civil society entities, political parties, including the Russian Popular Front as one of the largest public organisations. Its activists have a great deal of experience in monitoring the execution of the May 2012 Executive Orders. I am confident that such practice of civil, public monitoring and control should go on.
The Government and the ministries must be committed to maximum openness and an ongoing dialogue with the public. You must explain all your actions. This will largely contribute to the success of the Government.
We must engage more citizens in the implementation of development tasks, encourage their drive to attain the goals we need. In a word, you have big, substantial and very interesting work ahead.
I wish you strength, energy and the best of health – so that there is enough of it for this large-scale work – and success.
<…>
See also
The President signed Executive Order On National Goals and Strategic Objectives of the Russian Federation through to 2024
May 7, 2018
Topics
Civil service
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 26, 2018, 16:15
Text versionEvents
Reception to mark Cross Years of Russia and Japan opening
Vladimir Putin and Prime Minister of Japan Shinzo Abe attended a reception following a concert at the Bolshoi Theatre to mark the opening of the Cross Years of Russia and Japan.
May 26, 2018
23:50
Moscow
5 of 5
At a reception in the Bolshoi Theatre to mark the opening of the Cross Years of Russia and Japan.
Prime Minister of Japan Shinzo Abe
(retranslated): Mr President, ladies and gentlemen,
I am delighted that we have opened the cross Year of Japan in Russia and Russia in Japan. I hope you liked the Japanese traditional ceremony of Kagami Biraki performed by Budokan Karate masters and the drum and dance ensemble Drum Tao.
I believe that all of this suits the occasion very well as a demonstration of the synthesis of Japanese traditions and modern reality, as well as a combination of the creative ideas of Japanese and Russian masters of arts, Budokan Karate masters, musicians, performers and dancers of the wonderful school of Russian ballet.
Ladies and gentlemen, the cross-year has barely begun. Lying in store for us are many interesting and impressive events, such as Kabuki performances, art exhibits and the traditional Japanese art of mounted archery – Yabusame, which the Russian public will see for the first time.
Japanese festivals will be held in many Russian cities. We also plan to hold political, economic and research events and youth, sports and interregional exchanges. Over 300 such events have been planned, and many more will be added to the agenda. I invite you to visit them and discover the unexplored elements of Japan.
We will not limit our contacts to the framework of the cross-year. Thanks to simplified visa requirements, the number of Russian citizens who visited Japan last year increased by 40 percent compared to the year before.
We will try to make the best use possible of the opportunities offered by the cross-year and the 2018 FIFA World Cup to make a breakthrough in humanitarian ties between our peoples.
Today we have invited to our reception famous politicians, economists and those working in the sciences and the arts, making a great contribution to Russian-Japanese relations. I would like to use this opportunity to thank all of them and to ask them to continue to assist us in this undertaking.
Thank you.
(Speaking in Russian) Spasibo.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister, friends,
People in Russia have always had a great interest in Japanese history, culture and traditions. We have watched respectfully Japan’s progress and the impressive examples of Japanese talent.
I know the Japanese people look forward to and admire performances by Russian artists. My friends from the leading Russian orchestras and theatres have told me about this. What does this mean? It is evidence of mutual attraction and sympathy between the people of Russia and Japan.
We are living in a complex and rapidly changing world. Partner relations between Russia and Japan are what we need, what Russia and its friends in neighbouring Japan need.
We are grateful to Mr Prime Minister for the attention he pays to the development of Russian-Japanese ties and for his idea of holding a Year of Japan in Russia and a Year of Russia in Japan, which will allow us to learn more about each other and will bring us closer together.
I would like to thank everyone who is participating and will participate in these events and wish success to everyone.
(Speaking in Japanese) Arigato.
See also
Opening of Cross Years of Russia and Japan
May 26, 2018
See also
Russian-Japanese talks
May 26, 2018
Geography
Japan
Topics
Culture
Persons
Abe Shinzo
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 26, 2018, 23:50
Text version