Events
Press statements following talks with President of Azerbaijan Ilham Aliyev
Following the talks, Vladimir Putin and Ilham Aliyev made statements for the press.
September 1, 2018
13:50
Sochi
1 of 2
Press statements following talks with President of Azerbaijan Ilham Aliyev.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ladies and gentlemen,
As you may remember, in mid-August President of Azerbaijan Ilham Aliyev and I took part in the Caspian Summit, where an extremely important convention on the legal status of the Caspian Sea was signed. Today I am very glad to have this opportunity to meet with President of the Republic of Azerbaijan during his visit to our country.
The talks, which were held in a constructive and business-like atmosphere, have just ended. I would like to stress that Russia and Azerbaijan are bound by strong traditions of friendship and cooperation. The relationship between our states is a partnership that is mutually beneficial and is based on the principles of neighbourly relations and respect for each other’s interests.
I am convinced that today’s talks, in which the heads of our key agencies and business leaders took part, will give an additional impetus to further developing the entire complex of Russian-Azerbaijani relations. This is the aim of the joint statement the President of Azerbaijan and I have signed along with a substantial set of intergovernmental and interdepartmental agreements. First of all, I would like to highlight the Action Plan on Developing Key Areas of Cooperation. This programme document includes roadmaps on such important issues as increasing trade and mutual investments, creating new transport routes and expanding humanitarian cooperation, including cultural and tourism exchanges.
As for bilateral economic ties, they are developing very actively. The Russia-Azerbaijan trade grew by nearly 35 percent in 2017 to reach $2.5 billion. Russia’s direct capital investments in Azerbaijan have amounted to $1.5 billion. There are around 700 joint enterprises operating on the Azerbaijani market, and around one third of them have 100 percent Russian capital.
Contacts between the business communities are growing, including between small and medium-sized businesses. Only last year the Russia-Azerbaijan business council rendered support to 42 joint projects worth a total of over $450 million.
Many Russian energy companies, such as Gazprom
, Transneft and LUKOIL, are working successfully in Azerbaijan. In general, the energy systems of both Russia and Azerbaijan are functioning in an integrated mode. Cooperation in the industrial sector is deepening. I would like to mention some successful joint projects that Mr President and I have discussed.
For instance, KAMAZ has set up the production of license trucks and their maintenances at Ganja Auto Plant. The Russian company R-Pharm invested $74 million in the construction of an enterprise in Azerbaijan that will produce pharmaceuticals. The enterprise will open in 2019. Gazprombank is taking part in the development of Sumgayit Chemical Industrial Park. Investments amount to around $750 million.
The North-South transport corridor, which will connect Western European markets with Asian producers, is considered to be one of the most important projects. This will allow substantially increasing the speed of freight transportation from South Asia and the Middle East through Iran to Europe. The total length of this corridor will exceed 7,000 kilometres. It will include railway, ferry and automobile communication. Yet the substantial part of the North-South corridor will pass through Russia and Azerbaijan. I would like to underline that the work on some sections of the route is already underway. Next year our countries intend to finish the construction of the bridge over Samur, a border river.
We discussed interregional cooperation as well. More than 70 constituent entities of the Russia Federation support economic ties with Azerbaijan, and around 17 entered into framework agreements on trade, economic, scientific and technical cooperation. This October there will be another interregional meeting, a regular interregional forum, and we have just discussed it. We planned to hold it in Ganja, but our friends may arrange it in Baku.
We were glad to highlight the active bilateral contacts in culture and education. More than 11,000 Azerbaijani students are studying in Russia, around one thousand of them have their tuition fees covered out of the federal budget of the Russian Federation. More than 200 scholarships have been awarded to Azerbaijani students.
Meetings of the Baku International Humanitarian Forum, which was established upon the initiative of the Presidents of Russia and Azerbaijan, are held on a regular basis. The sixth session of the forum to be held at the end of the year in Baku is expected to attract more than 500 participants.
Of course, we shared opinions on international and regional matters. In particular we touched upon the Nagorno-Karabakh issue. Russia, as a co-chairman of the Minsk Group, will continue to render all possible assistance to the peaceful settlement of this conflict.
In conclusion, I would like to thank the President of Azerbaijan and all our Azerbaijani friends and colleagues for the substantial and effective talks. I am convinced that the agreements we reached will serve to further consolidate the Russian-Azerbaijani friendship, and promote the development of mutually beneficial cooperation for the benefit of our nations.
Thank you for your attention.
President of Azerbaijan Ilham Aliyev
: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen,
First of all, Mr President, I would like to thank you for the invitation to visit Russia, for your hospitality and a warm reception.
As you said, we meet on a regular basis. We met three times over the last three months. We had a meeting in June in Moscow, ahead of the 2018 FIFA World Cup, then again in August in Kazakhstan, and today in Sochi. I would like to take this opportunity to once again congratulate Russia on the successful holding of a global event and the Russian national team’s excellent performance at the World Cup.
Regular contacts between our countries’ heads of state give an impetus to our relations, which are built a very solid foundation.
Relations between Russia and Azerbaijan are a strategic partnership. They cover all spheres of our life. Today, during my visit we discussed in great detail many aspects of our bilateral relations and issues on the international agenda. Mr President spoke about it in detail.
I would like to highlight that especially important among the issues we discussed is the issue of regional security, in particular the settlement of the Armenian-Azerbaijani Nagorno-Karabakh conflict, which has lasted for a very long time and has caused enormous suffering for the people of Azerbaijan.
For many years, the internationally recognised territory of Azerbaijan has been occupied by Armenia. More than a million of Azerbaijani citizens became refugees and displaced persons as a result of the conflict. The prompt settlement of the conflict will allow our citizens to return to their historic homeland and will bring peace, stability and cooperation to our region.
Russia, as a co-chairman of the OSCE
Minsk Group, which deals with the settlement of the conflict, plays an important role in the process. Russia is our neighbour, historical partner and friend. We hope that Russia will continue to make every effort to settle the conflict.
We looked closely at economic issues and were satisfied to note the growth in trade and positive outlook for the future. The matters we discussed and agreed today, in particular, the roadmaps on different areas of economic cooperation, will allow us to further boost trade between our countries, which is already very active. This year, despite last year’s rapid growth, trade continued to grow. Russia is Azerbaijan’s top partner in terms of imports and is number one recipient of Azerbaijan’s non-oil exports. This testifies to the scale and importance of cooperation between our countries.
Many investment projects Mr President mentioned are being implemented and are very promising. In general, we expect an increase in trade and the economy, the consolidation of integration ties and creation of even better conditions for cooperation between our companies.
Of course, transport projects play an important role. Russia and Azerbaijan are neighbours, we are connected by both railways and motorways, as well as very active air transportation, both passenger and cargo. We discussed in detail the future steps to create new transport opportunities for our countries and for our neighbours.
Mr President highlighted the importance of the North-South project. Azerbaijan, for its part, has already implemented all important infrastructure projects in this area. This year, the North-South route will transport one hundred times more cargos than last year. And this is only the beginning because this large-scale global project will cover many countries and continents. Therefore, transport opportunities of our countries will increase and thousands of new jobs will be created.
Today we signed important documents on cooperation in the oil and gas sector, a traditional sphere of our cooperation that has an excellent potential.
Mr President mentioned the active participation of Russian banks in the implementation of many important transport, infrastructure and industrial projects in Azerbaijan. We welcome this.
Today we discussed further military-technical cooperation, which has very rich traditions. The contracts implemented by Russia and Azerbaijan, to be more specific, the military goods bought by Azerbaijan from Russia, are worth over $5 billion and continue to grow because Azerbaijan continues to modernise its armed forces and Russia is a very important global producer and supplier of military products to the international markets.
Cooperation in the humanitarian sphere had a very special place in our discussion. People in Azerbaijan have a caring attitude towards Russian culture, the Russian language, and everything that unites our people and has united them for centuries. There are more than 340 schools in Azerbaijan where the language of instruction is Russian, and there are two branches of leading Russian universities. Today we discussed further steps to consolidate cooperation in the humanitarian sphere, in education and culture, and the documents we signed, including in the sphere of sport, will continue to unite our countries and people more and more.
In other words the relations between our countries are friendly and neighbourly, a full-fledged partnership, as it should be between good friends and neighbours.
I would like to once again express my gratitude to Mr President for the exchange of opinions, and I would like to invite you to visit Azerbaijan at any time convenient to you.
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much.
<…>
See also
Talks with President of Azerbaijan Ilham Aliyev
September 1, 2018
Geography
Azerbaijan
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Aliyev Ilham
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 1, 2018, 13:50
Text versionEvents
Visit to Sirius Educational Centre
On September 1, Knowledge Day, Vladimir Putin visited the Sirius Educational Centre, where he found out about the centre’s educational programmes and examined new laboratories.
September 1, 2018
18:00
Sochi
8 of 21
Visit to Sirius Educational Centre.
The President visited the Innovation Science and Technology Centre, which will become a platform for fundamental and applied research in different fields. The President was also shown a new laboratory called Genetics and Life Sciences, where students carry out research in biomedicine and pharmacology, and a laboratory for cognitive and interdisciplinary studies.
See also
Meeting of Talent and Success Foundation Board of Trustees
September 1, 2018
During his visit to the centre, the President met with the winners of international Olympiads of the 2017–2018 academic year and their mentors, and also chaired a meeting of the Talent and Success Foundation’s board of trustees.
Vladimir Putin congratulated the centre’s students and all Russian students on Knowledge Day.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Today is September 1. This year it is a Saturday, a day off, so classes in many schools will start on September 3. Nevertheless, we always celebrate September 1 as Knowledge Day, as a holiday. It is a special day, and I would like to congratulate you from the bottom of my heart and wish you happy Knowledge Day. Congratulations to you and all students of our huge country, all students, teachers and parents. Happy holiday, happy Knowledge Day!
This is truly a very good, bright and beautiful holiday. But whom do we honour the most on this day? First-year students, because today they start a new stage in their lives. They come, make new friends and meet their teachers. Most importantly, they embark on a path of knowledge. Not on a path of war, but a path of friendship and knowledge. This year we have a remarkable figure: 1.8 million children will have their first ever day at school.
Over the past years we built several hundred new schools, where 300,000 boys and girls are studying and have an opportunity, just like you here, at Sirius, to use up-to-date technology, master new subjects at a modern level, and therefore achieve great results in the future and have a chance to build up their potential for future success in life.
This is what I would like to wish you. I wish you success and happiness. Happy Knowledge Day!
Geography
Krasnodar Territory
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 1, 2018, 18:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting of Talent and Success Foundation Board of Trustees
During his visit to the Sirius Educational Centre, Vladimir Putin held a meeting of the Talent and Success Foundation Board of Trustees.
September 1, 2018
19:15
Sochi
3 of 4
Meeting of the board of trustees of the Talent and Success Foundation.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
Today we will discuss the results of work of the Talent and Success Foundation and the Sirius Educational Centre, which was created three years ago to help gifted children develop their talents, abilities and creativity.
Over this time, the centre has welcomed more than 23,000 school students from the around the country. All of them completed the course of study, and their classes were taught by the best teachers and mentors.
Before our meeting, just now – some colleagues attended these meetings – I was able to communicate both with the children and their teachers. I enjoyed the communication a great deal. The kids are talented, interested and result-oriented. I feel that this is our golden genetic pool. Everything must be done not only to support these kids (that much goes without saying) but to look for and support such kids all over the country, and there are lots of them, to create venues around the country on the basis of such centres as Sirius, which would increase the education quality in the country in general.
From the very beginning Sirius built close and productive cooperation with its partners – hi-tech companies, state corporations, and leading research centres and universities. This allows Sirius students to get involved in promising projects, to be in demand.
Today we also met with heads of many companies that work here. I believe that without direct contact between their workers, those who achieve major practical results, and their future employees, it would be impossible to reach our goal. On their part, industrial and hi-tech companies appreciate how useful this format is for picking promising, well-trained kids.
We can see a truly good and promising result here. The most important thing is that kids that achieve success uncover their talents at home, in their Motherland. It is vitally important for them to see that this is possible and that they are in demand.
Just recently, at one of the last meetings some of my colleagues raised the question of what is the future going to be and whether it is possible to be successful and realise one’s talents here.
I would very much like to have the research centres and laboratories develop here under the guidance of world-renowned scientists. We saw that rudiments of such organisations are already forming in Sirius and I hope that this trend will develop further. We will aspire to create an environment for specialists in the most diverse fields and the most promising directions of research so that they could work here to the best of their ability. Simultaneously, in parallel, there must be work carried out to train future employees so the kids from Sirius and the future university have an opportunity to get directly involved in the work of the laboratories I mentioned.
In order to achieve these goals, we agreed to continue working on creating a material and technical base for Sirius. We will talk in greater detail about this later.
<…>
See also
Visit to Sirius Educational Centre
September 1, 2018
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 1, 2018, 19:15
Text version