Events
Technoprom-2018 International Forum
Vladimir Putin addressed the plenary session of the International Forum of Technological Development Technoprom-2018, and also visited a number of stands at an exhibition on technological development.
August 28, 2018
07:15
Novosibirsk
3 of 8
At the International Forum of Technological Development Technoprom-2018.
The forum’s main theme is promoting technological leadership of the Russian economy by developing and accelerating the implementation of research-intensive smart technology in traditional industries.
* * *
Speech at International Forum of Technological Development Technoprom-2018
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends,
I am delighted to welcome you to Technoprom-2018 International Forum of Technological Development. As usual, it takes place here in Novosibirsk, one of Russia’s key business, industrial and intellectual centres.
This region is home to major high-technology companies, as well as research and educational institutions. It is here that the world-famous Novosibirsk Academic City is located with all its potential to promote innovation.
We have toured the exhibition that is taking place as part of the forum, where we have seen some of the solutions developed with the help of researchers from the Siberian branch of the Russian Academy of Sciences.
Let me point out that this exhibition presents very interesting and promising Russian projects in a variety of fields, from nanomaterial to medical and aerospace technology.
See also
All news about the trip to Novosibirsk Region
August 28, 2018
I hope that by bringing together government officials, research and business communities, as well as development institutions, this forum will help these projects find the support they need for their future development.
Amidst today’s fast technology changes and global competition for scientific and industrial superiority, events like Technoprom are, undoubtedly, popular as well as extremely important.
There is no need to say this in front of this audience, however, I would like to say that today it is the knowledge and high technology that determine efficiency of the economy and allow us to drastically improve the quality of life, modernise the infrastructure and public administration, ensure security, law and order.
In fact, the advanced technology, its efficient development and, most importantly, fast implementation are what makes peoples, entire societies and nations viable and the countries’ positions– especially such big countries as Russia – strong in the world.
Therefore, the science and technology breakthrough is among our key national goals and priorities. I believe that we can achieve this breakthrough by uniting the efforts of the state, the business, scientific and educational community, and by giving more freedom to the initiative and creativity of our people.
Over the past years, we have systematically increased funding for science and upgraded the infrastructure for research and development. We built a comfortable environment for launching science-intensive production.
Over the past 17 years, the funding of science in real terms has increased 3.7 times. It is significantly more according to current prices, 23.6 times.
Of course, if we now talk to many of the people present here, they will say that this is not enough, and I agree: this is not enough. But we proceed from our capacities, although, of course, we will move on in this direction.
We created conditions for attracting talented and skilled young people to science. I would like to stress once again that young people are motivated by solving ambitious and important tasks. They need opportunities for personal fulfilment and achieving high scientific goals. We must do all we can to help them feel important.
At the same time, it is necessary – and we will do this – to promote our science among scientists from around the world and form ‘points of attraction’ for them. And I assure you there are such points.
When I visit some research centres I see our colleagues from many countries around the world working there. When asked why Russia, I hear a very pleasant answer. They say there is room for collaboration; there are appealing fields of research and prospective developments in which our experts have progressed and often progressed further than their colleagues elsewhere. Good working conditions have been created here.
Another important objective for us is to acquire new competences through international cooperation. This is what the development of state-of-the-art megascience-class facilities is all about.
Researchers could use them to resolve the so-called Grand Challenges, such as the depletion of resources, food shortages, as well as environmental matters, by creating new types of energy, materials, medicines and quality products. These spheres are represented at this exhibition.
We intend to create a network of these facilities, from Protvino in the Moscow Region to Novosibirsk Academic City (Akademgorodok) and Russky Island in Vladivostok. These facilities are designed to promote spatial development in Russia and pave the way to the emergence of territories with a high concentration of research and development. The Novosibirsk Akademgorodok must be among those that lead the pack. In fact, it is already among the leaders, and we will do everything to support it moving forward.
Instructions to this effect were issued earlier this year, and our colleagues have just reported on their implementation. I hope that all our plans will be carried out on time and will be up to the mark. I can also say that regional authorities and the academic community have done a great deal to lay the groundwork for the implementation of these plans.
At the same time, this project is still in the making and being worked out. In fact, this is the first time that we are openly discussing it. I look forward to your constructive comments and proposals.
Let me emphasise that creating new, competitive manufacturing facilities, including those focusing on exports, is one of the priorities for Akademgorodok. Russian businesses are expected to contribute proactively to these undertakings.
I have to say that businesses focusing on high technology are developing at a respectable rate, showing very good results.
I was informed that streamlining mechanisms for finding real-life applications for research results is another highlight on the forum’s agenda. This is one of the areas where we have always faced many problems.
Let me reiterate that the whole chain should be designed in such a way that promising ideas quickly evolve into real-life applications and become successful products.
Intellectual resources we spend must generate actual returns and serve the Russian economy and industry, as well as improve the quality of life for our people.
Friends and colleagues, I strongly believe that by working hand in hand we can be sure to deliver on all the objectives we have set out for ourselves. We will achieve a major breakthrough in research and technology not only in Siberia, but right across the country. We will definitely improve Russia’s standing among the leaders in research and development.
In conclusion, I would like to wish the participants and guests at this wonderful event, the Technoprom forum, an interesting and fruitful interaction. I wish you every success and all the best.
I know that not only Russian researchers, representatives of the business community and civil society are present at this forum, but also our foreign colleagues.
I would like to thank them for their interest in working with Russia. I wish you every success. Thank you very much.
Thank you and good luck to all of you.
Geography
Novosibirsk Region
Topics
Industry
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 28, 2018, 07:15
Text versionAndrei Travnikov said that all the efforts of the regional government are aimed at drafting projects for future development, such as the Akademgorodok 2.0 Novosibirsk scientific centre and a new socioeconomic development strategy until 2030, the goal of which is to make the region the best beyond the Urals in terms of living and doing business.Alexander Burkov expressed his gratitude for unprecedented federal funding for the region: an additional 8.5 billion rubles was allocated for 2018 (over 15 billion rubles in total).Events
Meeting on socioeconomic matters
August 28, 2018
11:35
Omsk
1 of 2
Meeting on socioeconomic matters.
As part of his working trip to the Siberian Federal District, Vladimir Putin visited Omsk, where he chaired a meeting on socioeconomic matters.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
We will talk about issues related to socioeconomic development. We have just discussed the development problems in the Omsk Region and Siberia with the Governor.
But in my opening remarks, I will mention only one of the most serious current problems: the pension system reform proposed by the Russian Federation Government.
As is known, the Government launched an initiative to reform the pension system and submitted a relevant draft to the State Duma, which the parliament adopted in the first reading.
Of course, it was expected and sparked rather fierce debates in society.
It is understandable, because for everyone, especially for older people, a pension age rise is an important and sensitive matter which hardly anyone is going to approve of. This has always been the case when reforms like this were carried out. Always and everywhere.
At the same time, we must look at the real situation in the economy and the labour market. We must understand what awaits Russia in ten, twenty or even thirty years.
We agreed that, while preparing the draft law for the second reading, our colleagues in the Government would hold consultations with political parties, trade unions, civic organisations, regions and the expert community.
Today I would like to hear what amendments you propose to make to the draft law, following these discussions.
Of course, I, for my part, constantly monitor the discussions. I have my own opinion on a number of issues. I will speak about this later. And now I will point out the approaches I believe essential.
I understand that in developing the draft law, our colleagues in the Government followed strict economic, financial and demographic calculations. This is how it must be. It is important and necessary.
But please do not forget that all our decisions will concern millions of people, therefore, they must be fair and take into account Russian citizens’ interests. It is not enough to act in a formal and mechanical way. It takes careful and well thought-out action. It is important to consider and contend with very different life situations. The human dimension must be taken into consideration in the provisions of this draft law.
Of course, all the decisions to ensure the interests of older citizens, their labour rights, healthcare and social welfare, must be made in advance. We cannot follow the principle of Louis XIV of France who said “After us the deluge.” We cannot act this way if we have a responsible attitude towards our country.
Before we begin sharing our opinions, I would like to repeat: if these reforms are necessary, it is so that the Russian pension system can do more than just live up to today’s realities. Also, it is not enough for the system to be financially stable for decades ahead.
Most importantly, these changes must ensure a decent quality of life, protect the interests of today’s pensioners and future generations of our citizens. Therefore, all our steps must be system-wide and thoroughly calculated.
Very soon, perhaps tomorrow, I will elaborate on my attitude and make a statement. But first I would like to hear what you think.
Let’s start working.
<…>
See also
All news about the trip to Omsk
August 28, 2018
Geography
Omsk Region
Topics
Industry
Regions
Social services
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 28, 2018, 11:35
Text version