Events
Meeting with President of Kyrgyzstan Sooronbay Jeenbekov
Vladimir Putin had a meeting with President of the Kyrgyz Republic Sooronbay Jeenbekov on the sidelines of the CIS summit.
September 28, 2018
12:30
Dushanbe
3 of 5
Meeting with President of Kyrgyzstan Sooronbay Jeenbekov.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: MrPresident,
I am very happy to see you again and to talk about our bilateral issues on the sidelines of the CIS summit. I think we should thank our hosts. As you just said, they organised everything perfectly well, both for bilateral and multilateral meetings.
As for our bilateral relations, I would like to note that they are developing steadily. All plans discussed and adopted at our previous meetings are being implemented.
Today we have the opportunity to touch base and see how this work is being done.
President of the Kyrgyz Republic Sooronbay Jeenbekov
: Mr President,
I want to thank you for the opportunity to meet with you.
As you know, the Kyrgyz Republic has always strived to develop and strengthen our strategic partnership. We highly value the support of the Russian party, its comprehensive support of the republic and we value our relationship a great deal.
The Russian Federation plays the most important role in the Kyrgyzstani economy: it ranks first. We are glad that the trade volume is increasing every year.
Thank you very much for finding the time to meet with me.
Vladimir Putin: You are absolutely right, and I want to confirm that Russia ranks as Kyrgyzstan’s largest trading partner with 23 percent of the trade volume. Last year, the trade volume grew by 34 percent. I think it is a significant improvement.
We have the opportunity to discuss what is necessary to do to maintain this pace in the future and to preserve this positive trend.
Sooronbay Jeenbekov: Yes, I agree.
<…>
See also
Meeting of CIS Heads of State Council
September 28, 2018
Additional
All news about the visit to Tajikistan
September 28, 2018
Geography
Kyrgyzstan
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Jeenbekov Sooronbay
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 28, 2018, 12:30
Text version