Events
Meeting with Patriarch Kirill of Moscow and All Russia
Vladimir Putin had a meeting with Patriarch Kirill of Moscow and All Russia at the Cathedral of Christ the Saviour.
February 1, 2018
14:20
Moscow
2 of 2
With Patriarch Kirill of Moscow and All Russia.
The President of Russia congratulated the head of the Russian Orthodox Church on the ninth anniversary of his enthronement. The President and the Patriarch had a brief informal conversation on the outcomes of the recent meeting of the Russian Orthodox Church Bishops' Council.
* * *
Patriarch Kirill
: Compared to the previous Bishops' Councils, the last one was very special, since we had a very open discussion. The Church in general is not quite used to operating this way.
People were able to speak their minds, but at the end of the day, we achieved the highest level of unanimity. When the discussion leads to consensus, this is priceless, since all the participants identify themselves with the outcome.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Yes, exactly. This way every participant gets a feeling of contributing to this process and the outcome.
Patriarch Kirill: Yes. Of course, the Council adopted documents that are now being put into practice.
We do hope that this will help strengthen the Russian Church and bring together the dynamic forces of the nation as the Council was inclusive and open to dialogue, to cooperation with all the social forces for the prosperity of our Fatherland.
Vladimir Putin: I congratulate you on this, and thank you for holding this major, very important event for our country at the highest level and with such an outcome.
Patriarch Kirill: Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much.
<…>
See also
Meeting of Russian Orthodox Church Bishops' Council
December 1, 2017
Topics
Religion
Persons
Kirill Patriarch of Moscow and All Russia
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 1, 2018, 14:20
Text versionEvents
Visit to Rostselmash plant
Vladimir Putin learned about the enterprise’s activities, toured the tractor and harvester assembly floors and looked over some of the plant’s finished products.
February 1, 2018
18:30
Rostov-on-Don
10 of 12
With workers at Rostselmash.
In addition, Vladimir Putin was shown a training simulator of a grain harvester, which replicates the machine’s cabin, with a computer screen for a windshield.
The head of state also saw the monitoring system, which gathers various data from each machine in real time.
Later, Vladimir Putin saw the latest addition to Rostselmash’s line, the Torum 785 harvester, and talked with workers while on the floor.
Rostselmash is a group of companies, with 13 enterprises located at 10 industrial sites in four countries. The holding produces more than 150 models and modifications of 24 kinds of equipment, including grain and forage harvesters, tractors, forage machinery and grain-processing equipment.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon. I congratulate you on the new machines; they look more beautiful each time.
Remark: Mr President, good afternoon. During your visit in 2009, the plant was in a difficult situation; all the warehouses were full.
Vladimir Putin: It was in 2008, I think.
Remark: In 2008, and later in 2009. I was a worker then, but I saw everything from outside. I would like to thank you for the support you gave us.
In 2017, we reached the highest historical level in our production, surpassing the 2008 results. We produced 6,500 combines and tractors in total last year. I would like to ask what you think about our plant, our company and our machines.
Vladimir Putin: On the whole, I have already said what I think about your plant. First, this is a leading plant in the industry. Second, it is true that I came here in 2008 and again in 2009, and during that visit it was impossible to drive through here or even to walk, because it was filled with machines nobody was buying.
We also faced the international financial crisis; this crisis came to us from abroad, but everyone worried a great deal, because what could we do about it? There was a risk that the plant would shut down completely.
Back then, if you were working here at that time, a part-time working week had already been introduced, and there were problems with salaries. That is why we, working together with your management, tried to look for a way to help the plant and the entire industry right there, on this spot.
We made a lot of decisions than. I remember I was Prime Minister at the time, and I was heavily criticised because in some part these decisions about the plant and the industry were not very liberal, not oriented towards the market. However, I do not think we violated any international agreements, including in the framework of the World Trade Organisation.
In such conditions, almost any state and any country thinks, first of all, about its producers and jobs inside the country, not about promoting jobs abroad. So, we did this deliberately.
Sales volumes have recently increased by 230 percent, and not just by a couple of percentage points. This is serious business. Part of production facilities are relocated from abroad, and the shareholders are saying it is more profitable to produce here than abroad.
You know, I was very pleased to hear this because it means that the entire system of incentives that we have introduced and are still introducing is being used and is working. And we will continue to do this in the future. This is the second thing.
The third aspect is vitally important. Everyone is aware of the sanctions and counter-sanctions. We have closed our market to agricultural produce from countries that have imposed sanctions on us. What did this lead to? This has had some rather undesirable consequences.
At the first stage, the prices for agricultural produce increased. Unfortunately, this was inevitable. But agricultural producers started developing rapidly later on. And what happened then? The entire chain, including the farming machinery sector, began to grow. Your director is saying openly that there is high demand.
Agricultural producers are growing; they are earning more and consuming more, including your goods. The processing sector began growing immediately and rather quickly. In effect, this is an entire sequence of real positive consequences. And, of course, all this is really great.
Just recently, no one bought your goods on the domestic market, not even the companies that had the money to do it. Everyone wanted to buy equipment abroad. And now you are selling equipment to 37 countries. If this trend persists, you will be selling it to 60 or 65 countries. I have read some reference materials during the flight here. This is an aggressive policy, in a positive sense, and it shows your very good development prospects. Therefore, I want to congratulate you once again.
Remark: Mr President, our company has managed to expand equipment production rates. This was made possible by a programme of state incentives for agricultural commodity producers. First, we would like to thank you for financing this programme in sufficiently large volumes throughout 2017.
Vladimir Putin: 23 billion …
Remark: But there is one question. Only two billion in annual allocations are stipulated for 2019 and 2020.
Vladimir Putin: But this does not amount to real-life funding that will be allocated. These are preliminary budget estimates for the second and third years of the budget cycle. To be honest, we have come here to review and discuss all these issues. But this will not be limited to two billion.
Question: Mr President, is it possible to develop this programme for five to six years?
Vladimir Putin: It would be better if we could develop it for five or six years ahead. What obstacles are there? For now, we are holding back the inflation rate. Last year, it was 2.5 percent. In the first one and a half months of this year it is expected to be close to zero. This is excellent.
But we do not know what happens next with the global markets and currency fluctuations – not only our currency but others too – and other macroeconomic indicators. We can plan whatever we want but we do not know if it is feasible.
If we manage to maintain the current macroeconomic indicators, if everybody, including you as a manufacturer, gets accustomed to that (and it still takes some getting used to), then we can expand our planning horizon further. But overall, you are right, it is what we should strive for.
Remark: Still, we would like to ask for the funding to come in faster. Then our equipment will be in demand and we can enter more markets.
Vladimir Putin: What is your name?
Remark: Viktor.
Vladimir Putin: Viktor, you should come with us to the meeting and tell this to the Finance Minister.
Remark: Absolutely. (Laughter)
Vladimir Putin: In any case, I will communicate your request. I agree with you on most points. Of course, the planning horizon should be wider and you should be able to plan around the available support.
Alexander Romanchuk: Mr President, my name is Alexander Romanchuk. I have a question. Our company offers a programme under which employees can receive an interest-free loan from Rostselmash to make initial instalment under the mortgage because it is very difficult for a young family to save up for the initial instalment. Partner banks also offer discount mortgages to Rostselmash employees but they are limited to a fixed interest rate.
Vladimir Putin: How much is it?
Alexander Romanchuk: The minimum interest rate is 9.5 percent provided that…
Vladimir Putin: Are you married?
Alexander Romanchuk: Not yet.
Vladimir Putin: I want to give you a piece of advice. The women here are very beautiful. This is the first point.
Second. As soon as you get married you should have a child and then you will get financial support. If you have two or three children, you can rely on a mortgage interest rate not higher than 6 percent. Everything above that will be paid by the Government. We have just approved this programme, I have mentioned it several times. It was introduced on January 1.
In addition, there is a state subsidy programme for young families aged under 35. There are also regional programmes. I am sure there is something in the Rostov Region too. You just need to find out about all the opportunities.
Question: Mr President, I would like to ask why child benefits are paid until the child is 1.5 years old while children are only accepted to kindergartens from the age of two?
Vladimir Putin: It is true, there is a gap; but we also have launched a new programme to create places in day nurseries for children aged from two months to three years.
We have been following this problem carefully. It is true that it is important for young women, for women with children, to have a chance to begin working as soon as possible so they do not lose their skills or can restore them.
This is why this is a programme with multiple goals: it is designed to support young families, families with children, and, frankly speaking, to support demographic processes to encourage families to have children.
This is why we now have a lot of children aged from two months to three years on waiting lists at the moment. The number is very easy to remember: 272,255. I think it is the number as of January 1, I hope it is higher now, it must be. This was the number when we were developing this programme. You will have the opportunity to benefit from it. That is the first point.
Second. We have expanded the areas where maternity capital can be used. Now this money can be allocated for pre-school education, including, first of all, day nursery or even private childcare, either entities or individuals working in this field. There will be more opportunities.
Question: Mr President, I have a question. Why is the petrol price growing? It is 40 rubles now…
Vladimir Putin: Yes, yes, I know. It is 39 in some regions. It is because of the excise duty, of course. First, the price for the primary product is rather high right now, almost $70 per barrel. But this is not the main reason, the excise duty is. The Government raises the excise duties, which should be used and are used for road maintenance and construction, this is why.
You see, of course everyone would like to have this price lowered. Today it seems like there is a chance to do this, but the price is indeed high in some regions, and it is for a reason, because it is difficult to ship the product there, there is no infrastructure or it is underdeveloped and so on. The Federal Antimonopoly Service always has to keep an eye on it, always. I will discuss this with Mr Artemyev, who is the head of this service.
Question: Mr President, can we take a picture with you?
Vladimir Putin: Yes, of course.
* * *
Question: Today we have received good news from the Court of Arbitration for Sport. Twenty-eight of our athletes have been cleared of accusations. Many have already commented on this. May I ask you to say a few words on the matter?
Vladimir Putin: In any legal system, a court is the highest authority, and court rulings must be respected by everyone. But a court usually considers at least two points of view, of the two contesting parties, and although the court ruling was, of course, excellent news and confirmed our argument that the overwhelming majority of our athletes are completely clean, it is not the only thing to respect.
We must also respect the other side’s views. Therefore, I think we should not fall into euphoria but stay calm and be respectful of the organisations that passed respective decisions earlier. We must take into account that, first of all, we are happy for the athletes who were cleared by the CAS. Still, not all of them were granted appeals. This is the first point.
Second. We have things to improve, too, this is certain. We still need to enhance our anti-doping programme and policy. We will continue to pursue this along with WADA, the IOC and other international bodies.
Remark: Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: My congratulations to you once again and good luck. I will be honest with you, I am very pleased to see what I see here. When we visited back in 2008 and 2009, we had great concerns. There was a real risk that the company would shut down, which would have hit the entire industry.
But it did not happen. On the contrary, your hard work, your talents and efforts turned the situation around. As it was just said, 41 percent of the 10,000 employees (a huge team) have university degrees. And many of those with degree holders do blue collar jobs. This is really great.
When people with higher education degrees do blue collar jobs it means that the equipment is becoming more advanced and complex. It means they feel needed here, which is great news and an excellent indicator of progress and future prospects.
I wish you all the best. Good-bye.
Geography
Rostov Region
Topics
Agriculture
Industry
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 1, 2018, 18:30
Text versionEvents
President launched new power unit at Rostov Nuclear Power Plant
During a video conference, Vladimir Putin launched the fourth power unit of the Rostov Nuclear Power Plant into operation. The startup of the new power unit marked the beginning of additional power generation for the national grid.
February 1, 2018
18:50
Rostov-on-Don
During a video conference, Vladimir Putin launched the fourth power unit of the Rostov Nuclear Power Plant into operation.
The Rostov Nuclear Power Plant is a subsidiary of Rosenergoatom (an affiliate of Rosatom’s largest electric power division). The plant is located on the bank of the Tsimlyanskoye Reservoir near Volgodonsk.
Rosenergoatom is the largest power generating company in Russia and the second largest in the world in terms of nuclear generation capacity. It includes all ten Russia’s nuclear power plants as its affiliates, as well as power plant support companies.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends, colleagues,
I would like to cordially congratulate you all on the completion of the large-scale job and commissioning of the fourth unit of the Rostov nuclear power plant. I would like to thank the scientists, engineers, workers, all those who contributed to the making of the facility and achieved this impressive result. I know that you used a straight flow method which allowed for the efficient use of the allocated resources, doing everything as planned and with high quality. This has been a huge, large-scale job which you have been pursuing for several years now, and today it is coming to a close.
Last year the nuclear power generation set an absolute record by producing 200 billion KW of electricity. I also congratulate you on this. And I would like to thank you for that job. On the whole, nuclear power amounts to 19 percent of the overall electricity generation. However, we will keep developing this high-tech industry which is effectively operating.
What we take particular pride in today is the fact that we are launching new aggregates that meet the highest, if not top, reliability and security requirements.
And it is certainly crucial that our competencies have been acknowledged throughout the world, we keep construction not only domestically but also abroad. We are building respective nuclear power facilities in 12 countries, and we will continue this work further.
By launching the fourth unit of the nuclear power station in Rostov we will cover the current and future demand for electricity needed not only in Rostov and the Rostov Region, but also the whole of southern Russia.
Let me congratulate you once again and wish you all the very best. Please let’s go ahead and put the unit into operation.
Rosatom CEO Alexei Likhachev: Thank you, Mr President, for your kind warm words. We are excited but at the same time a little worried too on this special day.
Indeed, the Rostov nuclear power plant is exceptional and it is the youngest because of the average age of the workers working here and also the age of the equipment. The first power unit was launched in 2001, the second in 2010 with your participation, and then in 2014.
And here we are on this special day. I would certainly like to single out a very important aspect, an unusual point to do with the Rostov NPP. It is like a “university” for the nuclear industry builders. Construction competencies were being reborn here, we learnt to transit from a regime of stress, a regime of total industry mobilisation to a serial construction of nuclear power plants which is very important, primarily, for our work abroad. Let me pass the floor now to the plant’s director Andrei Salnikov.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Salnikov, please go ahead.
Rostov Nuclear Power Plant Director Andrei Salnikov: Mr President,
In 2010 you attended the launch of the second unit at the Rostov NPP. The workers still recall you saying that the government will support the construction of the third and the forth units at the Rostov NPP. I am ready to report to you today that the task of constructing the Rostov nuclear power plant comprising four units has been completed in full.
At present we are in the unit control room of the fourth unit of the Rostov nuclear power plant. The reactor is running at 40 percent, the generator is synchronised with the Unified Power System of Russia, and the unit is generally ready to step up the load to its nominal value in accordance with the power testing programme. Let me increase the load, Mr President.
Vladimir Putin: Please ad.
Andrei Salnikov: Unit control room personnel, start step-by-step power ascension.
Operator: Received and carrying out instructions.
Andrei Salnikov: 285 MW. 290 MW. 297 MW. The unit’s power capacity is 300 MW.
Mr President, the power ascension is proceeding correctly. No deviations found.
Vladimir Putin: My congratulations once again. Thank you very much.
Alexei Likhachev: Mr President, the construction of such a huge unit is the result of the work of thousands of people and hundreds of groups: builders, technicians, mechanical engineers. Of course, we always invite them to such special occasions when a power plant goes into operation.
We have here today not just guests, not just workers of our enterprises but also representatives from a large number of working dynasties where expertise has been passed down from generation to generation and where parents act as mentors for their children.
But here, at Atommash in Volgodonsk, there is another interesting story. Here, the movement of millionaire welders was born. For several years, Rosatom has been winning the WorldSkills Russia Hi-Tech grand prix. Our welders are the absolute winners of this contest and win the top prize. A large competency centre was set up at Atommash in Volgodonsk to develop this trade.
We have many dynasties present here today. The Pobedny family, the Khlebnikov family. The Duimamet family of welders holds a special place, of course. I would like to give the floor to Alexander Duimamet, with your permission.
Vladimir Putin: Go ahead, please.
Alexander Duimamet: Hello, Mr President.
Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon.
Alexander Duimamet: You see Russia’s three best welders in front of you who took part in the national WorldSkills Hi-Tech championships. In 2016, Dmitry Kucheryavin became the country’s absolute champion, in 2017 it was Alexei Grigorovich. But for me, the best welder is my father. He has always set an example so I can follow in his footsteps. His knowledge and experience that he passed down to me helped me become the 2015 absolute champion.
In mid-February, the Nastavnik 2018 forum will be held. We will all take part in it and will share our skills and experience with everyone.
Mr President, we invite you to participate in that forum.
Vladimir Putin: When and where will it be held?
Alexander Duimamet: February 13–15 at VDNKh exhibition centre in Moscow, Pavilion 75.
Vladimir Putin: I will try. Thank you for the invitation
It is indeed an interesting as well as a very necessary event and I am sure that the standard of it will be high. Hence it will be a success. We need such events, and we need such a movement of mentors. We really do.
You are proud of your father, and I am very pleased to hear that. I think, the whole country will learn about it and hear about it too. And this is a very good example of how to bring up a son in a family, passing down skills and attitude to life. This is a very important integrated task.
Regarding your choice of profession, I should say that it deserves special respect and attention because recently we confronted a huge problem. We discovered that we do not have good specialists, especially when it comes to the power line facilities. We invited them from abroad. Not only this, but this also contributed to making us hold national and regional competitions, take part in international contests for working professions.
I should say without any exaggeration that working professions nowadays require the highest, sometimes the maximum qualifications. I have just spoken with your colleagues at Rostselmash, and its head told me that out of 10,000 personnel, and this is a large number of staff, 41 percent have a university degree while many of them are employed as workers. Why? Because the equipment is becoming ever more complicated, and people with university degrees find self-realisation, and find the job self-fulfilling and feel comfortable in this work. This constant flare and need for self-improvement, acquisition of new competencies and new skills is something that is really important in today’s life as well as in today’s economy.
In this respect, mentoring is none the less important, of course. I will be happy to participate in your event; at any rate, I will take a look at my schedule and try to amend it so as to be able to visit you and listen to how you work, to discuss these topics which are vital for our economy and our country.
Thank you very much to all of you, I wish you all the very best.
Geography
Rostov Region
Topics
Energy
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 1, 2018, 18:50
Text versionEvents
State Council Presidium meeting on developing Russian regions’ industrial capacity
Vladimir Putin chaired a meeting of the State Council Presidium in Rostov-on-Don on developing the industrial capacity of Russian regions.
February 1, 2018
19:45
Rostov-on-Don
1 of 2
State Council Presidium meeting on developing Russian regions’ industrial capacity.
Excerpts from transcript of State Council Presidium meeting
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: We have gathered at Rostselmash, one of the flagships of the domestic machine-building industry, to discuss approaches to developing the industrial capacity of the regions, to identify concrete measures and steps to ensure that new enterprises, new factories are built and high-quality, high-paid jobs are created in Russian regions, and that Russian industry in general achieves the stable, high growth rates that we need.
I would like to note that last year industrial growth in Russia amounted to one percent. We cannot be satisfied with this. Of course, we are aware of the positive aspects of this growth, the positive side. A number of sectors show good dynamics: transport engineering, the automotive industry, pharmaceuticals, textiles, food, and chemicals.
For example: in 2017, the production of railway locomotives and rolling stock increased by 33 percent, of motor vehicles – by over 13 percent, medicines by 12.3 percent, textiles by 7 percent, food products by 5.6 percent, and chemicals – by 4.3 percent.
I would like to stress that stimulating industrial and economic growth is the most important task for all levels of government, and a key condition for developing the social sphere and improving the quality of people's lives. We need to support promising projects to make highly processed products, products that will be in demand both in the domestic and foreign markets, and we are also talking about providing adequate staffing for the real sector of the economy and creating conditions for the application of modern technologies in production.
We are now at Rostselmash. We have taken a tour together with the head of this plant Konstantin Babkin and discussed what is going on here. Despite the difficulties, the dynamics are unmistakably positive if we are talking about promoting products on foreign markets.
Only just recently, no one wanted to buy our equipment in Russia, and now this equipment – both combines and tractors – is sold in 37 countries. In five years, if it goes the same way, according to the background materials I looked at, they will be selling in at least 60 countries.
I have also spoken about personnel. I just mentioned something at the videoconference with the Rostov Nuclear Power Station: 41 percent of Rostselmash employees have higher education and many of them in vocational areas.
Starting this year, a programme to improve labour productivity will be introduced in the regions. I call on the heads of all Russian regions to cooperate with both employers and employees.
Next. It is necessary to improve companies’ access to financing. Our Industrial Development Fund is hard at work. Its portfolio includes about 270 projects with 170 billion roubles of private investment in total; 35 new enterprises have opened with the support of the fund.
I have to say we often discuss – most often, probably – the problems, as Denis Manturov [Minister of Industry and Trade] knows all about. He is often justly criticised. But I have to say that the Fund under your leadership does satisfactory work, let us say, so as not to heap praise on anyone. As of today, the fund has approved 268 projects with 170 billion rubles of private investment in total. These projects receive 66 billion rubles in soft loans.
In general, as I have said, I believe that the Central Bank’s work is also satisfactory: it carefully follows the money movement, and the results are assessed positively. About 262 billion rubles were allocated from the federal budget to support the aviation industry, shipbuilding, radioelectronics and other industrial sectors.
At the same time, it is necessary to create greater opportunities to stimulate industrial growth at the regional level. The regions have the tools for this, including regional contracts, tax incentives, and direct support and subsidies. I am aware that many of our colleagues are doing these things.
All these tools need to be used competently. It is fundamentally important that the use of these opportunities does not restrict competition, but rather develop it, and that the effect of the application correspond to the strategic goals of developing the Russian regions and the country in general.
In order to expand the authority of the regions to ensure economic growth, I propose including funds to be allocated for the development of the economy into the model of the regional budget, that is, to consider them compulsory expenses by the regional authorities.
I also consider it necessary to work through special measures to support small manufacturing businesses, to reduce the risks of startup companies, and to encourage high-quality employment in the regions.
I am aware that the Central Bank has discussed improving the financial stability of micro- and small enterprises with the regions. We will focus today separately on the solutions that are proposed in this area.
In closing, I would like to note that businesses would grow and invest in upgrades and in opening new production sites only in places where they are met halfway, where they do not run into barriers, but are provided with convenient and comfortable operating conditions. This applies to a modern social atmosphere as well, which is important for employees and their families.
I want the regional and local authorities to focus on the need to resolve the key issues that plague industrialists in a timely and prompt manner, including the allocation of land plots, providing utility infrastructure, developing the road system, and commissioning new power capacity.
We have just toured the new Rostov airport. This is a good example, I believe: the infrastructure is in place, everything was done on schedule and with great workmanship. The areas necessary for future development have been set aside. All you have to do is get your hands dirty, and the results will come.
Just before our meeting, as I said, the fourth power unit of the Rostov NPP was commissioned. It is one of the largest power stations in southern Russia, which has huge potential for further economic growth in southern Russia and for providing a sustainable energy source to residential and social facilities. Once again, I would like to thank everyone who was involved in this vast and important effort.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: Mr Manturov, please.
Minister of Industry and Trade Denis Manturov
: Mr President, colleagues,
Over the last few years, we have been building comprehensive cooperation with the regions as part of implementing the law on industrial policy and the cooperation agreements we signed with all Russian regions.
The main goal of our cooperation is to increase state and private investment in regional projects. Our goal is also to synchronise industrial development tools with the regions. And today, 119 federal and 494 regional support measures and subsidies have been included in the specially established support measure navigator.
As part of carrying out your order, we have also coordinated industrial and regional import substitution plans. Thanks to this, 345 billion rubles of extrabudgetary money and 75 billion rubles from the budget have been invested in new projects.
Our regional industry development funds are becoming another mechanism to attract private investment to medium and small businesses. And thanks to the initiative to include the industry block in the regions’ model budget that you have supported today, they can use this to plan their expenses, which provides for the economic growth of the regions. This will make it possible to replenish regional industry funds and help improve the investment climate.
The next important area we are focusing our efforts on is the development of industrial infrastructure, primarily at the local level. During the last five years, the number of industrial parks and techno parks has increased almost four-fold with support from the federal centre. Today, there are 157 such venues in Russia and another 76 are under construction now. This means that the goal we set for 2020 has already been implemented.
State Council Presidium meeting on developing Russian regions’ industrial capacity.
Nevertheless, we will continue working with the Finance Ministry to implement a joint programme to support the regions that invest in modernising their industrial infrastructure. Federal allocations for the next three years have been approved at 11 billion rubles. This will help the regions expand their taxable bases by creating small and medium-sized companies in the vacated industrial zones and settle the problem of single-industry cities.
In addition to industrial and technology parks, there will be industrial clusters, which will help develop cooperation ties between companies from different regions and also offer an opportunity to reduce producer costs.
As of now, 29 regions have created 50 clusters comprising 1,800 companies that employ over 700,000 people. We propose paying subsidies for the expansion of clusters and believe that this model will help streamline the distribution of capacities throughout the country. It should be said that over 50 percent of our manufacturing companies are now located in the Central and Volga federal districts, and they manufacture over 70 percent of innovative products in Russia.
To moderate this imbalance in the region’s industrial development, the government offers tax incentives for nine special economic zones and 45 priority development areas. In addition, we have complemented all the state programmes with special chapters on the development of the Russian Far East and the North Caucasus Federal District, as per your instruction.
To continue to balance industrial and interregional development, we have created a State Industry Information System (SIIS). Unlike the State Planning Committee, which issued instructions to producers, the SIIS only provides information on oversupply or market gaps, which companies can use to take independent decisions.
This does not only concern businesses since we do not always see companies’ opportunities in the regions from the federal perspective – and, in fact, the regional heads themselves do not always have objective data on what is happening locally. I will not name anyone specifically among the regional heads but there have been cases when, for example, somebody would come to me with a proposal to build an electric steel-making plant in the region. When asked where they were going to get scrap metal, they said, “in the region next door.” But there is already a million-plus city with strong electrometallurgy in that region. Certain questions arise and this information system will allow us to avoid such issues.
This system now comprises almost the entire catalogue, high-tech products that our companies are producing or will be producing. We also plan to develop a directory of investment projects for private investors and a digital platform for companies to be able to access regional trading sites with subcontracting opportunities. Thus, each company will have access to the entire domestic market.
In addition, we also propose developing a common regional industrial policy standard. All regions will use this standard as guidance in developing both technology and, most importantly, their export potential. Last year, we worked with the Russian Export Centre to test general approaches to increasing non-commodity exports in the first 22 regions. There is a total of 17 federal support programmes being administered by three separate bodies: the Russian Export Centre, the Export Insurance Agency of Russia (EXIAR) and Eximbank of Russia.
We propose establishing a “one-stop shop” based at the Russian Export Centre, across all regions, and consolidate all resources and mechanisms available today for export support. The Russian Export Centre will become the administrator of the budget funds. This will ensure comprehensive promotion of the regional products in external markets.
Thank you. Please support our proposal.
<…>
Central Bank Governor Elvira Nabiullina
: Mr President, colleagues,
The accessibility of financial resources, including bank loans, is certainly an economic growth factor. Previously, when market lending conditions deteriorated, the Central Bank worked to promote special low interest loans to support non-commodity exports, project financing, as well as small and medium-sized businesses. Overall, limits on the use of these reduced rates exceeded 500 billion rubles in that period of time.
However, this is a temporary measure, and we are gradually abandoning it in light of the falling interest rates in the economy and the increasing accessibility of loans. But still, we have only used two thirds of the approved allocations in the key areas, which means that we have some unused capacity.
Of course, our strategy is to make market rate loans accessible to the people. There are grounds for attaining this goal, considering that basic indicators in our banking sector returned to the pre-crisis level last year. We also have sufficient funds, sufficient liquidity, and there are grounds for our banks to increase their loans to the national economy in current conditions.
The Central Bank’s priority is not just to ensure the stability of banks and financial institutions. We want financial institutions and banks above all to play their role in financing economic growth and to be efficient intermediaries between saving and lending.
Although the overall volume of loans in the economy grew by 4.7 percent last year (net of the exchange rate), there is a problem in this area, first of all in the lending structure. Retail lending is recovering very rapidly. Loans to individuals are growing seven times faster than corporate loans. Last year, retail loans increased by 12.7 percent, while loans to non-financial organisations grew only by 1.8 percent.
Of course, the revival of retail lending is a good factor, because it means the demand is recovering as well, and increased demand for industrial goods is evidence of consumer confidence. However, we must not allow overheating, because consumer lending should grow at a comparable pace with the growth of people’s incomes, and it must also be commensurate to loans in the real economy sector. Therefore, we will adjust our regulation system so as to encourage banks to provide not only retail loans but also loans to the real economy sector.
We have recently held many discussions on performance or incentive-based regulation at banks. What does this mean? Not all loans, including corporate loans, have the same effect in terms of economic growth. Our analysis shows that a considerable number of banks issue a major part of loans for merger and acquisition transactions.
At the State Council Presidium meeting on developing Russian regions’ industrial capacity.
For example, four banks allocated nearly 2.5 trillion rubles in corporate loans, while in fact this money was not used for development but for the purchase or sale of assets. This entails greater risks, because the borrower must use part of its profits not only to pay interest on production loans, but also interest on loans taken out to buy assets.
This is why we plan to introduce differentiated reserve requirements. <…>
I would like to say a few words about other methods, in addition to bank loans, for attracting financing for new projects, investment projects and industrial development.
You have issued instructions on bonds, and measures have been taken to simplify the bond offering procedures. It should be said that there were some positive changes in 2017. In addition to borrowing loans, our non-financial entities, that is, real economy companies have reported a growth of 1.4 trillion rubles through a 26 percent increase in the value of their bonds.
The value of loans has increased by 1.8 percent, while the value of bonds is up 26 percent, although the overall share of bonds is not very large, some 15 percent total, but it can grow, and many large and medium-sized companies can use this instrument to attract funds. We are considering a system of loan-backed securitisation for small businesses.
Equity financing is where we have fallen short of our target so far. Investment projects are often implemented not with borrowed funds but with the company’s own equity. The share of equity financing is only 8.5 percent in Russia, while it is 52 percent in China, 57 percent in India, 26 percent in Brazil and 21 percent in South Africa. I only provided the figures for the BRICS countries.
The use of this instrument can be facilitated by increased transparency and a higher level of corporate governance. It is a financial resource we could make use of, and this is how non-state pension funds can help us develop our companies.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: Mr Katyrin, go ahead, please.
President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry Sergei Katyrin
: Mr President, colleagues,
I would like you to address two aspects that are not perhaps global in scale, but are still, in my view, sufficiently important.
First, the exhibition and fair activities; this is an important tool for promoting products in local, federal and international markets. Today Russia hosts 2,500 exhibitions per year and the services rendered amount to about $800 million. We have one million square metres of indoor areas. This is the seventh result in the world, despite the fact that we have started developing this infrastructure only recently. Nevertheless, the effect is significant, as we can see.
We hold 38,000 fairs per year, with sales amounting to 500 billion rubles. What I mean is that this exhibition and fair industry is sufficiently large-scale and important, but it lacks rules and regulations. At the Chamber’s congress two years ago – I think you remember this, Mr President – you supported our initiative to create this regulatory framework.
Jointly with the Industry and Trade Ministry, we have prepared an exhibition activity development concept and a relevant draft law. The concept has been approved, while the draft has been held up somewhere. It has not been adopted up to this day. We would like to ask you to give this matter a push, because, in our view, it could strengthen our regions’ industrial potential.
Vladimir Putin: Where has it been held up? With Mr Manturov, I suppose?
Sergei Katyrin: No, Mr Manturov drafted this law together with us. It is somewhere in the Government, as far as we know.
Vladimir Putin: All right, we will look for it, it isn’t a needle in a haystack. We will find it.
<…>
Economic Development Minister Maxim Oreshkin
: You have mentioned labour productivity in your opening remarks. In fact, we launched this programme late last year. It includes seven regions and a further nine regions are joining it later this year. At the first stage, it involves 84 enterprises. There were some very striking cases at some of these, where better organisation managed to boost labour productivity by tens of percentage points. I will tell you about this separately.
We feared that this productivity growth would lead to redundancies, but at these enterprises we see a situation where productivity growth leads to a win in competition and an increase in revenues. As a result, they hire additional staff and forge forward. We are cooperating with the Industry and Trade Ministry on this project, which is why it is making strides.
Generally, we believe that inculcating culture, efficiency culture, and promoting steady [labour] productivity growth is among our main tasks. Under this particular project, we focus on training teams. When people start seeing what it is all about, they just realise what opportunities in terms of optimisation are available and achieve fantastic results.
Now let me address the project funding business. We are planning to sign the first deals at the Investment Forum in Sochi two weeks from now. Companies will receive 10–15-year loans at 8–9-percent interest and 170 billion rubles.
<…>
General Director of the Federal Corporation for Developing Small and Medium Business Alexander Braverman: I have a small comment. My colleagues said that the accessibility of funds is now the main problem for companies, especially small and medium-sized ones. Over a year ago, we introduced, together with the Central Bank, an encouragement programme which offers an interest rate 3 percentage points lower than for loans in other sectors. However, it is focused on industry, primarily the high-tech sector.
The Government has allocated 652 million rubles in bank subsidies, which will allow us together with the Economic Development Ministry – we are implementing this programme together, and we are grateful to the Finance Ministry for its prompt assistance – to allocate 25.1 billion rubles in loans to a targeted group of industries, namely, biotechnology, microelectronics and robotics. This is why funds have become more accessible.
Second, we spoke about the business navigator. Kazakhstan, Belarus and Armenia have requested access to this instrument, because they have nothing of this kind. They have asked for the methodology of using this instrument. The Government has approved the free transfer of this instrument, which will expand our integration opportunities.
And lastly, Mr Manturov, I suggest that you align the State Industry Information System with the business navigator so as to create a synergistic effect.
<…>
Finance Minister Anton Siluanov
: Speaking about the model budget, we support this proposal, because it will allow regions to include their expenses in industry development funds. We will take these expenses into account when calculating inter-budget transfers. I think that we should also use modern methods for stimulating industrial development, such as special investment contracts.
We have devised a new format of special investment contracts. We have extended the list of sectors that can use this instrument to include agriculture, transport infrastructure and modern technology. In addition to tax incentives, investors are offered conditions such as tax base stability and tax incentives for investment in infrastructure.
Also, when discussing state procurement, we will take into account the priority importance of products manufactured within the framework of special investment contracts. In essence, special investment contracts are contracts between the state and investors that stipulate stable terms and the marketing of products that are manufactured as the result of this investment. View this as an important method of facilitating industrial development. We have drafted a bill to this effect, and it is being coordinated now. We will strongly rally for its adoption during the Parliament’s spring session.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: We have drafted an instruction and have it coordinated with nearly all participants. Are there are comments regarding it? No?
I would like to thank all our colleagues who have contributed to drafting our decisions and today’s meeting.
Today we discussed the development of the Russian regions’ industrial potential. The industrial potential of the regions constitutes the industrial potential of the country as a whole. In fact, the main goal of this meeting, as well as of the work that has been accomplished by the working group, is to stimulate the regional teams to work together with the Government and businesses by adjusting their legal framework so that the financial authorities and the Government can join in this work and support the regional authorities in this crucial work of priority significance for economic development.
I would like to thank the working group again and to urge all our colleagues to meticulously implement the decisions which we have prepared and will sign today.
Thank you very much.
Geography
Rostov Region
Topics
Industry
Regions
Persons
Katyrin Sergei
Manturov Denis
Nabiullina Elvira
Oreshkin Maxim
1 more
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, State Council
Publication date: February 1, 2018, 19:45
Text version