Events
Meeting with Defence Ministry leadership and defence industry heads
Vladimir Putin chaired a regular meeting with the Defence Ministry leadership and defence industry heads to discuss defence industry diversification.
November 21, 2018
15:00
Sochi
5 of 5
Meeting with Defence Ministry leadership and defence industry heads.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
Today we will be discussing the diversification of our defence industry.
In my annual Address to the Federal Assembly in 2016, I directed the defence industry to boost the production of high-tech civilian and dual-purpose goods. Their share in defence companies’ output must increase to 17 percent by 2020, 30 percent by 2025 and 50 percent by 2030.
See also
Meeting with Defence Ministry senior officials
November 19, 2018
Meeting with Defence Ministry leadership and defence industry heads
November 20, 2018
The attainment of these goals will give our defence companies confidence in their immediate and more remote future and will allow them to work to full capacity, without unnecessary idling, and hence to maintain their financial stability after the period of peak investment in army and navy rearmament , when the size of the state defence orders will go down for objective reasons.
Diversification will strengthen the economic stability of the defence industry as a whole and our critical infrastructure sectors amid cyber threats and other challenges, fluctuating currency and the like. In other words, diversification will help minimise the effect of factors that can have a negative effect on the implementation of the majority of investment programmes by our infrastructure monopolies and state corporations.
It should be said that some large companies have ramped up their civilian output and will reach their 2020 targets already this year. Rostec expects the share of civilian goods in its total output to reach 29 percent, and the figure for the defence industry as a whole has been estimated at 20.7 percent.
Let me put it bluntly: the system has not yet gathered momentum, and the measures we have taken appear insufficient to reach the 2025 and 2030 targets.
This is what I consider our priorities.
First, at the meeting in Ufa on January 24 of this year I gave a number of instructions to form a regulatory base that will allow defence enterprises to diversify production. This work must be completed before the end of this year. Special attention must be paid to legislation that will determine the range and the share of civilian products to be purchased by natural monopolies, state corporations and federal government bodies. As we agreed, they should become the key purchasers of such products at the initial stage. Hardly anything will start moving without this procurement order.
Second, we must establish a system to control the diversification process. Regrettably, it does not exist. It is necessary to determine clearly how many civilian products each defence enterprise will manufacture and to which markets it will supply them at least for the next three years, with a year-by-year break-up. It may look like an administrative approach, but all the evidence suggests that there is no alternative because, to emphasise once again, in general this work is proceeding slowly.
Third, proceeding from the calculations that have been performed we must determine the scale and range of products requiring state support for each project, including subsidies for loan rates and R&D expenses.
Fourth, I have already said that diversification must blend with the implementation of national projects or development programmes. Participation of the defence industry in such projects is an important instrument of encouraging demand and increasing the production and sale of the civilian products of these enterprises.
In this context, I consider it expedient to coordinate the plans of defence enterprises for the manufacture of these products with investment programmes of natural monopolies and state corporations and the procurement plans of federal executive bodies that take part in national projects. This is technical work but it is not easy. It must be carried out by all means.
Today I would like to hear your opinion on how and when this work can be launched.
And the last point. Considering the importance of the diversification programme, it is necessary to continuously monitor the dynamics of this process. I would like to hear your proposals on the best ways of doing this.
In conclusion, I would like to emphasise once again that the diversification of the military industrial complex is one of the key strategic national tasks. We must realise this. We have spoken about this many times. The defence procurement will decrease with time. What will you do? The steady development of the industry and Russia’s entire economy and, most importantly, its defence capability and security in the long-term directly depend on the successful implementation of this task. Even if we do not use these capacities for the manufacture of defence products, we will still need them and it would be at the very least inappropriate to reduce them.
Let us turn to the reports.
<…>
Topics
Industry
National security
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 21, 2018, 15:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of Abkhazia Raul Khadjimba
Vladimir Putin met in Sochi with President of Abkhazia Raul Khadjimba.
November 21, 2018
20:10
Sochi
1 of 3
With President of the Republic of Abkhazia Raul Khadjimba.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Khadjimba, I am pleased to see you.
We met in summer for the Republic’s anniversary events. I will not go into the nature of our relations, which undoubtedly have a special, strategic, allied character. We agreed that we would meet in a situation as neutral as possible and discuss current working issues. There are no doubt a lot of them.
Our trade is growing, but at low rates overall: five percent last year, two percent in the first nine to ten months of this year. While our enterprises do operate there, 300 of them, I do not think it is enough. We said back then that additional efforts are needed to boost economic development.
I am very happy to see you so that we could discuss in a truly informal setting all the issues you think most urgent for the republic’s progress.
President of Abkhazia Raul Khadjimba
: Thank you.
I would like to express my gratitude to you for the opportunity to meet again after our meetings in August. There are issues that we probably need to discuss. Our meetings have become a tradition and they are a testament to the relations being established between our nations.
Work under the investment programme has been proceeding rapidly, and there has been some success. Equally important to us is the work underway as part of the investment agency activities. There are projects that have been completed, and facilities that have already launched, particularly in the agricultural sector.
As to the work we spoke about regarding the information and coordination centre, a defence agency, which are now directly engaged and working actively, over 94 events have been carried out this year, which speaks to the intensive cooperation between our military agencies. It is crucial for Abkhazia and is needed as another demonstration of our relations.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
<…>
Geography
Abkhazia
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Khadjimba Raul
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 21, 2018, 20:10
Text version