Events
Opening of Zaryadye Concert Hall
On City Day, Vladimir Putin attended the opening of the Moscow Concert Hall Zaryadye.
September 8, 2018
18:00
Moscow
2 of 7
Opening of Zaryadye Concert Hall.
The President was told about the construction of the concert hall. After a brief tour of the foyer, the President attended a performance by the Mariinsky Theatre Symphony Orchestra under Valery Gergiev.
Moscow Concert Hall Zaryadye has Russia’s best acoustics and technology. The interior space is transformable, capable of hosting contemporary multi-genre projects as well as classical music concerts.
* * *
Address at the opening of the Moscow Concert Hall Zaryadye
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends, Mr Sobyanin [Moscow Mayor],
I am pleased to welcome you all to the Moscow Concert Hall Zaryadye. In what is a true City Day gift to both Muscovites and tourists, it is today opening with a concert by world stars and the Mariinsky Theatre Symphony Orchestra.
The hall is to become the heart and soul of the one-of-a-kind park right in the centre of our country’s capital. It is to build on the inimitable image of Moscow and all of Russia. It is an embodiment of our nation’s pride in historical achievements, but also its readiness to make new creations, and to go forward, of course, only forward.
The very name of this part of the city, Zaryadye, is both very beautiful and very old. It lies close to Red Square, great monuments of the past and sacred sites that have inspired our famous fellow Russians, our outstanding composers.
One of the latter, Modest Mussorgsky, dedicated to Zaryadye a uniquely beautiful overture Dawn over the Moskva River, a work that showed Russia’s rise, development and triumph. Today, as far as I know, the piece will be performed in this remarkable hall, which was built using cutting-edge technological, technical and architectural solutions. Zaryadye is truly a concert hall of the future.
All those who were involved in the implementation of this fine project have done so for Muscovites, for the connoisseurs of music in Russia and around the world. These are the builders, architects, engineers, high-technology experts and, of course, the moving spirits of the project: Valery Gergiev and the Moscow Government.
I want to heartily thank you for building this magnificent concert hall. I am certain that it will play a significant role in securing Moscow’s status as a leading music capital on the planet.
The Zaryadye Hall has already become part of the single cultural, creative and educational space in Moscow. This is a place where both Muscovites and tourists can become acquainted with outstanding works of art and exceptional performers, discover new names and talents that Russia is so renowned for and so proud of. It is to attract children, young people, people of any age.
It is important for colourful, interesting festivals and concerts to be attended by people from all over Russia, and of course from abroad. We will always be pleased to welcome those travelling here so that music can help them better understand Russia.
A world-class concert hall such as this one could have only been built in a city that is developing constantly and becoming more people-friendly with each year.
This is big and demanding work that is not limited to bringing forward individual, large and spectacular buildings. It is ongoing everywhere in the city, in every courtyard, every entrance hall, street, park, outpatient clinic, school, at new metro stations and in cutting-edge technoparks. With the improvement effort, all of Moscow is smartening up.
The city is full of vivaciousness, of every colour of life, of its characteristic grand scale, and the tireless energy of those who are making the city more beautiful. We see these people turn Muscovite’s ideas and hopes into real and useful projects. The new projects are implemented by Moscow residents for Moscow residents, and also for visitors.
I sincerely wish that the music that will grace this beautiful hall will unite people, imbue them with moral energy, and inspire them to good thoughts, actions and achievements.
I would like to once again congratulate Muscovites on City Day. I wish you every success. I wish our beloved capital and all of Russia to prosper.
Thank you for your attention.
Geography
Moscow
Topics
Culture
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 8, 2018, 18:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Prime Minister of Armenia Nikol Pashinyan
In the Kremlin, Vladimir Putin met with Prime Minister of the Republic of Armenia Nikol Pashinyan, who is in Russia on a working visit.
September 8, 2018
14:35
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 6
With Prime Minister of Armenia Nikol Pashinyan.
The two leaders discussed key issues of developing allied Russian-Armenian relations and cooperation in Eurasia, including in the Eurasian Economic Union
and the Collective Security Treaty Organisation
.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mister Prime Minister, I am very pleased to see you.
I think there is no need to qualify our relations: they are very special. It has been so for centuries, not just since you and I have started working together.
Today, relations between Russia and Armenia are developing at a steady pace in all areas, including politics, military and security matters, and the economy.
Russia is firmly Armenia’s largest economic partner. Our country is Armenia’s biggest investor, and as I can point out, our investments are quite diverse.
They include energy, such as hydrocarbons, with gas delivery at $150 for 1000 cubic metres, which is the lowest rate in the world for Gazprom
. There is also nuclear and thermal energy. We are going forward in various fields in the metals industry, and machine building. So we have quite a lot to talk about here.
It is especially pleasing that bilateral trade grew by nearly 30 percent last year, with a 22.2 percent increase in the first six months of 2018. At this rate, we will surpass last year’s indicators.
Our countries have a lot to work together on. I am very glad to see you to compare notes on our current and medium-term relations.
Prime Minister of Armenia Nikol Pashinyan
: Mr President,
First, let me congratulate you on Moscow Day. I have felt already that it will be a huge holiday, and I am happy to be here in Moscow in this festive atmosphere.
Of course, I am pleased with our regular meeting, the third in the last four months. I think the regularity underscores the special nature of our bilateral relations. Let me point out that our personal relationship is special as well.
I want to stress that despite certain pessimism evident in both the Armenian and Russian media and in social networks, it is my belief that our relations are developing dynamically. I think that our priority is to try to develop the full potential of our bilateral relations.
That does not mean that our relations face no issues. God forbid that a relationship is free from any issue because it means there are no relations. I can say with certainty that there are no insurmountable issues, and we are going to discuss a wide range of topics today.
I am sure that these issues will be resolved and we will continue to base our allied relations on mutual respect for the interests and the sovereignty of our countries, and the principle of non-interference.
I am pleased to have heard Russian representatives repeatedly underscore these principles each time they spoke about our relations. I think that our priority is to develop the potential that lies therein.
Naturally, our relations are great, but we should not stop there. Progress can be made in politics, the economy, technology, defence, and in humanitarian ties.
Of course, we are committed to further strengthening our relations, and not only bilateral relations, but our joint work within the Eurasian Economic Union, the Collective Security Treaty Organisation, and in other areas.
You are, of course, correct that our trade has grown by over 20 percent this year. This is certainly great news. There is a lot of good news when it comes to our relations, so we just need to focus and decide on certain matters, and, naturally, see what we can do to make sure we continue forward together as energetically as we have.
Let me repeat that I am pleased to have this meeting with you. I am certain that we can maintain this regularity, because I enjoy talking to you both officially and personally, so I believe we can look forward to a good conversation.
<…>
Geography
Armenia
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Pashinyan Nikol
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 8, 2018, 14:35
Text version