Events
Meeting with Prime Minister of Israel Benjamin Netanyahu
Vladimir Putin discussed with Prime Minister of the State of Israel Benjamin Netanyahu current bilateral and international issues.
July 11, 2018
20:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 4
With Prime Minister of Israel Benjamin Netanyahu.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister, colleagues,
I am very happy to see you in Moscow, this time during your private visit to the FIFA World Cup. Nonetheless, this does not deny us the pleasure of meeting and discussing current issues.
In general, our bilateral relations are developing quite positively. I will not quote figures now but they are positive. This applies not only to our economic interaction but also to our political interaction. Good relations are developing between our defence departments. The same goes for the cultural and humanitarian sphere.
Mr Prime Minister, we remember your visit to Russia on May 9, Victory Day, when you walked through Red Square with the portrait of a World War II hero. Thank you for this. It met with a very positive response and was noticed by the Russian public.
Welcome.
Prime Minister of Israel Benjamin Netanyahu
(retranslated): First, I would like to congratulate you on the highly successful World Cup that Russia is hosting. The entire world is following the tournament closely.
Thank you also for the invitation to watch a match later tonight. Of course, I thank you for the opportunity to participate on May 9, Victory Day [in the Immortal Regiment march]. A wonderful event which made a deep, moving impression both in Israel and around the world.
Every visit, every meeting of ours is an opportunity to work together to improve security and trust in the region and the world.
Of course, our focus is on developments in Syria, the presence of Iran. This is not new to you. Several hours ago, an unmanned aerial vehicle entered the territory of Israel from Syria and was successfully brought down. I would like to emphasise that we will counter any and all attempts to violate our air or land borders.
Cooperation between us is an essential, key factor that can stabilise the entire region. So, I would like to thank you for the opportunity to meet with you and discuss these things.
Vladimir Putin: We are aware of your concerns. Let us discuss them in detail.
<…>
Geography
Israel
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Netanyahu Benjamin
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 11, 2018, 20:00
Text version