President of Cuba Miguel Diaz-Canel Bermudez Thank you very much, President Putin.Events
Community Forum of Active Citizens
The President spoke at the Fourth Community Forum of Active Citizens.
November 2, 2018
18:10
Moscow
This year the forum focused on the development strategy of the country and civil society. The forum has been held by the Civic Chamber since 2015, offering a venue for exchanging views and developing solutions between civil society, business, and the authorities.
* * *
The President’s speech at the plenary session of the Fourth Community Forum of Active Citizens
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends.
I am very happy to see all of you and to have the opportunity to welcome all of you and thank you for your work.
This is a very good tradition – and it has indeed become a tradition – that we always meet on the eve of our holiday, National Unity Day, a holiday that has many positive implications. This implies that at all times (even before Minin and Pozharsky) it was clear and became obvious in this dramatic period of our history that the power of the people is inexhaustible. What we now call civil society is a great internal creative force. If combined with the efforts of the state, it creates incredible opportunities for national development.
Your current forum is devoted to the analysis and prospects of implementing national projects that have been adopted by the Government in the wake of the Address to the Federal Assembly and the Presidential Executive Order this year. I consider this extremely important. It is important because it can and should pool our efforts in making a breakthrough in Russia’s development.
10 of 13
The President speaking at the plenary session of the Forum.
I have just had the opportunity and pleasure to hear about some of the projects and the people that have created them. What can I say? These are sincere, inherently beautiful and wonderful people that are enthralled by their projects and get others interested in them. They are really helping people, helping to organise remarkable efforts and achieve wonderful results.
I would like to assure you that we will also do everything we can to support your efforts. Let me recall that in the past six years we have allocated an impressive 30 billion rubles for the activities of NGOs. This year we will also earmark 8 billion, the same for next year, and no less in 2020.
On the whole, I hope very much that this work will be expanded, and will include both small towns and rural areas.
Starting this year, we will allot funds for NGO volunteers in rural areas, which is very important and in very high demand as well. I have just had the opportunity to learn about one project like this for the countryside.
Friends, I know that after this meeting, the winners of the contest My Project for My Country will receive their awards. I would like to congratulate the winners and wish all of you success in your wonderful and noble work that our country and our people need so much.
I wish you all the best. Thank you very much.
See also
Meeting with leaders of successful socially important projects
November 2, 2018
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 2, 2018, 18:10
Text versionEvents
Press statements following Russian-Cuban talks
November 2, 2018
16:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ladies and gentlemen,
It is a pleasure to welcome the Chairman of the Cuban State Council and the Council of Ministers to Russia.
Let me note that this is Mr Diaz-Canel’s first official visit to Russia since he assumed office as head of state.
We have held detailed talks, including with the participation of key ministers, discussed the entire range of issues related to bilateral cooperation and examined topical matters on the international and regional agendas.
The atmosphere of the meeting was friendly, businesslike and constructive. This characterises the Russian-Cuban dialogue. Our nations are linked by strong ties of many years of friendship, mutual sympathy, respect, solidarity and support.
The joint statement we have just signed reaffirms the strategic and allied relations between our counties.
Naturally, we gave a great deal of attention to economic cooperation. Let me note that bilateral trade grew by 17 percent last year.
Of course, these are modest figures and volumes in absolute terms, but we know what we need to do next. This is why Mr Diaz-Canel and I have instructed the intergovernmental commission, which had a regular meeting in Havana this week, to outline concrete measures to increase bilateral trade and expand investment cooperation.
We have accumulated positive experience in the energy industry. Russia’s oil and petroleum product supplies make a weighty contribution to the resources of the Cuban economy and guarantee energy security. Russian energy companies successfully operate in Cuba. Rosneft is conducting a geological survey on the Cuban continental shelf and modernising the country’s refineries. Zarubezhneft is developing a large offshore oil field. Inter RAO is building four new energy units for a Cuban thermal power plant.
There is mutually beneficial industrial cooperation. Russian companies are involved in the technical refurbishing of Cuban factories that produce metal and nickel products and nitrogen fertiliser. We are cooperating on the production of innovative on e-of-a-kind medications. Russia is offering Cuba assistance in building transport infrastructure facilities. Today we talked about renovating the Cuban railway system, which should triple passenger traffic and double cargo shipments throughout the country.
We are preparing for the deployment of a Russian GLONASS ground station in Cuba. As a result, our Cuban partners will get access to extensive technical capabilities for Earth remote sensing and satellite and telecommunications services.
Overall, I would like to stress that Russian businesses are willing to participate in the large-scale modernisation of Cuba’s national economy. Specific projects will be discussed today during President Diaz-Canel’s meeting with our leading business people.
Of course, we also covered the development of cultural and humanitarian links. Our plans include opening a branch of the Russian Museum in Cuba that would become the first multi-purpose centre for learning the Russian language, Russian arts and culture in Latin America.
I also want to mention that Russia is providing assistance in restoring the gilt on the dome of the El Capitolio in Havana, which houses the Cuban National Assembly. We plan to complete the restoration by the 500th anniversary of Havana next year.
We intend to continue to assist in the training of highly skilled Cuban professionals in various fields. As a reminder, about 30,000 Cubans have received higher education in our country. Currently, 250 Cuban citizens are studying at Russian universities.
Cuba has always been and certainly remains one of the most popular destinations for Russian tourists. Last year, about 100,000 Russians visited the republic. In December, an updated intergovernmental agreement will take effect establishing a simplified entry procedure on both sides, simplifying mutual visa requirements.
When discussing the global and regional agenda, the participants noted the proximity of the two countries’ positions on the most important issues. They also reaffirmed mutual interest in further coordinating their joint steps on the world stage.
Russia and Cuba have always supported and continue to support strict observance of the key principles of international law stipulated in the UN Charter, including respect for the sovereignty and interests of all states, the unacceptability of power politics, the use of unilateral sanctions and interference in internal affairs.
We agreed with our Cuban friends to deepen cooperation in the fight against transnational organised crime, including in cyberspace, illicit drug production and trafficking, and other present-day challenges and threats.
Our Cuban friends fully share Russia’s commitment to deepening dialogue with regional organisations and integration associations of South America and the Caribbean and will provide us with the necessary assistance.
In conclusion, I would like to thank Mr Diaz-Canel and all our Cuban friends and colleagues for the substantive and productive discussion. I am confident that the agreements reached today will help further strengthen the friendly ties between Russia and Cuba.
Thank you.
Chairman of the State Council and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Cuba Miguel Díaz-Canel Bermudez (retranslated): President Putin, ladies and gentlemen,
For us, this visit symbolises the continuation and continuity of the Cuban Revolution. Being faithful followers of the legacy of Commander-in-Chief Fidel Castro Ruz and Army General Raul Castro Ruz, we maintain and constantly work to strengthen relations between Cuba and Russia. This alone accounts for the importance of this visit, which, I am confident, will become a milestone in our relations.
Notably, yesterday, when we arrived in Moscow, the capital of the country that stood up for Cuba from the first years of the revolution, it was here that we learned the news of Cuba’s victory at the UN, which makes this visit particularly important. I think that coincidences in history occasionally pinpoint moments that are important to everyone.
I had productive talks with Mr Vladimir Putin, which were another confirmation of the great state of bilateral relations.
We recalled with satisfaction Mr Putin’s productive visit to Havana and our meaningful meetings, when I had the honour to greet him at the airport upon his arrival in our country. Since then, we have maintained and expanded our exchanges at the highest level.
We noted the importance of bilateral relations and the opportunities for further development.
We are very pleased with the numerous instances of shared vision on international issues, especially with regard to protecting peace and the role of international organisations, as well as close cooperation at various international platforms and organisations.
I am grateful for Russia's steadfast stance against the commercial, economic and financial embargo, which is causing damage to my country. We plan to expand our trade and economic ties and bring them to the high level that we enjoy in the political sphere. Joint projects in energy, transport, the steel industry and biotechnology have an important place in our plans for economic growth and great potential.
I am grateful for President Putin’s willingness, since the start of my mandate, to assist in promoting Cuba’s industrial development. This is realised in Russia's participation in Cuba’s socioeconomic development projects until 2030 and beyond.
I reiterate the importance of the bonds of friendship that exist between our countries, which form the foundation of bilateral relations. The joint declaration that we signed envisages all aspects of our relations in the economic, political and social spheres, which Mr Putin also mentioned, and serves as confirmation of our continued future relations.
I conveyed to President Putin the invitation by the Cuban government and the people to come to our country on an official visit next year, which marks the fifth anniversary of his previous visit to our country in 2014.
Thank you.
See also
Russian-Cuban talks
November 2, 2018
Geography
Cuba
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Diaz-Canel Bermudez Miguel
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 2, 2018, 16:00
Text versionEvents
Ceremonial event to mark centenary of GRU
On the eve of the Day of the Military Intelligence Officer, Vladimir Putin took part in a gala event to mark the centenary of The Main Directorate of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Russia.
November 2, 2018
17:20
Russian Army Theatre, Moscow
6 of 11
At the gala event to mark the centenary of the Main Directorate of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Russia.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Comrades, esteemed veterans,
I would like to congratulate you on your forthcoming professional day – the Day of the Military Intelligence Officer, and the centenary of the legendary GRU that is now called the Main Directorate of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Russia. It is unclear where the name Main Intelligence Directorate has gone. We ought to restore it.
Intelligence is an integral part of military affairs and war science. This has been the case for centuries everywhere. The current anniversary of our military intelligence naturally turns us to history, giving us an opportunity to recall the courageous and talented people that faithfully served Russia and its people, the heroes of the 1812 war, the Crimean War, World War I, officers of the General Staff, and military agents at diplomatic missions of the Russian Empire, who often risked their lives obtaining precious information that was required for the country’s defence and the protection of its national interests.
All of these are landmarks of our military intelligence, of which we are proud.
I would like to note that, being genuine patriots and state-minded people, many officers of the Imperial Russian Army played a significant role in the development of the new structure of national military intelligence. They realised that there is no greater shame than to betray the Fatherland and their comrades and ensured the continuity of the traditions of the service in times of trouble or revolutionary upheavals.
Military intelligence officers displayed the same fidelity to their duty at the turn of the 1990s, after the collapse of the USSR. They managed to preserve the GRU’s potential and the school of career service and professional training.
I would like to express special gratitude and appreciation to the veterans of the Great Patriotic War. On the eve of World War II, during the Great Patriotic War military intelligence created a unique system for the timely collection and transfer of the most valuable information that directly influenced the outcome of major battles in the Great Patriotic War.
To this day, we remember and are proud of the people who worked in military intelligence at that time. No doubt, they are the pride of our intelligence, of our nation. They were of very diverse ethnic origins united by the common rejection of Nazism, its ideology, xenophobia in all manifestations and the exclusiveness of anyone on any grounds.
I would also like to remember those who served in Afghanistan, those who defended Russia from the aggression of international terrorism. Your daring operations, your ability to outmaneuver a strong and experienced enemy in the most difficult of circumstances is an example for new generations to follow.
The most important things they are learning from you are courage, an officer’s honour and selflessness, readiness to sacrifice everything for the sake of one’s brothers in arms and Motherland.
We will always remember the heroes who gave their lives in battle for their fatherland. Those who are no longer with us. We bow our heads in memory to them.
Comrades,
The qualitative development of the Armed Forces of Russia is our top priority. I have mentioned this more than once. One of the key areas of this work is certainly strengthening the personnel resources, and the operational and technological capabilities of our military intelligence units.
Unfortunately, the potential for conflict is on the rise in the world. Provocations and outright lies are being used and attempts are being made to disrupt strategic parity. The system of international law is being undermined. All of that plays into the hands of extremists and terrorists who seek to extend their criminal activities to new regions on the planet. This is what they sought to create in Syria – a stronghold of chaos and violence.
But they did not succeed. Military intelligence played a huge role in taking out the ringleaders of the militants, their bases and infrastructure, and should be credited for the surgical destructive strikes delivered by our aircraft and warships. Our intelligence personnel methodically carried out their orders and never retreated, as is prescribed by Russian military tradition.
I will add that military intelligence undoubtedly deserves a lot of credit for returning peace to many regions of Syria, for stopping the bloodshed and opening up a path to accord, and no less important, for the crushing blow we dealt to the terrorists, preventing them from returning to our territory.
Comrades,
As Supreme Commander-in-Chief, I certainly know your, without exaggeration, unique capabilities including in special operations. I greatly value the information and analytical materials that are prepared for the country's leadership at the Main Directorate of the General Staff.
I have confidence in your professionalism, your personal courage and dedication. I am certain that you will do everything for Russia and our people.
Once again, I congratulate you on the holiday and thank you for your service. I wish you and your families all the best.
Thank you.
Topics
Civil service
National security
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 2, 2018, 17:20
Text version