Events
Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant ground-breaking ceremony
Vladimir Putin and President of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan launched the construction of the Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant, via videoconference.
April 3, 2018
16:45
Ankara
At the Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant ground-breaking ceremony.
The Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant with four power units will be built in Mersin Province on the Mediterranean under a Russian-Turkish agreement signed in May 2010. Currently, the project is fully financed by Russia.
It will be the world’s first nuclear power plant to be built using the BOO (Build, Own, Operate) project financing model. Russia will finance the project and operate the plant.
* * *
Speeches at the groundbreaking ceremony for the first power unit of the Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, our Turkish friends, ladies and gentlemen,
First, I would like to sincerely congratulate all of you on the start of the construction of the first power unit of the Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant.
The significance of this great innovative project is hard to overestimate. In fact, today we are not simply present at the construction of the first Turkish nuclear power plant, but we are witnessing the laying of the groundwork for Turkey’s nuclear industry. We are creating a new industry.
Turkey is a highly developed country in terms of technology and economics, but this is a new phase, a new step in the development of the Turkish economy.
Russia is one of the recognised leaders in the peaceful use of nuclear energy. The Akkuyu project will involve the use of the most advanced engineering techniques, the most cost-effective and reliable technologies – the technologies we use for our own projects in Russia. The highest safety standards and the most stringent environmental requirements will also be observed.
The opening of the plant will serve the development of the Turkish economy, its research and production potential, and will provide Turkish consumers with inexpensive and ‘clean’ electricity. According to expert estimates, this nuclear power plant will account for about 10 percent of Turkey's overall power generation, as was already mentioned.
At the Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant ground-breaking ceremony. With President of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
I would like to note that Russian contractors are planning to attract Turkish small and medium-sized businesses to the project; they intend to contract a significant part of the resources for the future station in Turkey. More than 350 Turkish companies have already applied for inclusion in the list of potential suppliers.
The Akkuyu project will create new, modern and, very importantly, highly paid jobs in Russia and Turkey, as well as boost the development of advanced producers and technologies.
We also intend to closely cooperate in training skilled personnel to operate the plant. As mentioned, over 220 Turkish young people are studying nuclear engineering at Russian universities. The 35 Turkish citizens who have graduated from one of the world’s leading universities in this area, the National Research Nuclear University MEPhI, have received employment offers from Akkuyu Nuclear, the plant’s project company. I am glad that some of them are attending this ground-breaking ceremony.
We are grateful to our Turkish colleagues for designating this project a strategic investment project and for expanding the list of tax incentives and preferences. I would like to thank all our Turkish friends for this decision. It has made our project economically expedient and profitable. I would also like to thank members of the Turkish parliament. What you have done will make the project much more attractive to potential investors.
Dear friends, we are facing the ambitious goal of launching the first power unit in 2023, the year of the 100th anniversary of the Republic of Turkey.
My dear friend Recep Tayyip Erdogan and I have agreed that we will do our best to attain this goal. I am confident that our plans will be implemented thanks to close interaction between the Russian and Turkish professionals involved.
The successful implementation of this project will become a symbol of the dynamic and consistent development of Russian-Turkish interaction, partnership and friendship.
I wish success to all participants in this project. All the best.
Thank you.
At the Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant groundbreaking ceremony. With President of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
President of the Republic of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan
(retranslated): Mr President, my friend, guests, ladies and gentlemen,
I cordially welcome all of you. First, I would like to welcome Mr Putin, the President of the Russian Federation, as well as the members of his delegation to our country.
Today, we are witnessing a historic event from the point of view of both the development of our country and energy cooperation between Turkey and Russia. Today, my friend Mr Putin and I are pleased that together we are laying the foundation of the Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant. I also want to express my gratitude to all members of the delegation and Mr Putin for the opportunity to be here at this ceremony.
We have come a long way over the past 15 years, and this provides a good basis for developing relations between our countries. Today, we will also hold the 7th meeting of the High-Level Cooperation Council, which can be rightfully called a symbol of relations between our countries.
We are implementing other strategic projects with Russia as well, including the S-400 and the Turkish Stream. The nuclear power plant is one of these projects.
In addition, we can say that we are working closely with the Russian Federation to address terrorist threats and all the dangers arising from the conflict in Syria.
Friends, the Turkish economy has been growing by 5.8 percent on average from 2003 to 2017. In 2017, our economy grew by 7.4 percent. By 2023, when we celebrate the 100th anniversary of our country as a republic, we have set ourselves the task of becoming one of the top 10 largest economies in the world.
This means we will need more energy – oil and natural gas, as well as renewable energy sources. Over the past 15 years, we have carried out previously unthinkable major projects.
On the other hand, investment in the energy sector to improve our energy security is also ongoing.
Our country’s energy security is stable. This nuclear power plant is of great importance for our future in this regard.
Currently, 31 countries are generating electricity at 450 nuclear power plants. Also, 55 nuclear power plants are being built in 16 countries around the world. We can say that the Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant, the purpose of today’s groundbreaking, is the 56th plant. In 2023, we will commission the first reactor at this plant, and Turkey will thus join the countries that use atomic energy. In 2023, we will mark the 100th anniversary of our republic with the successful completion of this project.
When all the reactors are operational, 10 percent of Turkey’s electricity will be generated at this plant. Today, our energy basket is largely dependent on oil, natural gas and coal, but we will become healthier once we have this plant.
At the Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant ground-breaking ceremony.
Nuclear power plants do not emit carbon dioxide; they produce clean and environmentally safe energy. This nuclear power plant will make a major contribution to our energy security and play a big role in combating climate change.
This experience will undoubtedly lead to a greater number of employees with innovative skill sets. Importantly, hundreds of our students are currently studying at Russian universities. They will return home upon completion of their studies and start working here.
Friends, I must also say that we will realise our half-century dream and build Akkuyu just as we have with many other projects. From the moment we decided to go ahead with Akkuyu, we have been in close cooperation with, above all, Mr Putin and the corresponding Russian authorities. Notably, we have experienced very good and close cooperation with our Russian colleagues.
During such a difficult time, we have come a long way in a short time as a result of showing our will and serious approach to the matter. In this regard, I want to express my gratitude, first to my friend Mr Putin, and to all of our Russian colleagues. I also want to express my gratitude to our Prime Minister, Chairman of Parliament, as well as the deputies who assisted and supported us during this process. I want to thank the Minister of Energy and Natural Resources of Turkey separately. In addition, I want to express my gratitude to all those who supported us in this process.
Our goal is to commission the first reactor in 2023. Once the project is completed, four nuclear power reactors will be commissioned.
We continue our cooperation with Russia on all regional matters, and this cooperation is expanding every day. I believe that the construction of this project will be completed soon, and it will benefit our countries and our peoples.
I greet you all cordially, from the bottom of my heart.
See also
Visit to Turkey
April 3 − 4, 2018
Geography
Türkiye
Topics
Energy
Persons
Erdogan Recep Tayyip
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 3, 2018, 16:45
Text versionEvents
High-Level Russian-Turkish Cooperation Council meeting
Vladimir Putin and Recep Tayyip Erdogan chaired the seventh meeting of the High-Level Russian-Turkish Cooperation Council in Ankara.
April 3, 2018
20:20
Ankara
2 of 3
High-Level Russian-Turkish Cooperation Council meeting.
The discussion covered the current situation and prospects of bilateral trade and economic cooperation and the implementation of joint strategic projects, in particular, in the energy sphere, as well as current regional and international issues, including joint counterterrorism efforts and developments in Syria.
The meeting of the High-Level Russian-Turkish Cooperation Council was followed by the signing of bilateral documents.
The Russian Direct Investment Fund signed a Co-Investment Agreement with the Turkey’s Sovereign Wealth Fund. In addition, corresponding agencies of the two countries signed memorandums of cooperation in information technology, physical fitness and sports, social policy, and the rights of women, families and children.
* * *
Opening remarks at the seventh meeting of the High-Level Russian-Turkish Cooperation Council
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen,
The President of Turkey and I had businesslike and constructive talks in a restricted format. I hope that the High-Level Cooperation Council meeting will be as substantive.
Our Turkish partners have put together an extensive agenda. With the participation of government members and representatives from the business community, we will discuss in detail a range of bilateral issues and outline concrete plans for the future.
Notably, the Cooperation Council has the important task of ensuring the coordination of Russian-Turkish partnership in various fields based on the principles of mutual respect, equality and consideration of each other's interests.
Notably, in preparation for this meeting, many contacts have taken place at all levels, during which bilateral and international issues were discussed openly and constructively, and arising issues were promptly resolved.
The special mechanisms that have been created within the Cooperation Council maintain intensive dialogue and are in constant interaction. The Intergovernmental Commission coordinates cooperation in trade and investment.
It is gratifying to know that by the end of 2017, trade between our countries increased by an impressive 40 percent to $22 billion. I am convinced that we can do even better.
Our countries are increasing the volume of mutual investment. Reciprocal direct investment is approaching $10 billion from each side.
The Russian-Turkish partnership in the energy sector has taken on a truly strategic dimension. Today, our countries made an important step towards strengthening cooperation in nuclear energy. During a videoconference, we gave the start for the construction of the first power unit of the Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant.
We expect Rosatom and our Turkish partners to launch the first unit in 2023, the year of the 100th anniversary of the Republic of Turkey.
Russia is also a major supplier of natural gas for the needs of the Turkish economy. Last year alone, 29 billion cubic metres of gas were shipped. The Turkish Stream gas pipeline is being successfully implemented, and work on the offshore section has been completed.
In the military-technical sphere, the contract for the delivery of S-400 Triumph anti-aircraft missile systems to Turkey is our priority. We believe that the prospects for further deliveries of modern Russian military products to Turkey will be substantively discussed during the forthcoming meeting of the corresponding intergovernmental commission.
The Russian-Turkish Public Forum’s activities are designed to expand cultural ties between the two countries.
Tourism is an important area for us. Last year, over 4.7 million Russian citizens visited Turkey to enjoy its resorts and rich cultural and historical heritage. Contact between people will be further promoted by holding a cross-year of culture and tourism in 2019.
Ladies and gentlemen, I am confident that today's meeting will be held in a constructive and businesslike atmosphere and reflect the commitment of the leaders of both countries to further strengthen the partnership between Russia and Turkey.
Thank you.
President of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan
(retranslated): I would like to say that we are glad that my dear friend, Vladimir Putin, and his delegation are attending the seventh meeting of the High-Level Cooperation Council. I would like to once again congratulate Mr Putin on his re-election as the President of Russia by the majority of votes.
Also, I would like to take this opportunity to offer our condolences over the Kemerovo tragedy. Our heartfelt condolences to our Russian friends.
Since the previous Council meeting, our relevant agencies have held other meetings and talks, which have produced positive results. They concern trade, tourism, relations between our people, as well as regional conflicts and a wide range of other matters.
Today we have held the ground-breaking ceremony for a very large project, the Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant. We have just completed one-on-one talks with my dear friend Mr Putin on so many not only regional but also international topics. At the same time, our relevant agencies held their own meetings as well.
And now we will summarise the results of our talks and exchange views on the future of our relationship. I would like to say in this connection that our energetic efforts to restore peace, tranquillity and stability in the region will be continued. I hope that all our meetings will be beneficial for our region.
Once again, welcome.
See also
Visit to Turkey
April 3 − 4, 2018
Geography
Türkiye
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Erdogan Recep Tayyip
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 3, 2018, 20:20
Text versionEvents
Joint news conference of Vladimir Putin and Recep Tayyip Erdogan
The news conference with the leaders of the two countries took place at the close of the first day of the working visit by the head of state of the Russian Federation to the Republic of Turkey. The presidents of Russia and Turkey made statements for the press and fielded questions from journalists.
April 3, 2018
20:30
Ankara
Joint news conference of Vladimir Putin and Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
President of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan
(retranslated): Mr dear friend Mr Putin, ladies and gentlemen,
I wholeheartedly welcome all of you.
First of all, I would like to once again say with satisfaction that we are happy to welcome Mr Putin and the accompanying delegation to our country.
I would like to again congratulate Mr Putin, who is my friend, on his victory in the presidential election.
It is highly significant that Mr Putin has made his first foreign visit following the election to Turkey. This visit is evidence of the high level of relations between Turkey and the Russian Federation.
I would like to offer our condolences to the Russian people over the Kemerovo tragedy. It is especially painful because the majority of the fire victims were children.
We have completed the seventh meeting of the High-Level Cooperation Council. We have compared views on many issues at the Council meeting and in the one-on-one format. The Council members also held separate meetings.
I would like to point out that our political dialogue is having a positive effect on the economy, trade and cultural ties.
Compared to last year, our trade turnover has increased by 31 percent and exceeds $22 billion. Of course, we have a more ambitious goal. We want trade between our countries to grow to $100 billion.
On the other hand, the talks on services and investment agreements should be completed as soon as possible, which will accelerate our movement towards the $100-billion target.
As you know, today we launched the construction of the foundation for the Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant. We plan to complete the first stage of this project in 2023. I hope we will be able to accelerate this process and so complete this project ahead of plan.
As of now, we intend to invest some $20 billion or possibly more in this project. In the future, this plant will satisfy 10 percent of Turkey’s electricity needs.
Work is underway on the second line of the Turkish Stream.
We are also developing cultural and social relations. In 2019, Russia and Turkey will hold events within the framework of cross-years of culture and tourism. I believe that the Yunus Emre Cultural Centre, which opened in Moscow and the Russian Centre for Science and Culture in Ankara will seriously contribute to this.
The number of Russian tourists coming in Turkey reached 4.7 million in 2017. This is the largest number of foreign tourists from any country. I believe the figure will increase to 6 million this year. We are willing to resume the efforts to liberalise the visa regime as soon as possible.
Friends,
Joint news conference of Vladimir Putin and Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
The agenda of our talks included not just matters relating to bilateral relations but also and primarily the Syrian question, as well as other regional matters. As you know, we have coordinated the establishment of de-escalation zones during the Astana process. Tomorrow we will hold a trilateral summit with our Iranian friend to exchange opinions.
I think that we will be able to discuss Syria and other topics at this summit. We will discuss ways to resolve the Syrian conflict. I would like to take this opportunity to say that we have held consultations with our dear friend regarding Operation Olive Branch.
I have personally updated Mr Putin about this operation in Afrin. It was launched to ensure the security of Turkey and the territorial integrity as well as the national unity of Syria. We will continue to work together with Russia to restore stability, tranquillity and security in this region.
This has to do with the Syrian problem. We continue to cooperate with our Russian friends and to discuss our concerns.
Ladies and gentlemen,
Over the past 15 years, the rapid development of Russian-Turkish relations was promoted by neighbourliness, common interests along with mutual respect.
Of course, this has not just benefitted the citizens of Turkey and the region, who faced major tribulations. Certain forces certainly wanted to poison Russian-Turkish relations. Praise be to Allah, we have withstood this test. None of these provocations have attained their goals. Our relations continued to strengthen and have become strong as steel.
I believe that we have managed to further strengthen our relationship during the meeting of the High-Level Cooperation Council held today.
I would like to once again welcome our friend, Mr Putin, and the accompanying delegation to Turkey. I hope that our meetings will be beneficial for our nations.
Thank you very much.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen,
To begin with, I would like to say that the programme of today’s visit was fairly intensive and substantial. At a restricted format meeting, the President and I discussed bilateral issues and a number of urgent international and regional matters.
Later on, we reviewed the entire range of issues related to cooperation in politics, security, the economy, and the cultural and humanitarian area at a meeting of the High-Level Cooperation Council, which was attended by key ministers and heads of major companies. We mapped out areas for further joint work.
A package of interdepartmental agreements and commercial documents was signed following the talks. Relevant ministries were instructed to draft a number of new agreements.
I will note that cooperation between Russia and Turkey is making steady headway. Our political dialogue is intensive. Last year alone President Erdogan and I held eight full-scale meetings.
Our foreign and defence ministries are in close contact, in particular, in the Joint Strategic Planning Group. Industry-specific ministries and parliamentarians are consolidating their ties. Our business circles are engaged in productive discussions of joint initiatives.
I would like to add that today we focused primarily on economic and investment cooperation. The Mixed Intergovernmental Russian-Turkish Commission is playing an important coordinating role in the consolidation of economic ties.
I would like to note with satisfaction that Russian-Turkish trade increased in 2017. Mr President cited the figures, but, according to our information, our trade grew even higher, by 40.5 percent to $22.1 billion.
Russia has become the third largest market for Turkish exports after Germany and China. Meanwhile, Turkey has risen to 7th place among Russia’s largest foreign economic partners.
We also intend to build up mutual investment. This will facilitate the creation of a joint investment platform with the participation of the Russian Direct Investment Fund and the Sovereign Wealth Fund of Turkey.
Our cooperation in nuclear energy has reached the level of strategic partnership. As you could see today, Mr Erdogan and I have launched the construction of the reactor building of Akkuyu, Turkey’s first nuclear power plant. Our common task is to ensure that it becomes operational by 2023, the 100th anniversary of the Republic of Turkey.
Work is proceeding on schedule on the Turkish Stream gas pipeline. We are building two lines of the pipeline’s underwater section. We will soon start implementing the onshore part of the pipeline, which will not just bring gas to the Turkish market and other countries in Southeast Europe, if they want this, but will also enhance the energy security of the region as a whole.
There are good prospects for promoting our cooperation in the iron and steel sector, automobile manufacturing, the agricultural industry and the production of agricultural equipment, as well as in finance, innovation, high technology and research.
We also discussed Russian-Turkish cooperation in the sphere of military technology, including the implementation of a contract for the supply of S-400 Triumf anti-aircraft weapon systems to Turkey. We have decided to accelerate the delivery of these highly effective Russian defence systems. We also talked about other promising military technology projects.
We prioritise expanding cultural and humanitarian contacts and ties between our countries’ civil societies.
The flow of Russian tourists to Turkey continues to grow and develop dynamically. As we have already said, almost five million people (4.7 million) visited Turkey last year. We believe this figure may grow to six million next year.
In this connection, we have been discussing liberalisation of visa regime and negotiating what documents would allow visa-free travel. Today, we heard the proposals of the heads of relevant agencies.
Joint news conference of Vladimir Putin and Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
We discussed possible joint efforts to help resolve the crisis in Syria, to consolidate the ceasefire regime and to create favourable conditions for the intra-Syrian negotiating process in the context of the results of the Syrian National Dialogue Congress, which was held in Sochi, and the recent trilateral contacts in the Astana format.
Mr President has already noted this. Tomorrow, we will discuss these matters further at a trilateral meeting with President of Iran Hassan Rouhani.
We conducted a detailed exchange of opinions on other regional and international matters.
In conclusion, I would like to thank our friend, President of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan, for the detailed talks and hospitality that was accorded to our delegation.
I would like to note that expanding Russian-Turkish cooperation fully meets the interests of both countries and helps maintain peace and stability in our region and beyond.
Thank you.
Question: I have a question for both leaders. You said today that the main drivers of bilateral relations are the largest projects, such as the Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant, Turkish Stream and the supply of the S-400 systems. Given the negative and even confrontational agenda regarding Russia, do you see any factors that can hinder the implementation of these plans?
Vladimir Putin: You mentioned negative and even provocative factors in international affairs. There are no such factors in our relations with Turkey. On the contrary, our bilateral relations are developing highly constructively. You can see the result in our trade and economic cooperation and in the speed with which we are implementing large projects, as I have just said.
This concerns Turkish Stream and our nuclear projects. As concerns the supply of gas to Turkey and the Turkish Stream pipeline project, negotiations with our European partners regarding the second line of Nord Stream 2 have been underway for years.
I hope these negotiations will produce a positive result, but we are still in talks, whereas a similar project with Turkey will be completed soon. It has entered the final stage.
Turkey is a priority and highly reliable partner in this and in all other spheres. This includes compliance with our agreements on many large regional problems that we face and want to resolve. I do not see any problems that would hinder the further development of our relationship with the Republic of Turkey.
Recep Tayyip Erdogan (retranslated): First of all, I would like to tell our dear friend that Turkey took the decision regarding the S-400 missiles independently. And our dear friends in the Russian Federation gave an affirmative answer to our request, as a result of which we have reached an agreement on the supply of the S-400 systems. This matter is closed.
The missiles we are to receive are being manufactured. I would also like to say that our Russian partners have expedited the supply of these missiles to Turkey.
As for your other question, regarding the Akkuyu NPP, I can tell you that we should have launched this project sooner, because this power plant will generate 10 percent of the electricity Turkey needs. Russia has taken a decision that has facilitated this project.
Moreover, I would like to say that this decision will also help us increase the number of skilled personnel. Taken together, this shows that our cooperation in this sphere has been fruitful. We are satisfied. Today we launched the construction of the reactor building. This will help create a new international image of Turkey.
Question: I have a question for the Russian President. Have you discussed the so-called Skripal case and the British position on this matter at today’s meeting with Mr Erdogan? How do you assess this situation, given the latest information coming from the UK?
Vladimir Putin: We have broached this subject in passing. Mr President asked some questions in this regard, and I set out our position. As you may know, I myself learned about this incident from the media; I said so time and again.
I would only like to add that, according to international experts, about twenty countries in the world can manufacture these neuropathic substances – twenty countries!
Scotland Yard, as you know, went on record as saying that it needed no less than two months for a full-scale investigation. Finally, as I have been informed just now, the general director of the laboratory in Porton Down – it is located within eight kilometres of the incident site – told Sky News that his laboratory staff had failed to identify the country of origin of this neuropathic substance. They are unable to identify the country of origin. Neither are they able to say that this substance was produced in the Russian Federation.
In this connection, first, one is surprised by the speed, with which they whipped up an anti-Russia campaign, and I would like to inform you, although we have mentioned this already: We are convening a session of the Executive Council of the international Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons tomorrow to analyse this situation in the minutest detail.
 We brought up at least 20 questions, and I hope that this discussion will draw the bottom line under what has happened. We are most certainly interested in a full-scale investigation and we would like to have access to this; we hope to receive the relevant material, because Russian Federation citizens are involved. As you may know, the Investigative Committee of the Russian Federation has opened a criminal case and it will definitely be investigated.
Question (retranslated): My first question is for Mr Putin. It is a fact that Turkey conducted Operation Olive Branch and closely coordinated its actions in Syria with Russia. What does Russia think about the future of organisations such as the Democratic Union Party in Syria? My second question is for Mr Erdogan: What do you expect Russia to do in this respect?
Vladimir Putin: This is how we address the task of combating terrorism. We are working together with Syria and several other countries that are interested in resolving the Syrian conflict, first of all to ensure Syria’s territorial integrity and sovereignty and to root out terrorism in its territory. We intend to continue to cooperate with Turkey in this sphere.
As for the future of Syria and the future and ongoing political dialogue, we believe that Kurds are part of the multinational people of Syria and so have the right to take part in all political processes there and to find their place in Syria’s future. On the other hand, we believe that all processes in this sphere must be coordinated by the parties concerned as closely as possible.
With President of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan at the joint news conference.
Otherwise, the desired result will not be achieved. As for who exactly must take part in these political negotiations and which place each of Syria’s ethnic groups will hold in the future, this is for Syrians themselves to decide.
Question (retranslated): Mr Putin, you have said a decision was taken to accelerate the delivery of the S-400 systems. What do you think about the idea of the joint production of these systems? Mr Erdogan, I would like to ask you if you discussed any other issues of military cooperation apart from the S-400.
Vladimir Putin: I have said that we discussed various issues, including the possibility to expand our cooperation in the sphere of military technology. As for the accelerated delivery of the S-400 systems, we have taken this decision at the request of our Turkish partners and friends. We have accelerated the manufacturing of these systems and coordinated the price, which is very important.
As for joint production, the transfer of technology is not a matter of trust or political interaction. It is a purely commercial issue that is decided between economic entities. There are no military or political considerations or limitations in this sphere.
Recep Tayyip Erdogan: Friends, as Mr Putin has said, we have an agreement regarding the S-400. The manufacturing company will work on this project, and as for the price, we have reached an agreement. There is no problem with accelerating the deliveries. We have an agreement on this issue as well.
It should be said that different opinions regarding defence projects are considered when such decisions are made. I believe that Russian companies are also transparent in this regard. Our agencies and defence companies will conduct and are conducting meetings on these issues. We are definitely monitoring the situation.
Thank you very much.
See also
Visit to Turkey
April 3 − 4, 2018
Geography
Türkiye
Topics
Foreign policy
Media
Persons
Erdogan Recep Tayyip
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 3, 2018, 20:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Central Election Commission Chairperson Ella Pamfilova
Vladimir Putin met with Central Election Commission Chairperson Ella Pamfilova.
April 3, 2018
09:45
The Kremlin, Moscow
Central Election Commission Chairperson Ella Pamfilova presented Vladimir Putin with the certificate on his election as the President of the Russian Federation.
Central Election Commission Chairperson Ella Pamfilova
: Mr President, I would like to congratulate you on your convincing victory at the election and to present your certificate.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much, Ms Pamfilova. I would like to express gratitude to all your colleagues who worked during this election campaign. It was a big nationwide job of great significance for the country.
The popular opinion is that you all performed your job at the top technical and organisational level. Many people have said that it was the most transparent and honest election in our country’s history. This is certainly your personal achievement and the achievement of members of all election commissions across Russia.
Ella Pamfilova: Thank you very much.
We have completed our report, and many facts I will mention today are truly unprecedented. There is a special chapter comprising things that happened for the first time. It has the complete data.
It is true that the level of public trust is unprecedented. Even the polls held after the election put your rating at 88 percent. In other words, the overwhelming majority of our citizens accept the election results as reliable. It was the first time that we reported such a high figure, 88 percent.
We proposed a substantiated multi-level system of filters to preclude any violations. This has produced the desired effect. Therefore, I believe that openness at our elections was unprecedented, without par in the world. It comprised video monitoring, including at territorial election commissions, the use of the QR code, the Mobile Voter app, as well as the awareness-raising campaign.
With Central Election Commission Chairperson Ella Pamfilova.
Overall, we had more than 97,000 election commissions, over 97,000 voting stations, plus 401 polling stations in 145 countries around the world.
What achievements can we report? We have created highly transparent conditions for the public observers. Everything was open to their scrutiny. We never installed video monitoring systems at the territorial commissions before, and there is nothing like it anywhere in the world. We did this to ensure compliance with protocol. We also used QR codes: the computers for this were installed at nearly all commissions. It was really impressive.
We had over 1,500 international observers and nearly 500,000 national observers, a record figure, because it included observes from civic chambers.
Vladimir Putin: You call them CEC volunteers, don’t you?
Ella Pamfilova: Yes, we had those as well, all of them young people. This is very important, because we did a big job with our public organisations, including those that represent people with disabilities, who comprise over 12 million voters.
It was vital to provide volunteer assistance to these people, many of whom wanted to cast their ballots at the polling stations. Moreover, we have increased the number of stations accessible to people with disabilities fourfold.
Many people do not want to cast their ballots at home. They want to go to the election stations because elections are a festive occasion. We did our best to help them to do so.
This diagram is based on QR code results. We processed 99.99 percent of the ballots by 3 am. The remaining 0.01 percent concerned data from voting stations outside Russia. In other words, we processed the ballots in half the time it took us at the 2012 election. This is a major technical achievement.
With Central Election Commission Chairperson Ella Pamfilova.
The new Mobile Voter app helped attract many people who had never cast their ballots before. Russian society has become highly mobile, and many people no longer live where they are registered, or they may work elsewhere. This time they were able to vote.
About 1.6 million people obtained absentee ballots during the 2012 election. If we subtract this number from the 5.69 million voters who used this mechanism, it turns out that some four million people took advantage of this opportunity.
Vladimir Putin: Why is this better than absentee ballots?
Ella Pamfilova: It is better than absentee ballots because we abolished two legally binding provisions during the latest election. In the past, people could only vote at those polling stations where they were registered. For example, if a person is a registered resident of Magadan but works in Kaliningrad, he had to buy a ticket, go home, get an absentee ballot, and only after that, he could go back and vote.
Now this is no longer necessary. Any person could submit an application wherever he or she lives via the government services website, via integrated government services centres and territorial commissions 45 days before the election and choose the nearest voting station. All this data was entered into the Elections State Automatic System, and people could cast their ballots without any problems.
Actually, this considerably increased voter turnout. We cooperated very closely with the Federal Agency for Tourism. The people working or on holiday abroad found this very convenient. As you know, an unprecedented number of Russian citizens voted abroad, an all-time high.
3 of 5
With Central Election Commission Chairperson Ella Pamfilova.
Vladimir Putin: Most importantly, this made it possible to guarantee the constitutional rights of citizens and voters.
Ella Pamfilova: We tried to take into account all voter categories, including those who were running late, registering just a few days in advance – we had a special mechanism for them. All security levels were also high.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
<…>
Persons
Pamfilova Ella
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 3, 2018, 09:45
Text version