Events
Working meeting with Acting Governor of Samara Region Dmitry Azarov
Acting Governor of the Samara Region Dmitry Azarov briefed Vladimir Putin on the socioeconomic situation in the region.
September 5, 2018
14:20
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
3 of 3
With Acting Governor of Samara Region Dmitry Azarov.
According to Dmitry Azarov
, gross regional product had risen by about 1.5 percent in the first six months of 2018 and the industrial production index by 103.6 percent. Car building (the sector as a whole and AvtoVAZ) was the main factor in the positive dynamics. Oil production saw a small decrease, 8 percent, due to a number of objective factors: the agreement signed with OPEC and price stabilisation on the market. The unemployment rate was half its previous level, down to 0.8 percent. Over these six months, 5,700 new small and medium-sized enterprises were established as part of economic diversification.
Issues related to implementing the concept of the 2018 FIFA World Cup heritage concept and preserving the host cities’ historical centres.
According to the Acting Governor, 248 km of roads were built or reconstructed as part of the preparations for the World Cup. Infrastructure was developed for sports and health services, public transport was significantly upgraded and 250 historical facades were renovated. There has also been an increase in the number of tourists visiting the city.
Dmitry Azarov believes that the work on renovating the historic centre should continue, and this issue is topical for all the World Cup host cities. According to Mr Azarov, the programme for the comprehensive development of historical and small settlements, implemented by the Russian Government together with the BRICS New Development Bank, can be used. The region has carried out preliminary work on this issue and received support from the federal ministries of finance and culture. The Acting Governor asked the President to regard Samara as a pilot project for further implementation of this approach in preserving and developing the historic centres of the host cities.
Geography
Samara Region
Topics
Economy and finance
Regions
Social services
Tourism
Persons
Azarov Dmitry
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 5, 2018, 14:20
Text version