Events
Meeting with Constitutional Court Chairman Valery Zorkin
Vladimir Putin met with Constitutional Court Chairman Valery Zorkin in the Kremlin.
December 12, 2018
15:40
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 3
Constitutional Court President Valery Zorkin.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Zorkin, greetings on Constitution Day.
This is not an ordinary Constitution Day, because today is the 25th anniversary of the country’s fundamental law. The Constitutional Court bears special responsibility for ensuring compliance with this crucial legal instrument. I would like to express gratitude to you, the other judges and personnel of the Constitutional Court for doing their jobs.
Many articles in our Constitution are directly applicable, which places special responsibility on those who must ensure compliance with these provisions, because this allows the Constitutional Court to take direct decisions regarding the interpretation of constitutional provisions. I would like to thank you for doing this important and highly responsible job well and for attaining good results. I also wish all the best to you and all your colleagues.
Constitutional Court Chairman Valery Zorkin
: Thank you, Mr President.
We remember that the Constitution includes provisions not only on the Constitutional Court, but also on the Guarantor of the Constitution and other authorities. Therefore, our far from simple task is to work together with the other authorities to keep our Constitution alive, to prevent it from gathering dust.
I think that this has so far been possible, because it is a silver anniversary of the Constitution, which will be followed by a golden anniversary and so on. Thank you very much.
Taking this opportunity, I want to convey the judges’ heartfelt congratulations to you. I brought a small package [with books about the Constitutional Court]. This is a selection of our most important rulings. They represent the generalised practice of the [Constitutional Court].
This is only a small portion of the rulings, because we receive about 15,000 petitions a year. However, it is not the quantity, but the quality of the rulings that matters.
We strive to support the most important areas where a breakthrough is possible, where the Constitution may not work too well, if, say, the legislators failed to do their job properly, or the practice has taken the wrong turn.
However, I would like to emphasise that we have issued more rulings related to constitutional interpretation lately than on the violation of the Constitution.
It is often said that the Constitutional Court is doing little in this regard. I want to say that the legislative framework has been created, so there are fewer errors.
Vladimir Putin: Of course.
<…>
Topics
Court
Persons
Zorkin Valery
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 12, 2018, 15:40
Text versionEvents
Presenting national awards for achievements in human rights and charity work
In the Kremlin, Vladimir Putin presented national awards for outstanding achievements in human rights and charity work.
December 12, 2018
17:45
The Kremlin, Moscow
4 of 7
Ceremony for presenting national awards for outstanding achievements in human rights and charity work.
Chairman of the National Society of People with Disabilities Mikhail Terentyev received the human rights award for 2018. The award for achievements in charity work was presented to Lev Ambinder, president of Rusfond Charity Fund for Seriously Ill Children, Orphans and Disabled Persons.
The Executive Order establishing the awards was signed more than three years ago. Since then, the President has presented them twice: in 2016, to Yelizaveta Glinka and Director of the Children's Hospice Alexander Tkachenko; and in 2017, to Lyudmila Alekseyeva and chairman of a charity fund for children with leukaemia in the Republic of Tatarstan Vladimir Vavilov.
* * *
Speech at the ceremony for presenting national awards for outstanding achievements in charity work and human rights
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends, ladies and gentlemen,
Today, here in the Kremlin, we are celebrating our estimable fellow citizens, recipients of the national awards for outstanding achievements in human rights and charity work, and paying tribute to their accomplishments and selfless work.
This is the main purpose of today’s ceremony. However, these awards have a special dimension and a high mission of their own.
They help the government and society in general focus more on the important issues that today’s recipients are committed to resolving – issues that often, in the most direct, literal sense determine people's lives. I think that for the recipients themselves this is no less – and maybe even more – important than the well-deserved national awards.
At the ceremony for presenting national awards for outstanding achievements in human rights and charity work.
Friends, your achievements remind us again and again of how powerful and effective charity and compassion can be. How there is no limit to what someone driven by a sincere desire to help others and uphold truth and justice can do.
We see how these seemingly simple, but at the same time defining values are resonating with our citizens and becoming a natural moral compass in their daily actions and deeds.
I am glad to have the opportunity to say a few words about the people who are receiving the awards today.
The national award for outstanding achievements in human rights protection goes to Mikhail Terentyev.
The National Society of People with Disabilities, which he heads, unites more than 1.5 million people. As you may be aware, there are 12 million people with disabilities in our country. It is important to consider and advance their interests and to consistently protect their rights.
I believe that in matters of creating an accessible environment, we, including through Mr Terentyev’s efforts, have managed to make major progress in recent years.
Caring for the needs of people with disabilities is becoming the norm, while any attempts to discriminate against them, any cases of unfair treatment are met with a sharply negative reaction from our citizens.
Still, by and large, to be honest, we are only at the beginning of the road today, and there is still a lot to be done, there is still so much to be done.
With Chairman of the National Society of People with Disabilities Mikhail Terentyev, laureate of the National Award for outstanding achievements in human rights.
We are now starting to implement new national projects. Their main goal, their idea is to achieve positive changes for each person, which means developing healthcare, education, transport infrastructure, creating a new comfortable environment for living in urban and rural areas.
We are obliged to think about people with disabilities, to consider their special needs. Working in close contact with public associations, we must not overlook any detail that affects their quality of life or their ability to exercise their rights. This is our direct responsibility.
President of the Rusfond charity fund for seriously ill children Lev Ambinder is the recipient of the Russian Federation National Award for charity work.
Mr Ambinder has been running Rusfond since 1996, when the very concept of charity was just beginning to return to our country. And it was he who laid the foundations for a professional, reliable, and efficient charitable organisation.
More than 6.5 million Russians have donated to Rusfond, and more than 20,000 children have received necessary treatment.
Without exaggeration, every life saved is priceless. And behind each of them lies the caring, disinterested impulse of so many people. I would like to sincerely thank all those who consider it their duty to respond to the pain of others, to thank all our benefactors.
I will also note Mr Ambinder’s and the Rusfond team’s efforts to create a national registry of bone marrow donors. This is a very important project, which requires combined efforts of the state, society, charitable and non-profit organisations, so that all those who need such operations can receive the help they need in time.
With president of Rusfond Charity Fund for Seriously Ill Children, Orphans and Disabled Persons Lev Ambinder, laureate of the National Award for outstanding achievements in charity work.
Friends,
Public opinion, the active participation of citizens in the life of the country, an active civil society represent a tremendous force whose importance for Russia's steady progress and its consolidation, the consolidation of our people, is, without exaggeration, decisive.
You are probably aware that yesterday we marked the 100th anniversary of Alexander Solzhenitsyn’s birth.
According to the writer, the air of social relations and their purity is a more fundamental value than the level of abundance, industrial development and even the system of governance. These relations determine the life of the country and its future.
Today’s laureates are working to make sure that no one has to bear their misfortune alone, that everyone has both help and support when they need it most. It is you who create and strengthen the atmosphere of justice and goodness that we all, the whole society – the state and the people – need so badly. This is the very “air” of human relations Alexander Solzhenitsyn spoke about.
Thank you very much for this!
Thank you for your attention.
Topics
State awards
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 12, 2018, 17:45
Text versionEvents
Meeting of the Pobeda (Victory) Organising Committee
Vladimir Putin chaired the 40th meeting of the Pobeda (Victory) Organising Committee at the Kremlin.
December 12, 2018
14:45
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 3
Meeting of the Russian Pobeda (Victory) Organising Committee.
The meeting was held to discuss preparations to mark the 75th anniversary of Victory in the Great Patriotic War of 1941–1945.
The Organising Committee includes representatives of the Government, the Federation Council, the State Duma, the leadership of federal executive bodies, as well as representatives of public veterans and youth organisations.
* * *
Speech at the meeting of the Pobeda (Victory) Organising Committee
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
We have gathered here for a regular meeting of the Pobeda (Victory) Organising Committee. I would like to say that the Great Patriotic War holds a special place in our shared history and in the history of each Russian family.
The mission of the Organising Committee is to help us hold sacred the memory of our glorious forefathers who have saved the country and the freedom and future of Europe and the rest of the world.
Our key priority has always been to take care of our veterans. All the state’s obligations in this regard must be implemented clearly and unconditionally, and the local authorities must know what each veteran needs and deal with them as a matter of priority.
At the federal level, we propose discussing the possibility of making annual one-time payments to the Great Patriotic War veterans ahead of every Victory Day celebration. In the past, such assistance was only issued in anniversary years.
Museums have a great role to play in keeping the memory of the Great Patriotic War alive. A positive trend has developed in the past few years. People go to museums not only to learn more about their history but also to offer assistance in organising exhibitions, restoring exhibits and repairing facilities.
Special thanks go to the volunteers of the legendary aviation museum in Monino who are restoring unique equipment, and also to the search groups who have taken under their patronage military museums in the regions.
The museum authorities must actively support such initiatives. They have to do with our common history and memory. The more people help preserve it, the stronger it will be.
There is no doubt about this. And the fewer chances we will give to those who want to falsify or distort it.
At the same time, we must upgrade the system of state support for military history museums. Our support must be more effective, enabling museums to create modern interactive spaces that will promote visitors’ emotional involvement in past events. This especially concerns young people.
I am speaking, among other things, about the development of such colourful and informative formats as 3D panoramas. Some of the best examples of their relevance are the projects of Nevsky Batalist, a creative team whose work can already be seen in seven regions of Russia. I know that this team is preparing a new large-scale panorama in St Petersburg for the 75th anniversary of Great Victory, and I ask the local government agencies to help them in implementing this project.
Where support for the flagships of museums is concerned, let me draw your attention to the Victory Museum on Poklonnaya Gora, Russia’s main military history museum. In May 2020, it will become the main venue for the anniversary celebrations and should conform to this high status.
At the same time, we need to address the museum’s oldest and most serious problem – the lack of its own depositories. It is necessary to clearly sort out where we stand with sources of funding and other organisational matters. Today, I would like to hear a separate report on this issue.
Generally, the range of objectives that we must deal with ahead of the Victory anniversary is very wide. Let me emphasise that the preparations for all events which are in some way related to the 75th anniversary must be approached in a responsible, creative and, of course, sincere manner.
It is inadmissible that Victory Day and the history of the Great Patriotic War itself should be accompanied by bureaucratic “accountability” events linked to some formal issues. What people see as sacred symbols must be shielded against formalism and vulgarity. The torch is passing to the great-grandsons of the victors, and this memory must remain clean and unite the public.
We should focus on anniversary year events meant for children and the youth. The aim of these events is both to inform and engage young people in the effort to study and preserve the history of their family and their Motherland as a whole.
For this, it is necessary to look for and show the examples of as yet unknown Great Patriotic War heroes, whose feats of valour are still confined to the pages of archive documents, to launch thematic contests and polls using popular social media, and, of course, create decent documentaries and feature films.
They should link the past, the present and the future, and we will hope that these will be striking, good and creative pieces, which will make all of us rejoice.
Many tasks that we will have to perform as we prepare for the Victory anniversary, in a bid to preserve the military historical heritage and promote patriotic education, require that various agencies, public movements and organisations pool their efforts.
In this connection, it think it expedient to establish a special commission based on the Pobeda (Victory) Organising Committee platform, which will eternalise the memory of all those who lost their lives defending their Fatherland, routinely coordinate the work of all those involved in these activities, and make it possible to align positions, define promising areas of action, as well as discuss and draft legislative initiatives.
And now let us get down to work.
<…>
Topics
Great Patriotic War
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Commissions and Councils, Pobeda (Victory) Committee
Publication date: December 12, 2018, 14:45
Text versionEvents
Reception marking the 25th anniversary of the Constitution
Vladimir Putin attended a reception at the Kremlin to celebrate the 25th anniversary of the adoption of the Russian Federation Constitution.
December 12, 2018
18:10
The Kremlin, Moscow
Reception marking the 25th anniversary of the Constitution
Invited guests included Government members, representatives of the Federation Council and the State Duma, federal executive and judicial bodies, and government bodies of the Russian regions, as well as representatives of religious denominations, public associations, academic and educational organisations.
* * *
Speech at the reception marking the 25th anniversary of the Constitution
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Esteemed members of the Federation Council, deputies of the State Duma, judges of the Constitutional Court, esteemed drafters of the Constitution of the Russian Federation, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen,
Congratulations to all of you on the occasion of an important date – the 25th anniversary of the Constitution of the Russian Federation. (Applause.)
This supreme legal act was adopted by popular vote. It was the free choice of the people as the sole source of power and bearer of sovereignty that granted the Constitution its unequivocal legitimacy.
The people made this historic choice for the sake of their native country, for the sake of themselves, their families and their children, and the present and future of Russia. We put an end to the alarming situation that was developing in our country, and left this lesson of reconciliation and solidarity for posterity.
3 of 5
Before the reception marking the 25th anniversary of the Constitution.
The new Constitution made a decisive contribution to overcoming the severe political crisis and civil confrontation of the early 1990s. As a document of direct application, it made it possible to avoid the catastrophe of territorial disintegration, and strengthened the statehood and sovereignty of our country.
The greater the distance from the time and events that preceded the adoption of the Fundamental Law, the more we appreciate its unifying and constructive role. The text of the Constitution does not contain empty declarations.
Its provisions are operative. However, the Constitution is not a rigid legal construct, but a living, evolving organism. Foreign experience and domestic legal, cultural, historical and social traditions were taken into account when adopting the Constitution.
Representatives of the regions, political parties, and civic movements were actively involved in preparing the draft Constitution for nationwide referendum.
See also
Meeting with Constitutional Court Chairman Valery Zorkin
December 12, 2018
Their positions did not always align, far from it. But their striving for compromise, wisdom and responsibility for the country ultimately prevailed.
As a result, the supreme legal act, which is often called the Constitution of new Russia, was created and adopted. But this is the Constitution of the same Russia, our same country, whose history dates back centuries.
The idea of such continuity is explicitly underscored in the preamble to the Fundamental Law, which clearly states that the existing state unity needs to be preserved, while warm and poignant words are said about the multi-ethnic people of Russia united by a common destiny on their land.
Back then, at a critical turning point, our country did not abandon its past or the memory of its ancestors. Instead they served as the foundation to further strengthen the powerful, sovereign and democratic state, where the individual is recognised as the highest value, and human rights and freedoms, as well as civil peace and interethnic harmony are affirmed.
The Constitution and its articles are the pinnacle of the Russian legal system and the foundation for its further development. All current Russian laws are built on this constitutional foundation. It is symbolic that the modern history of Russian parliamentarism – both chambers of the Federal Assembly – also dates back to December 12, 1993.
Additional
Welcoming remarks to the special 25th anniversary edition of the Constitution of the Russian Federation
December 12, 2018
State Duma deputies of all convocations, members of the Federation Council, and legislators from the regions have made a significant and worthy contribution to forming our legal system. Of course, the Constitutional Court has retained its key role. It was involved in the practical realisation of many constitutional norms, upheld the provisions of the Fundamental Law from faulty or biased interpretations and ensured the purity and unity of our legal space to this day.
Of course, the process of legislative and law enforcement work and judicial practice goes on without interruption. To reiterate, there is vast potential for development in all spheres, which is predetermined by the Constitution. Its incisive and straightforward prescriptions in the most fundamental areas exist in harmony with considerable freedom for advancing legislative initiatives, enacting flexible policies and taking effective administrative decisions.
You are aware of how rapidly the world is changing. Among other things, the Constitution helps us keep up with the times without betraying ourselves, and assert our national interests. We are pursuing an independent foreign policy and looking for adequate solutions to current challenges based on its principles and values, which, we realise, are of critical importance not only for us, but the entire world and its future as well.
Friends,
It is essential that all political forces, society and every citizen of Russia experience and understand the letter and the spirit of the Fundamental Law, and respect them. We are well aware of our current problems and difficulties. We will work diligently, step by step, to overcome them. Together, we will certainly achieve our goals by fulfilling the will of our people and respecting and following the Constitution which they adopted.
Let me propose a toast.
Here’s to the Constitution of the Russian Federation!
To our great country!
To the well-being and prosperity of the people of Russia!
To success in achieving our goals!
Topics
Human rights
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 12, 2018, 18:10
Text version