Events
Meeting on socioeconomic development of Daghestan
Vladimir Putin held a meeting in Makhachkala on socioeconomic development of Daghestan.
March 13, 2018
18:00
Makhachkala
The meeting took place after the President’s meeting with members of the public of Daghestan.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
You know already that we have just met with the leaders and residents of two districts – the Tsumadin and Botlikh districts.
I must say that it was interesting for me to speak with the people, including militia members who took part in the events of 1999, to listen to their opinion on what is happening in their small homeland, in their districts, and the republic as a whole.
Today I suggest discussing key issues related to Daghestan’s socioeconomic development, and what should be done to make better use of the region’s potential and create additional opportunities for improving living standards.
I must say there were positive dynamics in several areas last year. Industrial production in 2017 increased by 15.7 percent over 2016. The processing sector grew even more – by 19.5 percent. This trend has continued into this year as well.
I will not quote the average figures for the country – as you know they are much more modest. But the question is how Daghestan managed to achieve this. It is important to be objective in this respect. First of all, this was achieved owing to defence industry contracts. We must together – I have just spoken to Vladimir Vasilyev about this – think of how to diversify production so that the equipment at these enterprises is used productively and to discuss all other areas.
Daghestan farm workers achieved good results as well. Last year, agricultural output grew by 5.1 percent. If the national average is good at 2.4 percent (in previous years, on average, we had 3.4 percent nationwide), Daghestan had 5.1 percent last year, which is a good number.
Importantly, such results have impacted the growth of our citizens’ real incomes. At the same time, I want to point out right from the outset – and you know it as well as I do – the real income in Daghestan is lower than the average income in Russia. Of course, we need to work to increase the income of the people in Daghestan.
I would like to make special note of the demographic dynamics. Over the past few years, Daghestan has had one of Russia’s highest birth rates, which I was pleased to mention today when I talked with the residents of Botlikh and the Tsumadin districts. The chief physician of the district hospital noted a decrease – in fact, this is a positive development in the country as a whole – in child and maternal mortality. The fact that Daghestan is part of a nationwide trend is a good thing. It shows that much is being done in this important area.
At the same time, there are many issues in the region, and you yourself are only too well aware. The republic’s budget remains heavily subsidised. Once – and this was also mentioned at the meeting today – Daghestan was not a subsidised republic, but, on the contrary, it used to be a donor.
We must think together – this is primarily your task – but with the support of the federal centre, we must make sure Daghestan regains this status so that it is not 70 percent dependent on subsidies from the federal budget.
It is not that we do not want to pay this money from the federal budget. No. The point is to put in place its own production facilities, create well-paid, interesting, high-tech new jobs here and raise Daghestan and its residents up to a new level.
As you are aware, there are also debts, which are mounting. The employment situation remains extremely difficult. The unemployment rate here is much higher than the Russian average, and the level of wages, as I mentioned, is below the Russian average.
People of pre-retirement age and young people find it particularly difficult to find work. Young Daghestan residents have to leave the republic for other regions in order to find a job in which they have formal training and which will allow them to adequately provide for their families.
And, of course, one of the factors that seriously weighs on our country's development is corruption. We know that. This is a problem not just in Daghestan. We talked about this today too. Actually, the whole country knows it. Regions in both eastern and western Russia are affected by it. The country has this problem, and it did not skip Daghestan.
Yet, I am convinced that the republic has everything it takes to move to a new level of development. The key goals are increasing the real incomes and salaries of the people, creating new jobs, modernising infrastructure and social services. We need to make the most of the region’s competitive advantages. These include a convenient geographical location at the intersection of international transport corridors, good climate and a high sufficiency of energy resources, including hydroelectric power.
I would like to say that we need to use the republic's investment potential more effectively and attract both domestic and foreign investors here. All the more so since the republic has many areas for long-term investment.
These include agriculture, food industry, processing and, of course, tourism. Here, it is very important to consistently improve the investment climate. Let me note that, so far, the republic's position in national investment rankings is fairly modest: it ranked 69th in 2016.
It is necessary to support entrepreneurial activity. The people of Daghestan are certainly good at it; you know this better than I. Today, thousands of Daghestanis are employed in small and medium-sized businesses, therefore it is important to ensure the most favourable conditions for the creation of small companies – farms, family businesses and enterprises.
And, of course, special focus must be placed on addressing current social challenges: improving the quality of healthcare services and education and reducing unemployment and poverty. I know that Mr Vasilyev and other leaders in Daghestan are determined to keep these matters under constant control. Let me assure you, colleagues, that you will receive the necessary assistance in addressing these development tasks, both through the ministries and departments and through state programmes.
Let us begin discussing these matters.
<…>
See also
Meeting with Daghestani public members
March 13, 2018
Additional
All news about the trip to Daghestan
March 13, 2018
Geography
Republic of Daghestan
Topics
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 13, 2018, 18:00
Text versionEvents
Working meeting with Acting Head of Daghestan Vladimir Vasilyev
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Acting Head of the Republic of Daghestan Vladimir Vasilyev. After the meeting, the President and Acting Head of the Republic walked around the centre of Makhachkala and spoke to residents.
March 13, 2018
18:30
Makhachkala
5 of 7
During a walk in Makhachkala. With Acting Head of Daghestan Vladimir Vasilyev.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Vasilyev, we have already started discussing the situation in the republic and met with the residents of two districts. It was very interesting to hear about life in the villages where they live and the republic as a whole.
You already have an opinion on what to do for the development of Daghestan in the near future. Considering this understanding you received during specific, albeit short-term work, what do you think it is necessary to focus on in the near term?
Acting Head of Daghestan Vladimir Vasilyev
: Mr President, in talking to people – I attentively watched their reaction – you said the following: we must build such relations that will allow people, no matter where they live, to feel protected, rather than left behind. So, I understand that this is our task now as well.
So, to begin with, we are resolving the social issues we have and also carrying out the executive orders and obligations we have. This is the first point. But that said – you also mentioned this subject today – we see that the republic can do a lot itself (incidentally some speakers mentioned this, people remember when Daghestan was a donor, people want to be proud of this).
We just started our first meetings and you saw what wonderful people we have. One man says: “No need to put him behind bars. Just talk to him.” In other words, people do not want to go to extremes. This is how we try to work in this whole area. We talked about filling stations and markets. I will meet with the builders in the next few days. There are questions: the volume of construction is big but we do not see any tax revenue.
As I already joked, genies are probably doing the building, because there are up to 10 people at the construction site, while there should be at least one hundred builders, according to the payroll. We then pay for what they have not earned.
So we started to address this issue systematically. It is nice that people see it, appreciate it and expect us to continue. Thank you very much for your support. So, we will now add resources, in addition to those provided by the federal centre. Thank you very much.
Your meeting today is also important for me. You touched on the issues of education and schools. Today you heard that one burned down, and another is dilapidated, so we have to do something with schools in the mountains. We will work on this.
By the way, thank you very much, almost all the key ministers have already visited us at your instruction. They will come now for the second time. You spoke about education today, that it determines the fate of both family and country. That is right. We already had a meeting, Minister of Education and Science Olga Vasilyeva came, her deputy Sergei Kravtsov came twice to the region. Now we have a group working on ensuring that all students have a real diploma as a graduate of a Daghestan secondary school, not just a piece of paper that has no value.
We are now seriously working on the National Final School Exam (EGE) issue, so that children of Daghestan have an advantage from the very beginning as they set out in life. You know how it has been, unfortunately: ‘My parents have money, so I’ll skip to the front’. This should be done away with, of course.
Therefore, starting with education, we will move forward solving problems, guided by people’s impressions. For example, today’s meeting was very useful.
Vladimir Putin: Very well, thank you.
<…>
See also
All news about the trip to Daghestan
March 13, 2018
Geography
Republic of Daghestan
Topics
Regions
Persons
Vasilyev Vladimir
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 13, 2018, 18:30
Text version