Events
Meeting of the 68th FIFA Congress
June 13, 2018
11:20
Moscow
Meeting of the 68th FIFA Congress.
Vladimir Putin attended the 68th Congress of the International Federation of Association Football (FIFA), which opened at Moscow’s Expocentre ahead of the 2018 FIFA World Cup Russia.
* * *
Speech at the 68th FIFA Congress
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: President Infantino, members of the FIFA Council, heads of the world’s football associations, ladies and gentlemen,
The countdown for a glorious football event, which all fans are looking forward to, has begun. This moment brings to mind the beginning of a long, complicated and highly responsible path to the FIFA championships, which we have covered together as one big team.
The host country is not the only one responsible for preparing this large-scale sports festival. This goal would not have been attained without the contribution made by a huge number of specialists and enthusiasts of the global football family. This close group has a wonderful tradition, which is to gather before the tournament in the city where the opening match will be held.
It is a wonderful opportunity for Russia as the host country to express our gratitude to all of you and to your colleagues for the support you have provided in word as well as in deed over a period of the past seven years, during which Russia was preparing for this, one of the most popular and important sports events in the world.
Meeting of the 68th FIFA Congress.
We worked together to hold the main football event at the top level and to make it an unforgettable moment in the life of everyone who participates in it, whether as football players, devoted fans or as the television audience.
Special thanks go to Mr Gianni Infantino for his commitment to the ideals of sports and justice, as well as for his invariably positive attitude to our country. We know that Mr Infantino took over the helm at FIFA at a difficult time, but he has been steering the course firmly as a true captain.
The FIFA World Cup is very important for our country. Many generations of football fans dreamed to bring together the world’s best teams. Tomorrow, their dream will come true.
There are 12 first-class stadiums and modern infrastructure. But what is most important is that a huge number of devoted football fans from all over the world will come to Russia and share the joy of being involved in this exciting and vibrant sports event.
The 68th FIFA Congress has brought together in Moscow the delegates of all 211 national football associations and six continental confederations. The whole football world. I would like to emphasise the adherence of the International Football Federation to the principle “sports and politics do not mix.”
Russia has always adhered to this principle and strives to closely communicate with everyone who intends to develop and strengthen the constructive nature of sports and its unlimited humanistic potential.
5 of 6
At the meeting of the 68th FIFA Congress. With FIFA President Gianni Infantino.
Such large international forums as the World Cup are not only about a spectacle and thrill, but are also a good opportunity for millions of people to learn about other countries and their traditions as well as to make new friends.
They can learn that in other countries there are also kind, enthusiastic and open minded people who want to live in peace, communicate, visit each other and watch and play football together.
Our country is ready to host the 2018 FIFA World Cup and to provide everyone visiting Russia with a comfortable environment and positive emotions.
Our goal is to make all guests – from football stars to football fans – feel our hospitality and friendliness, learn about our original, multinational culture and the unique Russian nature, and make them want to come back again.
Let me wish the delegates every success in their work. We are expecting all of you tomorrow at the opening match of the 21st FIFA World Cup.
We are sincerely happy to see all of you. Welcome to Russia!
(In English.) Welcome to Russia! Thank you very much for your attention.
Topics
Sport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 13, 2018, 11:20
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Prime Minister of Lebanon Saad Hariri
Vladimir Putin met with President of the Council of Ministers of the Lebanese Republic Saad Hariri in the Kremlin. The two leaders discussed, in particular, ways to step up bilateral economic cooperation.
June 13, 2018
16:35
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 3
With Prime Minister of Lebanon Saad Hariri.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister, I am very happy to see you.
First, I would like to congratulate you on your re-election as Prime Minister. I know that you are busy forming your government now.
To begin, I would like to note right off that we have an upward trend in mutual trade: in 2017, trade increased by over 17 percent.
We need to maintain this pace and not allow it to backslide – there were some alarming signs in the first quarter – we need to prevent a reversal of the trend that has developed over the past year.
We need to concentrate on the intergovernmental commission. The commission has been successful so far. A large number of companies on both sides are interested in cooperation.
Various industries have shown achievements. I hope today we will have time to talk about all these issues, as well as the situation in your country and in the region as a whole.
Glad to see you.
Prime Minister of Lebanon Saad Hariri (retranslated): Mr President, thank you very much. I am always happy to come to Moscow – it is an opportunity for us to exchange views on many issues.
We certainly have ongoing projects we need to work on in the future. But we have also noted progress, and with the new Government, Lebanon intends to continue these efforts.
I hope that the World Cup in Russia will be a success. I also hope that we will have an opportunity to discuss the situation in the region in detail.
<…>
Geography
Lebanon
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Hariri Saad
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 13, 2018, 16:35
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of Rwanda Paul Kagame
Vladimir Putin met with President of the Republic of Rwanda Paul Kagame to discuss various aspects of bilateral cooperation. The Rwandan leader came to Russia for the opening of the 2018 FIFA World Cup.
June 13, 2018
14:45
The Kremlin, Moscow
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, colleagues, I am very pleased to welcome you to Moscow.
Our Foreign Minister has visited you recently. This year marks the 55th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between our countries. I am very pleased that we have this opportunity to talk about the development of our relations.
I hope you will have an interesting and pleasant time in Moscow during the 2018 FIFA World Cup.
President of the Republic of Rwanda Paul Kagame: Thank you, Mr President, for welcoming us and for the invitation to visit your country and also to be part of the FIFA World Cup. I want to congratulate you also on Russian Independence [Day] as well as the hosting of the World Cup.
Also I am happy that our relationship has so far lasted over 55 years. I am happy about that and look forward to strengthening our relationship further.
We had a very good visit by the Foreign Minister of your country, Mr Lavrov. He came with a delegation to Kigali. We are happy about that. We want to build on that momentum for strengthening our relationship which we want to continue to take further.
Mr President, I also want to thank you also for the support and the cooperation we are having in different fields that are very useful and productive to the development of our country.
These are the areas of education, training, defence cooperation as well, and other areas. And we are looking forward to having the private sector work in Rwanda, and look forward to hosting some of them from Russia to see the areas in which we could do investment and business.
<…>
Geography
Rwanda
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 13, 2018, 14:45
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of Bolivia Evo Morales
Vladimir Putin had a meeting with President of the Plurinational State of Bolivia Evo Morales in the Kremlin.
June 13, 2018
15:50
Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 5
With President of Bolivia Evo Morales.
The two presidents discussed opportunities concerning the expansion of bilateral cooperation, in particular, in the field of energy and military technology.
Following the talks, the leaders of the two countries adopted a joint statement on partnership in international affairs. The statement lays emphasis, in part, on coordinating actions in chemical disarmament and chemical non-proliferation, countering terrorism and illegal drug trafficking under the joint action plan on cooperation in the anti-drug struggle in 2018–2020, which was signed by Russia and Bolivia in Vienna in March 2018.
The parties also expressed their readiness to develop cooperation at the political and special services level in countering the illegal use of information and communication technology, transnational organised crime, illegal arms trade, corruption and other challenges and threats to public security.
The two leaders reaffirmed their mutual interest in developing bilateral military and military-technical cooperation and agreed to consolidate joint actions in the peaceful use of nuclear energy under the September 2017 contract on building a centre for nuclear research and technology in Bolivia and expanding cooperation on the training of personnel in this area.
As for the energy sector, the leaders expressed their intention to continue cooperating at the Gas Exporting Countries Forum and emphasised their mutual interest in developing their fuel and energy sectors and their mutual striving to exchange knowledge, experience and technology in the joint implementation of power sector projects.
In addition, the parties agreed to step up the political dialogue and cooperation between Russia and the member states and associated members of the Southern Common Market (Mercosur), as well as between Russia and the Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of Our America (ALBA).
The joint statement also includes the development of tourism, and further contact in culture, education, science, and protection of the environment and water resources, and cooperation on social protection and labour relations.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, Mr President, friends. I am very pleased to welcome you to Moscow.
Mr President, our states enjoy great relations, and your country is an important partner of ours in Latin America. Our foreign ministries cooperate closely, and we are working closely with Bolivia at the UN, where your country is currently a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council.
We continue to provide training to your students, and are discussing the possibilities of expanding cooperation in the military and technical sphere. We export automotive equipment and medicines to your country. There is room to expand this list.
Gazprom operates at two fields producing 2.5 billion cubic metres of gas. We are now reviewing the possibility of doubling the output.
Rosatom is creating the Atomic Research Centre in your country. So, I am very pleased to note that our relations are expanding, and today we will include all areas of our interaction in a joint statement.
I am very pleased to see you.
President of the Plurinational State of Bolivia Evo Morales
(retranslated): Thank you very much, Mr President. I am very pleased to be able to greet you, too.
We cooperate with great success, and our countries are allies. The entire world also admires Russia as the host of the 2018 FIFA World Cup.
We have a lot of commonalities in our respective ways of life and universal values. We share basic values such as the heritage of humankind, respect for nature, and Mother Earth. Most importantly, we share your views on nuclear defence. We cooperate in many areas and have common views, I repeat, on universal values.
We are starting an interesting project with Gazprom and Rosatom. Gas production and energy security are critically important topics.
The independence of the South American countries is very important for us. Our cooperation with Russia in this area is very productive.
To reiterate, the subject of gas is very interesting, and we also share an interest in lithium. Due to lack of time and some technical issues, we only briefly touched on this topic.
With regard to the Eurasian Economic Union, we would be very interested in cooperating with it, and I am open to discussing these issues.
<…>
Geography
Bolivia
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Morales Evo
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 13, 2018, 15:50
Text version