Events
Meeting with President of Iran Hassan Rouhani
Vladimir Putin met with President of the Islamic Republic of Iran Hassan Rouhani on the sidelines of the Caspian Summit. The two presidents addressed ways in which they can settle the world's most acute crises, particularly in the Middle East.
August 12, 2018
15:20
Aktau
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, I am very glad to have the opportunity to personally meet with you on the sidelines of the summit and exchange opinions on a whole range of various issues.
There is much cooperation between our countries. We have many issues to address regarding the world’s acute crises, including that in Syria. I would like to inform you about the progress of our contacts with our partners on this complicated problem.
Although our colleagues are in constant contact with each other, personal meetings at such level are highly important.
President of Iran Hassan Rouhani
(retranslated): Mr President,
I am very glad to have this opportunity to meet with you on the sidelines of the Caspian Summit. And I am very glad that with each year our relations are developing positively.
Recently, Iran has officially reinforced its cooperation with the Eurasian Economic Union. This may make for the development of trade between our countries.
Another sphere of our interaction is bilateral cooperation in fighting terrorism and bringing stability to the region.
Our common goal is to establish stability and peace in the whole region and provide security for the region’s countries. The world has witnessed how, with the help from Iran and Russia, the Syrian army was able to play a vital role in fighting terrorism in Syria.
I must emphasise that today all measures being taken by Iran, Russia and Turkey are helping to establish peace and security in the Syrian Arab Republic.
In the recent years, we have reached two important achievements. The first one is cooperation between Iran, Russia and other countries in achieving agreements on the Iranian Nuclear Deal.
The second one is how Iran, Russia and Turkey cooperate in establishing peace and security in Syria.
We are committed to the elimination of any hurdles and the settling of any global crises solely within the framework of dialogue and talks.
<…>
Geography
Iran
Topics
Fight against terrorism
Foreign policy
Persons
Rouhani Hassan
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 12, 2018, 15:20
Text versionEvents
Statement by Vladimir Putin following the Fifth Caspian Summit
President of Russia made a press statement following the Fifth Caspian Summit.
August 12, 2018
14:00
Aktau
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen,
Today, a very important and landmark event has taken place – the signing of the Convention On the Legal Status of the Caspian Sea, an international agreement that contains a detailed and comprehensive set of rules and obligations on the use and preservation of our common treasure – the Caspian Sea. Thus, the multifaceted interaction of the 'Caspian five' states was given a present-day legal foundation that will serve us for years to come.
It is crucially important to note that the Convention confers upon the five states exclusive and sovereign rights to use the Caspian Sea, to pursue its responsible development and to use its assets and other resources, while firmly securing the settlement of all pressing issues based on the principles of consensus and mutual consideration of each other’s interests, and bestowing upon the Caspian a peaceful status, and ensuring that armed forces of non-regional countries are not present in the Caspian region.
We have been striving for many years to develop and approve this strategic and fundamental document. Substantial efforts have been made to hold negotiations with the participation of numerous government agencies of our countries and have involved experts from business communities.
The success achieved – and this is undoubtedly a success – was made possible largely due to the high level of trust and mutual understanding that exists between the leaders of the Caspian states and our readiness to always follow the logic of respect, partnership and equality. I would like to express appreciation to all heads of state present today.
Such a joint approach actually showed its efficiency and relevance. It showed that joint efforts can result in achieving ambitious goals in any, even the most complicated issues, in finding a compromise and balanced solutions of mutual interest. In today's difficult international conditions, this carries a lot of weight.
The signing of the Convention opens a new stage in the relations of the Caspian states and allows us to secure prosperity and provide for dynamic development of our common region together.
I note with satisfaction that today we have also signed a comprehensive package of agreements that expand and add to the Convention in the most important and pressing issues of interaction.
The plans of the Caspian states include boosting economic cooperation, expanding trade and investment ties, cooperation in the energy sector, developing the region's transport and logistic potential, and boosting tourist flows. Particular attention will be paid to preserving the rich nature and biodiversity of the Caspian Sea.
Of course, the Caspian countries attach great importance to the issues of security and counteracting today's challenges and threats. We have to take into account the fact that the Caspian Sea is located near hotbeds of tension and areas of international terrorist activity – I am referring to the Middle East and Afghanistan.
That is why our countries are committed to strengthening comprehensive interaction of our special services and border agencies, and to promoting coordination in foreign policy.
All the above-mentioned issues form an actual and positive long-term agenda for Caspian cooperation. We are facing serious and interesting tasks. And we are intent on consistently solving them.
In conclusion, I would like to once again express my appreciation to our Kazakh friends and President Nazarbayev, first of all, for the warm hospitality, and congratulate all of us and all colleagues on the successful holding of this summit.
Thank you for your attention.
See also
Fifth Caspian Summit
August 12, 2018
Geography
Kazakhstan
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 12, 2018, 14:00
Text version