Events
Meeting with Tver Region Governor Igor Rudenya
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Tver Region Governor Igor Rudenya to discuss digital television in the region, socioeconomic matters and the tourism industry prospects.
December 4, 2018
15:10
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 4
Meeting with Tver Region Governor Igor Rudenya.
The Governor thanked the President for the support provided by the Presidential Executive Office and the Government to the digital switchover of all households in the region regardless of their income. Local residents now have access to 20 television channels in high-quality digital format. There are fewer analogue television channels. The regional authorities have prepared a programme to co-finance the purchase of digital reception equipment for low-income households although the majority of people have modern television sets that are equipped to receive digital TV signals.
The President noted that nobody must be overlooked and that no family must be left without access to digital television. He also instructed the Governor to personally monitor this process.
Igor Rudenya
updated Vladimir Putin on the region’s financial performance, an increase in budget revenue and growing wages in the public sector, as well as on the development of the tourism industry. In particular, he spoke about the Volga Sea project, which provides for building a river boat station linked by a railway line to Moscow’s Leningradsky Terminal. The trip from Moscow to the large tourism complex will take only 1 hour 40 minutes, so that people will be able to continue their journey on the Volga and the Moscow Sea.
The Governor invited the President to the annual summer tourism forum held in Konakovo, which brings together representatives from federal ministries, travel companies and tourism personnel from other Russian regions.
Geography
Tver Region
Topics
Budget
Regions
Telecommunications
Tourism
Persons
Rudenya Igor
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 4, 2018, 15:10
Text version