Events
Presentation of presidential prizes to young culture professionals and for writing and art for children
Vladimir Putin presented 2017 Presidential Prizes to young culture professionals and 2017 Presidential Prizes for writing and art for children and young people.
April 6, 2018
13:50
The Kremlin, Moscow
5 of 22
Animation artist Dina Velikovskaya, winner of the 2017 Presidential Prize for young culture professionals.
Prizes for young culture professionals have been awarded to:
Dina Velikovskaya, animated film director, for her contribution to the development of Russian animation;
Sofya Kondratyeva, head of the Museology Department at the Divnogorye National Architectural-Archaeological Museum-Reserve, for creating and implementing innovative museum projects;
See also
Winners announced for 2017 presidential prizes for young culture professionals and for writing and art for children and young people
March 19, 2018
Denis Rodkin, soloist with the State Academic Bolshoi Theatre, for his contribution to preserving, promoting and popularising the achievements of Russian choreography.
Prizes for writing and art for children and young people have been awarded to:
Vladimir Retsepter, artistic director of the St Petersburg Pushkin State Theatre Centre, for educational activity;
Alexei Rybnikov, composer, for his contribution to the development of Russian music;
Vladimir Chikishev, director of the Nizhny Novgorod boarding school for deaf children, for implementing the School–Theatre–Home single educational space programme and for creating the Piano Theatre.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends.
Welcome to the Kremlin and congratulations on your prizes.
Today, prizes will be awarded both to young art figures and recognised professionals who created outstanding writing and art for children.
The fact that these prizes will be presented as part of one ceremony symbolises the continuity of our rich cultural traditions and, of course, the unique capability of Russian literature, art and music to awaken the feeling of beauty in the new, young generations.
A huge role in the formation of young talents is played, without any exaggeration, by the magical, enchanting music of Alexei Rybnikov. For almost half a century his stunning melodies have been included in the golden fund of Russian art; they sound in more than 80 animated and feature films. Many became classics, and the whole country knows and loves composer Rybnikov. Alexei Rybnikov continues his creative work. The main spectators at his musical theatre are children, and the company mostly consists of young artists.
Vladimir Retsepter has headed the St Petersburg Pushkin State Theatre Centre for over 25 years. His plays are a model of the theatrical development of Russian and foreign classical drama. In fact, this is a new educational format that helps modern schoolchildren to understand the meaning of the best samples of world literature and to get answers to questions of concern for them.
Devotion to art and unlimited spiritual generosity – this is how Vladimir Chikishev’s activity can be characterised. For 30 years, he has been helping children with hearing impairment to create, revealing their artistic nature and strengthening the desire for an active, full life.
I am certain that today’s winners of prizes for young art and culture professionals also had such empathetic, passionate and experienced mentors.
I have no doubt that VGIK teachers are proud of their talented student, animation director and artist Dina Velikovskaya. The main subject of her work is the family and relations within the family, which are sometimes very complicated. Her works show us a world of love and traditional values, which is why both adults and children enjoy them so much.
Sofya Kondratyeva is working to encourage people to feel at one with our homeland, Russia, which is our huge extended family. She has been awarded a prize for developing and implementing innovative museum projects about the Palaeolithic Age and unique underground dwelling systems. Sofya Kondratyeva not only supervises research and museum activities at the Divnogorye Museum Reserve in Voronezh but also represents Russia at the International Union of Speleology (UIS).
Denis Rodkin has greatly contributed to the preservation and growth of our national choreographic legacy. A principal at the famous Bolshoi Theatre, he is one of the leading ballet dancers of the new generation. His talent and skills have helped him to master both classical and modern dance. This virtuoso universalism is fresh evidence of the extremely high standards of the Russian ballet school and the enduring value of its world-famous traditions.
Friends, you come from different generations. You began your creative careers in different periods of our history. But all of you have a keen feeling of the times. You see what is truly good and important for people, and you awaken their desire for creation and knowledge. You awaken lofty sentiments in them.
You are also united in your loyalty to the Russian culture, its noble humanitarian mission, and its importance for the survival of Russia and the Russian people. You serve culture honestly and selflessly, and your achievements have added many bright and inimitable pages and facets to our culture.
I wholeheartedly wish you further creative success, and all the best.
Thank you. Thank you very much.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: Friends,
I once again wholeheartedly congratulate you on winning these prizes. Congratulations to our winners, nearly all of whom spoke about their families today, about their teachers and their children. The first winner we celebrated today spoke very well about a code that makes us special. This code is developing from one generation to another, and each generation adds a tiny new element to this code, making it even stronger and more sustainable and viable. You are making a huge contribution to this.
Thank you very much.
Topics
State awards
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 6, 2018, 13:50
Text versionEvents
Security Council meeting
The President held a Security Council meeting to discuss draft Basic Principles of the State Border Policy of the Russian Federation and measures to improve national security as they apply to protecting the country's borders.
April 6, 2018
15:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
4 of 8
Security Council meeting.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
Today, we will review the draft Basic Principles of the State Border Policy of Russia. We will discuss a wide range of current and long-term goals outlined in this strategic planning document.
These issues are exceptionally important. The border remains the most important statehood attribute and the advanced frontier for ensuring the country’s security. Therefore, our actions and plans in this sphere must be well considered and effective, meet modern and future challenges, and be consistent with the national development goals.
The current Basic Principles of the Border Policy were adopted in 1996 and are clearly in need of a major update given the changes around the world and Russia’s greatly improved capabilities, as well as the great amount of work that has already been done.
Thus, the necessary regulatory framework in the border protection sphere has formed over the past years. The international legal registration of the border with neighbouring countries and the delimitation of maritime areas were carried out on the principles of mutual respect.
Since the 2000s, a number of complex border areas have been technically re-equipped and modernised, primarily in the Caucasus region and the strategically important regions of the Arctic and the Russian Far East.
The streamlining of the structure and the composition of federal executive bodies involved in implementing the border policy and border authorities was an important step. In this regard, I would like to note that the level of equipment of the border units with weapons and equipment has been brought to 80 percent, and the share of modern equipment has grown from 10 percent in 2003 – as little as 10 percent of modern technology – to 54 percent in 2017.
Overall, these measures have helped us stabilise the situation in the border regions, reduce the risk of terrorists and extremists entering the country and enhance the efficiency of combating cross-border crime.
On the other hand, the situation is changing rapidly and continuously, as I have said, so that new challenges and threats appear in the border regions and other areas.
In particular, NATO is increasing its military capability on our border, and attempts are being made to hinder integration processes that involve Russia and to provoke new and fuel old conflicts in the post-Soviet space and in the regions that border with Russia. The consequences of this include military and political instability, growing smuggling and crime rates, as well as acute humanitarian problems. In this situation, our priorities are to ensure reliable protection and defence of our borders and to effectively neutralise potential threats.
At the same time, we must continue to enhance the country’s openness. We keep saying that the Russian borders must be safely protected and yet as transparent as possible for all those who enter the country legitimately and with good intentions. I see this as a vital element of Russia’s international image and the quality of our business climate and national jurisdiction, as well as a major factor of economic, humanitarian and cross-border cooperation and the development of integration in Eurasia.
All these approaches have been incorporated in the draft Guidelines of the National Border Policy, which we will be discussing today.
What areas do I consider the most important? First if all, it is necessary to use a comprehensive approach when mitigating risk and threats to border security.
It is necessary to reliably protect our territory from terrorists and extremists, transnational and trans-border crime and to curtail channels of drug trafficking, illegal migration and the smuggling of items of cultural value, strategic raw materials and biological resources.
Obviously, the results of these efforts directly depend on clear-cut and effective coordination and the concerted efforts of all agencies and services that work directly at the border and are responsible for the security of our state and citizens in general. The heads of all the services are represented here today.
Secondly, it is necessary to consistently develop bilateral and multilateral border cooperation, relying on the experience that has been accumulated in this area in the last few years.
In the process, it is important to develop well-orchestrated and clear methods of cooperation between the border agencies and suggest new forms of partnership, primarily with our colleagues from the CSTO, the SCO and the Eurasian Economic Union. Let me emphasise that this cooperation must be as broad as possible – from the mutual exchange of information to the holding of joint operations, and in perspective, the formation of an integral system of border security and stability on the external borders of the associations of our countries. In the process, it is necessary to gradually remove excessive barriers on the internal borders within our integration associations. Needless to say, this should be done carefully, not to the detriment of the interests of our country, our business and the security of the citizens of the Russian Federation.
Thirdly, one of the key tasks is consistent development of Russia’s border infrastructure – naturally, based on a new, advanced technical format with the use of modern technology and best practices, including automated control and monitoring of the situation, equipment and procedures for the operation of border checkpoints.
Cutting-edge equipment, communication and digital technology, as well as the agencies’ integrated databases must be used to create comfortable conditions for our citizens and for Russian and international business, to promote inbound trade and tourism, as well as to enhance the competitiveness of national exports and transit routes.
One of our priorities is the development and implementation of an integrated one-window/one-stop border crossing system for goods and vehicles. These specific and practical measures must help us implement one of the tasks set out in the Presidential Address, that is, to accelerate the movement of cargo within Russia and to enhance Russia’s position as a global logistics hub.
I must point out, however, that the speed of construction and renovation of border checkpoints is unacceptably low. Finished facilities remain idle for a long time, and the installation of automated systems and other modern technology takes too long or is delayed. At the same time, the prosecutor’s offices say that budgetary allocations are not always used efficiently.
I ask you to analyse the implementation of the State Border of the Russian Federation 2012–2021 federal targeted programme. We must pinpoint the problems that are hindering this and take measures to resolve them. Overall, the programme should be adjusted to the Guidelines of the National Border Policy, which we are discussing today.
And finally, we must continue working on an international legal framework for the state border and maritime delimitation, including the external border of Russia’s continental shelf. We must act consistently and rely on solid arguments to protect our national interests, especially since we have accumulated considerable experience in this area. I am referring to the international recognition in 2014 of Russia’s right to the part of the Sea of Okhotsk that had been previously open to other countries.
Let us proceed to our discussion.
<…>
See also
News of the Security Council
Topics
National security
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Security Council
Publication date: April 6, 2018, 15:30
Text version