Events
Meeting with Georgy Poltavchenko and Alexander Beglov
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Georgy Poltavchenko and Alexander Beglov, during which he announced his decision to appoint Alexander Beglov Acting Governor of St Petersburg.
October 3, 2018
18:30
St Petersburg
3 of 7
Meeting with Georgy Poltavchenko and Alexander Beglov.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Poltavchenko,
I would like to begin with you as you are St Petersburg Governor. You have been working in this post for seven years, during which the city has changed, and changed for the better. It is developing. You have been working for the prosperity of the people who live in St Petersburg.
The city is large, there are many problems, and it is always the top official that is responsible for everything. Of course, there are still many issues to be resolved, but many things have changed over these years, and I would like to thank you for that.
I would like to offer you a job at a national level. You know what attention we are paying to the development of shipbuilding today, and in this sense I would like to note that St Petersburg has originally and historically been a centre of Russian shipbuilding. I would like to ask you to become chairman of the board of the United Shipbuilding Corporation (USC).
Georgy Poltavchenko: Mr President, thank you for this high level of trust. Thank you for praising my modest efforts.
It is true that I did my utmost to serve the city faithfully for seven years. We succeeded in some areas and perhaps not so much in other. But I always tried to do my best and I think your praise means that I have met your expectations and those of the people who live in St Petersburg, our townsmen.
Georgy Poltavchenko (right) and Alexander Beglov.
Of course, the proposal you have made is a very high-level task for me. The main thing is, as you know, that I have great desire to serve, because St Petersburg is a naval city in all respects.
Our shipbuilding industry was born here, and this is where the leading Russian shipbuilding companies work today. In my line of work I have met with their representatives and know the situation at the enterprises.
I will not let you down, Mr President. Thank you very much.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Poltavchenko, there are many questions. We are speaking, of course, not only about the development of the shipbuilding cluster in St Petersburg but the development of shipbuilding as an industry.
This corporation does not include all the enterprises of the national shipbuilding industry, but it is definitely one of the leaders in the sector.
We have to further boost shipbuilding in Kaliningrad, the Volga region, and also the Far East. We have many spheres of activity, and one of the key tasks is switching from government defence orders to building civil ships of different classes, not only luxury liners, although this is what we specialise in; we have to have a broader perspective. I very much count on your experience, knowledge as well as your executive talent that you have demonstrated here, in this extensive field of work, the national shipbuilding industry.
Yet, the job of increasing the defence capacity is still there, and we are not going to cancel it anytime soon, so that involves many issues.
Georgy Poltavchenko: Mr President, I will make every effort to work on this.
Meeting with Georgy Poltavchenko and Alexander Beglov.
The only thing I would like to ask here is that you support us as this is a really massive sector; honestly, there are problems that I had to think through, and I think that they are hard to solve without your help and that of the country’s leadership. I am ready to work 24/7.
Vladimir Putin: There are thousands of people working in the industry, including top class specialists, and of course, we have to constantly pay attention to social matters and wage levels, as well as other social problems that have accumulated in the sector.
There are so many problems you will have to work with. I am always at your disposal, I want you and your colleagues to know this.
We have known each other for a long time now, for many years, and we must use this to solve federal matters.
Georgy Poltavchenko: Thank you very much, Mr President.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Mr Beglov, your whole life is tied to Leningrad, St Petersburg. Am I right in thinking you have been here since 1979? You are a builder and started your career in St Petersburg as a builder. You worked as an installer, am I correct?
Alexander Beglov: High rigger.
Vladimir Putin: High rigger, yes. Here, in St Petersburg, you moved up the ranks and made a career in a good sense of the word. In 2003, you even served as the Acting Governor of St Petersburg in accordance with a presidential executive order. Then, you left office following the election of a new governor, went to Moscow and worked in various positions in the Presidential Executive Office, served as head of the Control Directorate and Presidential aide, then headed an envoy’s office in the Central Federal District, and are now heading the envoy’s office here, in the Northwestern Federal District.
Meeting with Georgy Poltavchenko (right) and Alexander Beglov.
I want you to pay special attention to the key territory not only in the northwest, but throughout Russia, focus on St Petersburg. I would like to appoint you Acting Governor of St Petersburg until September 2019. By September, we will see how the work is going and based on this you will decide what to do next.
Alexander Beglov: Mr President, thank you so much for your faith in me. The city of Leningrad, St Petersburg, is my hometown. Indeed, this is where I started my career as a high rigger and moved up through the ranks in the construction industry. Then, I started working at the Leningrad Municipal Executive Committee, and then you entrusted me with the post of the governor. I think I met your expectations then, and everything that had to be done was done in order to get the city ready for the winter, which was a tall order back then.
So, thank you, I will definitely do my very best to be up to the job. For my part, I would also like to not only live up to your expectations, but, of course, to earn respect and trust of the Leningrad, or St Petersburg, residents. This is important for me, because this is my home, the home of my family as well as my friends, my children are growing up here, and all my friends are here. This is my hometown.
Vladimir Putin: Of course, you are aware of the situation in St Petersburg as head of the envoy’s office in the Northwestern Federal District. However, St Petersburg is a special administrative unit. It is more than just an administrative unit – it is a megapolis with five million residents with all its advantages and complexities. Of course, being an envoy, you may have not had the chance to get into all the details, but you are on good terms with Mr Poltavchenko. I hope he will take time to get you up to speed and share with you, as the highest St Petersburg official, the points that need special attention. I hope the transition will be smooth and nothing will be left out.
Alexander Beglov (left) and Georgy Poltavchenko.
I am counting on your knowledge and your expertise and wish you good luck.
Alexander Beglov: Thank you very much, Mr President. I am aware that you love our city, and I have witnessed this during all these years when you helped it build the ring road, start new construction projects, build protective structures, and many other things.
The people of Leningrad, the residents of St Petersburg have a lot of respect for you, and the fact that you offered this position to me is also a credit of trust on behalf of St Petersburg residents. I will do my best not to let you or the people down.
Vladimir Putin: Once again, I wish you every success in serving our hometown and the people of St Petersburg.
Alexander Beglov: Thank you.
<…>
See also
Alexander Beglov appointed Acting Governor of St Petersburg
October 3, 2018
Geography
Saint Petersburg
Topics
Regions
Persons
Beglov Alexander
Poltavchenko Georgy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 3, 2018, 18:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Mikhail Razvozhayev
The President had a meeting with Mikhail Razvozhayev, during which he announced his decision to appoint him Acting Governor of the Republic of Khakassia.
October 3, 2018
11:05
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 3
Meeting with Mikhail Razvozhayev.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Razvozhayev, you worked in the Krasnoyarsk Region before, didn’t you?
Mikhail Razvozhayev: In Krasnoyarsk, yes.
See also
Mikhail Razvozhayev appointed Acting Head of Khakassia
October 3, 2018
Vladimir Putin: And in Krasnoyarsk, you worked your way up to Deputy Head of Krasnoyarsk Region Governor’s administration.
Mikhail Razvozhayev: That is correct.
Vladimir Putin: I have an unusual request and an unusual assignment for you.
Head of the Republic of Khakassia Viktor Zimin recently resigned: this is understandable as he withdrew from the election campaign. But you know Siberia, night temperatures have already dropped below zero and we need to complete the preparations for the winter. We must not lose sight of the region’s social problems even for a day. There are a lot of matters requiring constant attention – and not just attention, but management for these difficult, complex processes.
That is why my request is that you leave for Khakassia, work there for a month, take the situation in the republic under control, including the socioeconomic problems, and help the region conduct honest and transparent election in accordance with our country’s laws.
After that – I have already considered this, and I promise to do this – I will get you back to Moscow and, without a doubt, will find a post for you in the federal government – you are currently serving as deputy federal minister – in accordance with your knowledge, experience and, in a positive sense of that word, your ambitions.
Mikhail Razvozhayev: Mr President, thank you for your trust. I am ready for this task, and I will do everything in my power to make this month the month of efficient work.
Moreover, we are now in the middle of forming the budget and the federal national projects’ regional segments. We need to make sure the republic is part of these projects; we cannot let it miss out, as the participation in these projects will help us resolve all the social matters stipulated in Executive Order No. 204. In 2019, we will need to start carrying out these tasks, so now we have to act on it. This month will be vital for forming the regional segment and working with federal agencies.
Vladimir Putin: This is highly important, because now is the time to coordinate the main areas of focus with the Government, including the areas that require federal budget support and subsidies. You know what I mean.
How long did you work in the Krasnoyarsk Region administration?
Mikhail Razvozhayev: I worked there for over ten years. I also spent four years in Moscow, at the Ministry of North Caucasus Affairs.
Vladimir Putin: I am sure you will do a good job.
Mikhail Razvozhayev: Thank you, Mr President.
<…>
Geography
Republic of Khakassia
Topics
Regions
Persons
Razvozhayev Mikhail
Zimin Viktor
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 3, 2018, 11:05
Text versionEvents
Talks with Federal Chancellor of Austria Sebastian Kurz
In St Petersburg, Vladimir Putin had talks with Federal Chancellor of the Republic of Austria Sebastian Kurz who is in Russia on a working visit.
October 3, 2018
21:50
St Petersburg
4 of 13
Talks with Federal Chancellor of the Republic of Austria Sebastian Kurz.
The President and the Chancellor discussed the status and development prospects of Russia-Austria relations, topical international and regional problems, and Austria’s Presidency of the Council of the European Union in the second half of 2018.
After the talks the two heads of state witnessed the signing by Gazprom CEO Alexei Miller and OMV CEO Rainer Seele of a basic agreement on assets sales.
Vladimir Putin and Sebastian Kurz gave a joint news conference.
* * *
Beginning of talks with Federal Chancellor of Austria Sebastian Kurz
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Federal Chancellor, colleagues,
I am delighted to welcome you – this time in Russia, in St Petersburg. The wonderful event, the opening of a joint exhibition by two leading museums in Russia and Austria, gave us a great opportunity to meet once again and to talk not only about art but also about the development of our bilateral ties.
These relations are developing well. Trade is growing. Last year it grew by 40 percent and this year it doubled over the first semester.
The capital investment on both sides is increasing. Russia is actively investing in the Austrian economy. I do not have the exact figures but I think Austria has accumulated over $30 billion in Russian investments.
We are pursuing large projects, but not only in the energy sector but in other spheres as well.
I am glad to have this opportunity to meet with you, Mr Federal Chancellor, and to go over all these subjects, including, of course, international aspects and our relations with the European Union as Austria is now holding the presidency of the EU; to exchange opinions on key matters, most sensitive topics that are drawing our attention in the world.
Federal Chancellor of Austria Sebastian Kurz (retranslated): Mr President,
I have the honour to thank you for this invitation to St Petersburg with all my heart. It is a great joy for me to be here, at the exhibition opening in St Petersburg.
Cultural exchange is not the only important aspect of our relations. We are pleased to see the positive development of our economic cooperation. I am happy with the fact that we are cooperating very well in the energy industry.
Since Austria is currently presiding in the Council of Europe, we also find it important to talk about Russia-EU relations. As you said, today we will speak about some challenging problems such as the situation in Ukraine and Syria. But we hope that in this dialogue we will be able to find an opportunity to strengthen our cooperation as it must be in our interests that the world lives in peace.
I am really delighted to have this opportunity to discuss these and other topics with you.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
<…>
See also
News conference following talks with Federal Chancellor of Austria Sebastian Kurz
October 3, 2018
Geography
Saint Petersburg
Austria
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Kurz Sebastian
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 3, 2018, 21:50
Text versionEvents
Meeting with finalists of the 2018 Teacher of the Year contest
Ahead of Teacher’s Day, Vladimir Putin met with the finalists of the 2018 Teacher of the Year contest.
October 3, 2018
19:20
St Petersburg
1 of 2
At the meeting with finalists of the 2018 Teacher of the Year contest.
The President thanked the teachers for their work and wished them further success.
The federal stage of the 2018 Teacher of the Year contest started in St Petersburg on September 24. The jury includes winners of the contest from previous years and administration representatives from teacher training universities. The head of the jury is Rector of Moscow State University Viktor Sadovnichy.
* * *
Meeting with 2018 Teacher of the Year contest finalists
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon,
First of all, I would like to congratulate you on becoming finalists of the Teacher of the Year contest. The jury will still need to choose the absolute winner, to put it that way, but this is, actually, a matter of opinion of those who will choose.
On the whole, you certainly showed wonderful qualities, both professional and personal ones. My congratulations on your professional success. This is my first point.
Secondly, as they say on such occasions, I congratulate all of our country’s teachers that you represent on Teachers’ Day, which is tomorrow.
Yours is an important and noble profession, an important, noble mission to bring up children, young people, and raise specialists that our country needs. We all know, and you know better than anyone: a person has to be an active citizen. Each teacher shoulders the responsibility for educating citizens; each teacher, whatever he or she does, whatever subject they teach, also does this. This is absolutely obvious. What is the best way to teach? We all know that – a personal example. Therefore, it is a personal challenge for every teacher, for every educator, to model this kind of behaviour.
But this is also a special burden, and it is always a psychological burden. That is probably why, as I said, this is a mission. Not even a profession, but a mission.
You must know that we have been trying to pay as much attention as possible to this public service area, the most important area – education. Starting next year, we are launching another initiative, a new federal programme, Education, with solid federal funding of over 300 billion rubles for three years. We will build more schools, upgrade the existing ones, supply new equipment and, of course, introduce modern teaching methods, which is a major research field in itself.
When I spoke about a personal example, I certainly had in mind one highly important and difficult component of your work: in order to be able to teach children to learn, you yourselves must learn and study continuously. In the modern world, it is a mandatory requirement for a professional in any industry, and absolutely indispensable in education. As we said at the beginning, personal example is the main thing. When children see their teacher constantly in motion, in development, it certainly cannot go unnoticed.
I want to thank you for your work and to wish you further success. Our schools have achievements; it is absolutely obvious. We can see this at international competitions, where our children win more and more medals, take prestigious awards, even first places. This is certainly the result of our teaching community’s work. How else could it be? This is the only reason. These things do not appear out of thin air. Neither do they dissolve into nowhere. The energy of development has its sustainable source – your work.
Please accept my warmest greetings on the upcoming Teacher’s Day.
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 3, 2018, 19:20
Text version