Events
First Russia-Uzbekistan Interregional Cooperation Forum
Vladimir Putin and Shavkat Mirziyoyev took part in the closing ceremony of the First Russia-Uzbekistan Forum of Interregional Cooperation.
October 19, 2018
13:50
Tashkent
2 of 5
Vladimir Putin and Shavkat Mirziyoyev took part in the closing ceremony of the First Russia-Uzbekistan Forum of Interregional Cooperation.
The First Russia-Uzbekistan Forum of Interregional Cooperation is underway` at Uzexpocentre, which is Uzbekistan’s largest exhibition venue. The forum was attended by representatives of over 25 regions of the two countries, and more than 600 employees of various companies and organisations. The Russia-Uzbekistan Educational Forum is also being held on the sidelines of the forum.
* * *
Speeches at the First Russia-Uzbekistan Interregional Cooperation Forum
President of Uzbekistan Shavkat Mirziyoyev
: Mr President, colleagues,
I am sincerely pleased to welcome President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin and members of the Russian delegation to the First Uzbekistan-Russia Interregional Cooperation Forum. Its organisation and its high representational level are further evidence of the great mutual interest and the powerful potential of our cooperation. We highly appreciate and sincerely treasure our stable and trustworthy relations with the Russian Federation, our strategic partner and ally.
Today's talks, in an atmosphere of full mutual understanding, trust and openness, have revealed our firm desire to expand and strengthen our diverse cooperation in the interests of our peoples. Here we attach great importance to interregional contacts.
Colleagues,
At this forum, you are discussing real practical aspects of business cooperation, specific projects and programmes of interaction. I sincerely welcome and support this approach. Interregional contacts have become highly intensive and effective. More than 40 mutual visits over a year. In the past several months alone, the heads of all 14 regions of our country visited 26 entities of the Russian Federation. Taking part in our join forum are the heads and representatives of 18 Russian regions. This is an unprecedented scale. I want to point out that it is you who determines the specific direction of cooperation.
We need to step up efforts to create joint technological production units and deepen interaction in manufacturing sought-after products and developing markets in other countries.
Let me cite several examples of this productive cooperation. These include the creation of a joint textile cluster, in cooperation with companies from Ivanovo Region, in regions of Uzbekistan (Navoiy Region), and the production of chemical fertilisers in Tashkent Region, and pharmaceutical chemicals in Karakalpakstan in cooperation with our partner from Tatarstan. Our cooperation uses the infrastructure opportunities of the wholesale and distribution centres in Moscow Region, Bashkortostan, Orenburg Region and other Russian entities in order to organise supplies of agricultural produce and create a modern horticulture complex in Surxondaryo Region for the supply of fresh fruit and vegetables to Moscow markets. There is also the construction of a plant for light and heavy metal fabrication in Qashqadaryo Region in cooperation with Sverdlovsk Region. There is a considerable number of similar projects.
However, the most essential result is that strong and long-term partnership relations have been established between our regions. I want to assure you that our colleagues from Uzbekistan, members of the Government, and the heads of ministries, departments and regions who are here will provide comprehensive assistance to the implementation of these projects. Our dear guests, you can be confident that every project will be carried out, because President Putin and I have been looking forward to this for a long time.
The forum will continue for two days. We have been discussing the problems and the bureaucratic barriers that exist between us. The foundation that has been developed between Uzbekistan and Russia today creates every opportunity for the removal of these barriers.
The heads of the regions in the Republic of Uzbekistan are in this hall today. I am pleased that you have become acquainted with each other, that you know your challenges and your opportunities. So, I want to say that the leaders of Uzbekistan, and the Government too, need to know – the Prime Minister and his deputies are also here – you need to know that this is the beginning of a great journey. If we indeed create the right conditions for each other – as I have said, we have many projects in order to jointly enter markets in third countries, third markets. Everything we are planning today is designed to create competition and make our products more competitive.
Mr President, colleagues,
Today we are opening a new strategic area of cooperation with the Russian Federation – the development of nuclear power engineering. I am pleased to note that a ceremony will be held here, in the presence of the heads of regions, to launch a project for the construction of Uzbekistan's first nuclear power plant. This project is part of a new cluster and implementation will serve the goal of promoting our industrial potential and creating new jobs in various branches of our country's economy.
In conclusion, I would like to point out that this interregional forum is to become an effective platform for direct business contacts and practical cooperation between the two countries' regions.
President Putin and I have agreed that this forum should be held annually. Once a year, we will meet with our colleagues, compare notes and review the results of these forums. I believe that there will certainly be great results when we introduce this on a regular basis.
I wish all of you success and new promising projects. Thank you for your attention.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, friends, colleagues,
I am pleased to welcome the participants of the first Russia-Uzbekistan forum of interregional relations and cooperation. This is a useful and promising area of interaction.
Ramified relations at the regional level are the most important component of bilateral contacts. Therefore, we were pleased to support the President’s initiative to hold such a forum in Tashkent during this visit.
Russia maintains such interregional interaction with our partners from a number of states, primarily the CIS countries, and, indeed, it has a good track record. This is a working and dynamic format.
We expect this Russia-Uzbekistan Interregional Cooperation Forum to become an annual event and to make a sizable contribution to promoting cooperation between the regions of Russia and Uzbekistan.
I am referring primarily to trade and economy, but not only. Interregional cooperation can be used to develop any kind of relations, including, of course, those in the humanitarian sphere.
Notably, our bilateral economic relations are quite successful. As was said many times today, our trade increased by 34 percent in 2017, and grew by another 30 percent in January-August. We see that contacts between the Russian regions and the regions of Uzbekistan are gaining momentum and becoming more diverse. Over 20 reciprocal visits by regional leaders have already taken place this year. From Russia, particularly active were the cities of Moscow, St Petersburg, Orenburg Region and Chelyabinsk Region.
We are aware that, at the suggestion of the President of Uzbekistan, our Uzbek colleagues from that country’s regions have stepped up their activities as well. This is impressive and quite promising.
As mentioned earlier, about 1,000 Russian participants from 30 Russian regions are taking part in this forum, including 10 governors and over 850 businesspeople. This is indicative of our serious commitment to working with our Uzbek partners. As we know from earlier remarks by the ministers and governors, forum participants discussed matters of economic and social development, infrastructure upgrades and the introduction of digital technology that are really important for the regions of the two countries. Most importantly, we joined efforts and looked for opportunities to enhance mutually beneficial cooperation in these and other promising areas.
Since our cooperation in the agricultural sector has been expanding at a strong rate recently, it is quite understandable that this subject was reviewed at a plenary session. I will also spend a moment discussing this area in more detail. Russian-Uzbek trade in agricultural produce grew by almost 40 percent to $340 million in just the first eight months of this year. I have no doubt that the numbers will continue to grow, also because Russia has created the most favourable terms and conditions for importing Uzbek agricultural products, introduced a green corridor customs system and approved a special phytosanitary control procedure. Reduced railway tariffs have been introduced as well. We discussed these issues during the President of Uzbekistan’s state visit to Moscow last year. As you can see, all these agreements have been implemented.
Of course, we will continue to streamline mutual trade and related logistics. In particular, it is imperative that we encourage backhaul freight to Uzbekistan with, of course, Russian-made products, including foods. We can do this since agricultural output in Russia has increased by more than 20 percent over the past five years. We believe this undoubtedly represents a breakthrough in developing agriculture in our country. We can state that a real breakthrough has been made in this area. Last year, we had a record grain harvest, 135 million tonnes. This year, we will harvest a little less, but still a lot at over 100 million tonnes.
I was recently in Stavropol Region and asked the manager of a company about their performance. He told me about it. I asked him how they acknowledged such results in the Soviet Union. They awarded the title of Hero of Socialist Labour right away. While today this may not be something routine, but we are now accustomed to it. Russia is the world’s number one supplier of wheat and second in terms of grain crop distribution in general, and it is now significantly increasing exports of meat. Prospects are good in other areas as well, including advanced conversion products. In this context, we hope that the agricultural exhibition held as part of the forum will make it possible to establish good business contacts and start promising new joint projects.
Russia is ready to fully meet the needs of Uzbek farmers in high-quality agricultural equipment, and to help them upgrade the food and processing industry. Incidentally, Rostselmash, which is our largest company in the agricultural engineering sector, is starting a project to produce forage harvesters in Uzbekistan. Other Russian manufacturers have similar plans. We will continue to provide assistance in training employees for Uzbek agriculture. About 800 Uzbek students are studying at Russian agricultural colleges. A branch of the Aquaculture department of Astrakhan University will open in Tashkent in the next academic year.
Colleagues, friends,
Agriculture is important, but by far not the only area of cooperation. Opportunities for Russia-Uzbekistan cooperation are vast and promising, which was confirmed by today’s talks. I am confident that our respective regions will be even more actively involved in promoting bilateral partnerships.
The President of Uzbekistan and I will give our absolute support for your constructive initiatives and the joint projects you plan. Like the President of Uzbekistan, I wish you all the best and every success in your work.
Thank you.
Additional
All news about state visit to Uzbekistan
October 19, 2018
Geography
Uzbekistan
Topics
Economy and finance
Foreign policy
Regions
Persons
Mirziyoyev Shavkat
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 19, 2018, 13:50
Text versionEvents
Beginning of Russian-Uzbekistani talks in an expanded format
October 19, 2018
10:30
Tashkent
1 of 4
Russian-Uzbekistani talks in an expanded format.
President of Uzbekistan Shavkat Mirziyoyev
: Mr President, colleagues,
Let me sincerely welcome you to the hospitable country of Uzbekistan. Promoting a trust-based and open political dialogue with Russia will always be among Uzbekistan’s top priorities. We have common history, close economic and cultural ties, friendly, and I would say family bonds between our people.
During the talks in restricted format, President Putin and I discussed topical issues related to bilateral cooperation and to the international and regional agendas. I would like to note that our positions on all issues are identical or similar. We have determined the bilateral agenda for further cooperation. Today in the restricted format discussion, we covered in great detail, openly and in confidence the entire range of issues: development of political contacts, as well as trade, economic, investment, military and military-technical cooperation, and the promotion of scientific, cultural and humanitarian ties that all serve the interests of both states.
Let me note that contacts at various levels have largely intensified: over 80 mutual visits took place last year. I completely support the proposal on reforming the activities of the intergovernmental commission. Interregional exchanges have also gained a new impetus. We will continue this future-oriented work.
This year, trade has reached $6 billion. According to our estimates, it will reach $10 billion in two years. We have built a large portfolio of investment projects with leading Russian companies and banks, such as Gazprom, Gazprombank, Lukoil, Rosatom and Vneshekonombank, worth about $25 billion for the next five years. (We have already discussed this in the restricted format.) Our main task is to implement them on time and with high quality. We have the necessary potential. I am sure that the adoption of the intergovernmental economic cooperation programme for 2019–2024 will promote this.
For millennia, Russia has been a spiritual and cultural centre, the most important bridge between western and eastern civilisations. This is why the development and promotion of cultural ties is among our priorities. The first joint educational forum, New Professionals for the New Economy, was held in Tashkent on the eve of your visit, Mr President. Over 80 heads of leading Russian universities attended. I have already said that over 100 cooperation agreements in education and science have been signed.
I suggest listening to brief reports of our countries’ economy ministers on the state and prospects of bilateral cooperation.
In conclusion, I would like to note that the strategic alliance that characterises relations between our countries is not just words, not just a goal, but reality proven by actions. Mr President, let me express my sincere gratitude for your personal contribution to promoting friendship, mutual trust and cooperation between our countries.
I am pleased to give you the floor, Mr President.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much, Mr President.
Thank you for the invitation and for your assessment of our joint work. As I have already said in the restricted attendance meeting, Uzbekistan is our strategic partner and a reliable ally. I also share your opinion that we are united by friendship and mutual cooperation deeply rooted in the past.
We also note that of late Uzbekistan has been undergoing serious changes, which make it possible to take our cooperation to an absolutely new level. I am primarily referring to the transformations that you are carrying out in Uzbekistan’s economy. I am absolutely sure that before long this will have a tangible impact on the living standards of Uzbekistan’s citizens.
For our part, we intend to develop our relations further and, of course, the $5–6 billion in trade turnover, which we mentioned earlier, are not our final goal. We can say that, given the conditions you are creating for Russian economic operators in Uzbekistan, it is just a start, just the beginning.
We attach great importance to cooperation not only in the energy sector, which is taking on a new edge, but also in industry. Machine-building, pharmaceutical, healthcare and medical technology production projects are being discussed, and some are already being implemented.
As you noted, we have prepared an extensive cooperation programme in a variety of areas, the first stage of which amounts to $25 billion. But if we implement it – and I have no doubt that we will – the cumulative effect will be much greater because it is going to generate profit, create new and highly productive jobs and open up new opportunities for cooperation.
Humanitarian projects are a significant component of our cooperation. Uzbek students constitute the greatest portion of all foreign students in the Russian Federation, and the number of young people studying at universities of the Russian Federation continues growing rapidly. We can also see your interest in setting up branches of Russian universities in the Republic of Uzbekistan. The fact that colleagues from various universities of Uzbekistan and Russia are working on cooperation plans here now gives us reason to believe that we will soon reach a much higher level in this field.
We are grateful for your attention and support of the Russian language. Nine hundred schools in Uzbekistan teach Russian; 70 percent of Uzbek citizens are fluent in Russian. We are ready to provide help in this sphere.
We view defence and military technical cooperation as another equally important area for cooperation, very sensitive and important for ensuring the security of both states. Several hundred officers of the Uzbek army study at military schools in Russia.
We are ready to develop military technical cooperation and extend it from the delivery of weapons and modern equipment to joint production of this equipment at industrial facilities in Uzbekistan.
As for the delivery, we have made this decision as an exception. As you know, defence products are supplied to Uzbekistan at domestic prices.
We cooperate in many other areas. We will analyse what is going on in the most careful way and will do our utmost to move forward in all the fields that were identified during your visit to the Russian Federation on April 4 last year.
Thank you very much.
<…>
Additional
All news about state visit to Uzbekistan
October 19, 2018
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 19, 2018, 10:30
Text versionEvents
Press statements following Russian-Uzbekistani talks
October 19, 2018
11:20
Tashkent
3 of 5
Press statements following Russian-Uzbekistani talks.
President of Uzbekistan Shavkat Mirziyoyev
: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen,
I heartily welcome you, Mr President, and our Russian friends to Uzbekistan. We in Uzbekistan are glad to see the Russian Federation’s tremendous achievements that have become possible above all thanks to the wise, far-sighted and assertive policy of such a prominent political leader of global stature as President Putin.
I want to express special appreciation to the President of the Russian Federation for his personal consistent efforts aimed at strengthening friendly ties and all-round cooperation between our states. Speaking of this, allow me on behalf of our country’s multiethnic people to thank you, Mr President, for erecting and unveiling a monument to the first President of Uzbekistan Islam Karimov in Moscow.
Our regular meetings and conversations with you have given a powerful impetus to the development of Russian-Uzbekistani cooperation, strategic partnership and alliance. Relations between our countries have reached a new level. This has been reaffirmed by the negotiations that were held as usual in a trust-based, open and constructive atmosphere. We have discussed the status of our bilateral cooperation and prospects for enhancing it.
Russia is Uzbekistan’s key trade partner. Since the beginning of this year, our trade has grown by 30 percent. We expect our mutual trade to reach up to $6 billion this year, and in the next few years, it will amount to $10 billion.
We are grateful to Russia for establishing the “green corridor” for delivering agricultural produce to Russia. We have agreed on extending this practice to other types of our products, including textiles. Russian investment in our economy exceeds $8.5 billion.
A set of new investment agreements and trade contracts with leading Russian companies and banks such as Gazprom, Gazprombank, LUKOIL, Rosatom, Forus and Vnesheconombank to the amount of about $25 billion have been drawn up.
We are interested in developing direct contacts between the regions of our two countries. Of major importance is the First Russia-Uzbekistan Interregional Cooperation Forum, which took place as part of this visit and resulted in cooperation projects to the tune of over $2 billion.
Today together with President Putin, we will launch a new strategic cooperation project – the first nuclear power station in Uzbekistan. Its construction will help develop the industrial potential and create new jobs in various economic sectors of our country.
Talks have reaffirmed the concurrence and proximity of our positions on topical regional and international issues. We will continue cooperation in the framework of the United Nations, the CIS, SCO and other reputable international and regional organisations.
Security issues will always be the focus of our attention. We have had a detailed discussion on coordinating our efforts in countering terrorism, extremism and especially radicalism among young people. We have also discussed military and military-technical cooperation from all points of view.
We focus on the development of cultural ties, above all in science, education, healthcare and tourism. The first joint educational forum, New Professionals for the New Economy, attended by 80 heads of leading Russian universities and held in Tashkent on the eve of your visit can serve as a good example. Over 100 agreements have been signed.
I would like to note that Uzbekistan ranks high among the CIS countries in the number of students it sends to Russian universities. This academic year, the Moscow Institute of Steel and Alloys has opened a branch in the Uzbekistani city of Almalyk to provide high-quality Russian education. We also plan to open branches of MGIMO, MEPhI National Research Nuclear University, the Russian State Cinema Institute, the Moscow Energy Institute and the Russian Chemical Technology University. This cooperation will continue.
We have agreed to promote cooperation in science. You have just seen a good example with your own eyes: we have signed a joint project to create a super-powerful radio telescope on the Suffa Plateau to develop space research. We discussed the implementation of this project with President Putin several months ago, and today we have agreed on the “road map.” I think perhaps an Uzbekistani citizen will be launched into space soon aboard a Russian spacecraft. In order to bring our people closer together, we have agreed to hold the fourth Russian-Uzbekistani youth forum in Uzbekistan.
I would like to raise another important topic. In order to properly celebrate the 75th anniversary of the Great Victory in 2020, we are preparing a special programme here in Uzbekistan. We plan to set up a Victory Park Complex in Tashkent. It will symbolyse our joint fight against Nazism and serve to teach the young generation respect for their history, patriotism and friendship between peoples.
The great Russian culture has always been and will always remain an integral part of the Uzbekistani people’s spiritual life. In order to get people, above all youth, acquainted with masterpieces of Russian literature, we plan to publish Russian classic masterpieces in 100 volumes in Uzbek.
Friends, I am confident that President Vladimir Putin’s state visit to Uzbekistan will give an impetus to the further development of comprehensive cooperation between our countries.
I am very pleased to give the floor to President of Russia Vladimir Putin.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, colleagues, friends,
The state visit to the Republic of Uzbekistan is being held in a truly friendly and very businesslike atmosphere, which is typical of Russian-Uzbekistani contacts at all levels.
The President of Uzbekistan and I have had constructive and exceptionally useful talks, examined in detail a wide range of issues related to bilateral cooperation and discussed topical international and regional matters. We will also have an opportunity to further discuss these topics with the President informally. We have outlined the key areas for developing our relations of alliance and strategic partnership.
All these matters are covered in the Joint Statement we have just signed. It includes clear guidelines for further work between ministries, agencies and organisations in order to deepen our cooperation.
We have also reached other important bilateral agreements and signed major commercial contracts.
Traditionally, talks have focused on issues related to economic development and cooperation in this area. Uzbekistan is Russia’s fourth biggest trading partner among the CIS countries. Trade and economic ties between our countries continue developing dynamically. Last year, bilateral trade grew by 34 percent, with another 32 percent added in the first six months of this year.
The volume of Russian investment in the Uzbekistani economy is almost $9 billion. But I believe this is just the beginning.
Over 1,000 enterprises with Russian participation are registered in Uzbekistan. The conditions President Mirziyoyev has created for Russian economic operators allow us to believe that these are also just the first steps in our joint work.
In order to give an additional boost to Russian-Uzbekistani cooperation, in the economy above all, Mr President and I have decided to establish a joint commission headed by the prime ministers. The commission will address strategic issues of economic, investment and technological cooperation.
Special attention should be paid to energy, where we have good prospects. First of all, Rosatom has a major project to build the first nuclear power station in Uzbekistan, as we agreed last year during Mr President’s state visit to Moscow.
Today, Mr President and I will launch this project’s implementation. In fact, this is not only about building a large industrial facility in Uzbekistan, but about creating a new industry, a new sector of the economy.
The power station’s two energy units with a total capacity of 2.4 MW will provide for cheap and clean electricity, which will be used by consumers in Uzbekistan and other Central Asian countries. This will promote energy stability in Uzbekistan and the entire region.
Let me stress that the most advanced technologies and efficient and reliable engineering solutions will be used in the construction of the nuclear power station, which will be carried out in compliance with the highest safety and environmental requirements.
Power Machines is also contributing to the development of Uzbekistan’ energy sector. The company is helping to upgrade the Syrdarya thermal power station and the Charvak hydroelectric power station. Our Uzbekistani partners were given detailed proposals regarding the development of a Central Asian energy network that would connect the energy systems of the region’s countries.
We have good cooperation experience in hydrocarbons extraction, processing and transporting. This April Lukoil commissioned the Kandym Gas Processing Complex, the largest gas processing facility in Uzbekistan with a capacity of 8.1 billion cubic metres per year. Gazprom purchased 5 billion cubic metres of Uzbekistani gas in 2017; it is developing the Shakhpakhty gas condensate field and conducting exploration work in the Ustyurt region of the country.
Let me note the steady development of bilateral industrial cooperation. Rostec and its Uzbekistani partners have established joint enterprises to produce helicopters, machines and medical equipment.
Rosselmash, Kamaz, Eurocement and other Russian companies are expanding their presence on the Uzbekistani market. Vympelcom is a leading mobile operator in the country with about 10 million users.
We have examined the prospects for cooperation in agriculture. In the first six months of the year, bilateral trade in agricultural produce grew by 30 percent, mostly due to the introduction of the “green corridor” system, which allows shipping agricultural products across our borders without any obstacles.
Agriculture is the main theme on the agenda of the first Interregional Cooperation Forum, which is underway in Tashkent. President Mirziyoyev and I plan to speak at the plenary session today.
The Russian delegation at the forum comprises representatives from 37 regions. The programme of the event includes seminars and panel discussions not only on the agro-industrial sector, but also on many other areas of bilateral contacts. The idea of such a joint gathering was proposed by Mr President, and we, of course, supported it.
The Russia-Uzbekistan Interregional Forum can become an annual event. Russia holds such interregional forums together with an entire range of CIS countries, and they bring good results both for the development of interregional cooperation and for bilateral relations in general.
We also discussed cultural cooperation and agreed to promote research and educational exchanges. These matters will be discussed at another joint forum, New Professionals for the New Economy, which is being held now in Tashkent.
By the way, Russian universities currently accommodate over 25,000 students from Uzbekistan. Branches of Lomonosov Moscow State University, the Plekhanov Academy and Gubkin University of Oil and Gas operate in the republic.
While discussing key regional topics, we noted a match or proximity of the positions of Russia and Uzbekistan. We agreed to continue foreign political coordination within the United Nations and other leading international organisations, as well as to cooperate closely within the CIS and the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation.
Our common interests include the normalisation of the situation in Afghanistan. Russia welcomes the active participation of Uzbekistan in facilitating the launch of the peace process. We consider it important to neutralise the threats coming from this country related to the spread of terrorism, drug trafficking and organised crime.
In conclusion, I would like to again thank Mr President and all our Uzbekistani friends and colleagues for the warm, hearty reception and useful and fruitful talks.
I think that Mr President due to his big heart somewhat overstated my contribution to history, but let me assure you that we will implement all our agreements. I am sure that it will benefit our interstate ties, will strengthen friendship between our peoples and, of course, will improve the well-being of our citizens.
Thank you.
Additional
All news about state visit to Uzbekistan
October 19, 2018
Geography
Uzbekistan
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Mirziyoyev Shavkat
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 19, 2018, 11:20
Text versionEvents
Beginning of talks with President of Uzbekistan Shavkat Mirziyoyev
October 19, 2018
09:15
Tashkent
1 of 8
With President of Uzbekistan Shavkat Mirziyoyev.
President of Uzbekistan Shavkat Mirziyoyev
: Mr President, I sincerely welcome you to Uzbekistan. I want to express my sincere respect for you and the entire Russian nation that you represent.
Russia is Uzbekistan’s strategic partner, and in the past two years, our strategic partnership and alliance have entered a completely new qualitative level. Our relations and collaboration are developing in all areas.
Before starting this restricted attendance meeting, I would like to thank you, personally and on behalf of the people of Uzbekistan, for eternalising the memory of the first president of Uzbekistan Islam Karimov in a monument that was unveiled yesterday in Moscow.
Citizens of Uzbekistan have been expressing their gratitude in the media since yesterday. This is your personal recognition of the fact that during those difficult, hard years Islam Karimov accomplished a great deal for the recovery of Uzbekistan. Thank you very much.
Of course, speaking about our strategic areas of cooperation, we cooperate across all industries. Our new strategic area is the construction of a nuclear power station. Today we will take part in the launch of its construction.
I would like to note that we have approved roadmaps across all industries and they are being consistently implemented. There is great progress in military and technical cooperation. In collaboration with you, we approved a roadmap on military and technical cooperation and it is being implemented in its entirety.
There are many cultural and humanitarian issues being addressed. For the first time Uzbekistan hosted a media forum. An education forum opened in Uzbekistan yesterday, attended by more than 80 university presidents from Russia. This indicates our serious intentions in scientific, educational and cultural links.
Today we will attend the first interregional forum that brings together heads of regions.
Trade between Russia and Uzbekistan grew by 30 percent over the nine months of this year. We expect the turnover to reach $6 billion by the end of the year. This is unprecedented. The estimate in our trade plan was $5 billion, while the current statistics show $6 billion. This means that our regions enjoy a higher level of trust and cooperation, which has brought these results. The first interregional forum will also give a strong impetus to our trade relations. I think the outcome will be very significant.
Overall, we have many things to discuss. I think that this state visit will serve as a powerful stimulus to our cooperation.
Once again, welcome to Uzbekistan.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much.
First of all, I would like to thank you for the invitation.
I would like to add something about the installation of the monument to the First President of Uzbekistan in Moscow. Islam Karimov made a great contribution to the development of Russian-Uzbekistani relations. We all know that the first leaders faced very difficult times during the establishment of their states. It is therefore natural that we want to eternalise the memory of Mr Karimov. I had a good personal relationship with him. Therefore, it is an absolutely natural decision, a very natural move.
As for the development of our relations today, I would like to say that Uzbekistan is our reliable ally and strategic partner. Your visit in April gave a serious boost to our contacts in many different areas.
First of all, I am talking about the economy. We see that the situation in Uzbekistan is changing rapidly; reforms are being adopted and implemented. They are long overdue and the Uzbekistani economy and people need them urgently.
We understand that the first steps are always difficult. We can relate, for we have gone through this process ourselves. But we are also sure that these times will bring positive results both in the long and medium term, and Uzbekistan’s economy and the lives of its people will change for the better.
It gives us opportunity to develop relations on a new foundation. Due to the changes you are making now in Uzbekistan, we have managed to significantly expand our trade and economic relations. In fact, in 2017, the growth was 34 percent, and in the first eight months of 2018, it was 30.3 percent.
We intend to maintain this trend and will do everything to expand our interaction, including through regional cooperation.
The first regional forum was created at your initiative. I am confident that it will give a strong new impetus to our interaction, because many things happen at the regional level that cannot be seen from the capitals. All this will become part of the foundation for our relations and for the future.
I do not doubt that the consultations and talks that have been on for the past two days will bring very good results.
Once again, let me thank you for your invitation.
<…>
Additional
All news about state visit to Uzbekistan
October 19, 2018
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 19, 2018, 09:15
Text version