Events
Russian-Turkish talks
At the Bocharov Ruchei residence, Vladimir Putin met with President of the Republic of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who is in Russia on a working visit.
September 17, 2018
19:20
Sochi
1 of 9
With President of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
During the restricted-attendance meeting and talks with the delegations, bilateral cooperation issues and problems of a settlement in Syria, including the situation in Idlib Province, were discussed.
See also
Press statement following Russian-Turkish talks
September 17, 2018
Upon the completion of Russian-Turkish talks, Vladimir Putin and Recep Tayyip Erdogan made statements to the press.
Following the talks, Defence Minister of the Russian Federation Sergei Shoigu
and Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Turkey Hulusi Akar signed a memorandum on stabilisation in the Idlib de-escalation zone.
***
Beginning of meeting with President of the Republic of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President,
Allow me to welcome you cordially to Sochi. We meet regularly, but your previous visit to Russia was exactly one year ago.
Our relations continue to develop energetically and positively. Bilateral trade and economic ties are growing at a rather rapid pace; we cooperate in the field of security, especially in the region, and on the international arena in the broadest sense of the word.
There is a lot to discuss, and some issues are complicated. I am glad to see you, to be able to exchange opinions on this whole set of issues, and to search for solutions to matters still unresolved.
President of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan
(retranslated): I would also like to express my deepest gratitude.
Our trip from Istanbul to Sochi only took about two hours – a very short distance.
We have had several meetings in a short time – in Sochi, in Tehran, and in Istanbul. Undoubtedly, we have exchanged views during these meetings, and I believe that this exchange strengthens our cooperation. Due to our solidarity on regional issues, the regional peoples count on this cooperation.
I believe not only the region, but the whole world is riveted to our meeting today. The statement we will make here after the meeting in Sochi will give new hope to the region, I believe.
Thank you very much.
<…>
Geography
Türkiye
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Erdogan Recep Tayyip
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 17, 2018, 19:20
Text versionEvents
Press statement following Russian-Turkish talks
Following Russian-Turkish talks, Vladimir Putin and Recep Tayyip Erdogan made statements for the press.
The two heads of state witnessed the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding on Stabilization of the Situation in Idlib's De-escalation Zone by Russian Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu and Turkish Minister of National Defence Hulusi Akar.
September 17, 2018
19:40
Sochi
5 of 7
Following Russian-Turkish talks, Vladimir Putin and Recep Tayyip Erdogan made statements for the press.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
The President and I have just had very substantive and constructive talks. This is our fourth meeting this year. As you know, only ten days ago we both took part in a Russian-Turkish-Iranian summit in Tehran on the Syrian settlement process.
While discussing current issues of Russian-Turkish cooperation, we noted the significant growth in bilateral trade, which was up 34 percent during the first seven months of this year, to exceed $15 billion, and 40 percent last year, when it reached $22 billion.
This is in many ways the outcome of implementing the agreements reached during the seventh High-Level Russian-Turkish Cooperation Council as well as the consistent work of the Intergovernmental Commission and relevant ministries and agencies.
As you know, Russia fulfilled its Turkish partners’ requests and lifted import restrictions on a number of Turkish agricultural products. We, in turn, expect that favourable conditions will be created to promote Russian products on the Turkish market.
See also
Russian-Turkish talks
September 17, 2018
Steadily increasing the share of bilateral settlements using national currencies should also foster trade. Mr Erdogan
and I believe that this would help minimise the negative impact of the external market situation.
We will continue to promote a number of joint strategic projects, in energy among other areas. I am referring to the Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant and the construction of the Turkish Stream pipeline, which will become a hugely important element in the energy security of Turkey and, I hope, of all of Europe.
We also touched on the preparations for the cross-years of culture and tourism in 2019 during our broader discussion of such matters.
Last year a record number of Russians visited Turkey: 4.7 million. Russians rank first among foreigners visiting Turkey. In the first six months of this year, the number of Russian tourists grew by another 40 plus percent. We will continue to cooperate closely with our Turkish partners to provide as comfortable and safe conditions as possible for Russians on holiday in Turkey.
Colleagues,
We certainly devoted a fair amount of attention to reaching a settlement in Syria. Russia and Turkey are working closely to resolve the crisis in that country. We are working to bolster the ceasefire and improve the humanitarian situation.
We focused, in particular, on the current situation in Idlid province, considering the presence there of large units of militants and their infrastructure.
In the course of today’s talks, today’s consultations, we managed to arrive at significant solutions, to make progress in solving this critical problem and to arrive at coordinated solutions.
Let me recall that the concerns of the Russian side – and we were one of the nations that set up that de-escalation zone – our concerns today have to do with the threat posed by the militants concentrated there both to the province of Aleppo, the city of Aleppo, and our military facilities on Syrian territory: Tartus and Khmeimim.
We reviewed the situation in detail and decided to establish by October 15 a demilitartised area 15–20 km deep along the contact line between the armed opposition and government troops, with radical militants to be withdrawn from the area, including al-Nusra. Also by October 10, based on the Turkish President’s proposal, to secure the withdrawal of heavy military equipment, tanks, multiple rocket launchers, cannon and mortars of all opposition groups. Turkish mobile patrol groups and Russian military police units will conduct the monitoring of the demilitarised zone. Also to restore transit along the Aleppo-Latakia and Aleppo-Hama routes before the end of 2018, also at the suggestion of the Turkish side.
Russia and Turkey have reaffirmed their commitment to fight terrorism in Syria in all its forms and guises. It is our common opinion that practical efforts to fulfill the planned steps will give an added boost to the political settlement process in Syria, step up work on the Geneva platform and contribute to the return of peace to Syrian soil.
This approach is generally supported by the leadership of the Syrian Arab Republic. We will soon hold additional consultations with the Syrian government.
It is important that both Russia and Turkey intend to continue to fully utilise the Astana format and the opportunity to find long-term political solutions in Geneva under the auspices of the United Nations.
We will continue working to form a constitutional committee from among representatives of the Syrian government, opposition forces and civil society. The objective is for it to begin work as soon as possible.
I would like to thank you, Mr President, and all our Turkish colleagues for the intense but constructive and successful work we did together today.
Thank you for your attention.
Geography
Türkiye
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Erdogan Recep Tayyip
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 17, 2018, 19:40
Text version