Events
Joint meeting of the Council for the Development of Physical Culture and Sport and Russia 2018 Local Organising Committee’s Supervisory Board
In Kaliningrad, Vladimir Putin Held a joint meeting of the
Presidential Council for the Development of Physical Culture and Sport and the Supervisory Board of the Russia 2018 Local Organising Committee autonomous non-profit organisation.
July 20, 2018
18:30
Kaliningrad
1 of 10
Joint meeting of the Council for the Development of Physical Fitness and Sport and the Russia 2018 Local Organising Committee’s Supervisory Board.
The 2018 FIFA World Cup Russia results, the implementation of the heritage concept and future use of the infrastructure and sports facilities were on the agenda.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon.
Today we are holding a joint meeting of the Council for [the Development of Physical Culture and] Sport and the Supervisory Board of the 2018 Russia Organising Committee’s Supervisory Board. I suggest we discuss the issues of the heritage of the FIFA World Cup. And this heritage is really large, if not enormous. I am referring not only to sports arenas, airports, roads, infrastructure facilities and the development of our cities but also to the humanitarian, human dimension, the growth in interest of the younger generation and basically people of all ages in sport, the friendly attitude of people from different countries towards Russia and their desire to return to this country again.
Of course, like after the Sochi Olympic Games, we need to map out specific measures that will allow us to effectively use these modern stadiums, fields and sports grounds that we built for the World Cup. For Russia, the World Cup has been the biggest international sporting event. The preparations took eight years. It required serious investment and the efforts of hundreds of thousands of people. As promised, we organised it at the highest level and its success is now an objectively recognised fact.
I congratulate all those who were involved in the preparations and management of the games. I would like to thank once again everyone: workers, engineers, city press centres, and the hospitality industry, and all those that ensured the security of the arenas and streets, transport and the fan fest zones.
I would like to give special thanks to the regions that hosted the games, their governors, the 2018 Russia Organising Committee and, of course, our wonderful volunteers. I have already had the pleasure of meeting with them; some of them are here. Thank you very much.
Russia gave the world an unforgettable holiday. It has already gone down in history as one of the most spectacular and unpredictable from the sporting point of view, and also the most comprehensive FIFA World Cup, and will forever be remembered for its unmatched atmosphere of friendliness and unity, and acts of empathy and assistance from all sides.
I consider it important to establish a commemorative FIFA World Cup in Russia medal and use it to decorate those who made a significant contribution to this ambitious project.
I would like to note the solid and uncompromising play of our team, which gave Russian fans the long-awaited joy of victory. Where is the coach? Mr Cherchesov, thank you very much.
The head coach, the entire coaching staff and the support system, and the players themselves – everyone fought hard. Everyone did their best and played as a team. They impressed us with their perseverance, persistence and high quality of play. It is important to maintain that fighting spirit and unity. The UEFA Nations League and UEFA Euro 2020 are coming next. We should be training for these games the same way we trained for the World Cup, not just players and coaches. As you may be aware, several UEFA Nations League and UEFA Euro 2020 matches will be held in St Petersburg, Sochi, Rostov-on-Don and here in Kaliningrad.
I would like the relevant agencies, regional heads to ensure the quality of these events, especially since we now have this great positive experience and unique innovations that our country has implemented and which received high praise from FIFA and World Cup visitors. That includes, among other things, the video assistant referee (VAR) system, which was used for the first time during the football championship and implemented by our specialists, and also the free travel for ticket holders to the host cities to attend matches during the championship and, most importantly, the visa-replacing Fan ID cards.
Please analyse all the regulations adopted specifically for the championship for their possible capturing in legislation for subsequent use, for creating convenient conditions for our people and for our foreign guests, with a special focus on the Fan ID. Many countries and international organisations plan to adopt our experience, and we must build on it in any way we can. Director of the FSB, Mr Bortnikov
, who is here, reported that our colleagues, that we worked with in security, showed great interest in our plan. Also, Fan IDs can be used to update the visa regulations, which we should do anyway, to remove the barriers and procedures that are a hassle for people.
Importantly, the championship not only eliminated stereotypes but also raised a wave of genuine interest in Russia, which, I repeat, along with the growing popularity of football, is a landmark of its intangible legacy.
I am sure that we must show an example of openness and support the wish of thousands of fans to return to our country and learn more about our culture, nature and the traditions of our families, relatives and children. It has already been decided to extend visa-free travel for Fan ID holders until January 1 of next year. Also, there are other ideas for improving the visa regime. We will talk about this later.
The infrastructure that we created, the arenas, have received positive feedback from FIFA, the teams, the spectators, the journalists and our citizens. Obviously, these World Cup facilities must continue operating at full capacity after the World Cup. This is what they were built for. I ask you to bear in mind the task of effectively using this sports infrastructure when working on amendments to the federal budget for 2018 and to reflect it in the budget for 2019–2021.
We will continue supporting World Cup infrastructure development programmes for five years to help them become self-sufficient by 2024 and serve as centres for the development of the cities, as well as social, business and cultural life. Here, we can rely on our own experience of effectively managing the heritage of major international sports competitions and take advantage of the best international practices. We will discuss this at length today as well.
Among other things, I ask the Ministry of Sport to report on the mechanisms and schedules for the transfer of the training facilities and stadiums to the regions and on the establishment of children's football centres that we planned to set up on the basis of the World Cup infrastructure.
In conclusion, two more important points related to sports in general. First, I would like to note the effectiveness of the independent public anti-doping commission headed by IOC honorary member Vitaly Smirnov. The goals that we set have been achieved and the constructive requirements set forth by WADA and the IOC have been taken into account. We are fulfilling our national plan to fight doping in sports. And we expect our partners to take reciprocal steps.
Second, the new membership of the Council and the new format of its activity have been approved. Four interdepartmental commissions have been envisaged: on coordination, control, international competitions, and the promotion of adaptive sports. And also, three working groups: on security, the development of sports medicine and the improvement of sports legislation. I am happy to welcome the Council's new members and want to wish them every success.
Let’s get down to work. Mr Kolobkov, you have the floor. But before we start, I would like to congratulate all the chess players in our country and the whole world on International Chess Day.
Mr Kolobkov, please.
Minister of Sport Pavel Kolobkov
: Mr President, colleagues,
The first FIFA World Cup in Russia was definitely a success. International experts, athletes, fans and journalists praised it in the highest terms.
Statistics says a lot. Almost 1.8 million Russian and foreign fans from 195 countries received FAN IDs. The total number of people who visited the Fan Fest zones, also known as host cities’ fan zones, was 7.7 million. On average, the seats were 98 percent full during the matches. This result is a logical outcome of the huge amount of work that Russia did to prepare for and hold the championship. Russia began it as soon as the FIFA Executive Committee made its decision in 2010. The Ministry of Sport began it in December 2010, when the government entrusted it with coordinating all the agencies involved in the preparations for the World Cup: 40 federal ministries and agencies worked on the task, as well as 36 regions, with 11 of them hosting matches and 25 where training camps were situated.
First of all, I would like to note the impeccable implementation of the 11 government guarantees that provided for the preparation and organisation of the World Cup as well as the special law adopted in 2013 that made this implementation possible. Legislative support of such large events has proved its value; I propose continuing the practice of these special legal regulations, including during the UEFA European Championship that you have already mentioned, Mr President, and the match we will host in 2020.
Speaking about the results of the World Cup, I would like to note the successful implementation of the federal and regional programmes on preparations. The joint work by government bodies at all levels as well as public and commercial organisations allowed us to hold over 600 events in total in Russia, including building or reconstructing over 100 sports facilities. Besides some fine points, the FIFA representatives praised the high level of the comprehensive preparations many times.
In addition, airports, roads, utility networks, energy supply systems, healthcare and hotels were built or upgraded. Extensive work was done to improve all the cities. All of this directly concerns 70 percent of our citizens: this is the number of people living in the area where the World Cup was held, and this is the legacy that should, and definitely will, give an additional major boost to regional development.
I would like to note separately the high quality of the transport strategy and to highlight the Russian Transport Ministry’s overall contribution to the preparations. In particular, 21 airports were used, ten were renovated and one, in Rostov-on-Don, was built especially for the World Cup. They managed to serve 16 million passengers.
We also saw success with the railway system as 734 trains, free for fans, ran between the host cities. They were part of the government’s guarantees and they carried around 320,000 fans. Also the communications and IT programmes were implemented as part of the government’s guarantees. A high level of service was organised for television broadcasters in 17 Russian regions with 261 television companies broadcasting to 219 countries; a fixed mobile telephone service and Wi-Fi were available in all these areas.
Finally, it is important to note that unprecedented security measures were taken for the World Cup which made it possible to ensure a comfortable and safe stay for foreign and Russian citizens. This included careful work by law enforcement agencies, the special services and the FAN ID system that you mentioned, Mr President, which we would definitely like to continue to develop; we will develop and promote it. In this regard we ask you to give the instruction to introduce the fan identification system and the access control database system for the national football championship matches.
Regarding the visa regime update for FAN IDs, this decision may indeed become one of the key legacies of the World Cup. We should not miss this opportunity to maintain the positive attitude of the millions of people who attended the World Cup.
Another important point. The World Cup clearly demonstrated a very high level of football around the world which makes the performance of the Russian national team worthy of note as well as the significant work of the coaches and the service team. The national team under Stanislav Cherchesov advanced to the quarterfinals for the first time in modern history. The last time the team did this was back in 1970, which is almost half a century ago.
The training of our players started immediately after the UEFA Euro 2016 tournament in France. A schedule was approved and the necessary conditions were created for training sessions and preparations. The coaching staff and Mr Cherchesov did everything they could to select the best squad: various combinations were tested during friendly matches and in the Confederations Cup, and apparently the right choice was made. According to many Russian and international analysts, the Russian team was one of the discoveries of the World Cup. I would also like to thank the fans who gave such great support to our football players and became part of one team.
The sports heritage is undoubtedly one of the main results of the championship. In addition to 12 modern football stadiums built in compliance with the international standards and FIFA requirements, we have got 95 modernised football training grounds. We from our side will do everything to make full use of them and not let these remarkable facilities turn to monuments to the World Cup, which, unfortunately, happens only too often.
Mr President, I reported on the development of the World Cup heritage concept in May. As of today, it has been agreed upon and submitted to the Government.
The parameters for resource provision in 2019–2023 have been set, and we are ready to implement them. The first step to use the World Cup sports facilities effectively is to determine the proprietors of the stadiums and the main ways to use them. The management models and financing sources for Luzhniki, Spartak, Kazan Arena, Fisht and St Petersburg stadiums have already been found, and the managing companies have been established.
We still have to do the same regarding the arenas in Volgograd, Rostov-on-Don, Yekaterinburg, Kaliningrad, Nizhny Novgorod, Samara and Saransk (the newly-built ones). The concept envisages their transfer from the property of the Russian Federation to the property of the regions.
The basic number of domestic matches held as part of the Russian Championship and Premiere League has also been set: 16 matches for the Russian Premiere League and 20 for the Russian Professional Football League and the Football National League. Moreover, the first club matches are already being played, and one of the first tour matches of the Football National League was held at Mordovia Arena on July 17. On July 27, Nizhny Novgorod will host the Russian Super Cup. Lokomotiv will play CSKA for the trophy. By the way, the tickets were sold out on the first day of sale, which is also an effect of the World Cup.
On July 28, the Premiere League teams will begin their quest for gold in the Russian Cup at new arenas. And finally, our national team will play Sweden in Kaliningrad on October 11 and Turkey at Fisht Stadium in Sochi on October 14 as part of the new tournament, the UEFA Nations League, which you have already mentioned.
In addition to the main purpose, the concept envisages the multipurpose use of stadiums to hold cultural, sporting and entertainment events. We plan to open football museums dedicated to the history of Russian football and the FIFA World Cup in Russia at the stadiums. The arenas will also host children’s sports schools and football associations.
Upgraded athletic grounds will be assigned to children's sports schools, football clubs and organisations. They can be used for sports other than football. All of that is directly related to the instruction to create children's football centres, which will be able to use the World Cup legacy sites. As of today, it was decided to open 30 such centres at existing children's schools. This will make it possible to increase the number of children involved in sports and recreational fitness by 50 percent starting the age of six, not eight as before.
To reiterate, we have every reason to expect a major influx of rising athletes inspired by the World Cup, and are ready to provide them with all the amenities for training. We have a tremendous amount of work to do in order to increase the number of people who regularly engage in physical fitness and sports. We will need to develop an incentive system for different population groups. One of them could be providing social tax deductions to taxpayers for physical fitness and sports services provided to them.
Mr President, we have drafted proposals to be included in the list of directives and want you to support them. We agreed them with everyone.
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: On how many athletic facilities will we need to get started with concrete positive work? I am talking about large and possibly smaller stadiums.
Pavel Kolobkov: About 12 stadiums and 95 newly built football pitches which were the teams' bases and which we took during the World Cup, and are now returning to the existing children's sports schools. That includes newly built grounds and the grounds that were owned by children's sports schools for football, track and field, and various …
Vladimir Putin: Do you know what I would like you to do? I want you to show me a plan for using each site. It is fine if you are transferring them. If you use them for some activities, then show me which activities in particular, when, who is the owner, as you said, and so on.
Pavel Kolobkov: Will do.
Vladimir Putin: It should be all very specific: not just a general statement which will end with lots of stakeholders who are interested in opening markets there. What we need are sports sites.
Pavel Kolobkov: We will definitely do that. We are now holding seminars with the future owners of stadiums, to whom we will transfer them. Our working groups will develop business plans for each stadium, and this will be one of the prerequisites for transferring subsidies for operating the stadiums in the coming years.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, of course, they need help to make this work effective.
Pavel Kolobkov: Yes, Mr President.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: I would like to say in conclusion thatthis project was a success. We should not treat it as the completion of something, but rather the beginning of something new and large-scale, for which we have the experience, capacity and need. The main thing is to continue to act in the same spirit for a long time to come.
As for football, I have already mentioned this but I want to repeat it: serious matches are coming up soon. The first tournament of the UEFA Nations League will take place from September 2018 until June 2019 (it is common knowledge, actually). It will be held once every two years. Let me draw your attention to how it will be organised. The teams will be distributed in four leagues, A, B, C and D depending on their level and ability. According to the rating, the Russian national team got into group B. According to the results of the draw, the Russian team’s rivals are the Swedish and Turkish national teams, while our rivals in the centralised friendly matches, which will be sponsored by UEFA now, are the teams of the Czech Republic and Germany. These are really major matches.
Now the qualifying tournament for the UEFA European Championship. Let me remind you, the draw to determine the make-up of the entry list will take place in Dublin on December 2, 2018, qualifying matches will take place from March 21 until November 19, 2019, and the final stage UEFA-Euro 2020 will be held in 12 European cities, St Petersburg included, from June 12 until July 12, 2020. We have plenty to do when it comes to football.
Certainly, everything we mentioned today in addition to football and even what we did not mention, representatives of various sports are here today and we will do everything together and work together. Following today’s meeting we will draft a list of relevant instructions.
Thank you all very much.
Geography
Kaliningrad Region
Topics
Regions
Sport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Commissions and Councils, Council for the Development of Physical Culture and Sport
Publication date: July 20, 2018, 18:30
Text versionEvents
Conversation with 2018 FIFA World Cup volunteers
During his visit to the Kaliningrad Stadium, Vladimir Putin met with 2018 FIFA World Cup volunteers.
July 20, 2018
16:40
Kaliningrad
1 of 3
Vladimir Putin talks with 2018 FIFA World Cup Russia volunteers during his visit to Kaliningrad Stadium.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Hello!
Remark: Good afternoon.
Vladimir Putin: Did you work here?
Remark: Yes, we did. Here and nearby.
Vladimir Putin: I have already mentioned that and would like to say again words of gratitude to the volunteers who are here now and all other volunteers who did such a professional job and put their hearts and souls into the World Cup. You not only did it, but you did a great job. Of course, your contribution was a big part of the success of this World Cup, and I would like to once again thank you for that.
Remark: Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: What other events do you plan to work at as volunteers?
Remark: The Universiade in Krasnoyarsk.
Vladimir Putin: Did any of you do any training?
Remark: We all did. Two years.
Vladimir Putin: Two years?
Remark: Some had it for more than two years, others less, as everyone joined this programme at different times.
Vladimir Putin: All that was not in vain?
Remark: Of course, not.
Vladimir Putin: Who worked here in Kaliningrad?
Remark: Mostly, the red team, people from the organising committee.
Vladimir Putin: It certainly was a big event for the city and the entire region.
Remark: Yes, of course.
Remark: Mr President, I am a great patriot of our Motherland and our city.
Vladimir Putin: You are also a volunteer, correct?
Remark: I am a teacher of Spanish, and when I found out that our city will host the World Cup match between Spain and Morocco, I certainly could not stay away, especially since not so many people in our city speak Spanish. I wanted to be useful, to make new friends, and to tell tourists about our Motherland. So, I met many Spanish speakers, including people from Argentina, Mexico, Colombia and Spain. I wanted Spain to win in the match against Morocco.
Vladimir Putin: But not the match against Russia? (Laughter.)
Remark: I asked people how they like Russia, our city and our people. Everyone had very positive things to say. I said that our people are hospitable and always welcome friends with an open heart. I hope that after this World Cup we will have many new friends in Latin America and all Spanish-speaking countries. I also hope more tourists will come to Russia and our region. I have such a hope.
Vladimir Putin: That is what most likely is going to happen.
Remark: We, volunteers, were the ones who showed them that we are such people.
Vladimir Putin: You heard that I suggested that my colleagues should think it over, and these decisions are now being adopted – we will let Fan ID holders come to Russia without visas until the end of this year.
Remark: Yes, we heard this and it is a good thing.
Vladimir Putin: And members of their families and friends who come with them will get visas free of charge.
Remark: This is great, wonderful.
Vladimir Putin: So we will carry out your plan on increasing the tourist numbers.
Remark: We will only welcome the arrival of openhearted friends in Russia.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much.
Remark: It was very difficult not to yield to the temptation and stay at home when such an event is taking place in your country.
I am a teacher of Russian at school and here the vast majority of city volunteers are still in school but were very pleased and eager to work.
Vladimir Putin: I thought you were still in school yourself. (Laughter.)
Remark: No, I am working. I am teaching them. Of course, it was also very important to be with them and share experience, to learn something new. The bottom line is that they displayed such responsibility in performing their duties. I think you will agree with me that our future is in safe hands.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, this is true, judging by the work you did. This is the best evidence.
Remark: I would like to add a few words to what our volunteer said.
I am still in school, next will be my final 11th year. And indeed I must say that I am very happy that such a major event took place in this country, that it has united it once and for all. And I am very glad that not only my peers but people from seniors took part in the event because this is exactly what gives us new experience, new knowledge, emotions and so many new friends.
Vladimir Putin: You should study Spanish then. And other languages as well. (Laughter.)
Question: Mr President, I have the following question for you. This year Russia organised a really important event – the World Cup. My question is this: will Russia host a FIFA World Cup for women?
Vladimir Putin: I think the next FIFA Women's World Cup will take place in France, somewhere in Europe. But why not? We will develop women’s sports in which women were not involved before. Girls are excellent at hockey and football, and getting better all the time. Of course, we will discuss this with FIFA.
Question: Mr President, can I ask you a question not related to sports? Yesterday the State Duma adopted amendments to pension legislation in the first reading. Of course, you monitor the Government’s proposals. It is very important for us to know your opinion on this issue.
Remark: Galina, I do not think we should fear the Pension Fund. We are young and active. The main thing is not to stop but move forward.
Vladimir Putin: Of course, this issue is very sensitive for a large number of our citizens. And, you know, it did not appear just yesterday. It has been discussed with various degrees of intensity during many years. Different options were proposed. And when I was asked in the past, and am asked now, which one I like, I can say: not a single one. I do not like any option that involves increasing the pension age.
And I can assure you, few people in the Government like it. Why? Because the majority of our citizens cannot like it. A person plans to retire, whether to relax or to continue working to receive some additional income, and if this does not happen, people see nothing good. And this is really so.
But what are the experts saying? We should not be guided by emotions but a real assessment of the economic situation, the prospects for its future development, for the development of the social sphere. What do they say? Look. Young people might not be so interested in it, but it still concerns almost everyone.
The decisions on the pension age (55 for women and 60 for men) were made in 1956. I asked, and the Government examined the minutes of the meeting when these decisions were made. You can read what they said. When our colleagues back than made this decision, they said that as demographic indexes and life expectancy go up, so will the retirement age. Let me remind you that the average life expectancy was 67 back then. But nothing was done.
In 1995, another attempt was made. A resolution of the Russian Government was adopted in 1995; I think it was Resolution No. 790. It can be found and read. It says that the pension age must be increased but in the second decade of the 21st century.
It is 2018 now. We, ”the grateful descendants,“ now need to make some decisions. Should we be doing more or not? By and large, we could afford to do nothing for the next five, six, seven or maybe even ten years. As a matter of fact, we have enough resources to maintain the pension system. However, what is the situation now and what will it be in the near, medium and distant future?
Look, I mentioned that the average life expectancy in 1956 was 67. Now, we are up to 73.5 on average. Next year, it will be 74.3. According to estimates – which are most likely accurate – by the end of this transition period (that is 2028, as proposed by the Government), the average life expectancy for men will be over 75. The average life expectancy for women at the end of the transition period (that is 2034) will be over 85.
What does this mean in practical terms? Let’s not go back as far as the 1950s, but in 1970, I believe, there were 3.7 workers per pensioner. Do not be embarrassed by deciles with regard to people, this is statistics. Today, there are two workers per pensioner. That is, almost half what it was in 1970. In other words, there are six workers for every five pensioners. The situation will be changing but not in favour of the workers: their number will decline. There will be a time, and it will come fairly quickly, when the number of workers will equal the number of non-workers and continue to decline, and then either the pension system will collapse, or the budget and reserve funds from which we are currently financing the pension system deficit, will collapse.
Of course, we are faced with many challenges in our economy, but it is running steadily and is expanding, and, generally speaking, it has a large margin of safety. So, if we think not about today, but tomorrow, then, of course, we need to keep all these things in mind.
By the way, even by 2030 (this is forecast data, but fairly reliable), men are expected to have over 15 years after retirement, and women, over 24 years.
You know, this is a sad topic to discuss in a way, but when decisions of this magnitude and sensitivity are made for people, you need to proceed from concrete numbers and rely on realistic professional forecasts.
So there is no final decision yet. The draft law was passed in the first reading, with no amendments or additions. I will certainly listen to all opinions on the subject and follow the discussion which is already unfolding. Naturally, we should listen to people who propose something sound and reasonable and who are governed by the interests of the country and its citizens, instead of people who use this issue, which is sensitive for millions, to gain publicity.
Why? (I will return to citizens’ interests later.) Because if we do nothing at all and if it comes to some serious consequences for the pension system or for the state funds from which it is financed, first of all, we will have to keep retired people’s incomes forever low and they will keep filling the ranks of the so-called poor, while our goal is to raise people’s incomes and reduce the number of poor people. And then, everything might burst, like I said, which could affect those who are affected by raising the retirement age today. So, the current government would simply cheat people, saying, “Everything is fine, we will wait another five, seven, 10 years.”
But that would not be the end of it. We cannot avoid making drastic decisions. But what exactly? I will say again, let’s see how the discussion unfolds, let’s listen to everyone and weigh all these points of view. There are a lot of nuances to it, and I would not like to go into these details now, this is not the right place for it. But we will take it very seriously. First of all, in order to protect our citizens’ interests, both today and for the long term, so that there is stability and dependability in the economy and the social sphere, including the pension system.
Remark: Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: This is a serious issue, so please excuse the monologue.
Question: Mr President, I wanted to follow up on the question posed by my colleague from the organising committee. The World Cup which just ended was, of course, a major sporting event, but it also was, and it is undeniable, an image project and, in particular, an infrastructure project. The World Cup legacy for the host cities includes major urban infrastructure (renovated streets, transport infrastructure and, of course, airports) and world-class sports facilities. Actually, I would like to see these sites continue to host corresponding events.
Vladimir Putin: This is why I am here today – to discuss this subject with my colleagues.
Question: Just over a year ago, last spring, you said that you do not rule out the possibility that some Russian cities will host the Summer Olympic Games.
Vladimir Putin: This is possible, yes.
Question: I just wanted to make sure: you have not changed your mind, have you?
Vladimir Putin: I have not, but we have not formalised the bid yet. So, we need to see where and when, and how much it will cost us. Then, there is a schedule. We will need to discuss it.
Of course, we will continue to organise major international competitions in our country. We will also absolutely need to make good use of the venues that we spend vast amounts of money to build. We did it for the World Cup, but the most important thing, the ultimate goal is not just to throw a party, although this is a great thing to do. Holidays are followed by weekdays, and weekdays must be constructive.
It is important for young people to train here and to make sports a priority for millions of people, so that the forecasts of life expectancy, which we just talked about, come true. This means we should reduce the number of unpredictable mortality factors such as traffic accidents, alcohol, tobacco and drugs.
What do you need to do to rid people of these scourges? Get them athletic and built athletic sites, which we did. Now, we must see to it that they function in a proper way. This is what we are going to talk about today.
Remark: Mr President, we would like to take this opportunity to express our gratitude on behalf of all volunteers for this opportunity to meet you. We appreciate your work and are perfectly aware of your contribution to the development of our country. On behalf of all volunteers, we wish you lots of energy, strength, luck and wisdom.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much.
See also
Visit to Kaliningrad Stadium
July 20, 2018
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 20, 2018, 16:40
Text version