Events
Launch of the Verkhne-Munskoye diamond field
Vladimir Putin took part via video linkup in the launch of the Verkhne-Munskoye diamond field in Yakutia.
October 31, 2018
10:50
The Kremlin, Moscow
3 of 6
Launch of the Verkhne-Munskoye diamond field.
The Verkhne-Munskoye diamond field is located in the Oleneksky District of the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia), 170 km from the processing plant of ALROSA’s Udachny Mining and Processing Division.
Also taking part in the ceremony were First Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Anton Siluanov, Head of the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia) Aisen Nikolayev and ALROSA CEO Sergei Ivanov.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
First of all, I would like to congratulate you on the launch of the Verkhne-Munskoye diamond field.
There is a lot of hard work ahead of us, although much has been done already. The launch of this field will certainly reinforce the positions of ALROSA, our leading diamond company, as an international leader. It currently accounts for 27 percent of global diamond production. The launch of the new field is an important and positive event not only for the company, but also for Yakutia, the Russian Far East and the rest of Russia.
The Verkhne-Munskoye diamond field will be the main employer for the nearby mining and processing plant and the city of the same name. New jobs will be created, increasing payments to all budgets, including the budget of Yakutia. However, one of the priorities during such projects is environmental protection. I know that the necessary tests have been conducted, yet I ask you to pay special attention to this aspect, along with such issues as health and workplace safety of all those who work or will work at this facility.
It is a huge field. Several kimberlite pipes will be mined there. This project is designed to last until 2040 or 2042. Much will need to be done here. But there are also positive sides to it, because, as I said, this project will contribute to the sustainable development of Yakutia and the whole of the Russian Far East.
I congratulate you on the launch of this huge project and wish you success.
Mr Siluanov, please.
First Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Anton Siluanov: Thank you, Mr President.
This is, indeed, the first project of this scale in Russia’s contemporary history. The field was discovered over 60 years ago, yet work began here only in 2015. It is true that this field will produce over 2 million carats of diamonds a year, or some 7 percent of ALROSA’s diamond production.
You mentioned the budget. Indeed, we have invested only 5 billion rubles but expect some 180 billion rubles of revenue from this field during its life. Half of this money will go to Yakutia’s budget and will be spent on attaining the goals facing the republic. Importantly, this field will create over 800 new jobs, which is very important for the region.
Overall, we have a positive view on the company’s performance. It has reported solid financial results. It is a highly efficient company that creates new jobs. I think that the launch of the new field is very important for the performance of this major company, a global company with high international standing.
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Ivanov, go ahead please. You have the floor.
ALROSA CEO Sergei Ivanov: Mr President,
We are based in the Arctic Circle, 170 kilometres away from the town of Udachny. This is ALROSA’s northernmost fundamental diamond deposit containing more than 44 million carats. We plan to extract up to 3 million tonnes of ore per year for the next 20 years, and to enrich about 2 million carats of diamonds. Due to our company’s technological needs, special trains with a lifting capacity of 95 tonnes were designed, which will transport the ore to the processing plant.
Production at the deposit uses the most advanced technologies and the share of Russian suppliers has been maximised. Total investment in the project will amount to about 60 billion rubles; effectively, 16 billion rubles have already been invested.
With your permission, I will now give the floor to Head of the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia) Aisen Nikolayev.
Head of the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia) Aisen Nikolayev: Mr President, friends,
The Republic of Sakha (Yakutia) is a region with unique natural, economic and human resources. Today's event once again shows that Yakutia is developing, and is directed towards the future.
I would like to thank ALROSA for using the Far East development mechanisms we are implementing on your instructions, Mr President, to launch a large-scale production in extreme climatic conditions in such a short time. This is more than just another ALROSA production development project, but 800 new jobs for the local people, additional tax revenues, and stable work of ALROSA for decades to come.
It is doubly gratifying that ALROSA complies with all the ethnological and environmental expertise requirements while implementing this project.
Mr President,
We will continue monitoring these issues. During the preparations for launching the project, ALROSA signed an agreement with the national Evenk Oleneksky District of Sakha (Yakutia) to provide annual support in the amount of 100 million rubles to preserve the original habitat of the minorities of the Far North. I am sure that ALROSA will continue to develop for the benefit of the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia), and for the benefit of our great Motherland, the Russian Federation. Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Nikolayev, how long have you been serving as the acting head of the republic?
Aisen Nikolayev: Five months, and Mr Ivanov for one year.
Vladimir Putin: I am talking about you. You see, five months, and you already have a chance to help launch such a large project. Moreover, the plant is called Udachny, and the town involved in the project, Udachny [the Russian for “lucky”]. It is a good name. I hope you will be lucky with all your work as well.
Go ahead, please.
Aisen Nikolayev: Thank you, Mr President.
Sergei Ivanov: Mr President,
Please give your go-ahead for the Verkhne-Munskoye diamond field to begin commercial operation and carry out the first explosion.
Vladimir Putin: Go ahead.
I congratulate you and wish success to you and to all the employees of your company. All the best! Thank you.
Geography
Republic of Sakha (Yakutia)
Topics
Industry
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 31, 2018, 10:50
Text versionEvents
Talks with President of Moldova Igor Dodon
Vladimir Putin met with President of the Republic of Moldova Igor Dodon who arrived in Russia on an official visit, to discuss Russia-Moldova interaction in trade, the economy and culture, as well as important regional issues.
October 31, 2018
14:45
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 5
With the President of Moldova Igor Dodon.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, colleagues,
I am very pleased to see you.
To begin with, I would like to note that we attach great importance to promoting Russia-Moldova relations. We consider Moldova to be one of our priority CIS partners. Thanks to your personal efforts, the situation has been improving recently, especially in terms of trade and economic relations. Many new winemaking and agricultural companies work specifically in the Russian market.
Last year, imports from Moldova to Russia grew by over 40 percent, and this trend continues unabated with imports climbing another 14 percent in the first half of 2018. In general, our relations in this area are developing steadily. I hope this will continue into the future.
We will have an opportunity to discuss the entire range of our relations.
We are very pleased to have you here. Welcome.
President of Moldova Igor Dodon
: Mr President, colleagues,
Moldova and the Russian Federation enjoy traditionally friendly and brotherly strategic relations. This is how it was, it is, and will be, and no one, I am positive, will ever be able to destroy them.
We have good partnership relations in at least six areas. We have common interests when it comes to our spiritual values. We share the same values, and the Moldavian Church is part of the Russian Orthodox Church. I have just met with His Holiness [Patriarch Kirill] and discussed the situation in Moldova.
Our nations share centuries-old history. We have close economic ties.
You mentioned the growth in trade during this and last year. We managed to turn around the 2013–2016 trend, and there has been an increase in trade over the past two years.
With regard to apples, grapes and the like, the Russian market accounts for up to 80–90 percent of Moldova’s total exports. Exports of other items, such as wine, remain minor, as we have not had the chance to regain our former volumes yet.
Russia remains the number one investor in Moldova in its 27 years of independence.
The fourth important area has to do with the fact that more than half a million of our citizens work in Russia, transferring over $1 billion to their families every year.
The fifth is that, of course, Russia is our strategic partner in the Transnistria issue. You are aware that I have met four times with the leader of Transnistria over the past 18 months. These contacts are continuing, and we will meet again before the end of the year. I want to note once again that Russian peacekeepers are the guarantors of peace on the Dniester River. That is what the overwhelming majority of citizens on the left and on the right bank think.
The sixth is, of course, we have good cooperation at the multinational level. I mean the CIS, and I want to thank you once again for the fact that, upon your initiative and with your help, we have obtained observer status in the Eurasian Economic Union. This is our first experience. We have already participated in two of the working group meetings at the presidential level, and we will definitely participate in this format. We find it very interesting.
I want to thank you for your openness. I want to confirm the position of the Moldovan leadership and the majority of Moldovan citizens. We are striving to deepen our strategic partnership with Russia. Yes, we want to be friends with everyone, but we will not be friends with anyone just to oppose someone. You are aware of my position. We will defend this position, and I am sure that things will work out well for us.
Thank you very much.
Vladimir Putin: It was your initiative to move closer to the EAEU. I think these actions helped increase the exports of Moldovan agricultural products to the Russian market.
As for the wine making supplies and wine from Moldova, the numbers are growing.
Igor Dodon: They are.
Vladimir Putin: Last year, 14 million litres were imported, whereas in the first half of this year 8.5 million meaning that we will see a significant increase by the end of the year. We will continue with this.
I think your visit today will also be beneficial for our relations.
Igor Dodon: Thank you very much.
<…>
Geography
Moldova
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Dodon Igor
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 31, 2018, 14:45
Text versionEvents
World Congress of Compatriots Living Abroad
Vladimir Putin addressed the 6th World Congress of Compatriots Living Abroad.
October 31, 2018
13:30
Moscow
1 of 3
At the 6th World Congress of Compatriots.
During his address, the President announced the approval of the State Migration Policy Concept of the Russian Federation for 2019–2025.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends,
I am delighted to welcome the participants of the 6th World Congress of Compatriots.
It is symbolic that this Congress has met ahead of the National Unity Day. This holiday was established to celebrate the glorious deeds of our forefathers and unbreakable bonds between all generations that remain loyal to their homeland and uphold their traditional values and common ideals irrespective of the country they live in.
See also
Executive Order on Russia’s state migration policy concept for 2019–2025
October 31, 2018
Over 700 people from many countries are attending this Congress. At the same time, all of you together represent the tight-knit community of Russian compatriots and the huge united Russian world, which was never based exclusively on ethnic, national or religious principles. It has brought together and united all those who are connected to Russia spiritually, who feel a spiritual link to our homeland, and who consider themselves to be Russian speakers and the carriers of Russian culture and history.
I would like to express my sincere gratitude to you for your involvement in the life of Russia, for your invariable support and for your solidarity. We are grateful for your contribution to the promotion and advancement of our rich historical and cultural heritage and everything else that constitutes our national Russian identity.
An important role in this is played by Russian cultural institutions abroad: theatres, libraries, and museums. Many of them are created and supported by our compatriots abroad.
I cannot fail to note the role of the media. Without them, many useful initiatives to expand the Russian-speaking space would not have the desired effect.
I would like to sincerely thank philologists, teachers, literary critics and enthusiasts who help us in organising the international celebrations of our outstanding writers’ anniversaries: Leo Tolstoy, Ivan Turgenev, Alexander Solzhenitsyn and many others.
I am also pleased to announce that a modern, state-of-the-art building of the Alexander Solzhenitsyn House of Russian Expatriates has been built in Moscow. Its collection is now being finalised. Compatriots donated priceless relics, evidence of dramatic events in the history of our country to the museum.
The museum will open its doors to visitors in spring 2019, and I am sure it will become one of the leading intellectual and cultural centres of Russia, a platform for fruitful dialogue with our compatriots all over the world.
Friends, all of this is especially important now that we are dealing with the issues that will directly affect the future of Russia and other countries. The international situation is far from simple. Tensions and unpredictability are growing. The foundations of international law are being eroded, and long-term agreements between states are crumbling.
Russophobia and, regrettably, other forms of extreme aggressive nationalism are being employed. There is no concealing the fact that a war on memorials and the Russian language is underway in Ukraine, the Baltics and several other countries. People are being intimidated and even terrorised. A natural desire to preserve one’s ethnic roots is denounced as a crime and a form of separatism. The freedom of speech and the right to keep up one’s traditions are defied. Some of our compatriots have been denied the right to practice their professions for political reasons.
Many people are feeling the consequences of this harsh pressure.
We will firmly defend your rights and interests, using all the available bilateral and multilateral mechanisms at our disposal. We will continue to provide assistance to the Foundation for Supporting and Protecting the Rights of Compatriots Living Abroad, which has helped establish 26 legal aid centres in 20 countries. It has allocated grants to some 200 projects and organised over 50 events, including courses for young human rights advocates. Professional legal assistance has been provided to over 70,000 people, including in such trouble spots as Syria, Yemen and Libya.
As I said, the preservation and promotion of the Russian language is among our priorities. Towards this end, the Federal Agency for the CIS Affairs, Compatriots Living Abroad, and International Humanitarian Cooperation (Rossotrudnichestvo) alone helps some 5,000 preschool and secondary school teachers receive advanced training every year.
Measures are being taken to support Russian language teachers. Starting in 2017, Russia’s Education Ministry sends Russian language teachers to six cities in Tajikistan and provides assistance to the Alexander Pushkin Russian-Turkmenistani School in Ashgabat.
The Pushkin Institute Partner Network has been established to facilitate access to Russian language tuition programmes. Over 80 language centres around the world have been created within the framework of this partner network.
We are increasing the delivery of textbooks, fiction and teaching aids to educational establishments. Youth Olympiads are held regularly, and their winners are invited to study at the top Russian universities.
I would like to highlight the efforts of the Russky Mir Foundation, which annually organises large-scale assemblies in Russia. This year’s assembly is scheduled for November 2–4 in Tver.
The Foundation has established over 250 Russian Centres and “Russian World rooms” in 70 countries, including 12 in the past three years. One of them is located at the University of Damascus in Syria. Over one million people were involved in the Foundation’s events in 2018.
We do not want young compatriots living abroad to lose their roots, their Russian essence and their ties with the Motherland. Therefore the youth is among the most popular areas of focus in our work.
We would like as many young compatriots as possible to visit Russia, learn about its achievements, its life today, to meet with their peers and launch joint projects and initiatives.
We help young people establish contacts, including business and professional contacts, and to join the volunteer movement. The 2017 World Festival of Youth and Students in Sochi played an important role in this respect.
Educational trips to historical sites, including Hello, Russia!, the World Games of Young Compatriots and the Workshop of Meanings online educational resource remain highly popular.
I would like to emphasise that since early 2018 our compatriots are free to take part in the Leaders of Russia competition of next generation leaders. This is a good opportunity to receive quality professional training and to realise one’s ambitions.
I must also say a few more words about the efforts of the Russian Orthodox Church and other traditional national confessions, including Islam, Judaism and Buddhism. I can see many representatives of these religions in this hall, and I would like to welcome them. I want to thank them for their efforts to strengthen cultural and humanitarian ties between our compatriots abroad and Russia. Unfortunately, some are now trying to sever these ties, one way or another, and to force these people to stay in their respective countries. I would like to note one thing: political intrigues in this sensitive sphere have always spelled dire consequences, primarily for those who are doing this. It is our shared duty (to the people, in the first place) to do everything possible to preserve spiritual and historical unity.
Friends,
Russia has a strong economic and humanitarian potential. And, as I said in the Address to the Federal Assembly, its positions and role in the world are determined by the people and the conditions that we create for their self-fulfilment and creativity.
We are facing large-scale tasks to ensure breakthrough, sustainable long-term growth. I am sure that our compatriots can make a great contribution to this constructive work.
We are primarily counting on your involvement in promoting cooperation projects with Russia. However, frankly, circumstances could develop in different ways. Therefore, we will be happy to see those who want to come to us on a temporary basis, as well as those who apply for citizenship and permanent residence in Russia. As for those illegally persecuted, those in danger, we will make every effort to ensure their protection and provide a shelter.
Today I have signed a new edition of the State Migration Policy Concept. It is aimed, among other things, at creating more comfortable conditions for our compatriots from abroad to move to Russia for permanent residence, as well as at creating clear rules for entry and entitlement to residence, work, and Russian citizenship.
We have removed many problems and bureaucratic barriers in this sphere that our compatriots have rightly mentioned. In any case, I hope we have tried to remove them and de-bureaucratise the system. We still need to see how it works in practice. We will continue moving in this direction.
Furthermore, we will continue to improve the state programme to facilitate the voluntary resettlement of compatriots living abroad to the Russian Federation. Allow me to note that about 800,000 people have moved to 66 Russian regions in the past 12 years that the programme has been in force.
We can see that in recent months, the number of people wishing to return to their homeland has been growing. We will continue to facilitate the process of adaptation, to simplify procedures, together with regional and local authorities, businesses, and public associations, to work on improving the quality of life of displaced persons, to create jobs for them, and to improve the conditions for doing business.
I know first-hand that there are still many problems here. We will analyse these problems together and get rid of them.
Friends,
In conclusion, I would like to emphasise that we genuinely want you to be successful, prosperous and happy. And whichever country you live in, we are always ready to give you every possible support.
We know that you are doing all you can to strengthen the Russian world, and to establish a constructive dialogue between countries. I would like to assure you that this is our common goal.
I would like to wish the Congress participants fruitful work and interesting discussions. All the best to you and your families.
Thank you.
Topics
Compatriots
Migration
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 31, 2018, 13:30
Text version