Events
Reception celebrating Heroes of Fatherland Day
A reception celebrating Heroes of the Fatherland Day was held at the Kremlin on behalf of Vladimir Putin.
December 7, 2018
18:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 6
Reception celebrating Heroes of Fatherland Day.
About 250 military members and civilians who have displayed particular courage and heroism were invited to attend the event in St Andrew Hall of the Grand Kremlin Palace.
The participants included Heroes of the Soviet Union, Heroes of the Russian Federation, full cavaliers of the Order of Glory and cavaliers of the Order of St George.
Heroes of the Fatherland Day is celebrated annually on December 9.
* * *
Speech at the reception celebrating Heroes of the Fatherland Day
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, dear friends, veterans, comrades.
I congratulate you on Heroes of the Fatherland Day.
This holiday is a tribute of the state and society to those who have received the highest state awards: Heroes of the Soviet Union, Heroes of the Russian Federation, the Order of Glory and the Order of St George.
Russia has always been proud of such people, who are ready to show courage, valour and bravery and perform heroic deeds in the name of the Motherland and their family and friends.
Heroism and self-sacrifice for one’s comrades are qualities of our national character, as we often say. These are the people, heroic people, who claimed the territory of Russia, repelled unfathomable attacks and aggression, and liberated other peoples.
When soldiers go into fierce combat, a fierce battle, and sacrifice themselves, when rescuers save children, when cosmonauts and sailors discover new routes, their own heroism is the last thing on their minds. They just do their duty, guided by their conscience, the memory of their forebears, and the lessons and values instilled by their parents and mentors.
The invincibility of the Russian people lies in this continuity of generations and moral and spiritual strength. Throughout history, it has always been so.
Today we remember the legendary and unknown heroes of past battles who fought in the first and second world wars. Those who fought and won in Afghanistan, took on terrorists in Russia and fight now in Syria.
We are proud of your courage and valour, and sometimes even your genuine modesty. We are immeasurably grateful to you for doing so much for our country and for serving Russia today. We bow in memory of those who perished: perished in the trenches and in the skies, protecting their comrades, but never retreating. We remember those who are no longer with us.
I am confident that a day like today will continue to serve as a symbol of the continuity of the heroic traditions and deeds, and the victories of Russia.
Friends, unfortunately, today’s work schedule and meetings do not permit me to stay with you much longer in this wonderful, festive atmosphere. But I simply must offer a toast to the Heroes of the Fatherland and to the wellbeing of all of you and your families.
To the great Russian nation and the great multiethnic Russian people!
Topics
Armed Forces
State decorations
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 7, 2018, 18:30
Text versionEvents
Joint news conference with Greek Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras
December 7, 2018
17:25
The Kremlin, Moscow
Vladimir Putin and Alexis Tsipras
gave a joint news conference following Russian-Greek talks.
2 of 4
Joint news conference with Prime Minister of Greece Alexis Tsipras.
* * *
Press statement and responses to media questions
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Tsipras, ladies and gentlemen,
We are pleased to welcome the Prime Minister of the Hellenic Republic in Moscow.
We believe that Mr Tsipras’s visit comes at a good time. We consider Greece our special partner with whom we are united by age-old bonds of friendship, common chapters of history and spiritual affinity.
This year marks the 190th anniversary of diplomatic relations between Russia and Greece and the 25th anniversary of the Friendship and Cooperation Agreement.
We have always strived to build a dialogue of partnership based on the principles of neighbourliness, respect and mutual consideration of interests.
Today’s talks with the Prime Minister were held in this vein. We discussed key issues of Russian-Greek cooperation, as well as important international matters.
See also
Russian-Greek talks
December 7, 2018
Interdepartmental documents signed at the end of the visit will contribute to deepening mutually beneficial bilateral cooperation in specific areas. You have just seen it.
Considerable focus is on trade and investment interaction, which shows good dynamics. Last year, bilateral trade grew by 27 percent to nearly $4 billion, adding another 11 percent in January-September. Russia’s and Greece’s reciprocal investment exceeds $700 million.
It is our common opinion that the mixed commission on economic, industrial, and scientific and technical cooperation is performing well. It met in Moscow just a few days ago, on December 5–6, just before today's talks, and was quite instrumental in preparations for these talks.
The Russian-Greek Business Council is promoting direct contacts between businesspeople of the two states. It met twice this year: in Moscow in March and in Athens in October.
A Greek delegation traditionally participates in the St Petersburg International Economic Forum. We hope that next year the Greek economic authorities and business circles will send a representative delegation to St Petersburg as well.
Of course, energy is an important area of cooperation. For many years, Russia has been reliably supplying Greece with energy resources, providing more than half of the republic’s gas needs and 10 percent of its oil. At the same time, we are ready to consider the possibility of connecting Greek companies to major infrastructure projects for the delivery of Russian gas to Europe via the southern route.
The Prime Minister and I discussed expanding cooperation in innovation based on the Declaration of Partnership for Modernisation. Russian high-tech companies aim to enter the Greek market with a broad range of products and services.
Of course, we spent time on issues of cultural and humanitarian cooperation. A positive public response is generated by annually held joint cultural festivals, tours of famous artists and performance groups. In 2019, we will hold the cross Year of Language and Literature.
I would like to note that the Russian-Greek Year of Tourism ended on November 23, as part of which 50 events were held. Last year, a record number – 850,000 – of our citizens visited Greece; this is 9 percent more than in the previous year. This year, their number is expected to increase up to a million people.
We agreed to continue our support of the development of tourism and to ensure that an increasing number of Greek citizens come to our country and discover its sights. There are promising projects under development on organising cruises in the Black Sea, Baltic Sea and northern seas, and creating new resorts.
Cooperation agreements have already been signed by more than 20 cities. I want to point out positive dynamics in terms of regional cooperation. In Russia, the leaders in the number of projects of this kind being implemented are Moscow, St Petersburg and Rostov-on-Don.
When discussing international issues, prospects for further building relations between Russia and the European Union were addressed. Of course, we talked about the Cyprus settlement process.
In conclusion, I would like to express my gratitude to Mr Tsipras and all our Greek colleagues for the substantive and productive talks.
Thank you for your attention.
Question: The Prime Minister’s previous visits to Russia took place when Greece was under the memorandum (of the IMF and the EU), and everyone in Europe was focused on that. Now Greece’s role in the Eastern Mediterranean is becoming more important. Are there really any signs to substantiate this opinion?
Vladimir Putin: Greece, or the Greek people to be exact, are passing through a very difficult period in their history; we can see that. And, of course, we hope for them to overcome these difficulties as soon as possible. We closely follow the Greek government’s actions, and I can congratulate Mr Prime Minister on progressively promoting the Greek economy despite the actions of many political parties.
We have always supported the Greek people and the Greek state since the first steps of an independent Greece, and we will continue to do this regardless of whether the Greek people are enduring difficult times or are prospering.
The reason does not lie in our historical relations, spiritual closeness, etc., but we will be happy to see recent difficulties overcome because this will provide us with new opportunities to work together in the economy above all.
Perhaps you know about one of our largest investments: a Russian company working in the hotel and tourism industry is investing over 400 million or euros or dollars (I do not recall) in a project. This is a current project.
I am sure that as the economic situation stabilises, other large businesses – and Russian businesses have enormous investment potential – will act more confidently and proactively. We wish the Greek people and government success in overcoming the remaining difficulties soon.
With Prime Minister of Greece Alexis Tsipras after the joint news conference.
Question: I would still like to clarify one thing. After today’s talks, is it possible to say that a not very good page has been turned in the history of relations between Moscow and Athens on the well-known story involving diplomats last summer, and now the parties are ready to once again pursue cooperation and implement joint projects?
Vladimir Putin: Concerning the page you mentioned, here is what I think is important to note.
Firstly, we initially did not agree, and I want to emphasise this now, with the basis for the expulsion of our diplomats. I can hardly imagine that any sensible person either in Greece or in Russia could think that Russia was plotting some intrigues against Greece or planning some kind of conspiracies. This is just nonsense, rubbish.
If the intelligence services have any questions to each other, which is also possible, there are many ways of resolving situations of this kind without any theatrical gestures. Hopefully, this page really has been turned. But I must tell you that this did not really hinder us in working normally and building relationships, including in the economic sphere. That is more important – the stability of the economy, of the partners themselves, the reliability and stability of the political system and guarantees of investments in large projects. We are ready to work in all areas, including the field of energy infrastructure projects.
Question: You said that you discussed energy cooperation, energy security issues at the talks. How realistic is it that one of the lines of TurkStream will pass through Greece? We all see the essentially undisguised pressure of the United States of America, the statement of presidents that such projects are not desirable. How can this pressure be resisted? This is a question to both leaders.
Vladimir Putin: Regarding energy routes. I already spoke about this, I just alluded to the fact that we are ready to go forward with major energy infrastructure projects with Greece, which also applies to the possibility of connecting Southern Europe through Greece to TurkStream.
We are discussing this with both our Turkish and Greek partners; it is quite likely. There is actually already a pipeline from Greece to Italy. The pipeline was built, but there is no gas there yet. We can think together on how to fill this route with a real product.
This is a matter that requires separate consideration, primarily from the point of view of economic feasibility for economic players, including Russian ones. But it is quite possible, we do not rule it out; moreover, we believe that it is quite realistic.
Geography
Greece
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Tsipras Alexis
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 7, 2018, 17:25
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile Jean Todt
Vladimir Putin had a meeting with President of Fédération Internationale de l’Automobile (FIA) Jean Todt to discuss the development of motor sport in Russia.
December 7, 2018
01:00
St Petersburg
3 of 4
Meeting with President of Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile Jean Todt.
Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA) was established in 1904 at the initiative of 13 European and American motor clubs. Today, it brings together more than 230 national motor clubs and associations from 130 countries, and counts over 100 million car enthusiasts.
Jean Todt has been serving as FIA President since 2009. The Federation is known for managing and organising auto racing events. It is in charge of the licensing and sanctioning of Formula One, World Rally Championship and other racing events.
On December 3, the FIA General Assembly opened in St Petersburg. It is the first time Russia hosts an event of this kind.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Thank you for coming. We are delighted to have this opportunity to take stock of the development of motor sport in Russia.
Let me emphasise that Formula 1 is not our only undertaking. We are moving forward. You may already know that we are building a big and advanced motor centre near St Petersburg.
I would like you to visit this place and share your views and recommendations on how we could develop this venue.
President of the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile Jean Todt: It is a privilege to see you and I am sorry to bother you at this time of the night.
I know you have quite a busy schedule coming from Argentina and all you have been doing but I appreciate it.
In fact, with my friend, Viktor Kiryanov, on Saturday we are going to see the facilities you were just talking about.
We arrived here on Monday because for the entire week we have been working with the General Assembly of the FIA and different motor councils. Tomorrow morning we are holding the General Assembly.
And tomorrow evening there will be a Prize Piving and all the champions of Formula 1, Formula 2, Formula 3, Rally, Endurance Championship, Formula E – all will be awarded here in the library. Everybody was very happy to be hosted in St Petersburg.
Vladimir Putin: I hope that it is not their last visit.
Jean Todt: I had the opportunity to come to Sochi several times for Formula 1. I came also for Formula E in Moscow. Twenty-five years ago I came here for the Rally and at the time I was not the President of the FIA. I was running the Citroen team and I came for the Paris-Moscow-Beijing Rally.
Vladimir Putin: I hope that you will visit us more often.
Jean Todt: Thank you. I have a few friends who love to come here. I think you know them, for example, Jean-Claude Killy. He showed me a nice photo with you, him and tigers.
Vladimir Putin: He is like a tiger himself.
Jean Todt: He was very proud to show that to me.
I also want to thank you for your support because I am President of the FIA but also the UN Secretary-General’s Special Envoy for Road Safety. And the Russian Federation has always been a very good support to me in my activity. It is always a great pleasure to work with my friend, Viktor Kiryanov, who is also the President of the Russian Automobile Federation.
I wanted to give you this helmet specially made for you.
Vladimir Putin: I can see that. Thank you very much.
Jean Todt: It has been signed by different racers. Here is Michael Schumacher.
Vladimir Putin: Please thank all of them for this.
Jean Todt: This is also a present for you.
Vladimir Putin: I do not know what to say. I do not have a souvenir for you. I feel rather uneasy. Thank you again.
Jean Todt: To meet you is the best souvenir.
<…>
See also
Trip to St Petersburg
December 6 − 7, 2018
Geography
Saint Petersburg
Topics
Road safety
Sport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 7, 2018, 01:00
Text versionEvents
Russian Geographical Society awards ceremony
Vladimir Putin took part in the Russian Geographical Society awards ceremony.
December 7, 2018
19:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
6 of 6
At the Russian Geographical Society awards ceremony. With Igor Spiridenko, winner in the category Best Expedition in Russia and project director of Tyurikov’s Aircraft. Return.
The President presented one of the awards to Igor Spiridenko, winner in the category Best Expedition in Russia and director of the Tyurikov’s Aircraft. Return project.
The purpose of the award-winning expedition was to recover the legendary Douglas C-47 aircraft from the tundra region on the Taimyr Peninsula. This is the only remaining intact aircraft in Russia from a series that were given to the Soviet Union by the Allies as part of the WWII-era land lease programme.
On April 23, 1947, the plane made an emergency landing in a remote area in northern Krasnoyarsk Territory. First pilot Maxim Tyurikov was able to land safely and avoid casualties. When no rescuers came after four days, however, the pilot, two crew members and six passengers left in search of help and were never seen again. Those who decided to stay were found alive.
The Douglas C-47 is being restored before being added to the collection of the Museum Park of the Exploration of Northern Territories in Krasnoyarsk.
The creators of the National Nature Reserve Heritage Lesson online project won Best Educational Project in Geography. Interactive lessons have been held in over 20, 000 schools across Russia.
The best science project is Lomonosov Moscow State University’s Digital Herbarium, a database of biodiversity with a million samples. Only three countries in the world have similar databases.
Best History and Culture Project went to participants of the Flooded Sacred Sites of Mologa, a large-scale study of the Rybinskoye Reservoir area.
Goodsurfing, an online service that helps combine travelling with volunteering, was awarded Best Youth Project. The project offers travel opportunities to 59 countries, and has brought together volunteers from 73 countries.
Bears of Kamchatka: Early Life, a documentary film, was named Best Media Project. Its authors spent seven months watching bear families and bear cub development. The documentary has received 17 film festival prizes.
Pure Games, a team competition in the collection and sorting of waste to clear natural landmarks, won Best Nature Conservation Project.
A total of 542 entries from 76 regions of Russia and other countries were submitted this year.
At the Russian Geographical Society awards ceremony.
* * *
Speech at the Russian Geographical Society awards ceremony
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends,
Before presenting the award, let me say a few words of gratitude both to our nominees for everything they have done and to everyone who takes part in such a comprehensive effort as national awareness, work that is very important for our country.
We have talked about the Russian Geographical Society’s distribution of about 100 grants and only seven awards, which is less than ten percent. But the rest are also doing very important, interesting and useful work.
We have talked about flora and fauna, about aging forests and about bears. These efforts require not only time and enthusiasm, but also courage.
I have indeed visited these places and have seen bears here and there. When they approached us from one side, we thought we should move and withdraw, you know. But these people were living there for seven months right next to the bears.
This is very interesting, exciting and practical. This work allows us to understand who we are, our past, and our future. This helps us grow stronger on the inside, and this is very important. This is one element in our national identity.
The only thing we should worry about is that we know very little about your efforts. These things have been accomplished, and more people should learn about them.
I am back from another Moscow Kremlin hall, where I congratulated the Heroes of Russia and the Soviet Union on our upcoming day (it is called Heroes of the Fatherland Day). I saw this enormous hall filled with so many people. Every one of them – I want to stress this – every one of them deserves to be recognised by the entire country, but we only know of a few of them. We need to educate young people, the younger generation using their lives as examples.
We need to educate people of all ages on the materials you publish. It is vitally important. I would like to ask our journalists, our culture personalities, film and television producers to include this in your programmes; this should be shown, because it is extremely interesting.
And I would like to thank everyone who does this, because thanks to your efforts, talent and courage, we all have the opportunity to immerse into the remarkable world of science, creativity, travel and self-understanding.
Mr Andron Konchalovsky [awards ceremony host, film director, jury member of the Russian Geographical Society’s photo contest The Most Beautiful Country] mentioned the first primitive artist whose rock engravings and drawings were found in caves in Spain.
I often travel in our enormous country. The mountains of Altai. Not a cave, just a giant rock. Rock engravings by an ancient artist depicting animals, birds and so on.
There were no scientists there and no one knows about this. We saw them, cleaned them with our hands.
We do not know how deep our culture and history are.
By the way, many researchers believe the mountains of Altai to be birthplace of the Turkic peoples. There are many things we do not know anything about even though we live next to them. We should know more.
And, of course, I would like to thank everyone who works in this field and wish you success.
Thank you very much.
Topics
Environment
Science and innovation
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 7, 2018, 19:30
Text versionEvents
Russian-Greek talks
Vladimir Putin held talks at the Kremlin with Greek Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, who arrived in Russia on a working visit.
December 7, 2018
16:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
The discussion covered issues related to bilateral cooperation in various areas and topical international and regional problems.
Following the consultations, Vladimir Putin and Alexis Tsipras attended a ceremony to exchange documents signed during the Greek Prime Minister’s visit to Russia.
The signed documents concern cooperation in countering crime; cooperation in fitness, sports and education; exchange of cutting-edge experience in transport; and the development of customs cooperation.
See also
Joint news conference with Greek Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras
December 7, 2018
Vladimir Putin and Alexis Tsipras also made press statements and answered media questions.
* * *
Beginning of the meeting with Prime Minister of Greece Alexis Tsipras
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister, colleagues,
We are happy to welcome you to Moscow.
This year we marked 190 years of diplomatic relations between our two countries.
We are glad that our bilateral trade is growing. We have a lot to discuss, including the situation in the region and some international issues.
We are happy to see you. Welcome to Moscow.
Prime Minister of the Hellenic Republic Alexis Tsipras
(retranslated): Mr President, we are delighted to see you.
It is a great honour to be in the Kremlin once again.
The last time I visited Russia was three years ago. Many things have changed over these three years. Greece has found its way and is now in a good situation. But the international agenda remains largely critical.
However, the relations that have historically developed between our countries have not changed, which allows us to work towards stability and peace in the region and the rest of the world.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
<…>
Geography
Greece
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Tsipras Alexis
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 7, 2018, 16:30
Text version