Events
Meeting of the Security Council
The President held a meeting of the Russian Federation Security Council on additional measures to ensure national energy security.
November 29, 2018
15:40
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 2
Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu before the meeting of the Russian Federation Security Council.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
Our agenda today includes a set of matters related to ensuring Russia’s energy security. This topic is extremely important and pressing.
For our country, energy – and this, as a matter of fact, includes the electricity industry, as well as oil, gas and coal production – is of particular, strategic importance. Today, unique reserves of all the key energy sources enable us to fully meet our domestic energy needs, while the impressive exports, including to countries of the European Union, the Asia Pacific region, and the CIS, bring to Russia not only tangible revenue but also enable it to remain one of the main guarantors of global energy security.
I would like to point out that recently, we have done a lot to strengthen the domestic energy sector. The Energy Strategy of Russia and a number of large-scale state programmes aimed at developing the fuel and energy sector and enhancing energy efficiency of the entire Russian economy have been approved and come into effect.
Let me also draw your attention to the fact that we should increase the support for Russian energy companies operating abroad, because – and we know this all too well – the opportunities for multilateral and global energy cooperation have often been used lately as tools of containment rather than development. In this connection, we should step up our work at international energy organisations as well as use the potential of international associations with the participation of the Russian Federation to cut short these threats.
As I have already said, attempts to impose unfair competition are having a negative effect on the long-term development of the fuel and energy sector. These include bans on the delivery of modern hydrocarbon exploration and production technology and equipment, as well as direct political pressure put on the countries that import Russian hydrocarbons.
We must assess the current and potential challenges to the Russian energy sector objectively and comprehensively so as to promptly plan countermeasures to these threats.
The updated Energy Security Strategy of Russia is designed to address these challenges. We will discuss it today. After we adopt this doctrine, we will need to adjust our strategic planning documents to its new provisions.
The fuel and energy sector and the national infrastructure as a whole need top-level security as well as the mobilisation and permanent readiness of all the agencies concerned, especially in the autumn and winter period, as we know well.
We must seriously enhance the protection of fuel and energy facilities from terrorist attacks, accidents and other potential threats. This must be done above all through the quality training of personnel, strict compliance with all the security requirements and every technological and technical detail disregarding which can result in negative developments, through improvements in the security systems as well as regular exercises and drills.
And lastly, we must work consistently to rid the energy sector of corruption, all kinds of grey schemes and criminal threats.
I would like representatives from regulatory and law enforcement agencies to share with us their proposals on stepping up work in these areas.
<…>
See also
About Security Council
Topics
Energy
Energy efficiency
National security
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Security Council
Publication date: November 29, 2018, 15:40
Text versionEvents
Congress of the Russian Popular Front
The President delivered an address at the Russian Popular Front congress.
November 29, 2018
14:30
Moscow
2 of 8
At the congress of the Russian Popular Front.
The congress is taking place in the Crocus Expo exhibition centre in Moscow and has been convened to discuss the creation of effective public control instruments for monitoring the implementation of the 12 national projects listed in the May Executive Order.
The President also met with the new members of the movement’s central headquarters.
* * *
Address at the Russian Popular Front congress
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: I wholeheartedly greet all the participants of the Russian Popular Front congress.
The name of your movement tells it all. The Russian Popular Front (ONF) is a nationwide movement established to protect the interests of the people, each and all citizens of Russia.
Over the past few years, the ONF has proved worthy of the purpose for which it was created, which is to provide public control over the implementation of state decisions.
Look, 11,000 illegal landfill sites have been closed thanks to the ONF’s contribution. I know that it was a challenging job. And what about your contribution to other environmental projects, such as the protection of forests from felling? This work takes great personal courage. I know this for certain. I understand what this means. The ONF has successfully fulfilled these major and very responsible tasks. Thank you very much for this.
But this is not all, of course. In a manner of speaking, this is only the beginning. In the past 10–15 years, we have done a great deal to revive the Army and the Navy, as well as the national defence industry. We have created reliable security guarantees for Russia.
See also
Meeting with new members of Russian Popular Front central headquarters
November 29, 2018
Now we must make the next, a bigger and much more responsible and hence much more difficult step. We must do in the civilian sectors – the industry, science, education, healthcare and infrastructure – what we have accomplished in the sphere of national defence. We need breakthrough achievements in all of the above sectors.
Yes, much has been accomplished in the past few years, but this is not enough. People are expecting major changes. But it is impossible to achieve major changes without large-scale investment, including state investment. And even if this is happening, it will be virtually impossible to score these results without wide-ranging public oversight of what is being done, how it is being done, as well as specific results. This can only be accomplished with your involvement. Therefore I urge you to continue your previous work and to monitor the work of state agencies.
I want to assure you there are plenty of honest hard-working professionals in the bodies of state authority and all administrative tiers and they are committed to achieving positive end results. But it goes without saying that public control is absolutely essential at all times. This is the first point. For example, we cannot afford to build a rural medical assistance centre that cannot be reached. We must prevent purchases of expensive medical equipment that would rust away and decay at warehouses, while someone would obtain commission and profit from such transactions. No, this entire system must work. And this work cannot be effective without oversight by public organisations.
But this is not enough. Of course, we need to support and help those government officials who are dedicated to their work. Therefore state support is the second aspect.
And the third point is that you must become directly involved in charting development priorities, primarily at the regional and local level. We will not be able to accomplish essential tasks for people living in specific streets, courtyards and buildings, unless they become directly involved. We need to encourage them to take part in this joint work.
Therefore, we need oversight, support and involvement. It will be impossible to accomplish anything without these aspects.
I urge you to take the most active part in this work. If this happens, and I hope that it will happen, then we will really build the country of our dreams. In this connection, I know that the youth wing of the Russian Popular Front has a very good slogan: “Don’t wait for changes, make them happen.” I like it very much, and I support it completely.
Thank you and good luck.
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 29, 2018, 14:30
Text version