Events
Meeting with elected regional governors
Vladimir Putin met with elected governors of the Russian regions – the heads of the Republic of Khakassia, Primorye and Khabarovsk territories, Vladimir Region and the Nenets Autonomous Area. The participants reviewed the election campaign and plans for the further development of the regions.
December 27, 2018
15:15
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 8
Meeting with elected regional governors.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
To begin with, I would like to congratulate you on your election to high positions in the regions, the residents of which have entrusted you with these positions that are very important for every person because the closer to the people the more responsible and complicated it is. I think some of you already know this while others will learn this soon.
The election campaign follows its own logic. The main goal is to show the voters one’s intentions, to demonstrate to them what you want to achieve. But this approach also dictates tough criticism of the opponents. This is all clear but it is also obvious that after the end of this period it is necessary to show tenability and keep the promises that you made to the people This is the bottom line.
All of you have different life and administrative experience. Some of you, like Oleg Kozhemyako, started careers as a plumber, doctor or lawyer. However, now you must use everything you have, the experience you have accumulated in the years of your work and life, that is the experience of life, production and public activity, and what is very important – to work befittingly for the benefit of people, laying aside other interests and priorities.
I would like to wish you success and the attainment of the goals that you set during the election campaign. I would like to hope that you will not let down the people and that they did not go wrong in choosing you.
The election campaign was complicated and even conflict-prone in the majority of your regions. Well, this is the logic of political struggle. In reality, I am glad that representatives of opposition parties, and this is the case for the majority here, do well at the elections and reach the goals they set for themselves.
Recently I met with the leaders of all the parliamentary parties, the leaders in the Russian Parliament, and we discussed this as well. They, in turn, also promised to give you every support. I hope you get to feel this support from the state, from me and from the members of your own parties.
And I would like to wish you good luck and a happy New Year. Let us discuss what issues and problems we have.
<…>
Topics
Regions
Persons
Furgal Sergei
Konovalov Valentin
Kozhemyako Oleg
Sipyagin Vladimir
1 more
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 27, 2018, 15:15
Text versionEvents
Greetings to current and former Emergencies Ministry workers
Vladimir Putin congratulated current and former workers of the Ministry of Civil Defence, Emergencies and Natural Disaster Relief of the Russian Federation on their professional holiday, Rescuers’ Day.
December 27, 2018
09:00
Moscow
Vladimir Putin congratulated current and former workers of the Ministry of Civil Defence, Emergencies and Natural Disaster Relief of the Russian Federation on their professional holiday, Rescuers’ Day.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Comrades, veterans,
Congratulations on your professional holiday, Rescuer’s Day. Thank you for your efficient and selfless service. Emergencies Ministry divisions are always ready to act in an urgent and resolute manner, in highly risky conditions and in the most complicated and atypical circumstances.
You proved your ability to successfully work as a well-coordinated team many times, both in our country and abroad, during most complicated rescue and humanitarian operations following natural disasters, industrial accidents, fires and other emergencies.
I would like to note the particular importance and significance of further improving prevention programmes. The Emergencies Ministry should be more proactive in preventing emergencies, ensuring the strictest and principled control over fire safety rules, other requirements and safety procedures at complex technical facilities and in public places.
Of course, real life will always throw in unexpected events. And it is you that people in distress rely on because they are certain that help will always come and Emergencies Ministry rescuers will do everything possible and impossible to save the most important thing: human lives.
We will continue to further reinforce the ministry’s unique personnel potential, pay close attention to the quality and diversified training and technical equipment of Russian rescuers, as well as social support to the personnel and their families.
We will certainly also pay the utmost attention to educating the younger generation in the glorious traditions of courage and honour, which is the pride of the Emergencies Ministry and the entire country.
I wish you good health, good luck and success in your demanding and noble service. And of course, I wish you and your families a happy New Year.
Topics
Civil service
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 27, 2018, 09:00
Text versionEvents
Gala New Year event at the Bolshoi Theatre
Vladimir Putin attended a gala New Year event at the Bolshoi Theatre.
December 27, 2018
22:00
Moscow
7 of 9
At a gala New Year event at the Bolshoi Theatre. Ballet The Nutcracker.
Also attending the gala event were Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev
, his spouse Svetlana Medvedeva, Federation Council Speaker Valentina Matviyenko
, State Duma Speaker Vyacheslav Volodin
, Patriarch of Moscow and All Russia Kirill
, Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Anton Vaino
and spouse, and Naina Yeltsina.
After the performance, Vladimir Putin met with Bolshoi Theatre soloists who starred in The Nutcracker ballet and the Theatre’s directors. The President wished the company a Happy New Year and further creative success.
 * * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues, friends, ladies and gentlemen,
We are holding our traditional, pre-New Year or pre-holiday meeting in an unusual format. Here, within the walls of this theatre, I would like to thank the Bolshoi Theatre for its hospitality and its company for the wonderful gift they have prepared for us.
The magical ballet The Nutcracker, the fairy tale feeling that will reign supreme on stage, has long been one of the brightest symbols of the holiday season beginning in December, and the New Year and Christmas. There is no doubt that the joyful, airy feeling of this event, the wonderful music by Pyotr Tchaikovsky and the brilliant performance by the artists, which we will now see on stage, will leave everyone with the most pleasant and warm impressions.
Of course, bidding farewell to another year, the year 2018, we review the results and look to the future, making new plans for the future as usual. The outgoing year was unique and different for every person, but it united our society and our citizens in events that were important for all of Russia. I am referring to the domestic political calendar, major domestic political events and, certainly, the implementation of major, landmark projects such as the Crimean Bridge and the World Cup that we conducted brilliantly. In general, we worked together for the consolidation and prosperity of our homeland.
I would like to express special gratitude to all those who took an active part in the Year of the Volunteer: today we held a conference at the Kremlin with our regional colleagues on this occasion along with representatives of the volunteer movement and socially-oriented non-governmental organisations. And I would like to address special words of gratitude to this particular category of our citizens who are wholeheartedly helping others through charity, and who carry out and support educational and creative projects. Needless to say, we will continue this work even though the Year of the Volunteer is coming to a close.
I would like to express gratitude to our army personnel, soldiers and officers for their valour and courage, and professional actions both in Russia and during various events, exercises and the implementation of combat assignments, including missions abroad. I would like to thank our colleagues in federal, regional and municipal government bodies for their effective work to raise the quality of life and the living standards of our citizens.
Contributions to the development of this large, multi-ethnic country were made by scientists and doctors, teachers and entrepreneurs, representatives of public organisations and artists, all citizens of our Fatherland. The main point is that we are ready to move forward with confidence, to respond to any challenge, to resolve even the most complicated tasks, to make breakthroughs and to achieve success for the benefit of the homeland, for the benefit of Russia and its people. I am sure that we will act in the same vein in the future.
I wish all of you health, love, happiness, peace and prosperity of our great homeland.
Happy holidays to you, and a happy upcoming 2019.
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 27, 2018, 22:00
Text versionEvents
State Council meeting
In the Kremlin, the President chaired a meeting of the State Council on the development of the volunteer movement and socially oriented non-profit organisations.
December 27, 2018
13:50
The Kremlin, Moscow
The meeting agenda included a summary of the results of the Year of the Volunteer in Russia, and further plans for the development of the volunteer movement and socially oriented non-profit organisations.
* * *
Speech at State Council meeting
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues, friends.
We are meeting ahead of the New Year in an expanded format, as you can see. In addition to the traditional participation of governors and heads of regions, this State Council meeting is attended by volunteers and representatives of socially oriented non-profit organisations – remarkable people who are passionate about their work.
I want to welcome everybody here and thank you and all like-minded people, and their number is increasing in our country, and thanks to your efforts, among other things, there are now hundreds of thousands and maybe even millions of them – I would like to thank you for your generous participation in people’s destinies.
Why have we gathered here today? I would like to remind you that we declared 2018 the Year of the Volunteer. The reasons for this are clear: we need to raise public awareness of this wonderful movement and this kind of activity. Most importantly, we must focus attention on in-depth changes in society that are not measured by statistics and dry numbers alone.
I would like to note once again that more and more people are striving to emulate those who are involved in our meeting today. More and more people are working in difficult areas where practical assistance is needed, where it is necessary to uphold justice and so on. It goes without saying that support for the volunteer movement does not boil down to formal calendar deadlines. As I have said, this support will certainly continue. Actually, the Government has already drafted the concept for developing the volunteer movement until 2025.
Certainly, together with the volunteers we must formulate detailed plans for such work at the federal level and in the regions, including the introduction of volunteer-support standards that have been drafted by the Agency for Strategic Initiatives. In effect, this is an algorithm of action for regional teams, and I ask my colleagues from the regions and regional leaders to monitor compliance with the document’s practical steps together with volunteers.
We must be more proactive in establishing volunteer centres, so that everyone has the opportunity to join the common cause, to obtain essential knowledge, experience and skills. Volunteers and people in need of assistance will be able to find each other there more easily and quickly. These points of attraction should be established in cities, other communities, at schools, colleges and universities.
Many young people want to take part in the volunteer movement, which we can see, just as the older generation’s readiness to share their experience and knowledge for the benefit of society. We must definitely support the national business of corporate volunteer centres. They are being created, and we must support this initiative.
I have said many times before that our national projects and development programmes can be implemented only through the concerted efforts of the state, businesses and the whole of society, as well as an active contribution from volunteers. Today they are involved in the organisation of major international events; they contribute to environmental programmes by implementing many of their elements, promoting the development of popular sports and helping improve our life. For example, young people from the volunteer movement of medics have helped repair over a thousand rural healthcare centres this year.
I believe we must express our appreciation for the volunteers who are working selflessly at hospitals, hospices and social facilities. In this connection, I ask that the Government and regional authorities remove all the excessive barriers and obstacles that have long outlived their purpose in healthcare and the social sphere. We need clear and understandable rules of interaction based on the current reality. These rules must be drafted as soon as possible. The Emergencies Ministry, our law enforcement agencies and also volunteers are working on such a document. Coordinated efforts and synergy in this sphere are very important, possibly even crucially important.
Colleagues, many community-focused NGOs began as small volunteer projects. I would like to say a few words about this. Financial support is extremely important for them to expand their operations. In 2017, we allowed NGOs to receive budgetary financing for the social services they provide, but only after they receive a special status as social services providers.
Two years have passed, let us look at the results of that decision. As of December 1, the status has been granted to 187 NGOs around the country. This is certainly far from enough. What does this mean? It means that not all obstacles to the development of this work have been removed.
What can I suggest in this connection? The Presidential Grants Fund has already supported almost 7,000 NGO projects. This system is fair, and, more importantly, it is transparent. One can quickly see the legal foundations for awarding each grant and its practical results. I think it would be right for the grant-winning NGOs that have successfully implemented their projects to automatically receive the status of providers of socially useful services without any excessive formalities because they have obviously proved their worth by specific deeds. If they have received the grants, if they have been selected accordingly, then this fact speaks volumes.
I also suggest and would like to ask regional leaders to use the Fund’s experience of holding open and public tenders and competitions, so that as many genuine and honest projects as possible can obtain federal and regional assistance.
Here is another suggestion. We should help public officials train public sector employees on how to cooperate efficiently with NGOs and volunteers. In this connection, I consider it necessary to launch relevant education programmes and to implement them under the Russia – the Land of Opportunities project together with the Association of Volunteer Centres.
I would like to say a few more words before we start our discussion. It goes without saying that our incentives have a high priority status. However, it is also necessary, of course, to set a personal example; I would now like to address our colleagues from the Russian regions. You know this very well: a personal example sets the pace in virtually every area of our joint work. Therefore, I would like to ask you to join the projects implemented by volunteers in your respective regions. Most importantly, this participation should be sincere and efficient, and it should not amount to window-dressing.
Let us start our discussion.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: Let us sum up some results. It is clear why I considered it important to meet today, in advance of the New Year and in this format. We are completing a year devoted to the volunteer movement and socially-oriented NGOs, and I wanted very much to complete this year here in the centre of Moscow, at the Kremlin, and with both the volunteers themselves and the heads of the regions of Russia.
In this respect, I proceeded from the idea that completing this year formally, we are aiming at continuing our joint work. In this connection, we will discuss what we must do to keep this movement from fading out and, on the contrary, for it to develop and receive increasing support from the state, as well as the federal and regional authorities.
In this context, we have prepared a list of instructions. I would just like to ask the Executive Office and the Government of the Russian Federation to look at these instructions with a view to preventing red tape in the volunteer movement. It must remain an essentially voluntary movement. This is what makes it special.
And, of course, my colleagues from the regions – I must assure you that by virtue of their numerous responsibilities and the salaries some of them receive they are volunteers to a certain extent. It goes without saying that this is not enough. Today’s conversation is straight and live. For all of us, including my colleagues from the regions, it is like a breath of fresh air when we look at what volunteers and representatives of socially oriented NGOs are doing and how they do it.
I would like to thank all of you for this work now that the Year of the Volunteer is coming to a close. I am hoping you will continue this work. On our side, we will provide every support to you in your noble efforts.
All areas are important, both medicine and environmental protection. Of course, the World Cup was one of the year’s highlights. Thousands of people worked to help organise this happy and, as it transpired, meaningful festival. Special thanks to you.
Thank you once again and a happy New Year to all of you. I am grateful to you.
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, State Council
Publication date: December 27, 2018, 13:50
Text version