Events
Working meeting with Novgorod Region Governor Andrei Nikitin
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Novgorod Region Governor Andrei Nikitin to discuss the socioeconomic situation in the region.
May 31, 2018
20:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 3
Governor of Novgorod Region Andrei Nikitin.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Nikitin, the topic is the traditional one – the situation in the Novgorod Region.
Governor of the Novgorod Region Andrei Nikitin: I would like to report some results, Mr President. The very first thing that you drew attention to is roads. When we got down to work, only 26 percent of our roads were in good condition. Thanks to your support, it was already 35 percent by the end of last year. We expect it to reach 42 percent in this year’s results.
Vladimir Putin: In your report it says 42 percent in 2019.
Andrei Nikitin: This is as of January 1, 2019, so it will definitely be 42 percent in 2019.
Of course, a significant issue is the mortality. Today we have a rather high mortality on the roads. It is not in keeping with the May executive order, so it will likely be our main focus for the next few years.
Vladimir Putin: Was there a slight decrease?
Andrei Nikitin: Yes, there was. But we must improve the M10 highway and regional roads in terms of guard rails and speed limits.
The region’s economy is growing. There has been a 105 percent increase in industrial production. Private investment has grown by some 7 billion this year.
I am pleased to note that exports are also growing. We have worked quite well with the Russian Export Centre. About 40 new enterprises entered export markets; these are medium-sized businesses. Of course, this is of great interest for us. We are close to ports and roads. All this creates the correct economic task.
Vladimir Putin: What products are mainly exported?
Andrei Nikitin: Such a simple example – we have Russia’s only IKEA plant in the region. There is no IKEA store, as the region is too small, but the plant manufactures products for Moscow, St Petersburg and Brazil.
We started to export doors – we have a good door-making plant. We also began to export food. We are negotiating with Japan – we are in the final stage of certifying our agricultural products. We will export seaberry extracts and vegetable oils to Japan. So, active work is underway.
Last year, with the Government’s backing, we opened a special zone, and it is already practically completely filled with potential investors today.
Regarding the zone we want to set up outside Novgorod: we discussed it with the State Council on Industrial Policy, we are working closely with the Ministry of Economic Development, and we know already how to fill it up. I think it will add around 40–50 billion rubles of investment overall in the coming several years, that is, it is comparable to the current annual volume.
We are certainly aware that it is not always correct to focus on external investors. This is why we have changed our legislation on investor support to boost existing enterprises and modernise production.
Vladimir Putin: It does not really make a difference to us if the investor is foreign or domestic. We have to create favourable conditions for all who invest.
Andrei Nikitin: But we have gone up in the Agency for Strategic Initiative’s ranking, from 53rd to 29th. This is not a top spot, but it is closer to a good one. It is important to me that productivity grows; therefore, starting this year, thanks to the changes we had made, all existing enterprises launched modernisation programmes. This will allow us to significantly go up in terms of quality and export potential.
In addition, of course, we have two innovations: taxes paid by small businesses go to the local districts so that the people in charge there realise that they have to protect small businesses. We have agreed that if the enterprises located in the region bring back their headquarters from Moscow or St Petersburg, I will transfer 80 percent of additional taxes received to the district. Several enterprises have already used the opportunity. It is great because they have people working for them there, and this money goes to kindergartens, recreation centres, in some places this money goes to build roads. And the enterprise, the owner realises that he is not just paying taxes somewhere, he pays them to improve his own workers’ standard of living. The local residents also realise that economic development is measured not by some abstract numbers but by jobs for them. I would like to thank you for your support last year.
Vladimir Putin: From the Reserve Fund?
Andrei Nikitin: Yes, practically all the region’s districts got a bit of that support. We repaired schools and gyms in some areas, kindergartens, hospitals and senior homes in others. Some of the places had not been renovated for many years. This was a very important matter. Thank you very much. For many districts, that was a considerable leap forward in terms of quality of life.
Vladimir Putin: If people saw it, this is exactly our goal.
Andrei Nikitin: We are paying much attention to youth affairs. We are working in several directions here.
Firstly, we provide modern education. We have opened a quantorium or a technology park for young people. We know that this is an expensive project and not all districts can implement it. Therefore, we are using this quantorium to set up mobile mini-quantoriums at schools and we are reopening engineering clubs of the kind we had in the Soviet era. We hope that some 20 percent of children and teenagers from 8 to 14 will join these clubs.
Another interesting initiative is the Captain Nikolai Varukhin Marine Centre. Nikolai has received the badge of merit For Mentorship under your executive order. It is the only children’s marine centre with vessels that has remained in Russia.
We are working with the Agency for Strategic Initiatives (ASI) and Dmitry Peskov [Director of the ASI’s Young Professionals project] to create a National Technology Initiative centre for unmanned marine vessels. In other words, our Marine Centre, which was established 60 years ago, is moving with the times.
As for physical fitness and sport, my goal last year was to complete the facilities where construction dragged on for decades. There is only one uncompleted sports and recreation centre left, but it will open to the public in two weeks.
My next goal is to attract people to sports by creating outdoor sports grounds. We have launched a project Be Sporty with outdoor morning exercises held at these sports ground, some of them with famous Novgorod athletes. We hope to do more than has been planned in sports.
Vladimir Putin: How many people do you plan to involve in physical fitness and sports?
Andrei Nikitin: We have set the target at 60 percent. In addition, we have very active pensioners, who practice an active lifestyle, including Nordic walking and swimming. We try to do our best to keep up this spirit and to develop an active sporting lifestyle as much as we can.
Vladimir Putin: Sixty percent is a good figure. When do you expect to reach this target?
Andrei Nikitin: I think we can reach it in 2021 or 2022, which is sooner than stipulated in the executive order.
Vladimir Putin: Very good.
Andrei Nikitin: We are also working to improve the urban environment, as was done around the country. One of our big problems is the lack of good embankments. Our colleagues at the Strelka Institute for Media, Architecture and Design in Moscow have created a concept for us, and the Government has promised support. I think we will start building in a landmark area, near the theatre and the Novgorod Kremlin.
<…>
Geography
Novgorod Region
Topics
Regions
Persons
Nikitin Andrei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 31, 2018, 20:00
Text versionEvents
Ceremony to present senior officers and prosecutors to the President
A ceremony was held in the Kremlin to present senior officers and prosecutors appointed to higher command positions and awarded higher military (special) titles and ranks.
May 31, 2018
16:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
5 of 11
Presenting officers and prosecutors who have been appointed to higher posts, and received higher military, special and class ranks.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, comrade officers,
I welcome you at the official ceremony in the Kremlin. Congratulations on your appointment to higher command positions and the conferment of higher military ranks.
This is an important step in your careers, since your appointments and titles are not only a recognition of your professional and personal excellence, but primarily a sign of new responsibility and the high trust that was placed in your ability to deal with serious tasks.
In terms of the military, this refers to further developing the Army and the Navy. We have recently discussed priorities in this field at a meeting in Sochi. This includes strengthening the nuclear triad, improving weapons systems used by the Aerospace Forces and the Navy, and ensuring that all the services and branches of the Armed Forces develop in a balanced way.
Just as before, special attention must be paid to combat training of troops. Let me reiterate that the combat readiness of our Armed Forces, their equipment with advanced weapons and, most importantly, the courage and valour of the Russian soldiers and officers are essential for safeguarding Russia’s sovereignty and independence, ensuring national interests and safety of our citizens, it is a guarantee of a global balance of power and peace on the planet.
Comrade officers,
The FSB staff is facing many tasks, primarily in countering terrorism. Statistics show that the number of terrorist crimes has been declining in the past few years. At the same time, it is necessary to enhance the capabilities of the entire system of fighting terrorism and extremism and consistently identify and eliminate the undercover terrorist cells. I hope you will do a good job in other key areas as well: counterintelligence, state border protection, and anti-corruption efforts.
More is required of the Foreign Intelligence Service given the complicated international situation. I have no doubt that its employees will continue working efficiently in all areas of your responsibility.
I would like to note that the personnel of the Federal Guard Service (FSO) are fulfilling their tasks at the proper level. I am sure that the substantial operational and technical capabilities of the FSO will allow you to continue acting with the same reliability and efficiency.
Russia’s development as a law-based democratic state should be buttressed by successes in countering crime and protecting the rights and freedoms of its citizens. This is a direct duty of the law enforcement agencies. This year the Russian police will mark its 300th anniversary. I would like to wish success to all of its employees. It is important to increase the percentage of cases solved and enhance the effectiveness of work in protecting public order, countering drug trafficking and traffic violations and controlling migration.
The Federal National Guard Service bears special responsibility. Its well-trained, mobile and technically equipped units and divisions should act effectively in any situation and also reliably guarantee security in crowded places.
Prosecutor services play an important role in ensuring rule of law, protection of people’s rights and freedoms. One of your absolute priorities is to ensure legal order on labour and social issues. It is important to immediately respond to backdated wages, pensions and child benefits. It is also necessary to constantly oversee protection of the legal rights and interests of entrepreneurs.
I expect that the Investigative Committee will continue to improve its performance, guided primarily by the criteria of efficiently, investigating crimes and strictly observing constitutional rights and procedural rules.
One of the significant tasks for the new minister and the entire staff of the Emergencies Ministry is to supervise operation of facilities visited by large crowds of people. Special attention must be paid to fire safety in public places. I am asking you to strictly discipline your officers for negligence in their duties.
Among the key responsibilities of the Federal Penitentiary Service is to create conditions for the detention of suspects, defendants and convicts according to legal and international standards. Strict compliance with these rules is, among other things, important as a preventive measure that helps people to break the cycle of crime and puts them on the path to rehabilitation.
Finally, once again, congratulations on your new appointments and titles. I wish you and your loved ones all the best.
Please.
Commander of the 2Combined Arms Army Major General Rustam Muradov: nd Guards Red Banner Comrade Supreme Commander-in-Chief,
On behalf of the generals and admirals that are here in the Kremlin today and on my own behalf, let me sincerely thank you for the high praise of our performance in battle. We understand the full measure of responsibility we have in protecting our Motherland. I can say for sure that we can and will reliably defend Russia’s sovereignty.
In recent years, we have done a lot to strengthen the Armed Forces. Their combat capability is growing, the planned re-armament is underway, and the pace of combat training is increasing. Personnel are learning how to use advanced equipment and military hardware. Their professional skills are improving thanks to their experience fighting international terrorism in the Syrian Arab Republic.
Your personal participation in developing the Armed Forces is a big reason why these tasks are being successful carried out.
Comrade Supreme Commander-in-Chief,
I can report that the 2nd Army under my command is combat ready, disciplined and capable of fulfilling any task.
According to 2017 results, the army achieved the best results in the Central Military District, with 12 units being designated strike forces. The brigade’s re-equipment with Iskander-M complexes has significantly increased the army’s fire power.
The army’s high level of training and combat readiness was confirmed during the snap inspection this April.
The officers, non-commissioned officers and soldiers are all proud to serve in the Armed Forces, they are highly motivated, displaying moral stability and resilience.
Let me assure you that any tasks you set, regardless of scale or difficulty, will be fulfilled with high-quality and in time.
Minister of the Interior of the Republic of Adygeya Major-General Vladimir Alai: Comrade Supreme Commander-in-Chief,
Let me, on behalf of my colleagues, express my sincere gratitude for the opportunity to be present here, in the Kremlin, at this solemn reception. For each of us, this is a great honour, an important and unforgettable event.
We see our appointment to new positions and the conferment of special ranks as a sign of your trust and our personal responsibility for the expected results in the assigned area of operational and official activities.
Today, the personnel of the Russian Federation law enforcement bodies face a complex criminal situation as they perform their duty. New types of criminality are appearing, including in high-tech areas, and existing types of criminality, primarily terrorist and extremist crimes, are becoming much more complicated.
At the same time, the operational situation in all regions of the country is under control. Police officers together with colleagues from other law enforcement agencies are putting up fierce resistance to criminals and reliably ensuring the safety of citizens and the rule of law in cities and towns both in their daily work and during international political and sports events.
Let me assure you, Comrade Supreme Commander-in-Chief, that we will do our best to fulfil the tasks set before the Interior Ministry and will wear our high general ranks with dignity and honour, justifying the high confidence of the country's leadership with our excellent service and our entire lives.
<…>
Topics
Armed Forces
Civil service
Law enforcement agencies
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 31, 2018, 16:00
Text version