Events
Meeting with Government members
Vladimir Putin held a regular meeting with members of the Government.
October 11, 2018
17:15
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 5
Meeting with Government members.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues.
Today we will talk about issues related to the mainline infrastructure. But we will begin with the most current matters, such as preparations for the heating season in the utilities system and in the fuel and energy sector.
Let us begin with utilities. (To the Minister of Construction and Housing and Utilities Vladimir Yakushev.) Mr Yakushev, how is it going?
Minister of Construction and Housing and Utilities Vladimir Yakushev: Mr President, colleagues,
The Ministry of Construction and Housing and Utilities continuously monitors preparations for the heating season. We maintain a constant dialogue with the regions of the Russian Federation. On August 16, Deputy Prime Minister Valery Mutko conducted a national teleconference on the preparations of utility and energy facilities for the autumn and winter seasons. It was attended by representatives of all Russian regions, the Ministry of Construction and Housing and Utilities, the Energy Ministry, the Defence Ministry, the Ministry of Economic Development, the Federal Anti-Monopoly Service and Rostekhnadzor [Federal Service for Environmental, Technological, and Nuclear Supervision]. The national conference on preparations for the autumn and winter period where all problems were discussed was held on October 5 in cooperation with the Energy Ministry as part of Russian Energy Week.
A hotline that people can call if they have any problems was established for the cold season for permanent monitoring and prompt control over the removal of breakdowns or restrictions in heat supplies to residential buildings or socially important facilities.
As of October 11, the heating season is already on in 70 regions of the Russian Federation. In the North Caucasus Federal District and the Southern Federal District, it will start after October 15.
According to the current data submitted by the regions on October 10, 189 billion rubles have been allocated for preparations for winter. In the country as a whole, the housing fund, boilers, heating, water supply and electricity systems are 98 percent ready for the cold season.
(The Minister went on to talk about repairs on the heating and water supply systems, creating fuel reserves, and the debt of the regions to resource-supplying organisations.)
I would also like to make another point. Fuel oil prices shot up today, over 30 percent in some regions. Coal prices were up as well.
The regions of the Russian Federation forwarded data on the shortfall in revenue. An interdepartmental group comprising representatives of the Ministry of Construction, the Federal Antimonopoly Service, the Finance Ministry and the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade is reconciling the amounts of the shortfall in various regions of the Russian Federation. Once the group finalizes the data, the numbers will be submitted to the Government for further decision.
Vladimir Putin: Do you have a ballpark figure?
Vladimir Yakushev: Tentatively, 23 billion.
Therefore, today, the level of preparedness is fairly high, with the exception of certain snags, which we are aware of, and will work to overcome in each region to make sure the heating season goes smoothly.
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Well, 23 billion is a lot of money, but we all realise that, regardless of the costs, we cannot leave people without heating. Therefore, we need to find a solution promptly with regard to these funds.
Finance Minister Anton Siluanov: Mr President,
We are now reconciling the amounts the Russian regions may additionally need. We will sit down with the regions and see whether the budget can help them. After the budget is adjusted – we are now amending the law on this year’s budget – we will also use the Government’s reserve funds to help the regions.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Mr Novak, how are things in your area?
Energy Minister Alexander Novak: Mister President,
With regard to the electric power plants, the winterisation process is in full swing and is, in fact, nearing completion. The Ministry of Energy is tracking more than 1,000 facilities, including thermal power plants, nuclear power stations and hydroelectric power plants, the power grid complex and operational-dispatching offices.
Electricity consumption is forecast to go up by about 2.2 percent during this autumn and winter. Additional capacities of 38 GW, or 15 percent of the determined capacity, have been reserved.
Over 10,000 kilometers of powerlines, about 2,500 MVA of transformer capacity and 3,200 MW of generator capacity have been introduced during the preparations for the winter.
Repairs are carried out as scheduled. They have almost been completed (98 percent), and the financing has been increased by four percent compared with last year.
Now to fuel. The reserves of coal and fuel oil are 150 percent of the norm, namely, 19.4 million tonnes of coal and 2.6 million tonnes of fuel oil.
We monitor the situation daily and hold conference calls with Russian Railways and coal companies to ensure a reserve. We provide enhanced oversight of three thermal power plants in the problem regions: the Baikalsk thermal power plant in Irkutsk Region; the plant in the city of Yurga, Kemerovo Region, and the plant in the village of Deputatsky, the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia). We also oversee preparations for the autumn and winter season in Crimea, Sevastopol and Kaliningrad Region and provide support. In Crimea, two of the first starter units are in trial mode at the thermal power plant under construction, and generate 470 MW. This will also provide additional reserves for the winter considering the power bridge. We are also repairing the electrical supply network, with nine billion rubles allocated for this for the next two years.
I would also like to note that this year the Government has approved the rules for electricity systems’ technological operation in order to increase system stability and lower the risk of breakdowns in the power grid. The rules envisage firm requirements for the equipment, which are the same for everyone, and all companies must comply with them.
Large-scale drills on how to restore power supply in case of emergency are being held in 18 regions. These are some of the additional measures taken this year to get through the winter season safely.
In general, everything is operating normally. The deadline to receive readiness permits for all energy facilities is November 15.
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Fine. Thank you.
Mrs Skvortsova, we have had a fairly warm autumn so far, but the cold will inevitably follow as will again, apparently, the problem with influenza. I know that vaccination is already under way. At what stage of this work are we now?
Minister of Health Veronika Skvortsova: Mr President, we launched preparations for the upcoming epidemiological season in March after receiving the strains recommended by the World Health Organisation. These are three strains: two А (H1N1) Michigan viruses that have a structure similar to the 2009 swine flu, A (H3N2) Singapore and B Colorado. We used all three strains to develop a vaccine. It took us five months to prepare and it was ready by the middle of August. This year, we are using domestic, high-tech and safe vaccines with full-cycle production handled by our companies. Four vaccines: two for children aged between six months and 18 years and for pregnant women and breastfeeding mothers, and two for adults.
This year, we purchased seven percent more vaccine than last year, which will enable us to vaccinate 3,300,000 more people, in all, more than 62 million at public expense. In addition, around 6,000,000 will be vaccinated at their workplace at the expense of employers under an agreement between the Ministry of Health and the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs (RUIE). We will vaccinate around 70 million people in fact, around half of the country's population. It is important to note that vaccination will cover more than 75 percent of people in the risk groups.
Supplies of the vaccines began in August. In the first place, vaccines were supplied in full to the regions that are the ports of entry for infection on our territory. These are all Far Eastern regions, southern Siberia, part of the north-western regions and Rostov Region. As of September, all the remaining regions are receiving the vaccine according to plan.
So far, 70 percent of vaccines have been supplied, and the process will be completed by November 15. To date, 32 million people have been vaccinated. That is nearly half of the planned number. These include 8.5 million children and more than 94,000 pregnant women. It should be added that, so far, the influenza rate is 15 percent below the baseline or 10 percent below the weekly epidemiological threshold. We have the situation under control.
I will add that in cooperation with Roszdravnadzor [Federal Service for Surveillance in Healthcare] we checked the preparedness of the regions for the current epidemiological season. All regions have a two-week minimum supply of flu medicines and individual protective gear. Over 100,000 infection beds have been deployed and bed capacity has been prepared.
All resuscitation units at infectious hospitals were checked separately. They are fully equipped, based on the standards. Since 2016, we have doubled the number of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation devices for the treatment of the worst pneumonia viruses. In general, everything is ready now and we will monitor the situation in cooperation with the regions.
Vladimir Putin: Have we become so active since 2011?
Veronika Skvortsova: Yes, Mr President, since 2011 we have almost doubled the coverage (from 26 percent to 46.6 percent in 2017), which has allowed us to reduce the incidence of the flu six times during these five years and, most importantly, to sharply decrease – by more than 20 times – the fatality rate and flu complications.
Vladimir Putin: It is necessary to complete this and do all of it this year.
(Addressing Pavel Kolobkov.) Mr Kolobkov, yesterday we discussed, in part, preparations for the Universiade. Can you please say a few words about it?
Minister of Sport Pavel Kolobkov: Mr President, preparations for the Universiade have entered the final stage. In effect, there are five months to go before the Universiade in Krasnoyarsk. We are to open 34 facilities, including 21 sports facilities.
Mr President, in February you held a meeting at which a number of problems were revealed along with positive points (the Sopka sports cluster and Yemelyanovo International Airport were opened at that time). I am referring to a new helipad, and opening the multi-purpose centre at Siberian University, where the Universiade’s cafeteria will be located, and a city clinical hospital.
In addition, we discussed issues linked with additional funding for upgrading the urban environment. We have taken measures and removed these problems. All lags have been removed. The helipad has been put into service. We have signed a new contract for the construction of the multi-purpose centre, which is on schedule. The same applies to the city clinical hospital.
All of this work is under special supervision; we are monitoring it all the time. An additional 2.5 billion have been allocated for the upgrading of Krasnoyarsk and a decision was made to earmark another 2.5 billion for the region. This is why 17 of 34 facilities have already opened, and we will put the remaining 17 facilities into operation before the end of 2018.
We have tested four facilities already. We are testing the level of preparedness of all services involved in the Universiade as well. We will conduct seven more tests in the run-up to the Universiade in 2018 and in early 2019.
We are now screening the Games’ volunteers whom you met with in Ulyanovsk yesterday. We will pick 5,000 volunteers, of whom about 20 percent come from Russia’s regions and from other countries. We have volunteers from China, the United States, Canada and other countries. We received 30,000 applications from people willing to participate in this programme.
Vladimir Putin: Have any major events or major competitions been held at these sites?
Pavel Kolobkov: Yes, we are running tests. A student hockey tournament has just ended. Our team won the final match with the Czech team.
As part of the Universiade legacy and upon your instruction, we decided to turn the Sopka sport cluster into a federal training centre for our national teams. It will be open year-round for five sports. We will transfer the Raduga cluster to Siberian Federal University. This is a mass sport facility, which will also be used as a fitness centre for local residents.
In conjunction with a number of federations, we are exploring the possibility of using all sport facilities for major tournaments. In fact, these facilities can accommodate any kind of sporting event at any level, including the Universiade and the World Cup. We are now discussing the holding of a world field hockey championship in 2023. We are building an indoor sport complex there.
In addition, we need to get several problems out of the way by late 2018; for example, we will need to complete improvement projects in the city, put all sport facilities into operation, and, of course, carry out the remaining tests and check our readiness.
Vladimir Putin: Fine. Make sure things are on schedule. You have caught up with the schedule now. Keep tabs on it to avoid backsliding again. Thank you.
Now, let us get to the main issue. Mr Ditrikh [Transport Minister], you have the floor.
<…>
Topics
Energy
Housing and utilities
Transport
Persons
Ditrikh Yevgeny
Kolobkov Pavel
Novak Alexander
Siluanov Anton
2 more
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 11, 2018, 17:15
Text versionEvents
Ceremony to present credentials
Vladimir Putin received letters of credence from foreign ambassadors in the Alexander Hall of the Grand Kremlin Palace.
October 11, 2018
14:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
The following 23 newly-arrived ambassadors presented their credentials to the President of Russia: Carlos Rafael Faria Tortosa (Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela), Frederick Hamley Case (Co-operative Republic of Guyana), Vitezslav Pivonka (Czech Republic), Mario Dayan de Silva Jayatilleka (Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka), Norbert Konkoly (Hungary), Carsten Sondergaard (Kingdom of Denmark), Retselisitsoe Calvin Masenyetse (Kingdom of Lesotho), Rune Resaland (Kingdom of Norway), Fernando Valderrama Pareja (Kingdom of Spain), Thanatip Upatising (Kingdom of Thailand), Hugo Villarroel Senzano (Plurinational State of Bolivia), Atanas Vassilev Krastin (Republic of Bulgaria), Margus Laidre (Republic of Estonia), Gustavo Adolfo Lopez Calderon (Republic of Guatemala), Datla Bala Venkatesh Varma (Republic of India), Pierre Clive Agius (Republic of Malta), Francis Mariur Matsutaro (Republic of Palau), Marcello Beccari (Republic of San Marino), Branko Rakovec (Republic of Slovenia), Chol Tong Mayay Jang (Republic of South Sudan), Botirjon Asadov (Republic of Uzbekistan), Komi Bayedze Dagoh (Togolese Republic) and Simon Marco Mumwi (United Republic of Tanzania)
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues,
It is a pleasure to welcome you to the Kremlin, at the ceremony to present letters of credence. You have the honourable and important mission of promoting relations between your states and Russia, encouraging political dialogue and expanding economic and humanitarian ties.
Today we need diplomacy to play an active and constructive role, to use the power of words, negotiations and compromise to make a tangible contribution to overcoming the current difficulties in international affairs and searching for responses to new challenges and threats.
Russia is dedicated to a peaceful policy and progressively carries out a responsible course in foreign policy. As a permanent member of the Security Council, Russia defends the basic principles stipulated in the UN Charter: sovereignty and equality of states and non-interference in their domestic affairs. We stand against using politically motivated protectionism measures and sidestepping the norms of international law.
Russia’s active participation in global affairs and openness to mutually beneficial partnerships with all countries and regions are motivated by our main national interest: to create the most favourable conditions possible for Russia to develop dynamically, to achieve ambitious social and economic goals and improve our citizens’ quality of life.
Russians want to live in peace; they want Russia to be a strong and independent state. We try to do everything necessary to strengthen global stability and to build a system of equal and indivisible security.
Our top priorities include an uncompromising fight against international terrorism. Russia’s actions to settle acute regional crises, including the Syrian crisis, are based on such principal approaches. With our decisive role, it has been possible to deal a devastating blow to international terrorism and preserve the statehood of Syria.
Based on the results of the Syrian National Dialogue Congress in Sochi and Resolution 2254 of the UN Security Council, the groundwork was laid for boosting peace talks. Together with our partners in the Astana format, we are actively working on forming an intra-Syrian constitutional committee.
The agenda includes the reconstruction of the destroyed economy and infrastructure, and helping millions of refugees return home, which would ease the migration burden on many European countries. We hope that assistance to Syrians in solving these problems will be a common objective for the global community. Humanitarian issues will be an important area of cooperation for all interested states.
Today, heads of 23 diplomatic missions are present here. By tradition, I would like to say a few words about our relations with each of these countries.
Venezuela. We sincerely wish the government, our Venezuelan friends and all people in the country to succeed in stabilising the socioeconomic situation. We are ready to provide all possible support in this area. And, of course, we will develop a bilateral political dialogue and implement joint projects in energy, industry and other areas.
We are open to improving mutually beneficial ties with Tanzania, in particular, in nuclear energy and the military-technical sector. We welcome the efforts of the Tanzanian government aimed at maintaining peace and security on the African continent.
Cooperation with Thailand is developing steadily; our diplomatic relations with this country span over 100 years. We will continue maintaining close political contacts, strengthening economic and technological cooperation, and promoting humanitarian, educational and, of course, tourism exchanges.
We are also interested in actively cooperating with Guatemala. Given that it is the largest economy in Central America, there are opportunities for expanding bilateral trade and investment ties. We will continue helping Guatemala with training and skill development of its personnel, including professionals working at law enforcement and security agencies.
This year, Russia marks 120 years of diplomatic relations with Bolivia. In June, fruitful talks were held with President Morales in Moscow. Russian companies are carrying out large fuel and energy projects in that country.
Next year, the Bolivian Nuclear Research and Technology Centre will be put into operation. There are prospects for strengthening cooperation in military technology, mining, education and other fields.
We are planning to continue pursuing dialogue with the leaders of the Czech Republic in a pragmatic and businesslike manner. Our bilateral agenda includes carrying out mutually beneficial joint projects in the priority fields of our cooperation, such as machine-building, power engineering, including nuclear power engineering, agriculture and healthcare. All these areas are under review of the Russian-Czech intergovernmental commission, which will hold a regular meeting next month in Prague.
We advocate a prompt resolution of the internal conflict in South Sudan. We support the efforts of mediating states, regional organisations and the international community.
We are ready for constructive engagement with our neighbour, the Republic of Estonia, based on respect and consideration for each other’s interests. Many of our compatriots live in Estonia, and we assume that the European human rights standards will apply to them to the full extent.
Our relations with Bulgaria are based on traditions of friendship and spiritual closeness of our peoples. This year Bulgaria marks the 140th anniversary of liberation from the Ottoman rule. In May 2018, President Rumen Radev and Prime Minister Boyko Borisov visited Russia. The talks we held reaffirmed our mutual commitment to further promoting bilateral trade and economic cooperation, including in energy. Unfortunately, some time ago, we failed to implement the South Stream project, but now new opportunities have opened up for Bulgaria to play an important role in transiting Russian gas to the European market.
Our official ties with the Kingdom of Denmark go back 525 years. The preservation of the historical traditions of goodneighbourliness and development of mutually beneficial bilateral contacts would surely meet the fundamental interests of the Russian and Danish people. We believe it is important to implement economically sound projects focused on strengthening energy security in all of Europe and work on issues related to the environment and the exploration of the Arctic and the continental shelf in the Arctic Ocean together.
Russia maintains traditionally friendly relations with Sri Lanka and is interested in closer trade and economic cooperation, including in fishery, agriculture and tourism. I would like to note that in September we signed a bilateral intergovernmental agreement on military cooperation.
Relations between Russia and Malta are constructive and mutually beneficial. We see good opportunities for jointly developing cooperation in trade, the economy and the humanitarian sphere.
Russia and Hungary have amassed an impressive potential for cooperation. We are conducting a political dialogue and implementing promising economic projects, including in nuclear energy. The Russian-Hungarian intergovernmental commission is working effectively. The inaugural meeting of the regional cooperation commission will take place before the end of this year. During our recent talks, Prime Minister Viktor Orban and I outlined plans for further expanding our relations in various areas.
Slovenia is a partner with whom we maintain versatile cooperation. We are ready to work with the new government that was formed in September with a view to further promoting our cooperation. We are grateful to you for tending to the graves of our soldiers, who perished in Slovenia during World War I and World War II.
Our cooperation with the Republic of India is a specially privileged strategic partnership. This was confirmed, in part, by my visit to New Delhi last week. During this visit, we reached important agreements embracing the economy, the nuclear industry, military-technical cooperation, space, communications and culture.
Considering the proximity of our positions on key global and regional issues, we will continue close coordination with our Indian partners on major international issues, in part in BRICS and the G20.
I highly value our useful dialogue with the Prime Minister of India. Esteemed Mr Ambassador, I would like to ask you to convey once again my sincere gratitude to Mr Narendra Modi for his hospitality.
We stand for developing productive cooperation with our neighbour – Norway. Next year we will celebrate the 75th anniversary of the liberation of northern Norway from the Nazis by Soviet troops. Considering the rich experience of neighbourly relations, we can move forward, expanding the horizons of our cooperation. Russian and Norwegian business circles are interested in new joint projects in energy, fishing and shipbuilding, to name a few.
Uzbekistan is Russia’s strategic partner and ally. We are deepening our bilateral ties in all key areas – political, trade, economic, military-technical and humanitarian cooperation. I hope that during my state visit to Tashkent next week, President of Uzbekistan Shavkat Mirziyoyev and I will have detailed talks that will be followed by a solid package of joint inter-governmental and commercial documents.
Together with the head of Uzbekistan, we will attend the inauguration and a meeting of the Interregional Cooperation Forum and will give a start to the construction of the first nuclear power plant in Uzbekistan by Rosatom.
We believe it is important to further develop relations with Spain. Our people are united by mutual sympathy and respect, while official intergovernmental contacts date back more than 350 years.
Together, we have implemented large humanitarian projects and cross-years of language and literature, as well as tourism. We are planning to hold the Year of Education and Science. It seems we have all the conditions for bilateral cooperation to progress in other areas as well.
We are interested in expanding friendly ties with the Togolese Republic. We have good cooperation prospects in geological exploration and the military-technical area. We will continue to cooperate in training professionals for Togo.
We maintain constructive cooperation with the Co-operative Republic of Guyana. Russian businesses are interested in implementing joint projects in various areas, such as geology, mineral resources management and delivery of agricultural products.
We see good opportunities to promote cooperation with Palau in aviation and naval communications, as well as tourism. The agreement on ф mutual visa waver signed this September will help this.
In the context of the further development of friendly relations with the Kingdom of Lesotho, we will pay attention to implementing joint projects, such as extraction of raw materials using Russian technology and investment. We are satisfied with the level of coordination on issues on the global and African agenda.
Official intergovernmental ties between Russia and San Marino were established 25 years ago. Over this time, we have gained a lot of experience of mutual cooperation. We believe it will continue to develop and acquire new initiatives.
Friends, colleagues,
Russia attaches great importance to relations with each of the states you represent. We are sincerely interested in making your activities as productive as possible. Rest assured that all initiatives you propose will be supported by the Russian leadership, executive bodies, businesses and society.
I wish you success and thank you for your attention.
Thank you very much.
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 11, 2018, 14:30
Text version